{"id": "2024825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024825", "title": "Elizabeth Blackwell", "text": "Elizabeth Blackwell\n\nElizabeth Blackwell (February 3, 1821 – May 31, 1910) was a British physician, notable as the first woman to receive a medical degree in the United States, and the first woman on the Medical Register of the General Medical Council. Blackwell played an important role in both the United States and the United Kingdom as a social awareness and moral reformer, and pioneered in promoting education for women in medicine. Her contributions remain celebrated with the Elizabeth Blackwell Medal, awarded annually to a woman who has made significant contribution to the promotion of women in medicine.\n\nBlackwell was initially uninterested in a career in medicine especially after her schoolteacher brought in a bull's eye to use as a teaching tool. Therefore, she became a schoolteacher in order to support her family. This occupation was seen as suitable for women during the 1800s, however, she soon found it unsuitable for her. Blackwell's interest in medicine was sparked after a friend fell ill and remarked that, had a female doctor cared for her, she might not have suffered so much. Blackwell began applying to medical schools and immediately began to endure the prejudice against her sex that would persist throughout her career. She was rejected from each medical school she applied to, except Geneva Medical College, in which the male students voted on Blackwell's acceptance. In 1847, Blackwell became the first woman to attend medical school in the United States.\n\nBlackwell's inaugural thesis on typhoid fever, published in 1849 the \"Buffalo Medical Journal\", shortly after she graduated, was the first medical article published by a female student from the United States. It portrayed a strong sense of empathy and sensitivity to human suffering, as well as strong advocacy for economic and social justice. This perspective was deemed by the medical community as ”feminine”.\n\nBlackwell also founded the New York Infirmary for Women and Children with her sister Emily in 1857, and began giving lectures to female audiences on the importance of educating girls. She also played a significant role during the American Civil War organizing nurses.\n\nElizabeth was born on February 3, 1821, in Bristol, England, to Samuel Blackwell, who was a sugar refiner, and his wife Hannah (Lane) Blackwell. She had two older siblings, Anna and Marian, and would eventually have six younger siblings: Samuel (married Antoinette Brown), Henry (married Lucy Stone), Emily (third woman in the U.S. to get a medical degree), Sarah Ellen (a writer), John and George. She also had four maiden aunts: Barbara, Ann, Lucy, and Mary, who also lived with them.\n\nIn 1832, the family emigrated from Bristol, England to New York because Samuel Blackwell had lost their most profitable sugar refinery to a fire. In New York, her father became active in abolitionist work. Therefore, their dinnertime discussions often surrounded issues such as women's rights, slavery, and child labor. These liberal discussions reflected Hannah and Samuel's attitudes toward child rearing. For example, rather than beating the children for bad behavior, Barbara Blackwell recorded their trespasses in a black book. If the offenses accumulated, the children would be exiled to the attic during dinner. Samuel Blackwell was similarly liberal in his attitude towards the education of his children. Samuel Blackwell was a Congregationalist and exerted a strong influence over the religious and academic education of his children. He believed that each child, including his girls, should be given the opportunity for unlimited development of their talents and gifts. This perspective was rare during that time, as most people believed that the woman's place was in the home or as a schoolteacher. Blackwell had not only a governess, but private tutors to supplement her intellectual development. As a result, she was rather socially isolated from all but her family as she grew up.  \n\nA few years after the family moved to New York, the family moved to Cincinnati, Ohio. When Blackwell was 17 her father passed away, leaving the family with very little money.\n\nThe Blackwells' financial situation was unfortunate. Pressed by financial need, the sisters Anna, Marian and Elizabeth started a school, \"The Cincinnati English and French Academy for Young Ladies\", which provided instruction in most, if not all, subjects and charged for tuition and room and board. The school was not terribly innovative in its education methods – it was merely a source of income for the Blackwell sisters. Blackwell's abolition work took a back seat during these years, most likely due to the academy.\n\nBlackwell converted to Episcopalianism, probably due to her sister Anna's influence, in December 1838, becoming an active member of St. Paul's Episcopal Church. However, William Henry Channing's arrival in 1839 to Cincinnati changed her mind. Channing, a charismatic Unitarian minister, introduced the ideas of transcendentalism to Blackwell, who started attending the Unitarian Church. A conservative backlash from the Cincinnati community ensued, and as a result, the academy lost many pupils and was abandoned in 1842. Blackwell began teaching private pupils.\n\nChanning's arrival renewed Blackwell's interests in education and reform. She worked at intellectual self-improvement: studying art, attending various lectures, writing short stories and attending various religious services in all denominations (Quaker, Millerite, Jewish). In the early 1840s, she began to articulate thoughts about women's rights in her diaries and letters and participated in the Harrison political campaign of 1840.\n\nIn 1844, with the help of her sister Anna, Blackwell procured a teaching job that paid $1,000 per year in Henderson, Kentucky. Although she was pleased with her class, she found the accommodations and schoolhouse lacking. What disturbed her most was that this was her first real encounter with the realities of slavery. \"Kind as the people were to me personally, the sense of justice was continually outraged; and at the end of the first term of engagement I resigned the situation.\" She returned to Cincinnati only half a year later, resolved to find a more stimulating way to spend her life.\n\nOnce again, through her sister Anna, Blackwell procured a job, this time teaching music at an academy in Asheville, North Carolina, with the goal of saving up the $3,000 necessary for her medical school expenses. In Asheville, Blackwell lodged with the respected Reverend John Dickson, who happened to have been a physician before he became a clergyman. Dickson approved of Blackwell's career aspirations and allowed her to use the medical books in his library to study. During this time, Blackwell soothed her own doubts about her choice and her loneliness with deep religious contemplation. She also renewed her antislavery interests, starting a slave Sunday school that was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nDickson's school closed down soon after, and Blackwell moved to the residence of Reverend Dickson's brother, Samuel Henry Dickson, a prominent Charleston physician. She started teaching in 1846 at a boarding school in Charleston run by a Mrs. Du Pré. With the help of Reverend Dickson's brother, Blackwell inquired into the possibility of medical study via letters, with no favorable responses. In 1847, Blackwell left Charleston for Philadelphia and New York, with the aim of personally investigating the opportunities for medical study. Blackwell's greatest wish was to be accepted into one of the Philadelphia medical schools.\n\nUpon reaching Philadelphia, Blackwell boarded with Dr. William Elder and studied anatomy privately with Dr. Jonathan M. Allen as she attempted to get her foot in the door at any medical school in Philadelphia. She was met with resistance almost everywhere. Most physicians recommended that she either go to Paris to study or that she take up a disguise as a man to study medicine. The main reasons offered for her rejection were that (1) she was a woman and therefore intellectually inferior, and (2) she might actually prove equal to the task, prove to be competition, and that she could not expect them to \"furnish [her] with a stick to break our heads with\". Out of desperation, she applied to twelve \"country schools\".\n\nIn October 1847, Blackwell was accepted as a medical student by Hobart College, then called Geneva Medical College, located in upstate New York. The dean and faculty, usually responsible for evaluating an applicant for matriculation, were not able to make a decision due to the special nature of Blackwell's case. They put the issue up to a vote by the 150 male students of the class with the stipulation that if one student objected, Blackwell would be turned away. The young men voted unanimously to accept her.\n\nWhen Blackwell arrived at the college, she was rather nervous. Nothing was familiar – the surroundings, the students, and the faculty. She did not even know where to get her books. However, she soon found herself at home in medical school. While she was at school, she was looked upon as an oddity by the townspeople of Geneva. She also rejected suitors and friends alike, preferring to isolate herself. In the summer between her two terms at Geneva, she returned to Philadelphia, stayed with Dr. Elder, and applied for medical positions in the area to gain clinical experience. The Guardians of the Poor, the city commission that ran Blockley Almshouse, granted her permission to work there, albeit not without some struggle. Blackwell slowly gained acceptance at Blockley, although some young resident physicians still would walk out and refuse to assist her in diagnosing and treating her patients. During her time there, Blackwell gained valuable clinical experience but was appalled by the syphilitic ward and those afflicted with typhus. Her graduating thesis at Geneva Medical College was on the topic of typhus. The conclusion of this thesis linked physical health with socio-moral stability – a link that foreshadows her later reform work.\n\nOn January 23, 1849, Blackwell became the first woman to achieve a medical degree in the United States. The local press reported her graduation favorably, and when the dean, Dr. Charles Lee, conferred her degree, he stood up and bowed to her.\n\nIn April, 1849, Blackwell made the decision to continue her studies in Europe. She visited a few hospitals in Britain and then headed to Paris. Her experience there was similar to her experience in America; she was rejected by many hospitals because of her sex. In June, Blackwell enrolled at La Maternité; a \"lying-in\" hospital, under the condition that she would be treated as a student midwife, not a physician. She made the acquaintance of Hippolyte Blot, a young resident physician at \"La Maternité\". She gained much medical experience through his mentoring and training. By the end of the year, Paul Dubois, the foremost obstetrician in his day, had voiced his opinion that she would make the best obstetrician in the United States, male or female.\n\nOn 4 November 1849, when Blackwell was treating an infant with ophthalmia neonatorum, she spurted some contaminated solution into her own eye accidentally and contracted the infection. She lost sight in her left eye, causing her to have her eye surgically extracted and thus lost all hope of becoming a surgeon. After a period of recovery, she enrolled at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London in 1850. She regularly attended James Paget's lectures. She made a positive impression there, although she did meet some opposition when she tried to observe the wards.\n\nFeeling that the prejudice against women in medicine was not as strong there, Blackwell returned to New York City in 1851 with the hope of establishing her own practice.\n\nStateside, Blackwell was faced with adversity, but did manage to get some media support from entities such as the \"New-York Tribune\". She had very few patients, a situation she attributed to the stigma of women doctors as abortionists. In 1852, she began delivering lectures and published \"The Laws of Life with Special Reference to the Physical Education of Girls\", her first work, a volume about the physical and mental development of girls that concerned itself with the preparation of young women for motherhood.\n\nIn 1853, Blackwell established a small dispensary near Tompkins Square. She also took Marie Zakrzewska, a Polish woman pursuing a medical education, under her wing, serving as her preceptor in her pre-medical studies. In 1857, Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, along with Blackwell and her sister Emily, who had also obtained a medical degree, expanded Blackwell's original dispensary into the New York Infirmary for Indigent Women and Children. Women served on the board of trustees, on the executive committee and as attending physicians. The institution accepted both in- and outpatients and served as a nurse's training facility. The patient load doubled in the second year.\n\nWhen the American Civil War broke out, the Blackwell sisters aided in nursing efforts. Blackwell sympathized heavily with the North due to her abolitionist roots, and even went so far as to say she would have left the country if the North had compromised on the subject of slavery. However, Blackwell did meet with some resistance on the part of the male-dominated United States Sanitary Commission (USSC) . The male physicians refused to help with the nurse education plan if it involved the Blackwells. In response to the USSC, Blackwell organized with the Woman's Central Relief Association (WCRA). The WCRA worked against the problem of uncoordinated benevolence, but ultimately was absorbed by the USSC. Still, the New York Infirmary managed to work with Dorothea Dix to train nurses for the Union effort.\n\nBlackwell made several trips back to Britain to raise funds and to try to establish a parallel infirmary project there. In 1858, under a clause in the Medical Act of 1858 that recognised doctors with foreign degrees practicing in Britain before 1858, she was able to become the first woman to have her name entered on the General Medical Council's medical register (1 January 1859). She also became a mentor to Elizabeth Garrett Anderson during this time. By 1866, nearly 7,000 patients were being treated per year at the New York Infirmary, and Blackwell was needed back in the United States. The parallel project fell through, but in 1868, a medical college for women adjunct to the infirmary was established. It incorporated Blackwell's innovative ideas about medical education – a four-year training period with much more extensive clinical training than previously required.\n\nAt this point, a rift occurred between Emily and Elizabeth Blackwell. Both were extremely headstrong, and a power struggle over the management of the infirmary and medical college ensued. Elizabeth, feeling slightly alienated by the United States women's medical movement, left for Britain to try to establish medical education for women there. In July 1869, she sailed for Britain.\n\nIn 1874, Blackwell established a women's medical school in London with Sophia Jex-Blake, who had been a student at the New York Infirmary years earlier. Blackwell had doubts about Jex-Blake and thought that she was dangerous, belligerent, and tactless. Nonetheless, Blackwell became deeply involved with the school, and it opened in 1874 as the London School of Medicine for Women, with the primary goal of preparing women for the licensing exam of Apothecaries Hall. Blackwell vehemently opposed the use of vivisections in the laboratory of the school.\n\nAfter the establishment of the school, Blackwell lost much of her authority to Jex-Blake and was elected as a lecturer in midwifery. She resigned this position in 1877, officially retiring from her medical career.\n\nWhile Blackwell viewed medicine as a means for social and moral reform, her student Mary Putnam Jacobi focused on curing disease. At a deeper level of disagreement, Blackwell felt that women would succeed in medicine because of their humane female values, but Jacobi believed that women should participate as the equals of men in all medical specialties.\n\nAfter leaving for Britain in 1869, Blackwell diversified her interests, and was active both in social reform and authorship. She co-founded the National Health Society in 1871. She perceived herself as a wealthy gentlewoman who had the leisure to dabble in reform and in intellectual activities – the income from her American investments supported her. She was rather occupied with her social status, and her friend, Barbara Bodichon helped introduce Blackwell into her circles. She traveled across Europe many times during these years, in England, France, Wales, Switzerland and Italy.\n\nHer greatest period of reform activity was after her retirement from the medical profession, from 1880–1895. Blackwell was interested in a great number of reform movements – mainly moral reform, sexual purity, hygiene and medical education, but also preventive medicine, sanitation, eugenics, family planning, women's rights, associationism, Christian socialism, medical ethics and antivivisection – none of which ever came to real fruition. She switched back and forth between many different reform organisations, trying to maintain a position of power in each. Blackwell had a lofty, elusive and ultimately unattainable goal: evangelical moral perfection. All of her reform work was along this thread. She even contributed heavily to the founding of two utopian communities: Starnthwaite and Hadleigh in the 1880s.\n\nShe believed that the Christian morality ought to play as large a role as scientific inquiry in medicine and that medical schools ought to instruct students in this basic truth. She also was antimaterialist and did not believe in vivisections. She did not see the value of inoculation and thought it dangerous. She believed that bacteria were not the only important cause of disease and felt their importance was being exaggerated.\n\nShe campaigned heavily against licentiousness, prostitution and contraceptives, arguing instead for the rhythm method. She campaigned against the Contagious Diseases Acts, arguing that it was a pseudo-legalisation of prostitution. Her 1878 \"Counsel to Parents on the Moral Education of their Children\" was an essay on prostitution and marriage arguing against the Contagious Diseases Acts. She was conservative in all senses except that she believed women to have sexual passions equal to those of men, and that men and women were equally responsible for controlling those passions. Others of her time believed women to have little if any sexual passion, and placed the responsibility of moral policing squarely on the shoulders of the woman. The book was controversial, being rejected by 12 publishers, before being printed by Hatchard and Company. The proofs for the original edition were destroyed by a member of the publisher's board and a change of title was required for a new edition to be printed.\n\nBlackwell was well connected, both in the United States and in the United Kingdom. She exchanged letters with Lady Byron about women's rights issues, and became very close friends with Florence Nightingale, with whom she discussed opening and running a hospital together. She remained lifelong friends with Barbara Bodichon, and met Elizabeth Cady Stanton in 1883. She was close with her family, and visited her brothers and sisters whenever she could during her travels.\n\nHowever, Blackwell had a very strong personality, and was often quite acerbic in her critique of others, especially of other women. Blackwell had a falling out with Florence Nightingale after Nightingale returned from the Crimean War. Nightingale wanted Blackwell to turn her focus to training nurses, and could not see the legitimacy of training female physicians. After that, Blackwell's comments upon Florence Nightingale's publications were often highly critical. She was also highly critical of many of the women's reform and hospital organisations in which she played no role, calling some of them \"quack auspices\". Blackwell also did not get along well with her more stubborn sisters Anna and Emily, or with the women physicians she mentored after they established themselves (Marie Zakrzewska, Sophia Jex-Blake and Elizabeth Garrett Anderson). Among women at least, Blackwell was very assertive and found it difficult to play a subordinate role.\n\nIn 1856, when Blackwell was establishing the New York Infirmary, she adopted Katherine \"Kitty\" Barry (1848–1936), an Irish orphan from the House of Refuge on Randall's Island. Diary entries at the time show that she adopted Barry half out of loneliness and a feeling of obligation, and half out of a utilitarian need for domestic help. Barry was brought up as a half-servant, half-daughter.\n\nBlackwell did provide for Barry's education. She even instructed Barry in gymnastics as a trial for the theories outlined in her publication, \"The Laws of Life with Special Reference to the Physical Education of Girls\". However, Blackwell never permitted Barry to develop her own interests. She didn't make an effort to introduce Barry to young men or women of her age. Barry herself was rather shy, awkward and self-conscious about her slight deafness. Barry followed Blackwell during her many trans-Atlantic moves, during her furious house hunt between 1874 and 1875, during which they moved six times, and finally to Blackwell's final home, Rock House, a small house off Exmouth Place in Hastings, Sussex, in 1879.\n\nBarry stayed with Blackwell all her life. After Blackwell's death, Barry stayed at Rock House, and then moved to Kilmun in Argyllshire, Scotland, where Blackwell was buried in the churchyard of St Munn's Parish Church. In 1920, she moved in with the Blackwells and took the Blackwell name. On her deathbed, in 1930, Barry called Blackwell her \"true love\", and requested that her ashes be buried with those of Elizabeth.\n\nNone of the five Blackwell sisters ever married. Elizabeth thought courtship games were foolish early in her life, and prized her independence. When commenting on the young men trying to court her during her time in Kentucky, she said: \"...do not imagine I am going to make myself a whole just at present; the fact is I cannot find my other half here, but only about a sixth, which would not do.\" Even during her time at Geneva Medical College, she rejected advances from a few suitors.\n\nThere was one slight controversy, however, in Blackwell's life related to her relationship with Alfred Sachs, a 26-year-old man from Virginia. He was very close with both Kitty Barry and Blackwell, and it was widely believed in 1876 that he was a suitor for Barry, who was 29 at the time. The reality was that Blackwell and Sachs were very close, so much so that Barry felt uncomfortable being around the two of them. Sachs was very interested in Blackwell, then 55 years old. Barry was in love with Sachs and was mildly jealous of Blackwell. Blackwell thought that Sachs lived a life of dissipation and believed that she could reform him. In fact, the majority of her 1878 publication \"Counsel to Parents on the Moral Education of the Children\" was based on her conversations with Sachs. Blackwell stopped correspondence with Alfred Sachs after the publication of her book.\n\nBlackwell, in her later years, was still relatively active. In 1895, she published her autobiography, \"Pioneer Work in Opening the Medical Profession to Women\". It was not very successful, selling fewer than 500 copies. After this publication, Blackwell slowly relinquished her public reform presence, and spent more time traveling. She visited the United States in 1906 and took her first and last car ride. Blackwell's old age was beginning to limit her activities.\n\nIn 1907, while holidaying in Kilmun, Scotland, Blackwell fell down a flight of stairs, and was left almost completely mentally and physically disabled. On 31 May 1910, she died at her home in Hastings, Sussex, after suffering a stroke that paralyzed half her body. Her ashes were buried in the graveyard of St Munn's Parish Church, Kilmun, and obituaries honouring her appeared in publications such as \"The Lancet\" and \"The British Medical Journal\".\n\nThe British artist Edith Holden, whose Unitarian family were Blackwell's relatives, was given the middle name \"Blackwell\" in her honor.\n\nAfter Blackwell graduated in 1849, her thesis on typhoid fever was published in the \"Buffalo Medical Journal.\"\n\nIn 1857, Blackwell opened the New York Infirmary for Women with her younger sister Emily. At the same time, she gave lectures to women in the United States and England about the importance of educating women and the profession of medicine for women. In the audience at one of her lectures in England, was a woman named Elizabeth Garrett Anderson who later became the first woman doctor in England in 1865.\n\nIn 1874, Blackwell worked together with Florence Nightingale, Sophia Jex-Blake, Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, Emily Blackwell, and Thomas Henry Huxley to create the first medical school for women in England, London School of Medicine for Women, for which she acted as the Chair of Hygiene.\n\nBlackwell settled in England in the 1870s and continued with working on expanding the profession of medicine for women, influencing as many as 476 women to become registered medical professionals in England alone. Up until her death, Blackwell worked in an active practice in Hastings, England, and continued to lecture at the School of Medicine for Women.\n\nTwo institutions honour Elizabeth Blackwell as an alumna:\n\nSince 1949, the American Medical Women's Association has awarded the Elizabeth Blackwell Medal annually to a female physician. Hobart and William Smith Colleges awards an annual Elizabeth Blackwell Award to women who have demonstrated \"outstanding service to humankind.\"\n\nIn 1973, Elizabeth Blackwell was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nThe painting \"The Dinner Party\" features a place setting for Elizabeth Blackwell.\n\nIn 2013 the University of Bristol launched the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research.\n\nOn February 3, 2018, Google honoured her as a doodle in recognition of her 197th birth anniversary.\n\nIn May 2018, a commemorative plaque was unveiled at the former location of the New York Infirmary for Indigent Women and Children, which Elizabeth Blackwell and her sister Emily Blackwell founded. For the event, Jill Platner, a jewelry designer, designed a Blackwell Collection of jewelry inspired by Elizabeth Blackwell.\n\nHobart and William Smith College erected a statue on their campus honoring Blackwell.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024827", "title": "Women's Party (Greenland)", "text": "Women's Party (Greenland)\n\nThe Women's Party (\"Arnat Partiiat\") was a feminist political party in Greenland. At the 2002 legislative elections the party won 2.4% of the popular vote and no seats. On November 6, 1999, in response to the still much lower representation of women in politics, a group of women formed the party. Several members ran for the parliamentary election in 2002. The Women's Party was in short of votes. The party was dissolved in the spring of 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2024828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024828", "title": "Democrats (Greenland)", "text": "Democrats (Greenland)\n\nThe Democrats (; ) is a liberal, unionist political party in Greenland.\n\nThe party is skeptical of Greenlandic independence and even further self-governance. It has taken over this position from the Atassut party, which has developed towards favouring more autonomy. Two of the major priorities in its programme are improving educational standards and the housing situation.\n\nEstablished in 2002, the party won five seats in the elections that year. It increased its seat total to seven in the 2005 elections, but was excluded from power by a so-called \"Northern Lights Coalition\" of Siumut, Inuit Ataqatigiit and Atassut. Its number of seats decreased to four seats in the 2009 elections; however, it entered a government coalition with Inuit Ataqatigiit and the Association of Candidates, removing the formerly dominant Siumut from power for the first time in its history. In the 2013 elections the party won only two seats, but at the 2014 elections the party gained two more seats and has now four seats in the parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024835", "title": "Nanodomain", "text": "Nanodomain\n\nA nanodomain is a signal which occurs when a single calcium ion channel opens on a cell membrane, allowing an influx of calcium ions (Ca) which extend in a plume a few tens of nanometres from the channel pore. In a nanodomain, the coupling distance, that is, the distance between the calcium-binding proteins which sense the calcium, and the calcium channel, is very small, less than , which allows rapid signalling. The formation of a nanodomain is virtually instantaneous following the opening of the calcium channel, as calcium ions move rapidly into the cell along a steep concentration gradient. The nanodomain collapses just as quickly when the calcium channel closes, as the ions rapidly diffuse away from the pore. Formation of a nanodomain requires the influx of only approximately 1000 calcium ions.\n\nCoupling distances greater than , mediated by a larger number of channels, are referred to as microdomains. nanodomain\n\nNanodomains are thought to improve the temporal precision of fast exocytosis of vesicles due to two specific properties:\n\nSingle channels are able to cause vesicular release, however, the cooperativity of different calcium channels is synapse-specific. The release driven by a single calcium ion channel minimizes the total calcium ion influx, overlapping domains can provide greater reliability and temporal fidelity.\n"}
{"id": "2024838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024838", "title": "Hernia repair", "text": "Hernia repair\n\nHernia repair refers to a surgical operation for the correction of a hernia—a bulging of internal organs or tissues through the wall that contains it. It can be of two different types: herniorrhaphy; or hernioplasty. This operation may be performed to correct hernias of the abdomen, groin, diaphragm, brain, or at the site of a previous operation. Hernia repair is often performed as an ambulatory procedure.\n\nThe first differentiating factor in hernia repair is whether the surgery is done open, or laparoscopically. Open hernia repair is when an incision is made in the skin directly over the hernia. Laparoscopic hernia repair is when minimally invasive cameras and equipment are used and the hernia is repaired with only small incisions adjacent to the hernia. These techniques are similar to the techniques used in laparoscopic gallbladder surgery.\n\nAn operation in which the hernia sac is removed without any repair of the inguinal canal is described as a herniotomy. When herniotomy is combined with a reinforced repair of the posterior inguinal canal wall with autogenous (patient's own tissue) or heterogeneous material such as prolene mesh, it is termed hernioplasty as opposed to herniorrhaphy, in which no autogenous or heterogeneous material is used for reinforcement.\n\nThe Stoppa procedure is a tension-free type of hernia repair. It is performed by wrapping the lower part of the parietal peritoneum with prosthetic mesh and placing it at a preperitoneal level over Fruchaud's myopectineal orifice. It was first described in 1975 by Rene Stoppa. This operation is also known as \"giant prosthetic reinforcement of the visceral sac\" (GPRVS).\n\nThis technique has met particular success in the repair of bilateral hernias, large scrotal hernias, and recurrent or rerecurrent hernias in which conventional repair is difficult and which carries a high morbidity and failure rate. The most recent reported recurrence rate (involving 230 patients with 420 hernias and a maximum of 8 years follow-up) was 0.71%. The totally extra-peritoneal repair (TEP) uses exactly the same principles as the Stoppa repair, except that it is performed laparoscopically.\n"}
{"id": "2024839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024839", "title": "Jack Stewart (ice hockey)", "text": "Jack Stewart (ice hockey)\n\nJohn Sherratt \"Black Jack\" Stewart (May 6, 1917 – May 25, 1983) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played 12 National Hockey League (NHL) seasons for the Detroit Red Wings and Chicago Black Hawks. He won two Stanley Cup championships with the Red Wings and was named to the post-season NHL All-Star Team on five occasions: three times on the first team and twice on the second. Stewart also played in the first four NHL All-Star Games. After completing his NHL career as captain of the Black Hawks, he went on to coach numerous teams at various levels of hockey.\n\nStewart was regarded as the hardest hitting defenceman of his time, a reputation that earned him his nickname. His style of play routinely resulted in injuries and scars; he defied expectations by returning to the game after suffering a ruptured disc in his back and later a fractured skull. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1964, and is also honoured by the Manitoba Hockey and Sports Halls of Fame.\n\nStewart played junior hockey with the Portage Terriers of the Manitoba Junior Hockey League in 1935–36 and 1936–37, where he was discovered by a Winnipeg businessman who suggested that James Norris, owner of the Detroit Red Wings, sign him. He was sent to play his first season of professional hockey for the team's minor league affiliate, the Pittsburgh Hornets of the International-American Hockey League (IAHL). He recorded one assist in 48 games in the 1937–38 season.\n\nPartway through his second season with the Hornets, the Red Wings recalled Stewart as part of a bid to shake up their team which had been struggling. He appeared in 32 games in his NHL rookie season of 1938–39, and immediately established himself as a physical presence. He played in all 48 games for Detroit in 1939–40; his lone goal on the campaign was the first of his career. Stewart and the Red Wings reached the Stanley Cup final in both 1941 and 1942, but lost to the Boston Bruins and Toronto Maple Leafs, respectively. In his fifth season, 1942–43, Stewart was named to the NHL First All-Star Team on defence and helped lead the Red Wings to the NHL regular season title. Reaching the final for the third consecutive season, Detroit defeated Boston to win the Stanley Cup. Stewart scored one goal, added two assists and had 35 penalty minutes in ten playoff games.\n\nStewart's NHL career was interrupted by the Second World War in 1943. He remained in Canada, serving as a Leading Aircraftman in the Royal Canadian Air Force and playing hockey for the Montreal RCAF and Winnipeg RCAF teams between 1943 and 1945. Upon his return to the NHL, Stewart was paired up with Bill Quackenbush on the Red Wings defence. He went on to earn four additional all-star selections: he was named to the second team in 1945–46 and 1946–47, and to the first team again in 1947–48 and 1948–49. Additionally, he played in the first four National Hockey League All-Star Games, held between 1947 and 1950. Not known for his offence, Stewart never scored more than five goals in a season, and his career high of 19 points was set in 1947–48. He won his second Stanley Cup with the Red Wings in 1950 as they defeated the New York Rangers in double overtime of the deciding seventh game.\n\nFollowing the championship, the Red Wings dealt Stewart to the Chicago Black Hawks as part of a nine-player trade that was, at the time, the largest in NHL history. Stewart, Harry Lumley, Al Dewsbury, Pete Babando and Don Morrison were sent to Chicago in exchange for Metro Prystai, Bob Goldham, Gaye Stewart and Jim Henry. The Black Hawks named Stewart team captain and assistant coach almost immediately.\n\nStewart missed the majority of the 1950–51 NHL season and his career was believed over after he suffered a serious spinal injury in a December 14, 1950, game against the Toronto Maple Leafs. Doctors diagnosed his injury as a ruptured disc and urged him to retire. He was told following the injury that he was lucky he could still walk without a cane and not to risk further damage on the ice. Instead, Stewart had the disc removed and after completing what Black Hawks' team doctors described as a \"most remarkable\" recovery, he opted to continue his career and signed with Chicago for the 1951–52 season.\n\nEarly in the season, Stewart suffered a minor skull fracture after colliding with teammate Clare Martin, an injury that forced him out of the lineup for several weeks. Stewart spent two weeks in hospital, after which he announced his retirement, but he again shocked observers by returning to the ice. However, by mid February 1952, his injuries led Stewart to ask the Black Hawks for his release so that he could seek a minor league coaching position.\n\nStewart was considered as coach of the New Westminster Royals of the Pacific Coast Hockey League, but chose to take the reins of the senior A Chatham Maroons in the Ontario Hockey Association. He served as a player-coach, appearing in 45 games for the Maroons in 1952–53, where he scored two goals and 29 points while accumulating 129 penalty minutes. Stewart played the final games of his career in 1953–54, finishing with eight assists in 21 games.\n\nThe following seasons saw Stewart move between several teams as head coach. He left the Maroons to guide the Kitchener-Waterloo Dutchmen in 1955–56, then the Windsor Bulldogs for two seasons between 1957 and 1959. At one point in 1957, he was rumoured to become the next coach of the Chicago Black Hawks, a job that went instead to Rudy Pilous. Stewart moved into the professional ranks in 1961, taking over as the coach of Chicago's Eastern Professional Hockey League affiliate, the Sault Thunderbirds. One year later, Stewart moved to the Pittsburgh Hornets, an American Hockey League affiliate of the Detroit Red Wings. After winning only 16 games in 1962–63, Stewart retired after he was dismissed by the Hornets.\n\nDuring his career, Stewart was regarded as one of the hardest bodycheckers in the National Hockey League. He also carried the heaviest stick in the league, explaining that \"I don't use it for scoring. I use it for breaking arms\". Stewart was known for his large grin when hitting opponents; teammate Ted Lindsay noted \"when he had that smile, it was time for the opposition to look out\". He led the league with 73 penalty minutes in 1945–46, and in the late 1940s, his rivalry with Milt Schmidt of the Boston Bruins was so intense that their physical interactions occasionally overshadowed the games themselves.\n\nStewart hated his nickname of \"Black Jack\", as he believed it made him out to be a dirty player. Hockey Hall of Fame defenceman King Clancy agreed he was not dirty, but stated he was the \"roughest son of a gun you'd ever want to meet.\" Stewart's style of play resulted in numerous injuries; he had dozens of scars and required over 200 stitches to close various cuts during his career. At one point he played a full season with a broken hand using a cast formed to hold his stick.\n\nOn the ice, Stewart showed good judgment as a defenceman and rarely took himself out of position to throw a hit. His coach in Detroit, Jack Adams, called Stewart \"one of the best blueliners in the game\", and claimed he was the best defenceman in Red Wings history. Regarded as a good skater, he was able to clear the puck out of his zone and rarely turned it over to the other team. Clare Martin said he was a \"defensive defenceman\" and that he \"didn't carry the puck too much ... His job was defence and everybody in the league knew it.\"\n\nA charter member of the Detroit Red Wings Hall of Fame in 1944, Stewart was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1964. He is also an honoured member of the Michigan Sports, Manitoba Hockey and Sports Halls of Fame. He was named to the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame's First All-Century Team in 2000.\n\nStewart was born May 6, 1917, in Pilot Mound, Manitoba, where he learned to play hockey on the community's outdoor rinks. He had three sisters. In the off-seasons, he returned to his family farm, work which was said to have given him the strength he displayed in the NHL. An avid sportsman, Stewart was an active curler during his playing career, and played softball in the summer. Though he was regarded on the ice as one of toughest players in the game, he was also quiet. He was known as \"Silent Jack\" by his teammates, allowing his actions to speak for him.\n\nUpon leaving hockey in 1963, he focused on a career in harness racing. Stewart's father built a track on the family farm and held a horse racing meet each year to entertain the residents of Pilot Mound. He also followed and assisted his father when the elder Stewart acted as a race judge at fairs held in Manitoba. Stewart was actively involved in the sport from the time he retired as a player. He worked as a race timer and held various judging roles during the summers. He was a judge with the Ontario Racing Commission for nearly 30 years where his reputation matched that of his playing days.\n\nStewart retired to Florida but returned to Michigan to undergo treatment for cancer. He died on May 6, 1983, at his home in Troy following a lengthy battle with the disease. A widower, he was survived by two children, son Barclay and daughter Jaqueline.\n\nIn 2010, the new Pilot Mound Arena was named The 'Black Jack Stewart Arena'.\n"}
{"id": "2024849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024849", "title": "Association of Candidates", "text": "Association of Candidates\n\nThe Association of Candidates (\"Kattusseqatigiit\") was a conservative political party in Greenland. The party was founded in late autumn 2005, when the chairman Anthon Frederiksen delivered 1,003 signatures to the Home Rule domestic office.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections in 2013, the party won 1.1% of the popular vote and no seats in the Greenlandic parliament. and subsequently dissolved. Its founder Anthon Frederiksen later joined Partii Naleraq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024855", "title": "Bruce Stuart", "text": "Bruce Stuart\n\nCharles Bruce Stuart (November 30, 1881 – October 28, 1961) was a Canadian amateur and professional ice hockey forward who played for the Quebec Bulldogs, Ottawa Senators, Montreal Wanderers, Portage Lakes Hockey Club, Pittsburgh Victorias and Pittsburgh Professionals from 1899 to 1911. Stuart is considered to be an early power forward, a forward who combines physical play with scoring ability, in hockey history.\n\nBruce and his brother Hod played for Ottawa in 1899. In 1890, they moved to Quebec City for business. They started playing hockey again in 1891, joining the Quebec Bulldogs. He then played professional in Pittsburgh and Houghton in the old International Professional Hockey League. Mr Stuart joined the Wanderers in time to win the Stanley Cup in 1908, and then captained the Senators in 1909 to the Cup.\nIn 1910, when the National Hockey Association (NHA) imposed a salary cap, cutting player's salaries in half, Stuart attempted to form a rival league. The rival league failed to organize, as the Montreal Arena was refused to the players. Stuart returned to captain the Senators to the 1911 Stanley Cup. Stuart retired from playing after the 1910–11 season and managed a shoe store he owned in Ottawa until 1952 along with some coaching.\n\nDespite his age, he attended his induction into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1961. He died not long after.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024862", "title": "Gioia Bruno", "text": "Gioia Bruno\n\nGioia Bruno (born Carmen Gioia Bruno June 11, 1963, sometimes professionally credited as just Gioia) is an Italian-born American popular music singer, most noted as a member of the vocal group Exposé.\nIn September 2006, Bruno temporarily stopped touring as a solo artist.\n\nBruno has been married and divorced two times. From her first marriage, to Joseph Pastore, she has a daughter, Brianna Pastore, who was born in 1988. In January 2006, Gioia acknowledged that she is bisexual ever since the failed romance with The \"Joey O\" which she was quoted as saying \"you get 3 great pastrami's in your life and I met 1 at the Park West theater but our conflicting careers wouldn't allow such love to blossom ( he is an entrepreneur/ singer / comedian / model ) on the Q Television Network show \"Brunch\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024868", "title": "John James Cowperthwaite", "text": "John James Cowperthwaite\n\nSir John James Cowperthwaite, KBE, CMG (; 25 April 1915 – 21 January 2006), was a British civil servant and the Financial Secretary of Hong Kong from 1961 to 1971. His introduction of free market economic policies are widely credited with turning postwar Hong Kong into a thriving global financial centre.\n\nCowperthwaite was born on 25 April 1915 in Edinburgh to John Cowperthwaite, a surveyor of taxes, and Jessie Jarvis. He attended Merchiston Castle School in Edinburgh, Scotland, and later studied classics at St Andrews University and Christ's College, Cambridge. In 1940, he gained a first class degree in economics at St Andrews University on an accelerated one year degree programme with Professor James Nisbet. He joined the British Colonial Administrative Service as a Hong Kong Cadet in 1941, but during World War II was posted to Sierra Leone instead because of the Japanese invasion of Hong Kong.\n\nHe arrived in Hong Kong in 1945 and was assigned to the Department of Supplies, Trade and Industry. He was asked to find ways in which the government could boost post-war economic outlook but found the economy was recovering swiftly without any government intervention. He took the lesson to heart and positive non-interventionism became the focus of his economic policy as Financial Secretary. Cowperthwaite built on the economic policies of his predecessors, Arthur Clark and Geoffrey Follows, promoting free trade, low taxation, budget surpluses, limited state intervention in the economy, a distrust of industrial planning, and sound money. It was a policy mix that drew more on Adam Smith and Gladstone than on Keynes and Attlee. However, Cowperthwaite was a pragmatic civil servant rather than a theoretician and he based his policies on his experience, empirical data and what he believed would work in practice. \n\nHe refused to compile GDP statistics arguing that such data was not useful to managing an economy and would lead to officials meddling in the economy. He was once asked what the key thing that poor countries could do to improve their growth. He replied: “They should abolish the office of national statistics.” According to Catherine R. Schenk, Cowperthwaite's policies helped it to develop from one of the poorest places on earth to one of the wealthiest and most prosperous: \"Low taxes, lax employment laws, absence of government debt, and free trade are all pillars of the Hong Kong experience of economic development.\" The \"Economic Freedom of the World 2015 Report\" ranks Hong Kong as both the freest economy in the world, a distinction it has held since this index began ranking countries in 1975, and among the most prosperous.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, Cowperthwaite refused to implement free universal primary education, contributing to relatively high illiteracy rates in today's older generation. Compulsory education was only introduced under the governorship of Sir Murray MacLehose the next decade. At a time when Hong Kong's roads were crippled by traffic congestion, Cowperthwaite also steadfastly opposed construction of the Mass Transit Railway, a costly undertaking which was nevertheless built following his retirement. It would later become one of the world's most heavily utilised (and profitable) railways.\n\nIn 1960, he was appointed as an Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) and, in 1964, a Companion of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George (CMG). He later became a Knight Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1968. He was highly praised by Nobel laureate Milton Friedman just before his death.\n\nCommentators have credited his management of the economy of Hong Kong as a leading example of how small government encourages growth.\n\nAfter leaving his retirement, he was international adviser to Jardine Fleming, the Hong Kong–based investment bank until 1981. He retired and left Hong Kong for St Andrews, Scotland and became a member of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews.\n\nHe married Sheila Thomson in 1941. They had one son. He died in Scotland on 21 January 2006, aged 90; his son predeceased him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024871", "title": "Hod Stuart", "text": "Hod Stuart\n\nWilliam Hodgson \"Hod\" Stuart (February 20, 1879 – June 23, 1907) was a Canadian professional ice hockey cover-point (now known as a defenceman) who played nine seasons for several teams in different leagues. He also played briefly for the Ottawa Rough Riders football team. With his brother Bruce, Stuart played in the first professional ice hockey league, the American-based International Professional Hockey League (IPHL), where he was regarded as one of the best players in the league.\n\nFrustrated with the violence associated with the IPHL, he left the league late in 1906 and returned to Canada, where in 1907 he helped the Montreal Wanderers win the Stanley Cup, the championship trophy for hockey. Two months later, he died in a diving accident. To raise money for his widow and children, the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association hosted an all-star game, the first of its kind to be played in any sport. An estimated 3,800 spectators attended the Hod Stuart Memorial Game on January 2, 1908, described by the \"Montreal Herald\" as \"unique in the history of hockey in Montreal, if not in the whole of Canada\".\n\nIn an era when defencemen were expected to stay behind during the play, Stuart became known for his ability to score goals while playing a defensive role, and for his ability to remain calm during matches that often turned violent. He also became known for his work to reduce that violence and to increase the salaries of hockey players. His efforts were acknowledged when the Hockey Hall of Fame was created in 1945 and he became one of the first nine players to be inducted. He was joined there by his brother Bruce in 1961.\n\nStuart was born in Ottawa, Ontario, the eldest son of William Stuart and Rachel Hodgson. He had two brothers, Alex and Bruce, and two sisters, Jessie and Lottio. Stuart was involved in sports from an early age. His father had been a good curler and was once point skip of the Ottawa Curling Club, and both Hod and Bruce played hockey from a young age, often for the same teams. Stuart also played rugby and football, and played for the local professional football team, the Ottawa Rough Riders.\n\nOutside of hockey Stuart worked as a bricklayer, and later in his life he also worked with his father in construction. He was said to have been a quiet person, and unlike other athletes of his era was not one to talk about his exploits, except with close friends. Loughlin, his wife, came from Quebec; around 1903 they were married and had two children together.\n\nStuart first joined a senior hockey team when he spent the winter of 1895–1896 with the Rat Portage Thistles, a team in northwestern Ontario. Along with his brother Bruce, Stuart joined the Ottawa Hockey Club of the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL) for the 1899 season. He played the 1900 season for Ottawa, captaining the team. Through his father's business contacts, Stuart got a job in Quebec and moved there in 1900; upon arriving there he joined the Quebec Bulldogs, also of the CAHL. He scored seven goals in fifteen games with the team over the next two seasons.\nIn 1902, the Pittsburgh Bankers of the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League signed Stuart to a professional contract; this was disputed between the Bankers and the Pittsburgh Victorias, who also claimed him. Eventually the Bankers won the dispute and kept Stuart; the following year they would also sign Bruce. Stuart was offered a salary of US$15–20 per week, plus steady income from a day job in Pittsburgh. Stuart scored seven goals and had eight assists and was named the best cover-point in the league in 1903.\n\nAfter one season in Pittsburgh, Stuart moved to the Portage Lakes Hockey Club, a team in northern Michigan, for the 1903–1904 season and played in fourteen exhibition games, finishing fourth on the team with thirteen goals scored. With the formation of the International Professional Hockey League, Stuart left Portage Lake for the Calumet Miners, where he accepted the positions of coach and manager, in addition to playing cover-point, for $1,800. He scored eighteen goals for Calumet in 1904–1905, helped the team with the league championship and was named to the end of season all-star team as the best cover-point in the league.\nOn December 11, 1905, before the start of the 1905–06 season, Stuart was suspended from the league after the western teams complained that he had won too many championships and was too rough for the league. He was reinstated by the league on December 30, and joined the Pittsburgh Professionals. After Pittsburgh finished their season, Stuart joined Calumet for one game so they could try to win the league championship, which they lost to the Portage Lakes Hockey Club. Once again he was named best cover-point in the IPHL as he scored eleven goals. A big man with a fluid skating stride, he was considered the finest defenceman of his era for his outstanding play on both offence and defence.\n\nAs the IPHL convinced players to move to the United States and get paid to play, hockey teams in Canada were forced to match the salaries in order to keep their players. Stuart, who was unhappy playing in Pittsburgh because of the violence involved in games, heard from Dickie Boon that the Montreal Wanderers, defending Stanley Cup winners, of the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA) were willing to make Stuart the highest paid player in hockey if he were to join the team. On December 13, 1906, Stuart had a letter published in the \"Montreal Star\" that detailed his problems with the IPHL. Stuart's chief concern was the officiating; he said they \"don't know how to run hockey over here, the rink people appoint the most dumb and incompetent referees that could be found.\" In December 1906 Pittsburgh refused to play a game against Michigan Soo, claiming they did not like the choice of referee. While a common problem in the IPHL, Pittsburgh's management believed Stuart was behind the action, and released him from the team. No longer bound to any team, Stuart joined the Wanderers; his first game with the team was watched by 6,069 fans. He took part in the Wanderers' Stanley Cup challenge against the New Glasgow Cubs, a team from Nova Scotia, on December 27 and 29, 1906, and along with teammates Riley Hern, Frank Glass, Moose Johnson and Jack Marshall, became the first professional hockey players to compete for the Stanley Cup.\n\nStuart did not escape violence in the ECAHA. On January 12, 1907, the Wanderers faced the Ottawa Senators, a game the Wanderers ultimately won 4–2. Charles Spittal of Ottawa was described as \"attempting to split Cecil Blachford's skull\", Alf Smith hit Stuart \"across the temple with his stick, laying him out like a corpse\", and Harry Smith cracked his stick across Ernie \"Moose\" Johnson's face, breaking Johnson's nose. Stuart was commended for his actions during the game; it was said that he neither flinched nor retaliated, even after bearing most of the hits. At a league meeting on January 18, the Montreal Victorias proposed suspending Spittal and Alf Smith for the season in response to their actions, but this was voted down and the president of the league, Fred McRobie, resigned. The next time the Senators visited Montreal for a game, the police arrested Spittal, Alf and Harry Smith, leading to $20 fines for Spittal and Alf, and an acquittal for Harry. Even with the persistent violence, Stuart helped the Wanderers to an undefeated season; they then accepted a challenge from the Kenora Thistles for the Stanley Cup. The Thistles won the series, held in January, but lost a rematch between the teams in March, giving the Cup back to the Wanderers. Stuart participated in both challenges, and though did not score a goal in any of the four games, he was said to have played the best game of his career in the first game of the series, even with a broken finger. Regarded as the most important player on the Wanderers, Stuart was said to know how to play every position on the ice, and passed his knowledge of the game onto his teammates.\n\nTired of the constant violence, Stuart quit hockey after the Stanley Cup championship in 1907 and joined his father in construction. As part of this job, Stuart was sent to Belleville, Ontario, to oversee the building of the Belleville Drill Shed, one of his father's contracts. While in Belleville, he continued to receive offers to join a new hockey team. He was asked if he wanted to manage the Belleville team; a similar offer came from Peterborough, Ontario, while a town outside Toronto was said to have offered a railroad president's salary if Stuart would join them. On the afternoon of June 23, 1907, Stuart went to the Bay of Quinte, near Belleville, to swim with some friends. Stuart swam to the nearby lighthouse, about half a kilometre away from his group, climbed onto a platform and dived into the shallow water. He dived head first onto jagged rocks, gashing his head and breaking his neck. He was killed instantly. His body was brought back to Ottawa, where a service was held at his family's home before he was buried at Beechwood Cemetery.\n\nTo raise money for Stuart's widow and two children, the ECAHA decided to host an all-star game, the first of its kind to be played in any sport. An estimated 3,800 spectators attended the Hod Stuart Memorial Game on January 2, 1908, with tickets selling out days in advance. Described by the \"Montreal Herald\" as \"unique in the history of hockey in Montreal, if not in the whole of Canada,\" the event featured the Montreal Wanderers, Stuart's former team, playing against a squad of top players from the other teams in the ECAHA. The Westmount Arena agreed to host the event for no charge, and all proceeds from the game went to Stuart's family, totalling over $2,100. Fans were asked to mail in choices of who should play on the all-star team, with the contest winners given two tickets to the game. The Wanderers, an established team, played better than the All-Stars, who had to learn to play together, and led 7–1 after the first half of the game; though the All-Stars played better in the second half, the Wanderers won by a score of 10–7.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024875", "title": "Ronon Dex", "text": "Ronon Dex\n\nRonon Dex is a fictional character in the science fiction television series \"Stargate Atlantis\". Played by Jason Momoa, he is a Satedan, a civilization from the Pegasus Galaxy who had a technological level comparable to Earth in the mid-20th century but met the fate of all advanced civilizations in Pegasus when their homeworld Sateda (P3R-534) was devastated several years ago by the Wraith. When Ronon Dex and the Atlantis expedition first met in the season 2 episode \"Runner\", Ronon Dex had been a Runner for the past seven years. He joined the Atlantis Expedition shortly afterwards, effectively replacing Aiden Ford on Sheppard's team after Ford had become addicted to a Wraith enzyme and had fled Atlantis.\n\nJason Momoa, along with some of his fellow cast members, have said that they think of Ronon as the Atlantis version of Chewbacca. This joke is carried through into the show, and Lt Col Sheppard occasionally refers to Ronon as \"Chewy.\" \n\nRonon is a native of Sateda, a planet with an advanced level of technology. His grandfather suffered from Second Childhood, a condition with symptoms similar to Alzheimer's Disease. Ronon became a member of the Satedan military where he held the rank of Specialist. He was very close to a woman named Melena, whom Ronon considered \"close enough\" to a wife in \"Sunday\". Approximately seven years before Ronon's first contact with the Atlantis Expedition, the Wraith attacked Sateda. Ronon remained behind with Melena to fight the Wraith, but the Wraith defeated Satedan forces and Melena was killed before Ronon's eyes in an explosion. Ronon was later captured by the Wraith. When the Wraith discovered that he was different to the normal human on Sateda (or any other human civilisation) - i.e. much stronger and more resilient - they turned him into a Runner, implanting a tracking device in his upper back and setting him loose to be constantly hunted. (for sports, training etc. as Ronon said later to Teyla).\n\nRonon stayed alive for seven years by learning several new tricks and deciding to hunt them back with his weapons. He owns a rare energy pistol which emits red bursts of energy that stun or kill at the user's discretion. It resembles a revolver with a power cell where the ammunition cylinder would be located. (The same type of weapon is shown to be used by a people in the season 4 episode \"Travelers\", but Ronon displays no knowledge of these people.) Ronon also carries a sword; the hilt is made from a Wraith mandible and humerus wrapped in Wraith hair, the blade is made from the metal of a Wraith ship, and the scabbard is made from a Wraith leather coat. The episode \"The Hive\" shows Ronon carrying several knives hidden on his person for use in emergencies. (He uses four in the episode and it is implied there may be more.) Ronon's seemingly unlimited supply of these blades is a source of occasional comic relief.\n\nWhen the Atlantis team encounters Ronon for the first time in season 2's \"Runner\", they arrange a removal of the tracking device in his back. Ronon returns with them to Atlantis, where he learns that Sateda had been completely destroyed. Sheppard offers Ronon a place on his team in \"Duet\" after Ronon proves his worth against the Marines and Teyla in hand-to-hand combat and demonstrates his experience with guns. Ronon finds out in \"Trinity\" that about 300 Satedans survived the Wraith attacks and moved to other planets. In season 3's \"Sateda\", Ronon gets revenge on the Wraith who originally turned him into a Runner. Ronon meets with three of his old Satedan friends in season 4's \"Reunion\" and seriously considers leaving the Atlantis Expedition for the first time until he learns that his old friends are Wraith Worshippers. In the end, Ronon remains with the Atlantis Expedition, stating that his friends are \"right here\".\n\nIn season 4's \"Midway\", Teal'c comes to Atlantis to advise Ronon how to deal with the IOA. This immediately provokes a rivalry, and Ronon and Teal'c engage in a sparring match. After an hour of intense but inconclusive fighting, it is proven they are equally matched. Together, they fight a group of Wraith who attempt to gate to Earth; in the process, Dex saves Teal'c from a Wraith who is feeding on him and earns IOA approval of his presence at Atlantis. (The rivalry as such is resolved; the question of who could beat whom is left open, but they become friends instead of rivals.) In one episode of season 4, Ronon and Dr. Jennifer Keller appear to take a romantic interest in each other. In Season 5 episodes \"Taken,\" \"First Contact,\" and \"The Lost Tribe,\" their potential attraction is again suggested until Dr. Keller reveals that she is interested in Dr. Rodney McKay. In season 5's final episode, \"Enemy at the Gate\", Ronon is killed during an assault on a Wraith hive that had reached Earth's orbit. He is then revived by a Wraith and interrogated, only to be rescued by Sheppard and crew. Dex is last seen with the Atlantis Expedition crew as they safely land a cloaked but disabled Atlantis near the Golden Gate Bridge.\n\nThe working name for Ronon's home world planet was Atteria, not Sateda.\n\nAfter Momoa was cast in the role, the Sci Fi Channel objected to him keeping his long, heavy 6-pound dreadlocks. However the hair soon became a signature of the character, and when Momoa decided to cut them off (with the producers' permission) after the completion of Season 4, he was still required to have his hair sewn back on for at least the first three episodes until there would be a scene where Ronon cuts his hair off in \"Broken Ties\". According to Momoa, it took nine hours to sew his hair back on for the beginning of the fifth season, but wearing it was too painful for him to continue working. Meanwhile, the Sci Fi Channel overruled the decision for Ronon to lose his hair, the scene had already been filmed and got cut, so he was eventually given a custom-made $10,000 wig that weighed the same as Momoa's former hair, as a replacement for the rest of the season. In interviews, Momoa says that the wig was more painful and cumbersome than his original dreadlocks. Also, Momoa used various tricks to cover up several of his tattoos, including the sizeable tribal tattoo on his left forearm. Eventually the writers incorporated a scene in the episode \"Reunion\" wherein he gets the tattoo.\n\nWhen Valerie Halverson took over as lead costume designer in the fourth season, Jason Momoa would bring her pieces of fabric from flea markets, which the costume department would fashion into clothing for his character.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024882", "title": "Malay house", "text": "Malay house\n\nMalay houses (Malay: \"Rumah Melayu;\" Jawi: رومه ملايو) are traditional dwellings, originating before the arrival of foreign or modern influences, and constructed by the indigenous ethnic Malay of the Malay Peninsula, Sumatra and Borneo.\n\nTraditional architectural forms, such as tropically-suited roofs and harmonious proportions with decorative elements are considered by traditionalists to still have relevance. However traditional buildings require significant maintenance compared to modern construction; how to preserve wooden materials from the decaying effect of tropical weather as well as termite problems. These traditional skills are gradually being lost as Malaysia continues its process of industrialisation, while in Indonesia traditional houses have still survived in rural areas. The effort to preserve indigenous architectural styles of Indonesian archipelago has been conducted through documentation and create replicas in provinces pavilions in Taman Mini Indonesia Indah, Jakarta.\n\nUsing renewable natural materials including timber and bamboo, the dwellings are often built without the use of metal including nails. Instead pre-cut holes and grooves are used to fit the timber elements into one another, effectively making it a 'prefabricated house'.\n\nAlthough nails had been invented and in later houses used minimally for non-structural elements (for example, windows or panels), structural flexibility was a benefit which nailing inhibited. Without nails, a timber house could be dismantled and reconstructed in a new location. Most of the ancient Malay peoples of South-East Asia maintained a form of self-regenerating environmental culture.\n\nTraditional timber houses incorporated design principals relevant in contemporary architecture such as shading and ventilation, qualities present in the basic house features. Although Malay houses have diversity of styles according to each states, provinces, and sub-ethnics, there are common style and similarities shared among them: \n\nMost of Malay houses are built as \"Rumah Panggung\" (lit: \"stage house\") houses built on stilts. The main characteristic of a typical Malay \"kampung\" house is its on stilts or piles. This was to avoid wild animals and floods, to deter thieves, and for added ventilation. In Sumatra, traditionally stilted houses are designed to avoid dangerous wild animals, such as snakes and tigers. While in areas located close to big rivers of Sumatra and Borneo, the stilts help to elevated house above flood surface. In parts of Sabah, the number of dowry buffaloes could even depend on the number of stilts there are in the bridal family's home.\n\nThe traditional Malay house require stairs to reach the elevated interior. Usually the stairs connected the land front of the house to the serambi (porch or verandah). Additional stairs might be found on back of the house. The stairs can be made of wood or brick structure covered with tiles. For example, in Melaka and Riau the staircase is always decoratively moulded and colourfully tiled.\n\nThe interior is partitioned to create rooms such as \"serambi\" (verandah), living room, and bedrooms. A traditional Malay timber house usually in two parts: the main house called \"Rumah Ibu\" in honour of the mother (\"ibu\") and the simpler \"Rumah Dapur\" or kitchen annexe, which was separated from the main house for fire protection. Proportion was important to give the house a human scale. The \"Rumah Ibu\" was named after the spacings between stilts which are said to typically follow the arms-spread width of the wife and mother in the family of the house when being built. At least one raised veranda (\"serambi\") is attached to the house for seated work or relaxation, or where non-familiar visitors would be entertained, thus preserving the privacy of the interior.\n\nThe roof of traditional Malay houses are designed to provide shade and protection from heat and rain, as well as to provide ventilation. The basic design of a roof on a Malay house is gabled roof, an extended frame with ornaments on the edges of the roof. The vernacular Malay roof is best suited for hot and humid tropical climates. An example of the gabled roof can be found in the design of Rumah Lipat Kajang. However a pyramidal styled pitched roof can also be found on houses such as the Palembang Rumah Limas.\n\nIn Riau and Jambi there are several different styles, especially of the roof design. The Rumah Lancang or Rumah Lontik have curved roof with boat-like structure on stilts. The design somehow similar to Minang Rumah Gadang. The Rumah Lipat Kajang have flat roof structure with crossing edges forming \"x\" pinnacle on corners of the roof. The larger structure with similar crossed corner roof is called Rumah Limas. This type of roof and structure often used in palaces of Malay kings as well as government buildings. The Rumah Limas is also known as the traditional house of South Sumatra and Sundanese West Java, although they have same \"Rumah Limas\" name, the design is slightly different. The modern government and public buildings often based on Malay style roof design, such as government buildings in Riau and Jambi, as well as the roof design of Muzium Negara in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nEach Malay region, state or sub-ethnic groups has its own regional or group style of house with preferred details. However most of Malay houses have a typical roof ornament, a crossed roof edge structure forming \"x\"-like pinnacle ornament on the edge of the roof. This kind of ornament can be found in Lontik, Lipat Kajang and Limas styles. In Peninsular Malaysia's east coast, many houses have distinctive carved roof gable-end boards akin to those in Thailand and Cambodia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024893", "title": "Lexical diffusion", "text": "Lexical diffusion\n\nLexical diffusion is the hypothesis that a sound change is an abrupt change that spreads gradually across the words in a language to which it is applicable.\nIt contrasts with the Neogrammarian view that a sound change results from phonetically conditioned articulatory drift acting uniformly on all applicable words, which implies that sound changes are regular, with exceptions due to analogy and dialect borrowing.\n\nSimilar views were expressed by Romance dialectologists in the late 19th century, but were reformulated and renamed by William Wang and coworkers studying varieties of Chinese in the 1960s and 1970s.\nWilliam Labov found evidence for both processes, but argued that they operate at different levels.\n\nA key assumption of historical linguistics is that sound change is regular.\nThis principle was summarized by the Neogrammarians in the late 19th century in the slogan \"sound laws suffer no exceptions\", and forms the basis of the comparative method of reconstruction and the tree model of linguistic evolution.\nInspired by the Uniformitarian Principle of geology, Neogrammarians such as Hermann Paul described regularity as a consequence of the operation of sound change as an imperceptible articulatory drift conditioned by the phonetic environment.\nLeonard Bloomfield later summarized this view:\n\nHe summarized the mechanism as \"phonemes change\".\nDespite the unequivocal form in which these slogans are often quoted, the Neogrammarians admitted two exceptions to regular sound change: analogy and dialect borrowing.\nUniform sound change was first challenged by Hugo Schuchardt, a dialectologist of Romance languages, who wrote in his criticism of the Neogrammarians:\n\nDialectologists studying the Romance languages found many apparent exceptions to uniformity, reflected in their slogan \"chaque mot a son histoire\" ('every word has its own history'), which is commonly ascribed to Jules Gilliéron but also originated with Schuchardt.\nAn example is the shortening of English 'u' (the foot-strut split), resulting in different vowels in the words \"cut\" and \"put\".\nWhen the isogloss defining this feature in England is examined closely, it emerges that individual words are moving from to over time, and individual speakers fluctuate in their pronunciation of the same words.\n\nSome sound changes, such as metathesis or haplology, are inherently discontinuous, and therefore incompatible with gradual, imperceptible change.\n\nIn 1962, Peking University published the \"Hanyu Fangyin Zihui\", containing transcriptions of 2444 morphemes in 17 modern varieties of Chinese.\nThe DOC project at the University of California, Berkeley, headed by William Wang, attempted to apply the comparative method to a computerized form of this data.\nHowever, the Chinese data revealed pervasive irregularities.\n\nFor example, Middle Chinese words in the third tone class (the \"departing\" tone\") with voiced initials have two reflexes in the modern Teochew dialect, but no phonetic factor has been found to condition the split.\nCheng and Wang list 12 pairs of words that where homophonous in Middle Chinese but have different modern pronunciations.\nSimilar examples were found on other Chinese varieties and other language families.\nWang accounted for such irregularities by positing a form of lexical diffusion:\n\nIn this view, a sound change would be regular if the change had completed its progress through the lexicon, but irregularity would be seen if the change were still incomplete, or if it were interrupted by another change.\n\nOther linguists responded that the explanation of the irregularities should be sought in dialect mixture.\nIndeed Wang and Lien discovered that the Teochew phenomenon was the result of borrowing from the local literary reading tradition.\nThey present a revised model distinguishing between the initial \"actuation\" of a sound change by language contact or internal factors, and its \"implementation\" by lexical diffusion.\n\nLabov found evidence for both processes, but argued that they operate at different levels:\nPaul Kiparsky argues that under a proper definition of analogy as optimization, lexical diffusion is a non-proportional type of analogy similar to leveling, rather than a type of sound change.\n\nWorks cited\n\n"}
{"id": "2024903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024903", "title": "Phillips White", "text": "Phillips White\n\nPhillips White (October 28, 1729– June 24, 1811) was an American farmer from South Hampton, New Hampshire. He was a delegate for New Hampshire to the Continental Congress in 1782 and 1783.\n\nPhillips was born in 1729 at Haverhill, Massachusetts. As a young man he settled in New Hampshire, and made his home in South Hampton for most of his life. During much of the Revolution he was active politically. He represented Rockingham County on the state's Committee of Safety a number of times between 1776 and 1783. In September 1782, White was appointed as a delegate to the Continental Congress. He attended meetings from November of that year (when the new session started) until May 1783.\n\nWhite died at home and is buried in the Old Cemetery of South Hampton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024904", "title": "Neauphle-le-Château", "text": "Neauphle-le-Château\n\nNeauphle-le-Château is a commune in the Yvelines department in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.\n\nNeauphle-le-Château gained international fame in 1978 when, on October 8, Iranian Islamic leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini rented and moved into a house there following his exile by the regime of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi in the midst of the Iranian Revolution, and after being deported from Iraq where he was taking refuge amongst the Shi'a community. The Ayatollah continued to reside there until the following year, when he returned to Iran following the collapse of the Shah's regime, and later became Iran's Supreme Leader. Due to the Ayatollah's time residing in Neauphle-le-Château, the street in Tehran on which the French Embassy in Iran is located and was previously known as \"Faranseh\" (France) street, is now renamed after the village. The property where he lived, at the corner of the Chevreuse Road and Jardins Path has long been fenced off and locked and the former dwelling is now destroyed.\n\nIt was also the home until her death in April, 2013, of Deanna Durbin, Hollywood actress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024907", "title": "Darren Pang", "text": "Darren Pang\n\nDarren Robert \"Panger\" Pang (born February 17, 1964) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played his professional career with the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (1984–85 and 1987–89).\n\nHe is currently a hockey media personality with the St. Louis Blues, and also does occasional work on nationally televised hockey broadcasts.\n\nPang grew up playing hockey in Nepean, Ontario for the Nepean Raiders. As a youth, he played alongside many future NHLers, including Doug Smith, Dan Quinn and Steve Yzerman. He and teammate Dan Quinn played in the 1977 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with a minor ice hockey team from West Ottawa. Pang later played for the Nepean Raiders Major Midget team that represented Ontario in the Air Canada Cup as a 15-year-old.\n\nHe was the first goalie drafted by the expansion Belleville Bulls, winning their first ever game in the OHL. He was traded to the Ottawa 67's, where he won the Memorial Cup in 1984, while garnering the Top goalie and All-Star team awards.\nStanding 5'5\", Pang was the 2nd shortest goalie to play in the NHL, behind only Roy \"Shrimp\" Worters. Pang was humorously considered to have a \"sixth hole\" above his head. He was named to the NHL All-Rookie Team in 1988, and was a finalist for the Calder Trophy as the NHL's Rookie of the year, won by Hall of Famer Joe Nieuwendyk. His first win was recorded on October 18, 1987 against the Winnipeg Jets.\n\nPang was signed as a free agent by the Chicago Blackhawks on August 15, 1984. He also set a Blackhawks goaltender's record with six assists in the 1987–1988 NHL season, and had 9 points in his brief NHL career. Pang suffered a career-ending knee injury on September 21, 1990, during training camp. During his playing career, he was known to vomit before each game, as Glenn Hall had.\n\nToday, Pang is an \"Inside the Glass\" reporter for the St. Louis Blues on Fox Sports Midwest and a part time analyst for Sportsnet and NHL Network. He has also been an \"Inside the Glass\" reporter for regular season and playoff action for the \"NHL on NBC\". Pang also contributes to \"Home Ice\", \"XM Satellite Radio\"'s all-hockey channel. Before joining the Blues, he was the color commentator for the Phoenix Coyotes and a part time analyst for TSN. On July 9, 2009, it was announced that he would be the color commentator for the St. Louis Blues TV broadcasts, with former color man Bernie Federko, who moved between the benches, while John Kelly and Pang work together in the broadcast booth.\n\nPreviously, Pang was a top analyst for \"ESPN National Hockey Night\" and \"NHL on ABC\" for 13 seasons and has broadcast over 95 Stanley Cup Finals games on national TV. He has worked as an analyst for three Winter Olympics. On CBS for the 1998 games in Nagano, Japan, he was assigned as the first Olympic reporter that received full access \"between the benches\" with no glass separating him from the benches. He also worked as an on ice analyst/reporter in 2002 for NBC and in 2010 he worked as a studio analyst for CTV/TSN alongside Bob McKenzie, Nick Kypreos, Daren Millard and James Duthie.\n"}
{"id": "2024912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024912", "title": "New Rights Party", "text": "New Rights Party\n\nThe New Rights Party (NRP) (, \"Akhali Memarjveneebi\"), also translated as New Conservative Party (NCP), was a conservative political party in Georgia. It was an associate member of the International Democrat Union and applicant of the European People's Party.\n\nOn December 8, 2008, the New Rights Party joined the Republican Party of Georgia in a new opposition alliance. Both parties united in \"The Alliance for Georgia\" led by Irakli Alasania, Georgia's ex-envoy to the United Nations in February 2009.\n\nFollowing the establishment of Lelo for Georgia political party in 2019, both David Usupashvili's Development Movement and the New Rights Party merged with the new party and became part of Lelo for Georgia.\n\nThe idea to establish the NRP began to emerge during the time when Eduard Shevardnadze was still President and his Citizens’ Union of Georgia (CUG) was an influential force on the political stage of the country.\n\nAfter formation, despite small membership, the New Faction (at that point there were only ten members) managed to significantly change the situation in the Parliament.\n\nThe original membership of the New Faction consisted of David Gamkrelidze (presently NRP chairman), Levan Gachechiladze, Pikria Chikhradze, Gia Karkarashvili, Irakli Iashvili, David Saganelidze (presently NRP Secretary General), David Koghuashvili, Dodo Shelia, George Kvirikashvili, and Valeri Kvaratskhelia.\n\nOn June 15, 2001, on the basis of the New Faction, New Movement, and Neo-Conservative Union, a new political party - the New Conservative Party of Georgia - was formed. Levan Gachechiladze was elected as NRP chairman and David Gamkrelidze as co-chairman.\n\nIn only a year from its formation, the New Rights Party achieved considerable results. In the local elections held on June 2, 2002, NRP came out first nationwide and third in Tbilisi. After the victory in the local elections, the party set itself preparing for the parliamentary elections. A few months prior to the November 2, 2003 parliamentary elections, the NRP 2nd Congress elected David Gamkrelidze as a new chairman. The New Conservatives managed to successfully overcome the established seven percent threshold. A number of parties boycotted the November 2, 2003 election results accusing the authorities of fraud. This triggered fierce public discontent nationwide, which eventually resulted in the toppling of Shevardnadze’s regime in the Rose Revolution.\n\nDespite the just outrage of the people, the NRP considered it unacceptable that the government should be changed by means of street demonstrations, as they believed it to be unconstitutional.\n\nParticipating in the repeat elections of 2004, the New Conservatives passed the seven percent threshold once again. The NRP united with another center-right party – Industry will Save Georgia – and formed a Coalition Right Opposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024913", "title": "Prix Renaudot", "text": "Prix Renaudot\n\nThe Prix Théophraste-Renaudot or Prix Renaudot () is a French literary award which was created in 1926 by 10 art critics awaiting the results of deliberation of the jury of the Prix Goncourt.\n\nThe Prix Renaudot, while not officially related to the Prix Goncourt, is a kind of complement to it, announcing its laureate at the same time and place as the Prix Goncourt, namely on the first Tuesday of November at the Drouant restaurant in Paris. The Renaudot jurors always pick an alternative laureate in case their first choice is awarded the Prix Goncourt.\n\nThe prize is named after Théophraste Renaudot, who created the first French newspaper in 1631.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024921", "title": "Industry Will Save Georgia", "text": "Industry Will Save Georgia\n\nIndustry Will Save Georgia (\"Mretsveloba Gadaarchens Sak'art'velos\", მრეწველობა გადაარჩენს საქართველოს) is a centre-right conservative political party in Georgia.\n\nIt was founded in 1999 by Gogi Topadze, the proprietor of a big beer and drinks company (Kazbegi) and gathered pro-business and industrial lobbyists. Its main objective was to change the country's economic policy, especially by fighting the influence of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The party took part in the 1999 parliamentary elections and won 15 seats, making it the third-strongest party. Even though it was not part of the government, it co-operated with then-ruling Citizens' Union of Georgia (CUG) of President Eduard Shevardnadze and did not constitute a firm opposition. During the legislative elections on 28 March 2004, the party was part of the Rightist Opposition alliance, together with the New Rights party. The coalition won 23 seats, making it the second force in parliament, behind new president Mikheil Saakashvili's dominating United National Movement. In the 2012 parliamentary election, the party participated as part of the winning Georgian Dream alliance. The party left the Georgian Dream coalition before the 2016 parliamentary elections. Despite this the Georgian Dream coalition continues to cooperate with the party. During the 2016 elections, Industry Will Save Georgia won their only majoritarian constituency without facing a competing candidate from the Georgian Dream.\n\nIn his book \"Semiotics of Drink and Drinking\", anthropologist Paul Manning describes Gogi Topadze's ideology as \"attempting to create an autarchic link on national production to national consumption.\" \n"}
{"id": "2024925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024925", "title": "Tavisupleba (political party)", "text": "Tavisupleba (political party)\n\nTavisupleba (, \"Freedom\") or Freedom Movement is a political party in Georgia. It is led by Konstantine Gamsakhurdia, a son of the first President of Georgia Zviad Gamsakhurdia.\n\nAt the last legislative elections, 28 March 2004, the party won 4.2% of the popular vote.\n"}
{"id": "2024926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024926", "title": "Christine Ockrent", "text": "Christine Ockrent\n\nChristine Ockrent (born 24 April 1944) is a Belgian journalist whose career has principally centered on French television.\nShe interviewed Amir Abbas Hoveyda, the former Iranian prime minister, in Evin prison after the Islamic revolution in 1979.\nIt was the last interview with Hoveyda before his execution.\n\nOckrent was born in Brussels, Belgium, daughter of Belgian diplomat Roger Ockrent.\nShe attended the Cours Hattemer, a private school in Paris. She graduated from the \"Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po)\" in 1965.\n\nShe worked for American television and collaborated on \"60 Minutes\", the CBS news magazine. Back in France, she worked on Europe 1, a national radio station where she was in charge of morning news. In 1981, she became the first female anchor of the 8 pm news on the Antenne 2 television channel. Afterwards, she worked for TF1. By the end of her career, she had returned to France 2 as anchor of the evening news, and then for France 3 since 1990 where she was the host of different news magazines.\n\nShe was chief of the \"L'Express\" editorial office. For over a decade she presented \"\", a TV show about European issues. She is a fervent supporter of a united Europe, she proved so by signing the Soros call for a federal answer to the crisis of the euro.\n\nOckrent held the number two post at the Société de l'audiovisuel extérieur de la France, until she was relieved in May 2011. She refused to resign, saying that she had had to endure \"nine months of manoeuvres that have sullied my honour and reputation\".\n\nShe is a former member of the Saint-Simon Foundation think-tank.\n\nIn 2002, Ockrent wrote the preface to \"Ma guerre à L'indifference\" (English: My war against indifference), a book by United Nations official Jean-Sélim Kanaan. She is the author of more than a dozen works including: \n\"La Double vie d'Hillary Clinton\" (The Double Life of Hillary Clinton), Robert Laffont (2001)\n\"Les Oligarques : le système Poutin\"e (The Oligarchs, The Putin System), Robert Laffont (2014)\n\"Le Prince mystère de l'Arabie\" (The Mysterious Prince of Arabie). Mohammed Ben Salman, les mirages d'un pouvoir absolu, Robert Laffont (2018).\n\n\nOckrent is the life partner of Bernard Kouchner, a French politician and the former foreign minister, with whom she had a son, Alexandre, born 11 March 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024928", "title": "Democratic Union for Revival", "text": "Democratic Union for Revival\n\nThe Democratic Union for Revival (\"Demokratiuli Aghordzinebis Kavshiri\", დემოკრატიული აღორძინების კავშირი) was a political party in Georgia. \nAt the last legislative elections, on 28 March 2004, the party won 6.0% of the popular vote.\n\nThe party acquired its current name in 1998, having operated since 1992 under the chairmanship of Aslan Abashidze and the name \"Adjaran Union for the rebirth of Georgia\" (\"საქართველოს აღორძინების აჭარის კავშირი\").\n"}
{"id": "2024929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024929", "title": "Augustan literature", "text": "Augustan literature\n\nAugustan literature (sometimes referred to misleadingly as Georgian literature) is a style of British literature produced during the reigns of Queen Anne, King George I, and George II in the first half of the 18th century and ending in the 1740s, with the deaths of Alexander Pope and Jonathan Swift, in 1744 and 1745, respectively. It was a literary epoch that featured the rapid development of the novel, an explosion in satire, the mutation of drama from political satire into melodrama and an evolution toward poetry of personal exploration. In philosophy, it was an age increasingly dominated by empiricism, while in the writings of political economy, it marked the evolution of mercantilism as a formal philosophy, the development of capitalism and the triumph of trade.\n\nThe chronological boundary points of the era are generally vague, largely since the label's origin in contemporary 18th-century criticism has made it a shorthand designation for a somewhat nebulous age of satire. Samuel Johnson, whose famous \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" was published in 1755, is also \"to some extent\" associated with the Augustan period. The new Augustan period exhibited exceptionally bold political writings in all genres, with the satires of the age marked by an arch, ironic pose, full of nuance and a superficial air of dignified calm that hid sharp criticisms beneath.\n\nWhile the period is generally known for its adoption of highly regulated and stylised literary forms, some of the concerns of writers of this period, with the emotions, folk and a self-conscious model of authorship, foreshadowed the preoccupations of the later Romantic era. In general, philosophy, politics and literature underwent a turn away from older courtly concerns towards something closer to a modern sensibility.\n\nAlexander Pope, who had been imitating Horace, wrote an \"Epistle to Augustus\" that was in fact addressed to George II of Great Britain and seemingly endorsed the notion of his age being like that of Augustus, when poetry became more mannered, political and satirical than in the era of Julius Caesar. Later, Voltaire and Oliver Goldsmith (in his \"History of Literature\" in 1764) used the term \"Augustan\" to refer to the literature of the 1720s and the 1730s.\n\nOutside poetry, however, the Augustan era is generally known by other names. Partially because of the rise of empiricism and partially because of the self-conscious naming of the age in terms of ancient Rome, two rather imprecise labels have been affixed to the age. One is that it is the age of neoclassicism; the other is that it is the Age of Reason. While neoclassical criticism from France was imported to English letters, the English had abandoned their strictures in all but name by the 1720s. Critics disagree over the applicability of the concept of \"the Enlightenment\" to the literary history of this period. Donald Greene argued forcefully that the age should rather be known as \"The Age of Exuberance\", and T. H. White made a case for \"The Age of Scandal\". More recently, Roy Porter put forward the notion of a distinctively \"English Enlightenment\" to characterise the intellectual climate of the period.\nOne of the most critical elements of the 18th century was the increasing availability of printed material, both for readers and authors. Books fell in price dramatically and used books were sold at Bartholomew Fair and other fairs. Additionally, a brisk trade in chapbooks and broadsheets carried London trends and information out to the farthest reaches of the kingdom. That was furthered with the establishment of periodicals, including \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" and the \"London Magazine\". People in York aware of the happenings of Parliament and the court, but people in London were also more aware than before of the happenings of York. Furthermore, before copyright, pirate editions were commonplace, especially in areas without frequent contact with London. Pirate editions thereby encouraged booksellers to increase their shipments to outlying centres like Dublin, which further increased awareness across the whole realm. That was compounded by the end of the Press Restriction Act in 1693, which allowed for provincial printing presses to be established, creating a printing structure that was no longer under government control (Clair 158–176).\n\nAll types of literature were spread quickly in all directions. Newspapers began and even multiplied. Furthermore, the newspapers were immediately compromised, as the political factions created their own newspapers, planted stories and bribed journalists. Leading clerics had their sermon collections printed, which were top selling books. Since dissenting, Establishment and Independent divines were in print, the constant movement of these works helped defuse any region's religious homogeneity and fostered emergent latitudinarianism. Periodicals were exceedingly popular, and the art of essay writing was at nearly its apex. Furthermore, the happenings of the Royal Society were published regularly, and they were digested and explained or celebrated in more popular presses. The latest books of scholarship had \"keys\", \"indexes\" and \"digests\" made of them that could popularise, summarise and explain them to a wide audience. The cross-index, now commonplace, was a novelty in the 18th century, and several persons created indexes for older books of learning to allow anyone to find what an author had to say about a given topic at a moment's notice. Books of etiquette, of correspondence and of moral instruction and hygiene multiplied. Economics began as a serious discipline but did so in the form of numerous \"projects\" for solving England, Ireland and Scotland's ills. Sermon collections, dissertations on religious controversy, and prophecies, both new and old and explained, cropped up in endless variety. In short, readers in the 18th century were overwhelmed by competing voices. Truth and falsehood sat side by side on the shelves, and anyone could be a published author, just as anyone could quickly pretend to be a scholar by using indexes and digests (Clair 45, 158–187).\n\nThe positive side of the explosion in information was that the 18th century was markedly more generally educated than the centuries before. Education was less confined to the upper classes than it had been in prior centuries so contributions to science, philosophy, economics, and literature came from all parts of the kingdom. It was the first time that literacy and a library were all that stood between a person and education. It was an age of \"enlightenment\" in the sense that the insistence and drive for reasonable explanations of nature and mankind was a rage. It was an \"age of reason\" in that it was an age that accepted clear, rational methods as superior to tradition. However, there was a dark side to such literacy as well, which authors of the 18th century felt at every turn, which was that nonsense and insanity were also getting more adherents than ever before. Charlatans and mountebanks were fooling more, just as sages were educating more, and alluring and lurid apocalypses vied with sober philosophy on the shelves. As with the Worldwide Web in the 21st century, the democratisation of publishing meant that older systems for determining value and uniformity of view were both in shambles. Thus, it was increasingly difficult to trust books in the 18th century, as books were increasingly easy to make and buy.\n\nThe Restoration period ended with the exclusion crisis and the Glorious Revolution, where Parliament set up a new rule for succession to the British throne that would always prefer Protestantism over consanguinity. That had brought William III and Mary II to the throne instead of James II, and that was codified in the Act of Settlement 1701. James had fled to France from where his son, James Francis Edward Stuart, launched an attempt to retake the throne in 1715. Another attempt was launched by the latter's son Charles Edward Stuart in 1745. The attempted invasions are often referred to as \"the 15\" and \"the 45\". When William died, Anne Stuart came to the throne. Anne was reportedly immoderately stupid: Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay would say of Anne that \"when in good humour, [she] was meekly stupid and, when in bad humour, was sulkily stupid\". Anne's reign saw two wars and great triumphs by John Churchill, the Duke of Marlborough. Marlborough's wife, Sarah Churchill, was Anne's best friend, and many supposed that she secretly controlled the Queen in every respect. With a weak ruler and the belief that true power rested in the hands of the leading ministers, the two factions of politics stepped up their opposition to each other, and Whig and Tory were at each other's throats. That weakness at the throne would lead quickly to the expansion of the powers of the party leader in Parliament and the establishment in all but name of the Prime Minister office in the form of Robert Walpole. When Anne died without surviving issue, George I, Elector of Hanover, came to the throne. George I spoke poor English, and his isolation from the English people was instrumental in keeping his power relatively irrelevant.\n\nHis son, George II, on the other hand, spoke some English and some more French, and his rule was the first full Hanoverian rule in England. By then, the powers of Parliament had silently expanded, and his power was perhaps only equal to that of Parliament.\n\nLondon's population exploded spectacularly. During the Restoration, it had grown from around 350,000 to 600,000 in 1700 (\"Old Bailey\") (\"Millwall history\"). By 1800, it had reached 950,000. Not all of the residents were prosperous, as the Enclosure Acts had destroyed lower-class farming in the countryside, and rural areas experienced painful poverty. Communities of the country poor were forced to migrate or suffer (see Thompson, \"Whigs\") so young people from the country often moved to London with hopes of achieving success, which swelled the ranks of the urban poor and cheap labour for city employers. It also meant an increase in numbers of criminals, prostitutes and beggars. The fears of property crime, rape and starvation found in Augustan literature should be kept in the context of London's growth and the depopulation of the countryside.\nPartially because of the population pressures, property crime became a business both for the criminals and those who fed off of the criminals. Major crime lords like Jonathan Wild invented new schemes for stealing, and newspapers were eager to report crime. Biographies of the daring criminals became popular, which spawned fictional biographies of fictional criminals. Cautionary tales of country women abused by sophisticated rakes (such as Anne Bond) and libertines in the city were popular fare, and they prompted fictional accounts of exemplary women abused (or narrowly escaping abuse).\n\nIncreased population also meant that urban discontent was never particularly difficult to find for political opportunists, and London suffered a number of riots, most of them against supposed Roman Catholic provocateurs. When highly potent, inexpensive distilled spirits were introduced, matters worsened and authors and artists protested the innovation of gin (see, e.g. William Hogarth's \"Gin Lane\"). From 1710, the government encouraged distilling as a source of revenue and trade goods, and there were no licenses required for the manufacturing or selling of gin. There were documented instances of women drowning their infants to sell the child's clothes for gin, and the facilities created both the fodder for riots and the conditions against which riots would occur (Loughrey and Treadwell, 14). Dissenters (Protestants not conforming to the Church of England) recruited and preached to the poor of the city, and various offshoots of the Puritan and \"Independent\" (Baptist) movements increased their numbers substantially. One theme of the ministers was the danger of the Roman Catholic Church, which they frequently saw as the Whore of Babylon. While Anne tended to favor the High Church faction, particularly towards the close of her reign, the court of George I was more closely allied with Low Church and latitudinarian elements and was warmer to nonconformists. The convocation was effectively disbanded by George I, who was struggling with the House of Lords, and George II was pleased to keep it in abeyance. Additionally, both Georges were concerned with James Francis Edward Stuart and Charles Edward Stuart, who had considerable support in Scotland and Ireland, and many were suspected of being closet Jacobites. Walpole inflated fears of Stuart sympathisers from any group that did not support him.\n\nThe literature of the 18th century, particularly the early 18th century, which is what \"Augustan\" most commonly indicates, is explicitly political in ways that few others are. Because the professional author was still not distinguishable from the hack-writer, those who wrote poetry, novels, and plays were frequently either politically active or politically funded. At the same time, an aesthetic of artistic detachment from the everyday world had yet to develop, and the aristocratic ideal of an author so noble as to be above political concerns was largely archaic and irrelevant. The period may be an \"Age of Scandal\", as authors dealt specifically with the crimes and the vices of their world.\n\nSatire, in prose, drama and poetry, was the genre that attracted the most energetic and voluminous writing. The satires that were produced during the Augustan period were occasionally gentle and nonspecific, commentaries on the comically flawed human condition, but they were at least as frequently specific critiques of specific policies, actions and persons. Even the works studiously nontopical were, in fact, transparently political statements in the 18th century.\n\nConsequently, readers of 18th-century literature now need to understand the history of the period more than most readers of other literature do. The authors were writing for an informed audience and only secondarily for posterity. Even the authors, who criticised writing that lived for only a day (like Jonathan Swift and Alexander Pope, in \"The Dedication to Prince Posterity\" of \"A Tale of a Tub\" and \"The Dunciad\", among other pieces) were criticising specific authors, who are unknown to those without historical knowledge of the period. Poetry of all forms was in constant dialogue, and each author was responding and commenting upon the others. Novels were written against other novels (like the battles between Samuel Richardson and Henry Fielding, who, along with Eliza Haywood, wrote a novel satirising Richardson's \"Pamela\", and between Laurence Sterne and Tobias Smollett). Plays were written to make fun of plays or to counter the success of plays (like the reaction against and for \"Cato\" and, later, Fielding's \"The Author's Farce\"). Therefore, history and literature are linked in a way rarely seen at other times. On one hand, the metropolitan and political writing can seem like coterie or salon work, but on the other hand, it was the literature of people deeply committed to sorting out a new type of government, new technologies and newly-vexatious challenges to philosophical and religious certainty.\n\nThe essay, satire, and dialogue (in philosophy and religion) thrived in the age, and the English novel was truly begun as a serious art form. Literacy in the early 18th century passed into the working classes, as well as the middle and upper classes (Thompson, \"Class\"). Furthermore, literacy was not confined to men, though rates of female literacy are very difficult to establish. For those who were literate, circulating libraries in England began in the Augustan period. Libraries were open to all, but they were mainly associated with female patronage and novel reading.\n\nEnglish essayists were aware of Continental models, but they developed their form independently from that tradition, and periodical literature grew between 1692 and 1712. Periodicals were inexpensive to produce, quick to read, and a viable way of influencing public opinion, and consequently there were many broadsheet periodicals headed by a single author and staffed by hirelings (so-called \"Grub Street\" authors). One periodical outsold and dominated all others, however, and that was \"The Spectator\", written by Joseph Addison and Richard Steele (with occasional contributions from their friends). \"The Spectator\" developed a number of pseudonymous characters, including \"Mr. Spectator,\" Roger de Coverley, and \"Isaac Bickerstaff\", and both Addison and Steele created fictions to surround their narrators. The dispassionate view of the world (the pose of a spectator, rather than participant) was essential for the development of the English essay, as it set out a ground wherein Addison and Steele could comment and meditate upon manners and events. Samuel Johnson's command of words and his practical wisdom gained a following as he published more than 200 essays offering insights into the follies of human nature and moral perseverance. Rather than being philosophers like Montesquieu, the English essayist could be an honest observer and his reader's peer. After the success of \"The Spectator,\" more political periodicals of comment appeared. However, the political factions and coalitions of politicians very quickly realized the power of this type of press, and they began funding newspapers to spread rumors. The Tory ministry of Robert Harley (1710–1714) reportedly spent over 50,000 pounds sterling on creating and bribing the press (Butt); this figure is known because their successors publicized it, but they (the Walpole government) were suspected of spending even more. Politicians wrote papers, wrote into papers, and supported papers, and it was well known that some of the periodicals, like \"Mist's Journal,\" were party mouthpieces.\n\nThe 18th century was a time of enlightenment progression occurring in all intellectual fields. However, the English language was deteriorating into a tangled mess. A group of London booksellers commissioned well-known essayist Samuel Johnson to compile a set of rules governing the English Language. After nine years and the help of six assistants the first edition of \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" was published in 1755. Johnson's great knowledge of letters, words and literature brought uniqueness to his dictionary. Each word defined in detail, with descriptions of their various uses and numerous literary quotes as illustrations. This was the first dictionary of its kind, containing 40,000 words and nearly 114,000 quotes packed together with Johnson's personal touch. A warm reception greeted Johnson's Dictionary as it was the first dictionary that could be read with pleasure. The definitions full of wit and depth of thought supported by passages from beloved poets and philosophers, which a reader could be content spending an evening poring over its pages. Johnson's choice of structure and format has certainly shaped future English dictionaries and lexicons and the role they play in language development.\n\nThe Augustan period showed less literature of controversy than the Restoration. There were Puritan authors, however, and one of the names usually associated with the novel is perhaps the most prominent in Puritan writing: Daniel Defoe. After the coronation of Anne, dissenter hopes of reversing the Restoration were at an ebb, and dissenter literature moved from the offensive to the defensive, from revolutionary to conservative. Defoe's infamous volley in the struggle between high and low church came in the form of \"The Shortest Way with the Dissenters; Or, Proposals for the Establishment of the Church.\" The work is satirical, attacking all of the worries of Establishment figures over the challenges of dissenters. It is, in other words, defensive. Later still, the most majestic work of the era, and the one most quoted and read, was William Law's \"A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life\" (1728). The \"Meditations\" of Robert Boyle remained popular as well. Both Law and Boyle called for revivalism, and they set the stage for the later development of Methodism and George Whitefield's sermon style. However, their works aimed at the individual, rather than the community. The age of revolutionary divines and militant evangelists in literature was over for a considerable time.\n\nAlso in contrast to the Restoration, when philosophy in England was fully dominated by John Locke, the 18th century had a vigorous competition among followers of Locke. Bishop Berkeley extended Locke's emphasis on perception to argue that perception entirely solves the Cartesian problem of subjective and objective knowledge by saying \"to be is to be perceived.\" Only, Berkeley argued, those things that are perceived by a consciousness are real. For Berkeley, the persistence of matter rests in the fact that God perceives those things that humans are not, that a living and continually aware, attentive, and involved God is the only rational explanation for the existence of objective matter. In essence, then, Berkeley's skepticism leads to faith. David Hume, on the other hand, took empiricist skepticism to its extremes, and he was the most radically empiricist philosopher of the period. He attacked surmise and unexamined premises wherever he found them, and his skepticism pointed out metaphysics in areas that other empiricists had assumed were material. Hume doggedly refused to enter into questions of his personal faith in the divine, but he assaulted the logic and assumptions of theodicy and cosmogeny, and he concentrated on the provable and empirical in a way that would lead to utilitarianism and naturalism later.\n\nIn social and political philosophy, economics underlies much of the debate. Bernard de Mandeville's \"The Fable of the Bees\" (1714) became a centre-point of controversy regarding trade, morality, and social ethics. Mandeville argued that wastefulness, lust, pride, and all the other \"private\" vices were good for the society at large, for each led the individual to employ others, to spend freely, and to free capital to flow through the economy. Mandeville's work is full of paradox and is meant, at least partially, to problematize what he saw as the naive philosophy of human progress and inherent virtue. However, Mandeville's arguments, initially an attack on graft of the War of the Spanish Succession, would be quoted often by economists who wished to strip morality away from questions of trade.\n\nAdam Smith is remembered by lay persons as the father of capitalism, but his \"Theory of Moral Sentiments\" of 1759 also attempted to strike out a new ground for moral action. His emphasis on \"sentiment\" was in keeping with the era, as he emphasized the need for \"sympathy\" between individuals as the basis of fit action. These ideas, and the psychology of David Hartley, were influential on the sentimental novel and even the nascent Methodist movement. If sympathetic sentiment communicated morality, would it not be possible to induce morality by providing sympathetic circumstances?\n\nSmith's greatest work was \"An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations\" in 1776. What it held in common with de Mandeville, Hume, and Locke was that it began by analytically examining the history of material exchange, without reflection on morality. Instead of deducing from the ideal or moral to the real, it examined the real and tried to formulate inductive rules.\n\nThe ground for the novel had been laid by journalism, drama and satire. Long prose satires like Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726) had a central character who goes through adventures and may (or may not) learn lessons. However, the most important single satirical source for the writing of novels came from Cervantes's \"Don Quixote\" (1605, 1615). In general, one can see these three axes, drama, journalism and satire, as blending in and giving rise to three different types of novel.\n\nDaniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\" (1719) was the first major novel of the new century and was published in more editions than any other works besides \"Gulliver's Travels\" (Mullan 252). Defoe worked as a journalist during and after its composition, and therefore he encountered the memoirs of Alexander Selkirk, who had been stranded in South America on an island for some years. Defoe took aspects of the actual life and, from that, generated a fictional life, satisfying an essentially journalistic market with his fiction (Hunter 331–338). In the 1720s, Defoe interviewed famed criminals and produced accounts of their lives. In particular, he investigated Jack Sheppard and Jonathan Wild and wrote \"True Accounts\" of the former's escapes (and fate) and the latter's life. From his reportage on the prostitutes and criminals, Defoe may have become familiar with the real-life Mary Mollineaux, who may have been the model for Moll in \"Moll Flanders\" (1722). In the same year, Defoe produced \"A Journal of the Plague Year\" (1722), which summoned up the horrors and tribulations of 1665 for a journalistic market for memoirs, and an attempted tale of a working-class male rise in \"Colonel Jack\" (1722). His last novel returned to the theme of fallen women in \"\" (1724). Thematically, Defoe's works are consistently Puritan. They all involve a fall, a degradation of the spirit, a conversion, and an ecstatic elevation. This religious structure necessarily involved a \"bildungsroman\", for each character had to learn a lesson about him or herself and emerge the wiser.\n\nThe sentimental novel, or \"novel of sentiment\", developed after 1740, and among the most famous examples in English are Samuel Richardson's \"Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded\" (1740), Oliver Goldsmith's \"Vicar of Wakefield\" (1766), Laurence Sterne's \"Tristram Shandy\" (1759–67), \"Sentimental Journey\" (1768), Henry Brooke's \"The Fool of Quality\" (1765–70), Henry Mackenzie's \"The Man of Feeling\" (1771) and Maria Edgeworth's \"Castle Rackrent\" (1800). Continental examples are Jean-Jacques Rousseau's novel \"Julie, or the New Heloise\", his autobiography \"The Confessions\" (1764–70) and Goethe's novel \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\" (1774).\n\nAlthough there were novels in the interim, Samuel Richardson's \"Pamela; or, Virtue Rewarded\" (1740) is the next landmark development in the English novel. Richardson's generic models were quite distinct from those of Defoe. Instead of working from the journalistic biography, Richardson had in mind the books of improvement that were popular at the time. Pamela Andrews enters the employ of a \"Mr. B\". As a dutiful girl, she writes to her mother constantly, and as a Christian girl, she is always on guard for her \"virtue\" (i.e. her virginity), for Mr. B lusts after her. The novel ends with her marriage to her employer and her rising to the position of lady. \"Pamela\", like its author, presents a dissenter's and a Whig's view of the rise of the classes. The work drew a nearly instantaneous set of satires, of which Henry Fielding's \"Shamela, or an Apology for the Life of Miss Shamela Andrews\" (1742) is the most memorable. Fielding continued to bait Richardson with \"Joseph Andrews\" (1742), the tale of Shamela's brother, Joseph, who goes through his life trying to protect his own virginity, thus reversing the sexual predation of Richardson and satirizing the idea of sleeping one's way to rank. However, \"Joseph Andrews\" is not a parody of Richardson, for Fielding proposed his belief in \"good nature\", which is a quality of inherent virtue that is independent of class and which can always prevail. Joseph's friend Parson Adams, although not a fool, is a naïf and possessing good nature. His own basic good nature blinds him to the wickedness of the world, and the incidents on the road (for most of the novel is a travel story) allow Fielding to satirize conditions for the clergy, rural poverty (and squires), and the viciousness of businessmen.\n\nIn 1747 through 1748, Samuel Richardson published \"Clarissa\" in serial form. Unlike \"Pamela\", it is not a tale of virtue rewarded. Instead, it is a highly tragic and affecting account of a young girl whose parents try to force her into an uncongenial marriage, thus pushing her into the arms of a scheming rake named Lovelace. In the end, Clarissa dies by her own will. The novel is a masterpiece of psychological realism and emotional effect, and when Richardson was drawing to a close in the serial publication, even Henry Fielding wrote to him, begging him not to kill Clarissa. As with \"Pamela\", Richardson emphasized the individual over the social and the personal over the class. Even as Fielding was reading and enjoying \"Clarissa\", he was also writing a counter to its messages. His \"Tom Jones\" of 1749 offers up the other side of the argument from \"Clarissa\". \"Tom Jones\" agrees substantially in the power of the individual to be more or less than his or her birth would indicate, but it again emphasizes the place of the individual in society and the social ramifications of individual choices. Fielding answers Richardson by featuring a similar plot device (whether a girl can choose her own mate) but showing how family and village can complicate and expedite matches and felicity.\nTwo other novelists should be mentioned, for they, like Fielding and Richardson, were in dialogue through their works. Laurence Sterne's and Tobias Smollett's works offered up oppositional views of the self in society and the method of the novel. The clergyman Laurence Sterne consciously set out to imitate Jonathan Swift with his \"Tristram Shandy\" (1759–1767). Tristram seeks to write his autobiography, but like Swift's narrator in \"A Tale of a Tub\", he worries that nothing in his life can be understood without understanding its context. For example, he tells the reader that at the very moment he was conceived, his mother was saying, \"Did you wind the clock?\". To clarify how he knows this, he explains that his father took care of winding the clock and \"other family business\" on one day a month. To explain why the clock had to be wound then, he has to explain his father. In other words, the biography moves backward rather than forward in time, only to then jump forward years, hit another knot, and move backward again. It is a novel of exceptional energy, of multi-layered digressions, of multiple satires, and of frequent parodies. Journalist, translator and historian Tobias Smollett, on the other hand, wrote more seemingly traditional novels. He concentrated on the picaresque novel, where a low-born character would go through a practically endless series of adventures. Sterne thought that Smollett's novels always paid undue attention to the basest and most common elements of life, that they emphasized the dirt. Although this is a superficial complaint, it points to an important difference between the two as authors. Sterne came to the novel from a satirical background, while Smollett approached it from journalism. In the 19th century, novelists would have plots much nearer to Smollett's than either Fielding's or Sterne's or Richardson's, and his sprawling, linear development of action would prove most successful.\n\nIn the midst of this development of the novel, other trends were also taking place. Women were writing novels and moving away from the old romance plots that had dominated before the Restoration. There were utopian novels, like Sarah Scott's \"Millennium Hall\" (1762), autobiographical women's novels like Frances Burney's works, female adaptations of older, male motifs, such as Charlotte Lennox's \"The Female Quixote\" (1752) and many others. These novels do not generally follow a strict line of development or influence.\n\nThe Augustan era is considered a high point of British satiric writing, and its masterpieces were Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" and \"A Modest Proposal\", Pope's \"Dunciads\", Horatian Imitations, and Moral Essays, Samuel Johnson's \"The Vanity of Human Wishes\" and \"London\", Henry Fielding's \"Shamela\" and \"Jonathan Wild\", and John Gay's \"The Beggar's Opera\". There were several thousand other satirical works written during the period, which have until recently been, by widespread consensus, ignored. The central group of \"Scriblerians\"—Pope, Swift, Gay, and their colleague John Arbuthnot—are considered to have had common satiric aims. Until recently, these writers formed a \"school\" of satire. After Swift and Pope died, the emergent \"Age of Sensibility\" discouraged the often cruel and abrasive tenor of the Augustans, and satire was rendered gentler and more diffuse.\n\nMany scholars of the era argue that a single name overshadows all others in 18th-century prose satire: Jonathan Swift. Swift wrote poetry as well as prose, and his satires range over all topics. Critically, Swift's satire marked the development of prose parody away from simple satire or burlesque. A burlesque or lampoon in prose would imitate a despised author and quickly move to \"reductio ad absurdum\" by having the victim say things coarse or idiotic. On the other hand, other satires would argue against a habit, practice, or policy by making fun of its reach or composition or methods. What Swift did was to combine parody, with its imitation of form and style of another, and satire in prose. Swift's works would pretend to speak in the voice of an opponent and imitate the style of the opponent and have the parodic work itself be the satire. Swift's first major satire was \"A Tale of a Tub\" (1703–1705), which introduced an ancients/moderns division that would serve as a distinction between the old and new conception of value. The \"moderns\" sought trade, empirical science, the individual's reason above the society's, while the \"ancients\" believed in inherent and immanent value of birth, and the society over the individual's determinations of the good. In Swift's satire, the moderns come out looking insane and proud of their insanity, and dismissive of the value of history. In Swift's most significant satire, \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), autobiography, allegory, and philosophy mix together in the travels. Thematically, \"Gulliver's Travels\" is a critique of human vanity, of pride. Book one, the journey to Liliput, begins with the world as it is. Book two shows that the idealized nation of Brobdingnag with a philosopher king is no home for a contemporary Englishman. Book four depicts the land of the Houyhnhnms, a society of horses ruled by pure reason, where humanity itself is portrayed as a group of \"yahoos\" covered in filth and dominated by base desires. It shows that, indeed, the very desire for reason may be undesirable, and humans must struggle to be neither Yahoos nor Houyhnhnms, for book three shows what happens when reason is unleashed without any consideration of morality or utility (i.e. madness, ruin, and starvation).\n\nThere were other satirists who worked in a less virulent way, who took a bemused pose and only made lighthearted fun. Tom Brown, Ned Ward, and Tom D'Urfey were all satirists in prose and poetry whose works appeared in the early part of the Augustan age. Tom Brown's most famous work in this vein was \"Amusements Serious and Comical, Calculated for the Meridian of London\" (1700). Ned Ward's most memorable work was \"The London Spy\" (1704–1706). \"The London Spy,\" before \"The Spectator,\" took up the position of an observer and uncomprehendingly reporting back. Tom D'Urfey's \"Wit and Mirth: or Pills to Purge Melancholy\" (1719) was another satire that attempted to offer entertainment, rather than a specific bit of political action, in the form of coarse and catchy songs.\n\nParticularly after Swift's success, parodic satire had an attraction for authors throughout the 18th century. A variety of factors created a rise in political writing and political satire, and Robert Walpole's success and domination of House of Commons was a very effective proximal cause for polarized literature and thereby the rise of parodic satire. The parodic satire takes apart the cases and plans of policy without necessarily contrasting a normative or positive set of values. Therefore, it was an ideal method of attack for ironists and conservatives—those who would not be able to enunciate a set of values to change toward but could condemn present changes as ill-considered. Satire was present in all genres during the Augustan period. Perhaps primarily, satire was a part of political and religious debate. Every significant politician and political act had satires to attack it. Few of these were parodic satires, but parodic satires, too, emerged in political and religious debate. So omnipresent and powerful was satire in the Augustan age that more than one literary history has referred to it as the \"Age of satire\" in literature.\n\nIn the Augustan era, poets wrote in direct counterpoint and direct expansion of one another, with each poet writing satire when in opposition. There was a great struggle over the nature and role of the pastoral in the early part of the century, reflecting two simultaneous movements: the invention of the subjective self as a worthy topic, with the emergence of a priority on \"individual\" psychology, against the insistence on all acts of art being \"performance\" and public gesture designed for the benefit of society at large. The development seemingly agreed upon by both sides was a gradual adaptation of all forms of poetry from their older uses. Odes would cease to be encomium, ballads cease to be narratives, elegies cease to be sincere memorials, satires no longer be specific entertainments, parodies no longer be performance pieces without sting, song no longer be pointed, and the lyric would become a celebration of the individual rather than a lover's complaint. These developments can be seen as extensions of Protestantism, as Max Weber argued, for they represent a gradual increase in the implications of Martin Luther's doctrine of the priesthood of all believers, or they can be seen as a growth of the power and assertiveness of the bourgeoisie and an echo of the displacement of the worker from the home in growing industrialization, as Marxists such as E.P. Thompson have argued. It can be argued that the development of the subjective individual against the social individual was a natural reaction to trade over other methods of economic production. Whatever the prime cause, a largely conservative set of voices argued for a social person and largely emergent voices argued for the individual person.\nThe entire Augustan age's poetry was dominated by Alexander Pope. His lines were repeated often enough to lend quite a few clichés and proverbs to modern English usage. Pope had few poetic rivals, but he had many personal enemies and political, philosophical, or religious opponents, and Pope himself was quarrelsome in print. Pope and his enemies (often called \"the Dunces\" because of Pope's successful satirizing of them in \"The Dunciad\") fought over central matters of the proper subject matter for poetry and the proper pose of the poetic voice.\n\nThere was a great struggle over the nature and role of the pastoral in the early part of the century. After Pope published his \"Pastorals\" of the four seasons in 1709, an evaluation in the \"Guardian\" praised Ambrose Philips's pastorals above Pope's, and Pope replied with a mock praise of Philips's \"Pastorals\" that heaped scorn on them. Pope quoted Philips's worst lines, mocked his execution, and delighted in pointing out his empty lines. Pope later explained that any depictions of shepherds and their mistresses in the pastoral must not be updated shepherds, that they must be icons of the Golden Age: \"we are not to describe our shepherds as shepherds at this day really are, but as they may be conceived then to have been, when the best of men followed the employment\" (Gordon). Philips's \"Pastorals\" were not particularly awful poems, but they did reflect his desire to \"update\" the pastoral. In 1724, Philips would update poetry again by writing a series of odes dedicated to \"all ages and characters, from Walpole, the steerer of the realm, to Miss Pulteney in the nursery.\" Henry Carey was one of the best at satirizing these poems, and his \"Namby Pamby\" became a hugely successful obliteration of Philips and Philips's endeavor. What is notable about Philips against Pope, however, is the fact that \"both\" poets were adapting the pastoral and the ode, both altering it. Pope's insistence upon a Golden Age pastoral no less than Philips's desire to update it meant making a political statement. While it is easy to see in Ambrose Philips an effort at modernist triumph, it is no less the case that Pope's artificially restricted pastoral was a statement of what the ideal should be.\nPope's friend John Gay also adapted the pastoral. Gay, working at Pope's suggestion, wrote a parody of the updated pastoral in \"The Shepherd's Week.\" He also imitated the Satires of Juvenal with his \"Trivia\". In 1728, his \"The Beggar's Opera\" was an enormous success, running for an unheard-of eighty performances. All of these works have in common a gesture of compassion. In \"Trivia,\" Gay writes as if commiserating with those who live in London and are menaced by falling masonry and bedpan slops, and \"The Shepherd's Week\" features great detail of the follies of everyday life and eccentric character. Even \"The Beggar's Opera,\" which is a satire of Robert Walpole, portrays its characters with compassion: the villains have pathetic songs in their own right and are acting out of exigency rather than boundless evil.\n\nThroughout the Augustan era the \"updating\" of Classical poets was a commonplace. These were not translations, but rather they were imitations of Classical models, and the imitation allowed poets to veil their responsibility for the comments they made. Alexander Pope would manage to refer to the King himself in unflattering tones by \"imitating\" Horace in his \"Epistle to Augustus.\" Similarly, Samuel Johnson wrote a poem that falls into the Augustan period in his \"imitation of Juvenal\" entitled \"London.\" The imitation was inherently conservative, since it argued that all that was good was to be found in the old classical education, but these imitations were used for progressive purposes, as the poets who used them were often doing so to complain of the political situation.\n\nIn satire, Pope achieved two of the greatest poetic satires of all time in the Augustan period. \"The Rape of the Lock\" (1712 and 1714) was a gentle mock-heroic. Pope applies Virgil's heroic and epic structure to the story of a young woman (Arabella Fermor) having a lock of hair snipped by an amorous baron (Lord Petre). The \"structure\" of the comparison forces Pope to invent mythological forces to overlook the struggle, and so he creates an epic battle, complete with a mythology of sylphs and metempsychosis, over a game of Ombre, leading to a fiendish appropriation of the lock of hair. Finally, a deux ex machina appears and the lock of hair experiences an apotheosis. To some degree, Pope was adapting Jonathan Swift's habit, in \"A Tale of a Tub,\" of pretending that metaphors were literal truths, and he was inventing a mythos to go with the everyday. The poem was an enormous public success.\nA decade after the gentle, laughing satire of \"The Rape of the Lock,\" Pope wrote his masterpiece of invective and specific opprobrium in \"The Dunciad.\" The story is that of the goddess Dulness choosing a new Avatar. She settles upon one of Pope's personal enemies, Lewis Theobald, and the poem describes the coronation and heroic games undertaken by all of the dunces of Great Britain in celebration of Theobald's ascension. When Pope's enemies responded to \"The Dunciad\" with attacks, Pope produced the \"Dunciad Variorum,\" with a \"learned\" commentary upon the original \"Dunciad\". In 1743, he added a fourth book and changed the hero from Lewis Theobald to Colley Cibber. In the fourth book of the new \"Dunciad\", Pope expressed the view that, in the battle between light and dark (enlightenment and the Dark Ages), Night and Dulness were fated to win, that all things of value were soon going to be subsumed under the curtain of unknowing.\n\nJohn Gay and Alexander Pope belong on one side of a line separating the celebrants of the individual and the celebrants of the social. Pope wrote \"The Rape of the Lock,\" he said, to settle a disagreement between two great families, to laugh them into peace. Even \"The Dunciad,\" which seems to be a serial killing of everyone on Pope's enemies list, sets up these figures as expressions of dangerous and \"antisocial\" forces in letters. Theobald and Cibber are marked by vanity and pride, by having no care for morality. The hireling pens Pope attacks mercilessly in the heroic games section of the \"Dunciad\" are all embodiments of avarice and lies. Similarly, Gay writes of political society, of social dangers, and of follies that must be addressed to protect the greater whole. Gay's individuals are microcosms of the society at large. On the other side of this line were people who agreed with the \"politics\" of Gay and Pope (and Swift), but not in approach. They include, early in the Augustan Age, James Thomson and Edward Young.\n\nIn the year 1726 two poems were published describing landscape from a personal point of view and taking their feeling and moral lessons from direct observation. One was John Dyer's \"Grongar Hill\", the other was James Thomson's \"Winter\", soon to be followed by all the seasons (1726–30). Both are unlike Pope's notion of the Golden Age pastoral as exemplified in his \"Windsor Forest\". Mythology is at a minimum and there is no celebration of Britain or the crown. Where the octosyllabic couplets of Dyer's poem celebrate the natural beauty of a mountain view and are quietly meditative, the declamatory blank verse of Thomson's winter meditation is melancholy and soon to establish that emotion as proper for poetic expression. One notable successor in that line was Edward Yonge's \"Night Thoughts\" (1742–1744). It was, even more than \"Winter\", a poem of deep solitude, melancholy and despair. In these poems, there are the stirrings of the lyric as the Romantics would see it: the celebration of the private individual's idiosyncratic, yet paradigmatic, responses to the visions of the world.\nThese hints at the solitary poet were carried into a new realm with Thomas Gray, whose \"Elegy Written in a Country Church-Yard\" (1750) set off a new craze for poetry of melancholy reflection. It was written in the \"country\", and not in or as opposed to London, and the poem sets up the solitary observer in a privileged position. It is only by being solitary that the poet can speak of a truth that is wholly individually realized. After Gray, a group often referred to as the Churchyard Poets began imitating his pose and almost as often his style. Alternative models were adopted by Oliver Goldsmith (\"The Deserted Village\"), Thomas Warton, and even Thomas Percy (\"The Hermit of Warkworth\"), who, also conservative by and large and Classicist (Gray himself was a professor of Greek), took up the new poetry of solitude and loss.\n\nWhen the Romantics emerged at the end of the 18th century, they were not assuming a radically new invention of the subjective self themselves, but merely formalizing what had gone before. Similarly, the later 18th century saw a ballad revival, with Thomas Percy's \"Reliques of Ancient English Poetry\". The relics were not always very ancient, as many of the ballads dated from only the 17th century (e.g. the Bagford Ballads or The Dragon of Wantley in the Percy Folio), and so what began as an antiquarian movement soon became a folk movement. When this folk-inspired impulse combined with the solitary and individualistic impulse of the Churchyard Poets, Romanticism was nearly inevitable.\n\nThe Augustan era is difficult to define chronologically in prose and poetry, but it is very easy to date its end in drama. The Augustan era's drama ended definitively in 1737, with the Licensing Act. Prior to 1737, however, the English stage was changing rapidly from the Restoration comedy and Restoration drama, and their noble subjects, to the quickly developing melodrama (Munns 97–100).\n\nGeorge Lillo and Richard Steele wrote the trend-setting plays of the early Augustan period. Lillo's plays consciously turned from heroes and kings and toward shopkeepers and apprentices. They emphasized drama on a household scale, rather than a national scale, and the hamartia and agon in his tragedies are the common flaws of yielding to temptation and the commission of Christian sin. The plots are resolved with Christian forgiveness and repentance. Steele's \"The Conscious Lovers\" (1722) hinges upon his young hero avoiding fighting a duel. The plays set up a new set of values for the stage. Instead of amusing the audience or inspiring the audience, they sought to instruct the audience and to ennoble it. Also, the plays were popular precisely because they seemed to reflect the audience's own lives and concerns (Legouis 782–787, 879–883).\n\nJoseph Addison also wrote a play, entitled \"Cato\", in 1713, which concerned the Roman statesman Cato the Younger. The year of its première was important, with Queen Anne in serious illness at the time, and both the Tory ministry of the day and the Whig opposition (already being led by Robert Walpole) were concerned about the succession. Both groups were contacting the Old Pretender about bringing the Young Pretender over. Londoners sensed the anxiety, as Anne had no heirs, and all of the natural successors in the Stuart family were Roman Catholic or unavailable. Therefore, the figure of Cato was a transparent symbol of Roman integrity, and the Whigs saw in him a champion of Whig values, and the Tories saw in him an embodiment of Tory sentiments or, like the Tory \"Examiner\", tried to claim that Cato was above political \"faction\". Both sides cheered the play, but Addison was himself clearly a Whig (Bloom and Bloom 266, 269). John Home's play \"Douglas\" (1756) would have a similar fate to \"Cato\" in the next generation, after the Licensing Act.\nAs during the Restoration, economics drove the stage in the Augustan period. Under Charles II court patronage meant economic success and so the Restoration stage featured plays that would suit the monarch and/or court. The drama that celebrated kings and told the history of Britain's monarchs was fit fare for the crown and courtiers. Charles II was a philanderer and so Restoration comedy featured a highly sexualized set of plays. However, after the reign of William and Mary, the court and the crown stopped taking a great interest in the playhouse. Theatres had to get their money from the audience of city dwellers, and plays that reflected city anxieties and celebrated the lives of citizens drew and were staged (Munns 96–99).\n\nThus, there were quite a few plays that were not literary that were staged more often than the literary plays. John Rich and Colley Cibber duelled over special theatrical effects. They put on plays that were actually just spectacles, and the text of the play was almost an afterthought. Dragons, whirlwinds, thunder, ocean waves and even actual elephants were on stage. Battles, explosions and horses were put on the boards. Rich specialized in pantomime and was famous as the character \"Lun\" in harlequin presentations. The plays put on in this manner are not generally preserved or studied, but their monopoly on the theatres infuriated established literary authors.\n\nAdditionally, opera made its way to England during this period. Inasmuch as opera combined singing with acting, it was a mixed genre, which violated all the strictures of neoclassicism. Also, high melodies would cover the singers' expressions of grief or joy, thus breaking \"decorum\". To add insult to injury, the casts and celebrated stars were foreigners, and, as with Farinelli, castrati. The satirists saw in opera the \"non plus ultra\" of invidiousness. As Pope put it in \"Dunciad B\":\n\nJohn Gay parodied the opera with his satirical \"Beggar's Opera\" (1728) and offered up a parody of Robert Walpole's actions during the South Sea Bubble. Superficially, the play is about a man named Macheath who keeps being imprisoned by a thief named Peachum and who escapes prison over and over again because the daughter of the jailor, Lucy Lockitt, is in love with him. That is an obvious parallel with the case of Jonathan Wild (Peachum) and Jack Sheppard (Macheath). However, it was also the tale of Robert Walpole (Peachum) and the South Sea directors (Macheath). The play was a hit, and its songs were printed up and sold. However, when Gay wrote a sequel called \"Polly\", Walpole had the play suppressed before performance (Winn 112–114).\n\nPlaywrights were therefore in straits. On the one hand, the playhouses were doing without plays by turning out hack-written pantomimes. On the other hand, when a satirical play appeared, the Whig ministry would suppress it. The antagonism was picked up by Henry Fielding, who was not afraid to fight Walpole. His \"Tom Thumb\" (1730) was a satire on all of the tragedies written before him, with quotations from all the worst plays patched together for absurdity, and the plot concerned the eponymous tiny man attempting to run things. It was, in other words, an attack on Robert Walpole and the way that he was referred to as \"the Great Man\". Here, the Great Man is made obviously deficient by being a midget. Walpole responded, and Fielding's revision of the play was in print only. It was written by \"Scribblerus Secundus\". Its title page announced it was the \"Tragedy of Tragedies\", which functioned as a clearly Swiftian parodic satire. Anti-Walpolean sentiment also showed in increasingly political plays. A particular play of unknown authorship entitled \"A Vision of the Golden Rump\" was cited when Parliament passed the Licensing Act of 1737. \nThe Licensing Act required all plays to go to a censor before staging, and only the plays passed by the censor were allowed to be performed. The first play to be banned by the new Act was \"Gustavus Vasa\" by Henry Brooke. Samuel Johnson wrote a Swiftian parodic satire of the licensers entitled \"A Complete Vindication of the Licensers of the English Stage\". The satire was, of course, not a vindication at all, but rather a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of the position for censorship. Had the licensers not exercised their authority in a partisan manner, the Act might not have chilled the stage so dramatically, but the public was well aware of the bannings and censorship and so any play that passed the licensers was regarded with suspicion by the public. Therefore, the playhouses had little choice but to present old plays and pantomime and other plays that had no conceivable political content. In other words, William Shakespeare's reputation grew enormously, as his plays saw a quadrupling of performances, and sentimental comedy and melodrama were the only choices.\n\nVery late in the 18th century Oliver Goldsmith attempted to resist the tide of sentimental comedy with \"She Stoops to Conquer\" (1773), and Richard Brinsley Sheridan would mount several satirical plays after Robert Walpole's death.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024931", "title": "Huddersfield Narrow Canal Pylon", "text": "Huddersfield Narrow Canal Pylon\n\nThe Huddersfield Narrow Canal Pylon, (National Grid tower designation \"4ZO251B\"), is an electricity pylon which stands with its feet over the Huddersfield Narrow Canal near Heyrod, Stalybridge, Greater Manchester, United Kingdom.\n\nThe Stalybridge substation was built while the canal was closed to navigation, encroaching on the former canal line, and the canal was culverted at this point from the head of Lock 8W to a point immediately downstream of the substation. The extent of the former culvert can still be seen, as it was reused to form the lock bywash.\n\nWhen the canal reopened, the channel was diverted slightly to the east to avoid the substation compound. However, its way was obstructed by a pylon, and it had to pass between the pylon's legs.\n\nOne side of the pylon carries the 400 kV Stalybridge–Thorpe Marsh circuit and the other a 275 kV Stalybridge transformer feeder circuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024938", "title": "National Democratic Alliance (Georgia)", "text": "National Democratic Alliance (Georgia)\n\nThe National-Democratic Alliance (\"Erovnul Demokratiuli Aliansi\") is an electoral alliance in Georgia, formed by the National Democratic Party and the Union of Georgian Traditionalists. \nAt the last legislative elections, 28 March 2004, the alliance won 2.5% of the popular vote.\n"}
{"id": "2024939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024939", "title": "Richard W. Miller", "text": "Richard W. Miller\n\nRichard W. Miller the Wyn and William Y. Hutchinson Professor in Ethics and Public Life and Director of the Program on Ethics and Public Life in the Cornell University Department of Philosophy. He specializes in moral philosophy, political philosophy, and philosophy of science.\n\nMiller received his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1975. His dissertation, \"Solipsism and Language in the Writings of Wittgenstein,\" was directed by Rogers Albritton and Hilary Putnam. He has spent his entire academic career at Cornell.\n\nWhile he currently specializes in social and political philosophy, Miller has published books and articles on epistemology, philosophy of science, and ethics. His most recent book is \"Globalizing Justice: The Ethics of Poverty and power\". \n\nHe is the author of \"Marx and Aristotle\", in Alex Callinicos's \"Marxist Theory\" series as well as of several books, including \"Moral Differences: Truth, Justice, and Conscience in a World of Conflict\" (Princeton, 1992), \"Fact and Method: Explanation, Confirmation, and Reality in the Natural and the Social Sciences\" (Princeton, 1987), and \"Analyzing Marx: Morality, Power, and History\" (Princeton, 1984).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024940", "title": "National Democratic Party (Georgia)", "text": "National Democratic Party (Georgia)\n\nThe National Democratic Party (, \"erovnul-demokratiuli partia\") is a political party in Georgia. At the last legislative elections, 2012, the party won 3,050 votes, 0.14% of the national total. It was established in 1988 by Giorgi Chanturia as a radical splinter group of the Ilia Chavchavadze Society.\n"}
{"id": "2024941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024941", "title": "Jumber Patiashvili – Unity", "text": "Jumber Patiashvili – Unity\n\nThe Jumber Patiashvili – Unity is an electoral alliance in Georgia, formed by Unity and the Intellectuals League of Georgia. At the last legislative elections, 28 March 2004, the alliance won 2.4% of the popular vote.\n"}
{"id": "2024942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024942", "title": "Unity (Georgia)", "text": "Unity (Georgia)\n\nUnity () is a left-wing political party in Georgia. \nAt the last legislative elections, 28 March 2004, the party was part of the Jumber Patiashvili - Unity alliance.\n"}
{"id": "2024943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024943", "title": "Intellectuals League of Georgia", "text": "Intellectuals League of Georgia\n\nThe Intellectuals League of Georgia is a left-wing political party in Georgia. \nAt the last legislative elections, 28 March 2004, the party was part of the Jumber Patiashvili - Unity alliance.\n"}
{"id": "2024951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024951", "title": "Byzantine army", "text": "Byzantine army\n\nThe Byzantine army or Eastern Roman army was the primary military body of the Byzantine armed forces, serving alongside the Byzantine navy. A direct continuation of the Roman army, the Eastern Roman army maintained a similar level of discipline, strategic prowess and organization. It was among the most effective armies of western Eurasia for much of the Middle Ages. Over time the cavalry arm became more prominent in the Byzantine army as the legion system disappeared in the early 7th century. Later reforms reflected some Germanic and Asian influences – rival forces frequently became sources of mercenary units e.g.; Huns, Cumans, Alans and (following the Battle of Manzikert) Turks, meeting the Empire's demand for light cavalry mercenaries. Since much of the Byzantine military focused on the strategy and skill of generals utilizing militia troops, heavy infantry were recruited from Frankish and later Varangian mercenaries.\n\nFrom the seventh to the 12th centuries, the Byzantine army was among the most powerful and effective military forces in the world – neither Middle Ages Europe nor (following its early successes) the fracturing Caliphate could match the strategies and the efficiency of the Byzantine army. Restricted to a largely defensive role in the 7th to mid-9th centuries, the Byzantines developed the theme-system to counter the more powerful Caliphate. From the mid-9th century, however, they gradually went on the offensive, culminating in the great conquests of the 10th century under a series of soldier-emperors such as Nikephoros II Phokas, John Tzimiskes and Basil II. The army they led was less reliant on the militia of the themes; it was by now a largely professional force, with a strong and well-drilled infantry at its core and augmented by a revived heavy cavalry arm. With one of the most powerful economies in the world at the time, the Empire had the resources to put to the field a powerful host when needed, in order to reclaim its long-lost territories.\n\nAfter the collapse of the theme-system in the 11th century, the Byzantines grew increasingly reliant on professional Tagmata troops, including ever-increasing numbers of foreign mercenaries. The Komnenian emperors made great efforts to re-establish a native army, instituting the \"pronoia\" system of land grants in exchange for military service. Nevertheless, mercenaries remained a staple feature of late Byzantine armies since the loss of Asia Minor reduced the Empire's recruiting-ground, while the abuse of the \"pronoia\" grants led to a progressive feudalism in the Empire. The Komnenian successes were undone by the subsequent Angeloi dynasty, leading to the dissolution of the Empire at the hands of the Fourth Crusade in 1204.\n\nThe Emperors of Nicaea managed to form a small but effective force using the same structure of light and heavily armed troops, both natives and foreigners. It proved effective in defending what remained of Byzantine Anatolia and reclaiming much of the Balkans and even Constantinople itself in 1261. Another period of neglect of the military followed in the reign of Andronikos II Palaiologos, which allowed Anatolia to fall prey to an emerging power, the Ottoman emirate. Successive civil wars in the 14th century further sapped the Empire's strength and destroyed any remaining chance of recovery, while the weakening of central authority and the devolution of power to provincial leaders meant that the Byzantine army was now composed of a collection of militias, personal entourages and mercenary detachments.\n\nJust as what we today label the Byzantine Empire was in reality and to contemporaries a continuation of the Roman Empire, so the Byzantine army was an outgrowth of the Late Roman structure, which largely survived until the mid-7th century. The official language of the army for centuries continued to be Latin but this would eventually give way to Greek as in the rest of the Empire, though Latin military terminology would still be used throughout its history.\n\nIn the period after the Muslim conquests, which saw the loss of Syria and Egypt, the remainders of the provincial armies were withdrawn and settled in Asia Minor, initiating the thematic system. Despite this unprecedented disaster, the internal structures of the army remained much the same, and there is a remarkable continuity in tactics and doctrine between the 6th and 11th centuries. The Battle of Manzikert in 1071 and the subsequent Seljuk invasions, together with the arrival of the Crusades and the incursions of the Normans, would severely weaken the Byzantine state and its military, which increasingly had to rely on foreign mercenaries.\n\nThe Eastern Empire dates from the creation of the Tetrarchy (\"Quadrumvirate\") by the Emperor Diocletian in 293. His plans for succession did not outlive his lifetime, but his reorganization of the army did by centuries. Rather than maintain the traditional infantry-heavy legions, Diocletian reformed it into \"limitanei\" (\"border\") and \"comitatenses\" (\"field\") units.\n\nThere was an expansion of the importance of the cavalry, though the infantry still remained the major component of the Roman armies, in contrast to common belief. In preparation for Justinian's African campaign of 533-534 AD, the army assembled amounted to 10,000-foot soldiers and 5,000 mounted archers and federate lancers.\n\nThe \"limitanei\" and \"ripenses\" were to occupy the \"limes\", the Roman border fortifications. The field units, by contrast, were to stay well behind the border and move quickly where they were needed, whether for offensive or defensive roles, as well as forming an army against usurpers. The field units were held to high standards and took precedence over Limitanei in pay and provisions.\n\nCavalry formed about one-third of the units, but as a result of smaller units, about one-quarter of the Roman armies consisted of cavalry. About half the cavalry consisted of heavy cavalry (including the \"stablesiani\"). They were armed with spear or lance and sword and armored in mail. Some had bows, but they were meant for supporting the charge instead of independent skirmishing.\n\nIn the field armies there was a component of some 15% of cataphractarii or clibanarii, heavily armoured cavalry who used shock tactics. The light cavalry (including the \"scutarii\" and \"promoti\") featured high amongst the limitanei, being very useful troops on patrol. They included horse archers (\"Equites Sagittarii\"). The infantry of the \"comitatenses\" was organized in regiments (variously named \"legiones\", \"auxilia\" or just \"numeri\") of about 500–1,200 men. They were still the heavy infantry of old, with a spear or sword, shield, body armour and a helmet. But now each regiment was supported by a detachment of light infantry skirmishers.\n\nIf needed, the infantry could take off (some of) their armour to act in a more flexible way as Modares did (according to Zosimus) during the Gothic War of the 370s. The regiments were commanded by a \"tribunus\" (\"tribune\") and brigaded in pairs (cavalry units did, too) under a \"comes\". These brigades probably were tactical and strategic units only, as no traces survive of brigade staff corps.\n\nOn the other hand, little is known of the limitanei. The old legions, cohorts and cavalry alae survived there, and newer units were created (the new legions, or \"auxilia\" and \"vexillationes\", amongst the cavalry. The limitanei infantry may have been lighter-equipped than the comitatenses infantry, but there is no evidence whatsoever. They were paid less than the field troops and recruited locally. Consequently, they were of inferior quality. However, they were in the line of fire. They countered most incursions and raids. Thus, it can be assumed they had superior field experience (except in periods of long campaigning for the comitatenses), though that experience did not extend to large battles and sieges.\n\nThe \"Scholae Palatinae\" units, which were more properly known as the \"Schola Protectores Domestici\" and the \"Protective Association of the Royal Escort\" (also called the \"Obsequium\"), were the personal guard of the Emperor, and were created to replace the Praetorian Guard disbanded by Constantine I.\n\nFollowing a major reorganisation of the Roman army during the Emperor Diocletian's reign (284-305 AD) the legions in the third and fourth century bore little resemblance to those of the Republic or earlier Roman empire. Reduced in numbers to about 1,000 men per legion, these units became static garrison troops, sometimes serving on a part-time militia basis as hereditary \"limitanei\". As such they were separate from the new mobile field army.\n\nThe army of Justinian I was the result of fifth-century reorganizations to meet growing threats to the empire, the most serious from the expanding Persian empire. Gone were the familiar legions, cohorts and alae of old Rome, and in their place were small infantry battalions or horse regiments called an arithmos, tagma or numerus. A numerus had between 300 and 400 men and was commanded by a tribune. Two or more \"numeri\" formed a brigade, or moira; two or more brigades a division, or meros.\n\nThere were six classifications of troops:\n\n\nThe size of Justinian's army is unclear. Bury, writing in the 1920s, accepted the estimate of 150,000 troops of all classes in 559 given by Agathia of Myrina in his History. Modern scholars estimate the total strength of the imperial army under Justinian to be between 300,000 and 350,000 soldiers. Field armies generally had 15,000 to 25,000 soldiers and were formed mainly of comitatenses and foederati, reinforced by the commanders' retinues and barbarian allies. The expeditionary force of Belisarius during his reconquest of Carthage from the Vandals in 533 is illustrative.\n\nThis army had 10,000 comitatenses and foederati infantry, with 3,000 similarly composed cavalry. There were 600 Huns and 400 Herules, all mounted archers, and 1,400 or 1,500 mounted bucellarii of Belisarius' retinue. The small force of less than 16,000 men voyaged from the Bospherus to North Africa on 500 ships protected by 92 dromons, or war-ships.\n\nTactics, organization and equipment had been largely modified to deal with the Persians.\nThe Romans adopted elaborate defensive armor from Persia, coats of mail, cuirasses, casques and greaves of steel for tagma of elite heavy cavalrymen called cataphracts, who were armed with bow and arrows as well as sword and lance.\n\nLarge numbers of light infantry were equipped with the bow, to support the heavy infantry known as scutatii (Meaning ″shield men″) or skutatoi. These wore a steel helmet and a coat of mail, and carried a spear, axe and dagger. They generally held the centre of a Roman line of battle. Infantry armed with javelins were used for operations in mountain regions.\n\nNotable military events during the reign of Justinian included the battle of Dara in 530, when Belisarius, with a force of 25,000, defeated the Persian emperor's army of 40,000. In addition to his reconquest of Carthage, noted above, Belisarius also recaptured Sicily, Naples, Rome and the rest of Italy from the Goths in a war lasting from 535 to 554. Another famous commander of the time was the imperial eunuch Narses, who defeated a Gothic army at Busta Gallorum on the eastern coast of Italy in 552.\n\nTowards the end of the sixth century, the Emperor Maurice, or senior officers writing for him, described in great detail the Byzantine army of the period in The Strategikon, a manual for commanders. Maurice, who reigned from 582 to 602, certainly had extensive military experience. In 592, he forced the Persians to sign a treaty that regained extensive Armenian territory for the empire that had been lost in earlier wars. Maurice then turned to the western frontier in the Balkans. In a war that lasted the rest of his life, he defeated the Avars and Slavs in battle, but could not gain a decisive victory.\n\nThe Strategikon's author gives us a fair picture of the Byzantine army and its troops, including the equipment borrowed from the Herules, Goths, Slavs and especially the Avars, once barbarian enemies all. Cavalrymen should have \"hooded coats of mail reaching to their ankles which may be drawn up by thongs and rings, along with carying cases.\" Helmets were to have small plumes on top and bows were to be suited to the strength of each man, their cases broad enough that strung bows can fit in them, and spare bow strings kept the men's saddle bags. The men's quivers should have covers and hold 30 or 40 arrows and they should carry small files and awls in their baldrics. The cavalry lances should be \"of the Avar type with leather thongs in the middle of the shaft and with pennons.\" The men were also to have \"swords and round neck pieces of the Avar type with linen fringes outside and wool inside.\" Young foreigners unskilled with the bow should have lances and shields and bucellary troops ought to have iron gauntlets and small tassles hanging from the back straps and neck straps of their horses, as well as small pennons hanging from their own shoulders over their coats of mail, \"for the more handsome the soldier is, in his armament, the more confidence he gains in himself and the more fear he inspires in the enemy.\" Lances were apparently expected to be thrown, for the troops should have \"two lances so as to have a spare in case the first one misses. Unskilled men should use lighter bows.\"\n\nThe manual then describes horse gear and the trooper's clothing. \"The horses, especially those of the officers and the other special troops, in particular those in the front ranks of the battle line, should have protective pieces of iron armor about their heads and breast plates of iron or felt, or else breast and neck coverings such as the Avars use. The saddles should have large and thick cloths; the bridles should be of good quality; attached to the saddles should be two iron stirrups, a lasso with thong, hobble, a sadle bag large enough to hold three or four days' rations when needed. There should be four tassels on the back strap, one on top of the head, and one under the chin.\"\n\n\"The men's clothing,\" the Strategikon continues, \"especially their tunics, whether made of linen, goat's hair or rough wool, should be broad and full, cut according to the Avar pattern, so they can be fastened to cover the knees while riding and give a neat appearance. They should also be provided with an extra-large cloak or hooded mantle of felt with broad sleeves to wear, large enough to wear over their armament, including the coat of mail and the bow.\"\n\"Each squad should have a tent, as well as sickles and axes to meet any contingency. It is well to have tents of the Avar type, which combine practicality with good appearance.\"\n\n\"The men,\" according to The Strategikon, \"should certainly be required to provide servants for themselves, slave or free ... Should they neglect this and find themselves without servants, then in time of battle it will be necessary to detail some of the soldiers themselves to the baggage train, and there will be fewer men fighting in the ranks. But if, as can easily happen, some of the men are unable to afford servants, then it will be necessary to require that three or four soldiers join in maintaining one servant. A similar arrangement should be made with the pack animals, which may be needed to carry the coats of mail and the tents.\"\n\nThe manual then describes a system of unit identification that sounds like a fore-runner of medieval heraldry. The flags of a meros or division, should be the same color. The streamers of its immediate sub-units, the several moiras or brigades, should also have their own color. Thus, the manual states, \"each individual tagma, (battalion or squadron) may easily recognize its own standard. Other distinctive devices known to the soldiers should be imposed on the fields of the flags, so that they may easily be recognized according to meros, moira and tagma. The standards of the merarchs (meros commander) should be particularly distinctive and conspicuous, so they may be recognized by their troops at a great distance.\"\n\nThe Strategikon deals more briefly with the infantry. They are to wear Gothic tunics \"coming down to their knees or short ones split up the sides and Gothic shoes with thick soles, broad toes and plain stitching, fastened with no more than two clasps the soles studded with a few nails for greater durability.\" Boots or greaves are discouraged, \"for they are unsuitable for marching and, if worn, slow one down. Their mantles should be simple, not like Bulgarian cloaks. Their hair should be cut short, and it is better if it is not allowed to grow long.\"\n\nThe descriptions of the armament of the \"heavy-armed infantrymen\" are equally terse. \"The men of each arithmos or tagma,\" the Strategikon tells us, \"should have shields of the same color, Herulian swords, lances, helmets with small plumes and tassels on top and on the cheek plates - at least the first men in the file should have these - slings, and lead-pointed darts. The picked men of the files should have mail coats, all of them if it can be done, but in any case the first two in the file. They should also have iron or wooden greaves, at least the first and second in each file.\"\n\nThe light-armed infantryman, still quoting the Strategikon, \"should carry bows on their shoulders with large quivers holding about 30 or 40 arrows. They should have small shields, as well as crossbows with short arrows in small quivers. These can be fired a great distance with the bows and cause harm to the enemy. For men who might not have bows or are not experienced archers, small javelins or Slavic spears should be provided. They should also carry lead-pointed darts in leather cases, and slings.\"\n\nThe strength of the Byzantine army and navy in 565 is estimated by Teadgold to have been 379,300 men, with a field army and part of the guards totaling 150,300, and the frontier troops, part of the guards and the oarsmen totaling 229,000. These numbers probably held through the reign of Maurice. However, the largest field army mentioned in the Strategikon is a force of 34,384 (16,384 heavy infantry, 8,000 light-armed troops and 10,000 cavalry) which is given as an example of \"the past, when the legions were composed of large numbers of men.\" Writing of his own time, Maurice stipulates that an army of more than 24,000 men should be divided into four components and an army of less than 24,000 into three. In another section, Maurice describes the formation of cavalry tagmas of 300 to 400 men into morias of 2,000 to 3,000 and the morias into meros of 6,000 to 7,000.\n\nThe \"themata\" (Gr. θέματα) were administrative divisions of the empire in which a general (Gr. στρατηγός, \"strategos\") exercised both civilian and military jurisdiction and a Judge (Κριτής του Θέματος, \"Krites tou thematos\") held the judicial power. The name is peculiar; Treadgold's closest guess is that thema was being used to denote \"emplacements\". Modern historians agree that the designations of the first themes came from the field armies that were stationed in Asia Minor.\n\nThe themata were organized as a response to the enormous military and territorial losses suffered during the conquests of the Muslim Rashidun Caliphate - Syria in 637, Armenia and Egypt in 639, North Africa in 652 and Cyprus in 654. Treadgold cites estimates that indicate the empire's population dropped from 19.5 million in 560 to 10.5 million in 641. At the same time the size of armed forces plunged from 379,300 men to 129,000.\n\nBy 662, the empire had lost more than half its territory in 30 years, and the first mentions occur in surviving records of themata under the command of generals, or strategi, that are the remnants of the former mobile armies now stationed in set districts. At some later time, when payment in cash had become difficult, the soldiers were given land grants within their districts for their support.\n\nThe dates of this process are uncertain, but Treadgold points to 659-662 as the most likely time-frame, as this is the period when the Emperor Constans II made a truce with the Arabs that gave the army time to regroup, the government ran out of money to pay the troops, and the empire's enormous losses of territory stopped. The themata so formed provided a bulwark against Arab invasions and raids that lasted until the late 11th century. Themata were also formed in the west, as a response to the Serb and Bulgar incursions that drove the empire's frontier from the Danube River south to Thrace and the Peloponnese.\n\nThe five original themata were all in Asia Minor and originated from the earlier mobile field armies. They were:\n\nWithin each theme, eligible men were given grants of land to support their families and to equip themselves. Following revolts strengthened by the large size of these divisions, Leo III the Isaurian, Theophilus, and Leo VI the Wise all responded by breaking the themes up into smaller areas and dividing control over the armies within each theme into various \"tourmai\". The large early themes were progressively split up in the 8th–9th centuries to reduce their governors' power, while in the 10th century, new and much smaller themes, called \"Armenian themes\" because many were settled by Armenians, were created in the East in conquered territories. While in ca. 842 the \"Taktikon Uspensky\" lists 18 \"strategoi\" of themes, the \"De Thematibus\" of ca. 940 lists 28, and the \"Escorial Taktikon\", written ca. 971–975, lists almost 90 \"strategoi\" of themes and other military commands.\n\nSicily had been completely lost to the expanding Emirate of Sicily at the beginning of Constantine VII's reign in 905 and Cyprus was a condominium jointly administered with the Abbasid Caliphate until its reconquest by Nikephoros II Phokas in 965. Constantinople itself was under an Eparch and protected by the numerous \"tagmata\" and police forces.\n\nThe empire is estimated by Treadgold to have had a population of 7 million in 774, with an army and navy that totaled 118,400. This included 62,000 thematic troops in 10 themes (including 4,000 marines in the naval themes of Hellas and Cibyrrhaeot), 18,000 in six tagmas, and 38,400 oarsmen divided between the Imperial fleet and the naval themes. By 840, the population had grown by a million, while the army had expanded to a total strength of 154,600. There were 96,000 soldiers and marines in 20 themes and 24,000 in the tagmas, while the number of Imperial and thematic oarsmen declined to 34,200.\n\nUnder the direction of the thematic \"strategoi\", \"tourmarchai\" commanded from two up to four divisions of soldiers and territory, called \"tourmai\". Under them, the \"droungarioi\" headed subdivisions called \"droungoi\", each with a thousand soldiers. In the field, these units would be further divided into \"banda\" with a nominal strength of 300 men, although at times reduced to little more than 50. Again, the fear of empowering effective revolts was largely behind these subdivisions.\n\nThe following table illustrates the thematic structure as found in the Thracesian Theme, circa 902–936.\n\nThe \"tagmata\" (τάγματα, \"regiments\") were the professional standing army of the Empire, formed by Emperor Constantine V after the suppression of a major revolt in the Opsician Theme in 741–743. Anxious to safeguard his throne from the frequent revolts of the thematic armies, Constantine reformed the old guard units of Constantinople into the new \"tagmata\" regiments, which were meant to provide the emperor with a core of professional and loyal troops. They were typically headquartered in or around Constantinople, although in later ages they sent detachments to the provinces. The \"tagmata\" were exclusively heavy cavalry units and formed the core of the imperial army on campaign, augmented by the provincial levies of thematic troops who were more concerned with local defense.\n\nThe four main \"tagmata\" were:\n\nThere were also auxiliary \"tagmata\", such as the \"Noumeroi\" (Gr. Νούμεροι), a garrison unit for Constantinople, which probably included the regiment \"of the Walls\" (Gr. τῶν Τειχέων, \"tōn Teicheōn\"), manning the Walls of Constantinople., and the \"Optimatoi\" (Gr. , \"the Best\"), a support unit responsible for the mules of the army's baggage train (the τοῦλδον, \"touldon\").\n\nTreadgold estimates that between 773 and 899, the strength of the Schools, Excubitors, Watch and Hicanati was 16,000 cavalrymen, that of the Numera and Walls 4,000 infantry. The Optimates had 2,000 support troops until sometime after 840, when their strength was raised to 4,000. In circa 870, the Imperial Fleet Marines were founded, adding another 4,000, for a total active force of 28,000.\n\nThere was also the \"Hetaireia\" (Gr. , \"Companions\"), which comprised the various mercenary corps in Imperial service, subdivided in Greater, Middle and Lesser, each commanded by a \"Hetaireiarchēs\"\n\nIn addition to these more or less stable units, any number of shorter-lived tagmata were formed as favoured units of various emperors. Michael II raised the \"Tessarakontarioi\", a special marine unit, and John I Tzimiskes created a corps called the \"Athanatoi\" (Gr. Ἀθάνατοι, the \"Immortals\") after the old Persian unit.\n\nAt the beginning of the Komnenian period in 1081, the Byzantine Empire had been reduced to the smallest territorial extent in its history. Surrounded by enemies, and financially ruined by a long period of civil war, the empire's prospects had looked grim. Yet, through a combination of skill, determination and years of campaigning, Alexios I Komnenos, John II Komnenos and Manuel I Komnenos managed to restore the power of the Byzantine Empire by constructing a new army from the ground up.\n\nThe new force is known as the Komnenian army. It was both professional and disciplined. It contained formidable guards units such as the Varangian Guard and the Immortals (a unit of heavy cavalry) stationed in Constantinople, and also levies from the provinces. These levies included cataphract cavalry from Macedonia, Thessaly and Thrace, and various other provincial forces from regions such as the Black Sea coast of Asia Minor.\n\nUnder John II, a Macedonian division was maintained, and new native Byzantine troops were recruited from the provinces. As Byzantine Asia Minor began to prosper under John and Manuel, more soldiers were raised from the Asiatic provinces of Neokastra, Paphlagonia and even Seleucia (in the south east). Soldiers were also drawn from defeated peoples, such as the Pechenegs (cavalry archers), and the Serbs, who were used as settlers stationed at Nicomedia.\n\nNative troops were organised into regular units and stationed in both the Asian and European provinces. Komnenian armies were also often reinforced by allied contingents from the Principality of Antioch, Serbia and Hungary, yet even so they generally consisted of about two-thirds Byzantine troops to one-third foreigners. Units of archers, infantry and cavalry were grouped together so as to provide combined arms support to each other.\n\nThis Komnenian army was a highly effective, well-trained and well-equipped force, capable of campaigning in Egypt, Hungary, Italy and Palestine. However, like many aspects of the Byzantine state under the Komnenoi, its biggest weakness was that it relied on a powerful and competent ruler to direct and maintain its operations. While Alexios, John and Manuel ruled (\"c.\" 1081–\"c.\" 1180), the Komnenian army provided the empire with a period of security that enabled Byzantine civilization to flourish. Yet, at the end of the twelfth century the competent leadership upon which the effectiveness of the Komnenian army depended largely disappeared. The consequences of this breakdown in command were to prove disastrous for the Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn the year 1185, the emperor Andronikos I Komnenos was killed. With him died the Komnenos dynasty, which had provided a series of militarily competent emperors for over a century. They were replaced by the Angeloi, who have the reputation of being the most unsuccessful dynasty ever to occupy the Byzantine throne.\n\nThe army of the Byzantine empire at this point was highly centralised. It was dominated by a system in which the emperor gathered together his forces and personally led them against hostile armies and strongholds. Generals were closely controlled, and all arms of the state looked to Constantinople for instruction and reward.\n\nHowever, the inaction and ineptitude of the Angeloi quickly lead to a collapse in Byzantine military power, both at sea and on land. Surrounded by a crowd of slaves, mistresses and flatterers, they permitted the empire to be administered by unworthy favourites, while they squandered the money wrung from the provinces on costly buildings and expensive gifts to the churches of the metropolis. They scattered money so lavishly as to empty the treasury, and allowed such licence to the officers of the army as to leave the Empire practically defenceless. Together, they consummated the financial ruin of the state.\n\nThe empire's enemies lost no time in taking advantage of this new situation. In the east the Turks invaded the empire, gradually eroding Byzantine control in Asia Minor. Meanwhile, in the west, the Serbs and Hungarians broke away from the empire for good, and in Bulgaria the oppressiveness of Angeloi taxation resulted in the Vlach-Bulgarian Rebellion late in 1185. The rebellion led to the establishment of the Second Bulgarian Empire on territory which had been vital to the empire's security in the Balkans.\n\nKaloyan of Bulgaria annexed several important cities, while the Angeloi squandered the public treasure on palaces and gardens and attempted to deal with the crisis through diplomatic means. Byzantine authority was severely weakened, and the growing power vacuum at the centre of the empire encouraged fragmentation, as the provinces began to look to local strongmen rather than the government in Constantinople for protection. This further reduced the resources available to the empire and its military system, as large regions passed outside central control.\n\nIt was in this situation that the disintegration of the military 'theme' system, which had been the foundation of the empire's remarkable success from the eighth to eleventh centuries, revealed itself as a real catastrophe for the Byzantine state.\n\nThe first advantage of the theme system had been its numerical strength. It is thought that the Byzantine field army under Manuel I Komnenos (r. 1143–1180) had numbered some 40,000 men. However, there is evidence that the thematic armies of earlier centuries had provided the empire with a numerically superior force. The army of the theme of Thrakesion alone had provided about 9,600 men in the period 902–936, for example. Furthermore, the thematic armies had been stationed in the provinces, and their greater independence from central command meant that they were able to deal with threats quickly at a local level. This, combined with their greater numbers, allowed them to provide greater defense in depth.\n\nThe other key advantage of the theme system was that it had offered the Byzantine state good value for money. It provided a means of cheaply mobilising large numbers of men. The demise of the system meant that armies became more expensive in the long run, which reduced the numbers of troops that the emperors could afford to employ. The considerable wealth and diplomatic skill of the Komnenian emperors, their constant attention to military matters, and their frequent energetic campaigning, had largely countered this change. But the luck of the empire in having the talented Komnenoi to provide capable leadership was not a long-term solution to a structural problem in the Byzantine state itself.\n\nAfter the death of Manuel I Komnenos in 1180, the Angeloi had not lavished the same care on the military as the Komneni had done, and the result was that these structural weakness began to manifest themselves in military decline. From 1185 on, Byzantine emperors found it increasingly difficult to muster and pay for sufficient military forces, while their incompetence exposed the limitations of the entire Byzantine military system, dependent as it was on competent personal direction from the emperor. The culmination of the empire's military disintegration under the Angeloi was reached on 13 April 1204, when the armies of the Fourth Crusade sacked Constantinople.\n\nThus, the problem was not so much that the Komnenian army was any less effective in battle (the thematic army's success rate was just as varied as that of its Komnenian counterpart); it is more the case that, because it was a smaller, more centralised force, the twelfth century army required a greater degree of competent direction from the emperor in order to be effective. Although formidable under an energetic leader, the Komnenian army did not work so well under incompetent or uninterested emperors. The greater independence and resilience of the thematic army had provided the early empire with a structural advantage that was now lost.\n\nFor all of the reasons above, it is possible to argue that the demise of the theme system was a great loss to the Byzantine empire. Although it took centuries to become fully apparent, one of the main institutional strengths of the Byzantine state was now gone. Thus it was not the army itself that was to blame for the decline of the empire, but rather the system that supported it. Without strong underlying institutions that could endure beyond the reign of each emperor, the state was extremely vulnerable in times of crisis. Byzantium had come to rely too much on individual emperors, and its continued survival was now no longer certain.\nWhile the theme system's demise did play a major role in the empire's military decline, other factors were important as well. These include:\n\nAfter 1204 the emperors of Nicaea continued some aspects of the system established by the Komneni. However, despite the restoration of the empire in 1261, the Byzantines never again possessed the same levels of wealth, territory and manpower that had been available to the Komnenian emperors and their predecessors. As a result, the military was constantly short of funds. After the death of Michael VIII Palaiologos in 1282, unreliable mercenaries such as the grand Catalan Company came to form an ever larger proportion of the remaining forces.\n\nAt the fall of Constantinople in 1453, the Byzantine army totaled about 7,000 men, 2,000 of whom were foreign mercenaries. Against the 80,000 Ottoman troops besieging the city, the odds were hopeless. The Byzantines resisted the third attack by the Sultan's elite Janissaries and according to some accounts on both sides were on the brink of repelling them, but a Genoan general in charge of a section of the defense, Giovanni Giustiniani, was grievously wounded during the attack, and his evacuation from the ramparts caused a panic in the ranks of the defenders. Many of the Italians, who were paid by Giustiniani himself, fled the battle.\n\nSome historians suggest that the Kerkoporta gate in the Blachernae section had been left unlocked, and the Ottomans soon discovered this mistake – although accounts indicate that this gain for the Ottomans was in fact contained by defenders and pushed back. The Ottomans rushed in. Emperor Constantine XI himself led the last defense of the city by himself. Throwing aside his purple regalia, he stood in front of the oncoming Ottoman Turks with sword and shield in hand.\n\nThe emperor was struck twice by the Turk troops, the mortal blow being a knife to his back. There, on the walls of Constantinople, alone and abandoned by his remaining troops, the emperor died. The fall of the Byzantine capital meant the end of the Roman empire. The Byzantine army, the last surviving direct descendant of the Roman legions, was finished.\n\nThe exact size and composition of the Byzantine army and its units is a matter of considerable debate, due to the scantness and ambiguous nature of the primary sources. The following table contains approximate estimates. All estimates excludes the number of oarsmen, for those estimates see Byzantine navy.\n\nAccording to Mark Whittow the military resources of the Byzantine Empire were broadly comparable to those of other early medieval European states. As such Byzantium may not have been wealthier or more powerful than other European states, but it was more centralized and more united, and this was a vital factor in its survival. By using various Byzantine sources he guesses the entire cavalry forces of the empire, between the 8th and 10th centuries, were somewhere just over 10,000 and the number of infantry 20,000, and argues that the Byzantine armies should be numbered in hundreds or thousands and not tens of thousands.\n\nAlexandru Madgearu cites and estimate of an army of 250 000 in 1025.\n\nIn response to the Persians fielding heavy cavalry that proved unmatched in head-to-head combat, the Byzantines attempted to replicate these elite units, calling them \"cataphracts\". The word cataphract (from the Greek κατάφρακτος, \"kataphraktos\", with a literal meaning of 'completely armored' in English) was what Greek- and later Latin-speaking peoples used to describe heavy cavalry. Historically, the cataphract was a heavily armed and armoured cavalryman who saw action from the earliest days of Antiquity up through the High Middle Ages. Originally, the term cataphract referred to a type of armour worn to cover the whole body and that of the horse. Eventually the term described the cavalryman himself. The cataphracts were both fearsome and disciplined. Similar to the Persian units on which they were based, both man and horse were heavily armoured, the riders equipped with lances, bows and maces. These troops were slow compared to other cavalry, but their effect on the battlefield, particularly under the Emperor Nikephoros II, was devastating. More heavily armoured types of cataphract were called \"clibanarii\" (\"klibanophoroi\"). Over time these stopped being a distinctive unit and were subsumed by the cataphracts.\n\nThe Byzantine cavalry were ideally suited to combat on the plains of Anatolia and northern Syria, which, from the seventh century onwards, constituted the principal battleground in the struggle against the forces of Islam. They were heavily armed using lance, mace and sword as well as strong composite bows which allowed them to achieve success against lighter, faster enemies, being particularly effective against both the Arabs and Turks in the east, and the Hungarians and Pechenegs in the west.\n\nBy the mid-Byzantine period (c900-1200) the regular mounted arm was broadly divided into \"katafraktoi\" (heavily armored and intended for shock action), \"koursorses\" (medium weight equipped with mail or scale armor) and lightly armed horse archers.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire's military tradition originated in the late Roman period, and its armies always included professional infantry soldiers. That being said, in the middle period especially infantry took a backseat to the cavalry, now the main offensive arm of the army. Equipment varied significantly, among the theme infantry most especially, but an average infantryman of the middle period would be equipped with a spear, sword or axe, plumbata (lead-weighted darts), large oval or triangular shield, metal helmet or thick felt cap, and quilted or leather armour. Wealthier soldiers might be able to afford iron lamellar or even chain mail, but these were generally the preserve of the cavalry and officers; many military manuals of the 10th and 11th centuries don't even mention infantry wearing these being a possibility. Byzantine infantry were lightly armored compared to their earlier Roman predecessors, their strength coming from their exceptional organization and discipline, not being clad in iron.\n\nPronoiar troops began to appear during the twelfth century, particularly during the reign of the emperor Manuel I Komnenos (1143–1180). These were soldiers paid in land instead of money, but they did not operate under the old theme system of the middle Byzantine period. Pronoiai developed into essentially a license to tax the citizens who lived within the boundaries of the grant (the paroikoi). Pronoiars (those who had been granted a pronoia) became something like tax collectors, who were allowed to keep some of the revenue they collected.\n\nThese men are therefore generally considered to have been the Byzantine equivalent of western knights: part soldiers, part local rulers. However, it is important to note that the emperor was still the legal owner of the Pronoiars' land. Usually cavalry, pronoiars would have been equipped with mail armour, lances, and horse barding. Manuel re-equipped his heavy cavalry in western style at some point during his reign; it is likely that many of these troops would have been pronoiars. These troops became particularly common after 1204, in the service of the Empire of Nicaea in western Asia Minor.\n\n\"Akrites\" (plural \"Akritoi\" or \"Akritai\") were defenders of the Anatolian borders of the Empire. They appeared after either the Arab conquests, or much later when Turkish tribes raided Anatolia from the east. The Akritoi units were formed from native Greeks living near the eastern borders. Whether such men were really soldier-farmers or lived on rents from smallholdings while concentrating on their military duties is still a matter of debate. The Akritoi were probably mostly light troops, armed with bows and javelins.\n\nThey were most adept at defensive warfare, often against raiding Turkish light horsemen in the Anatolian mountains, but could also cover the advance of the regular Byzantine army. Their tactics probably consisted of skirmishing and ambushes in order to catch the fast-moving Turkish horse-archers. Greek folklore and traditional songs of the Byzantine era to the 19th century heavily feature Akrites and their (always exaggerated) deeds (see acritic songs).\n\nThe Byzantine army frequently employed foreign mercenary troops from many different regions. These troops often supplemented or assisted the empire's regular forces; at times, they even formed the bulk of the Byzantine army. But for most of the Byzantine army's long history, foreign and military soldiers reflected the wealth and might of the Byzantine empire, for the emperor who was able to gather together armies from all corners of the known world was formidable.\n\nForeign troops during the late Roman period were known as the \"foederati\" (\"allies\") in Latin, and during the Byzantine period were known as the \"Phoideratoi\" (Gr. Φοιδεράτοι) in Greek. From this point, foreign troops (mainly mercenaries) were known as the Hetairoi (Gr. Ἑταιρείαι, \"Companionships\") and most frequently employed in the Imperial Guard. This force was in turn divided into the Great Companionships (Μεγάλη Εταιρεία), the Middle Companionships (Μέση Εταιρεία), and the Minor Companionships (Μικρά Εταιρεία), commanded by their respective \"Hetaireiarches\" – \"Companionship lords\". These may have been divided upon a religious basis separating the Christian subjects, Christian foreigners, and non-Christians, respectively.\n\nDuring the beginning of the 6th century, several barbarian tribes who eventually destroyed the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century eventually were recruited in the armies of the Eastern Roman Empire. Among them were the Heruli, who had deposed the last Western Roman Emperor Romulus Augustulus under their leader Odoacer in 476. Other barbarians included the Huns, who had invaded the divided Roman Empire during the second quarter of the 5th century under Attila, and the Gepids, who had settled in the Romanian territories north of the Danube River.\n\nIt was these same barbarian mercenaries that Emperor Justinian had used to help his legions reclaim the lost Roman territories of the West, which including Italy, North Africa, Sicily, and Gaul. The Byzantine general Belisarius used Hunnic archers and Heruli mercenaries in his army to reclaim North Africa and the Balearic Islands from the Vandals, and in 535–537, he recruited Heruli infantry and Hunnic horsemen to help him secure Sicily and all of southern Italy, as well as defend the city of Rome from the Ostrogoths.\n\nIn 552, the Armenian general Narses defeated the Ostrogoths with an army that contained a large number of Germanic soldiers, including 3,000 Heruli and 400 Gepids. Two years later, Narses crushed a combined army of invading Franks and Alemanni with a Roman army that including a contingent of Heruli mercenary troops.\n\nAdditionally, during the Komnenian period, the mercenary units would simply be divided by ethnicity and called after their native lands: the Inglinoi (Englishmen), the Phragkoi (Franks), the Skythikoi (Scythians), the Latinikoi (Latins), and so on. Even Ethiopians served during the reign of Theophilos. These mercenary units, especially the Skythikoi, were also often used as a police force in Constantinople.\n\nThe most famous of all Byzantine regiments was the legendary Varangian Guard. This unit traced its roots to the 6,000 Rus sent to Emperor Basil II by Vladimir of Kiev in 988. The tremendous fighting abilities of these axe-wielding, barbarian Northerners and their intense loyalty (bought with much gold) established them as an elite body, which soon rose to become the Emperors' personal bodyguard. This is further exemplified by the title of their commander, \"Akolouthos\" (Ακόλουθος, \"Acolyte/follower\" to the Emperor).\n\nInitially the Varangians were mostly of Scandinavian origin, but later the guard came to include many Anglo-Saxons (after the Norman Conquest) as well. The Varangian Guard fought at the Battle of Beroia in 1122 with great distinction, and were present at the Battle of Sirmium in 1167, in which the Byzantine army smashed the forces of the Kingdom of Hungary. The Varangian Guard is thought to have been disbanded after the sack of Constantinople by the forces of the Fourth Crusade in 1204; nearly all contemporary accounts agreed that they were the most important Byzantine unit present and were instrumental in driving off the first Crusader assaults.\n\nThe Byzantines originally used weapons developed from their Roman origins, short swords, spears, javelins, darts, slings and bows etc. However they were gradually influenced by the weapons of their Turkish and Arab neighbors, adopting the use of the composite bow and the cavalry mace\n\nThere were many sword (\"xiphos\") types; straight, curved, one- and two-handed, which are depicted in illustrations. According to the \"Strategika\", by the sixth century the short Roman \"gladius\" had been abandoned in favor of a long two-edged sword, the spathion, used by both the infantry and cavalry. The tenth century \"Sylloge Tacticorum\" gives the length of this kind of sword as the equivalent of 94 cm and mentions a new saber-like sword of the same length, the \"paramerion\", a curved one-edged slashing weapon for cavalrymen. Both weapons could be carried from a belt or by a shoulder strap.\n\nInfantrymen and cavalrymen carried spears for thrusting and javelins for throwing. Cavalrymen of the sixth and seventh century wielded lances with a thong in the middle of the shaft (Avar style) and a pennant. Infantrymen's spears (\"kontaria\") in the tenth century were 4–4.5 meters long (cavalry lances were slightly shorter) with an iron point (\"xipharion\", \"aichme\").\n\nOne type of spear, the \"menaulion\", is described in detail; it was very thick, taken whole from young oak or cornel saplings and capped by a long blade (45–50 cm), for use by especially strong infantrymen (called \"menaulatoi\" after their weapon) against enemy \"kataphraktoi\" - an excellent example of a weapon and a type of specialized soldier developed for a specific tactical role. Both light infantry and cavalry carried javelins (akontia, riptaria) no longer than three meters.\n\nMaces (\"rabdia\") and axes (\"pelekia\", \"tzikouria\") served as shock weapons. The tenth century \"kataphraktoi\" carried heavy all-iron maces (\"siderorabdia\") – six-, four- or three-cornered – to smash their way through enemy infantry. Infantrymen used maces and battle-axes in hand-to-hand combat; the two handed axe was the preferred weapon of the mercenaries from Rus' and Varangian Guard of the tenth and eleventh centuries. Byzantine axes were single-bladed (rounded or straight edged), sometimes with a spike opposite the blade.\n\nThe sling (\"sphendone\") and the bow (\"toxon\") were the weapons used by light soldiers. Slings were the ordinary hand-held type; the Roman staff sling (\"fustibalis\") was apparently little used. The Byzantine bow, like the late Roman bow, was the composite, reflex type featuring an unbendable horn grip with the reinforced wooden bowstave slung in reverse of the bow's natural flex when unstrung.\n\nA bowshot (flight, not target, range) is over three hundred meters for an infantry bow, but cavalry bows, standing 1.2 meters high, were smaller and less tightly strung for greater accuracy and ease of handling, they had a flight range of 130–135 meters. The \"solenarion\" is a hollow tube through which an archer could launch several small arrows (\"mues\", i.e., \"mice\") at a time; Anna Komnene remarked that the Crusader's Western-type crossbow, which she called a \"tzangra\", was unknown to Byzantium before the 12th century.\n\nRepresentational evidence, including propaganda monuments, gravestones, tombs, and the Exodus fresco, often shows Roman soldiers with one or two spears; one tombstone shows a soldier with five shorter javelins. Archaeological evidence, from Roman burials and Scandinavian bog-deposits, shows similar spearheads, though the shafts are rarely preserved.\n\nRepresentational evidence sometimes still shows Roman swords. Archaeological evidence shows that the gladius has disappeared; various short \"semispathae\" supplement the older \"pugiones\" while medium-long \"spathae\" replace the medium-short \"gladii\". These have the same straight double-edged blades as older Roman swords.\n\nRepresentational evidence and recovered laths, as well as arrowheads and bracers, show Roman use of composite bows.\n\nRepresentational evidence, recovered bosses, and some complete shields from Dara, show that most Roman infantry and some Roman cavalry carried shields.\n\nAlthough the representational evidence, including gravestones and tombs, often shows soldiers without armor, the archaeological evidence includes remains of lamellar, mail, and helmets.\n\nUnlike the Roman legions, the Byzantine army's strength was in its armoured cavalry Cataphracts, which evolved from the \"Clibanarii\" of the late empire. Infantry were still used but mainly in support roles and as a base of maneuver for the cavalry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024954", "title": "British Rail Class 41 (HST)", "text": "British Rail Class 41 (HST)\n\nThe British Rail Class 41 were two powercars built in 1972 by British Rail Engineering Limited's Crewe Works to operate with the prototype High Speed Train (HST) with Mark 3 carriages.\n\nTwo power cars were built in 1972 by British Rail Engineering Limited's Crewe Works, numbered 41001 and 41002. They initially conducted tests on the East Coast Main Line with the set based at Neville Hill TMD.\n\nHaving accumulated more than 100,000 miles, including setting a diesel train speed record of 143 mph between Northallerton and Thirsk in June 1973, they moved to the Great Western Main Line in 1974. On 5 May 1975, both entered revenue service on Great Western services between London Paddington and Bristol Temple Meads / Weston-super-Mare.\n\nAfter the Class 252 re-classification these were renumbered into the carriage numbering range as 43000 and 43001.\n\nAfter being replaced by production Class 43 HST powercars in the early 1980s, both were allocated to the Railway Technical Centre and used in various high speed trials associated with the Advanced Passenger Train and InterCity 225 projects. In December 1990 41002 was scrapped at CF Booth, Rotherham while 41001 was restored cosmetically and donated to the National Railway Museum (NRM).\n\nIn 2011 the NRM agreed a lease with the 125 Group that resulted in 41001 moving from York to Neville Hill TMD in March 2012 to be restored to operational condition. As part of this move, it was re-registered on TOPS as Class 43/9 locomotive 43000.\n\nUpon completion it was based at the Great Central Railway (Nottingham). In November 2014, 41001 hauled its first passenger train since 1976, a special named the \"Screaming Valenta\" on the Grand Central Railway with a short-formed East Midlands Trains HST set with a Class 43 on the other end.\n\nAfter suffering engine problems at the Keighley & Worth Valley Railway in May 2019 it was moved to Neville Hill TMD for repairs.\n\nIn October 2019 the NRM announced it had terminated the loan agreement, citing severe contract breaches that the 125 Group disputed with 41001 returned to the NRM in November 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024959", "title": "Electoral division of Daly", "text": "Electoral division of Daly\n\nDaly is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was created in 2001, and takes its name from the Daly River region which lies at the heart of the electorate. Daly covers some 81,818 km², encompassing the towns of Adelaide River, Acacia Hills, Batchelor, Dundee Beach, Nauiyu Nambiyu, Pine Creek, Timber Creek and Wadeye. There were 5,329 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2012.\n\nDaly is a relatively new electorate in the Northern Territory, having only been created in 2001. It replaced Victoria River, one of the Territory's original seats and best known as the seat of the Territory's first head of government, Goff Letts. It had been abolished when its namesake was moved out of the electorate by a redistribution. While Victoria River had been held by the Labor Party in the past, Daly appeared on paper to be a safe seat for the Country Liberal Party, having been held easily by then-member Tim Baldwin. However, he retired at the 2005 election. While the CLP candidate, Debbi Aloisi, was widely predicted to succeed him, she was ultimately defeated by Labor challenger Rob Knight, who had lost badly to Baldwin in 2001. In the lead-up to the election, there had been almost no suggestion that Knight had any chance of defeating Aloisi. However, on election night the CLP primary vote almost halved, and Knight won on a two-party swing of 24.6 percent—almost unheard of in Australian politics—and turned Daly from a safe CLP seat into a safe Labor seat in one stroke. Knight actually took the seat without the need for preferences. He was re-elected in 2008, but was defeated by CLP candidate Gary Higgins in 2012.\n\nHiggins narrowly weathered the massive Labor wave that swept through the Territory in 2016. He was one of only two CLP members returned at this election, and was named as leader of what remained of the CLP.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024967", "title": "British Rail Class 41 (Warship Class)", "text": "British Rail Class 41 (Warship Class)\n\nThe British Railways Class 41 diesel-hydraulic locomotives were built by the North British Locomotive Company in Glasgow during 1957 and 1958. Although they were withdrawn before TOPS was introduced, British Rail classified them as Class 41. All were named after Royal Navy vessels, hence the nameplates each bore a subtitle \"Warship Class\".\n\nThe fleet was ordered by the British Transport Commission as direct comparison with British Rail Class 40, and were not actually wanted by the Western Region, who preferred their production fleet of D800 Warships. The D600s were the result of power politics within the BTC and the WR: the former was unwilling to sanction radical, stressed-skin lightweight construction locomotives at the time, while the latter was equally insistent that at least some of the new Type 4 power range locomotives on order be equipped with hydraulic transmission. They were much heavier than production Warships (almost compared to ) and can be regarded as standard 1950s British design diesel locomotives that just happened to contain two lightweight, high-revving diesel engines coupled to hydraulic transmissions rather than one large, slow-revving diesel engine and electrical generator set. For this reason they were practically obsolete in design terms before they had left the drawing board.\n\nEach locomotive was equipped with two MAN L12V18/21A diesel engines, each set to produce 1000 hp (750 kW) at 1445 rpm. This conservative rating was partly because NBL was very inexperienced at constructing diesel locomotives and partly because the Voith L306r three speed transmissions available at the time were not able to accept more. MAN had refined the engine design to produce at around the time the D600 order was placed with NBL. The A1A-A1A wheel arrangement likewise came about because the BTC-mandated heavyweight construction required 6 axles to keep to a 20-ton axle loading, but NBL could not work out how to create a pivotless bogie and driving arrangement for C-C wheel arrangement. There were no C-C diesel-hydraulic locomotives to use as a template in mid-1955. The arrangement produced a continuous tractive effort of 39,600 lbf (176 kN) at 12.6 mph (20.3 km/h). Unusually for a British diesel locomotive, the D600s had spoked wheels. They could work in multiple with each other or up to two D6300 locomotives using the orange square coupling code.\n\nD600 was officially completed on 25 November 1957 but was not handed over to BR until that December. Some trial runs with passenger coaches were done in south-west Scotland before D600 was allocated to Swindon in January 1958. A press run was arranged for 17 February 1958 when D600 hauled a 340-ton train between London Paddington and Bristol Temple Meads with stops at Reading, Didcot and Swindon.\n\nD601 appeared in March 1958 and was also initially allocated to Swindon. By June 1958, both were based at Plymouth Laira and D602-D604 were then allocated there from new. The allocation of all five locomotives in July 1967 was Laira.\n\nEntering service between January 1958 and January 1959, the class initially worked on the London-Plymouth-Penzance route of the Western Region. On 16 June 1958 D601 hauled the Cornish Riviera Express non-stop from Paddington to Plymouth—the first diesel locomotive to do so. The maximum permitted loads for a D600 on such a run were 375 tons (381 tonnes) westbound (climbing the 1-in-37 of Dainton Bank, west of Newton Abbot, and up Hemerdon Bank's 1-in-42 in the opposite direction). The D600s continued on the fast Bristol/West of England trains until a dozen D800 Warships had been accepted into service. Later they were largely restricted to the line west of Plymouth, finally being withdrawn \"en bloc\" in December 1967. They were noted for being capable of over if worked well and did run at 100 mph (160 km/h) during their very early careers. D603 was damaged in an accident and was returned to NBL for repair in 1960: the cast light alloy cabs were replaced with sheet steel as the original NBL subcontractor for these items was not prepared to fabricate a small, one-off order. Swindon had a spare cab which was not used and survived long after the locos had been withdrawn before finally being sold for scrap.\n\nFrom new the D600s wore standard BR green with a light grey horizontal band between the cabs a few inches above the solebar. By the time of withdrawal D600 was in all-over rail blue with full yellow ends, D602 was blue with small yellow warning panels on each nose and D601/3/4 were still green, albeit with yellow warning panels.\n\nAll five locomotives were withdrawn on 30 December 1967. By this time they were non-standard, even for hydraulic designs, although according to Laira staff reliability was not a problem as many have thought. BR had been ordered to reduce the number of main line locomotive classes from 28 to 15 by 1974, primarily by eliminating types which were known to be unreliable, had high maintenance costs or were so few in number as to be non-standard. As the table below shows, there was a substantial gap between delivery of D601 and D602 because NBL had to equip itself to construct the engines and transmissions for these three locomotives. By this time the first Swindon-built D800s had entered service and these were the lightweight and more powerful diesel-hydraulic locomotives that the WR really wanted.\n\nD600 and D601 were sold to Woodham's Scrapyard in Barry. D600 was broken up within a couple of years but D601 remained intact until 1980. Preservation for D601 was denied on the ground that it was too far gone to be restored to operational condition and was not considered to be worth preserving for display only. The last survivor of what had been Class D600 was broken up without mourning in Woodhams Scrapyard, surrounded by locos which it had been intended to replace. D602-D604 were sold to Cashmore's of Newport who broke them up far more quickly than Woodhams (who concentrated on easily processible wagons before tackling locomotives). Somewhat ironically, as the fleet only lasted eight years in revenue-earning service, D601 actually spent more time in the scrapyard than it did hauling trains on the main line.\n\nNo Class D600 Warships survive in preservation, or indeed any main line North British diesel or electric products save for Class 84 25 kV AC electric locomotive no. 84001.\n\nA 00 gauge kit has been available from Silver Fox models and this was also available as a ready to run model (made to order but now discontinued). In 2019 Kernow Model Rail Centre\nreleased its limited edition OO RTR models of the class - D600 BR blue full yellow end & headcode boxes, D601 BR Green with headcode discs & original louvres, D602 BR blue yellow warning panel & headcode boxes, D602 BR Green with small warning panel & headcode boxes, D603 BR Green with yellow warning panels & headcode discs and D604 BR Green with headcode discs.\n\nWorsley Works produce a body kit in 'N', 2mm & 3mm scales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024968", "title": "Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre", "text": "Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre\n\nThe Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre were a Catholic religious order of canons regular of the Rule of Saint Augustine said to have been founded in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem, then the capital of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, recognised in 1113 by Papal bull of Pope Paschal II. Other accounts has it that they were founded earlier, during the rule of Godfrey of Bouillon (1099–1100).\n\nAfter the fall of Jerusalem to Saladin, the Canons fled the Holy Land along with other Latin Christians. They first settled briefly on Cyprus, where they established Bellapais Abbey, before proceeding to settle in various countries of Europe.\n\nWhile the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre was suppressed in 1489 by Pope Innocent VIII, its history runs common and parallel to that of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem (along with the \"Knights of the Holy Sepulchre\" of the Custody of the Holy Land), with Grand Magistery vested in the Papacy since 1496.\n\nYet, the Canonesses Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, founded in the 14th century as a female branch of the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, still exists in convents in Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Spain and England.\n\nIt is the opinion of Helyot and others that no Canons of the Holy Sepulchre existed before 1114, when some Canons regular, who had adopted the Rule of St. Augustine, were brought from the West and introduced into the Holy City by Godfrey of Bouillon. On the other hand, Suarez and others recognise the tradition of the order, which maintains that Saint James, the first Bishop of Jerusalem, established clerics living in common in the Holy City, where also, after the crusades, flourished the \"Congregation of the Holy Sepulchre\".\n\nBetween – Gerard, the Prior of the Holy Sepulchre, along with Warmund, Patriarch of Jerusalem, wrote an important letter to Diego Gelmírez, Archbiship of Santiago de Compostela citing crop failures and being threatened by their enemies; they requested food, money, and military aid in order to maintain the Kingdom of Jerusalem.\n\nPossibly, William of Malines, Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem 1130–1145, perhaps the younger son of a noble house from England and a man of \"praiseworthy habits\", had previously been the Prior of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, possibly attached the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre.\n\nBy a Papal bull dated 10 January 1143, to be found in the \"Bullarium Lateranense\", Pope Celestine II confirmed the church and the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre in all the possessions they had received from Godfrey of Bouillon, King Baldwin I of Jerusalem, and other benefactors. Mention is also made in the Bull of several churches in the Holy Land and in Italy belonging to the canons. Cardinal de Vitry, a canon regular of Oignies, and Cardinal Patriarch of Jerusalem, who had lived in Palestine some years, relates that the canons served, amongst other churches, that of the Holy Sepulchre and those on Mount Sion and on Mount Olivet. The patriarch was also Abbot of the Holy Sepulchre, and was elected by the canons regular.\n\nThe organisation relied on donations, such as when Melisende, Queen of Jerusalem in 1160 gave her assent to a grant made by her son Amalric to the Holy Sepulchre, perhaps on the occasion of the birth of her granddaughter Sibylla to Agnes and Amalric.\n\nIn the mid-12th century, the village of Bayt 'Itab was possibly a fief of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. It was acquired by them from Johannes Gothman, a Frankish crusader knight, whose wife was forced to sell his landholdings after he was taken prisoner by Muslim forces in 1161 in order to raise the money needed for his ransom. An impressive \"maison forte\" or hall house in the ancient centre of the modern village is thought to have served as Gothman's residence prior to its sale to the Church. The building had two stories, both vaulted; the ground floor entrance was protected by a slit-machicolation and had stairs leading to the basement and upper floor.\n\nAfter the Third Crusade, Joscius, Archbishop of Tyre, became chancellor of Jerusalem for Henry II of Champagne, who had married Queen Isabella of Jerusalem after Conrad's murder, but had not taken the title of King. Henry was involved in a dispute with the Canons of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre over the election of a new Latin Patriarch, and had them arrested until Joscius intervened. Joscius was also present at the foundation of the Teutonic Knights in 1198, and probably died in 1202.\n\nIn Europe, the Canons established themselves and had monasteries in Italy, France, Spain, Poland, England, Croatia and the Low Countries.\n\nAfter the fall of Jerusalem to Saladin, the canons fled the Holy Land along with other Latin Christians. They first settled briefly on Cyprus, where they established Bellapais Abbey, before proceeding to Western Europe\n\nIn Spain, the village of Torralba de Ribota belonged to the mother church at Calatayud of the Canons of the Holy Sepulchre, under the protection of Pedro Manrique de Lara, \"Dei gratia comes\", \"by the grace of God count\". Also, possibly, the convent of Santa Anna in Barcelona, today a church, was originally a house of the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, or the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, under the guidance of the Patriarch of Jerusalem.\n\nIn Poland, they were notably active in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, Miechów, which received many privileges from Casimir of Bytom, and Casimir II the Just after many Canons came to settle their after their expulsion from the Holy Land. After the ultimate fall of the Kingdom of Jerusalem to the Muslims in 1291, the Superior of the convent at Miechów took the title of General of the order, later claiming the style of Grand Prior, and Miechów became the headquarters of the organisation for centuries. Here, the order initiated the custom of setting up, decorating, and visiting \"Christ’s grave\"s on the last days of the Passion Week. It was in Miechów that the oldest replica of the Holy Sepulchre in Europe, the goal of numerous pilgrims, has been preserved. In Poland, they also receives privileges from Przemysł II.\n\nIn England, they were also active. According to William Dugdale's \"Monasticon Anglicanum\", (1655) the Canons had two houses in England, one at Holy Sepulchre Priory, Thetford and the other at Warwick. Further indications propose Caldwell Priory and the Nottingham Holy Sepulchre Priory.\n\nKing Andrew II of Hungary used the funds that he inherited from his father to recruit supporters among the Hungarian lords. He also formed an alliance with Leopold VI, Duke of Austria, and they plotted against Emeric. Their united troops routed the royal army at Mački, Slavonia, in December 1197. Under duress, King Emeric gave Croatia and Dalmatia to Andrew as an appanage. In practice, Andrew administered Croatia and Dalmatia as an independent monarch. He minted coins, granted land and confirmed privileges. He cooperated with the Frankopans, Babonići, and other local lords. The Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre settled in the province during his rule.\n\nIn Italy, they seem to have been suppressed in 1489 by Pope Innocent VIII, he wanted to transfer all their property to the Knights of Malta. The independence of the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre was maintained at the request of Emperor Maximilian I and the Duke of Eberhard of Württemberg, and in 1499 with a bull of the Pope Alexander VI confirmed. In other countries than Italy, however, they appear to have continued. In France, they are assumed to have existed until about the time of the French Revolution in 1789, and in Poland after the monastery of Neisse was dissolved in the year 1810, the main monastery in Miechów was also dissolved in the year 1819. As regards men, the male congregation of Canons Regular is now regarded as extinct.\n\nNotwithstanding, the Canonesses Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, founded in the 14th century as a female branch of the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, still exists in convents in Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Spain and England.\n\nIn 1496, Pope Alexander VI restored the Order of the Holy Sepulchre to independent status. He decreed that the order would no longer be governed by the office of Custodian but that the senior post of the order would henceforth be raised to the rank of Grand Master, reserving this title for himself and his successors. The dubbing of knights was confirmed by Pope Leo X in 1516 and by Pope Clement VII in 1527. The privileges of the order, recorded by the Guardian of the order in 1553, further emphasised its chivalrous purposes.\n\nPremises associated with the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre, such as the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, Miechów, Poland, has since been associated with the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre.\n"}
{"id": "2024973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024973", "title": "Raoul Auger Feuillet", "text": "Raoul Auger Feuillet\n\nRaoul Auger (or Anger) Feuillet (c.1660–1710) was a French dance notator, publisher and choreographer most well-known today for his \"Chorégraphie, ou l'art de décrire la danse\" (Paris, 1700) which described Beauchamp–Feuillet notation, and his subsequent collections of ballroom and theatrical dances, which included his own choreographies as well as those of Pécour.\n\nHis \"Chorégraphie\" (1700) was translated into English by John Weaver (as \"Orchesography. Or the Art of Dancing\") (1706) and P. Siris (as \"The Art of Dancing\"), both published in 1706. Weaver also translated the \"Traité de la cadance\" from Feuillet's 1704 \"Recŭeil de dances\" (as \"A Small Treatise of Time and Cadence in Dancing\", 1706). Feuillet's \"Recŭeil de contredances\" (1706), a collection of English country dances, was translated into English by John Essex (as \"For the Furthur Improvement of Dancing\", 1710).\n\n"}
{"id": "2024981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024981", "title": "Samuel Green", "text": "Samuel Green\n\nSamuel Green may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024989", "title": "NWA World Tag Team Championship (Detroit version)", "text": "NWA World Tag Team Championship (Detroit version)\n\nThe Detroit version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship was the top ranked professional wrestling championship for tag teams in the Detroit, Michigan-based promotion Big Time Wrestling, sometimes referred to as NWA Detroit, between 1965 and 1980. As a member of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), All-Star Wrestling was entitled to promote their own local version of the championship as the NWA bylaws did not restrict its use in the way they restricted the NWA World Heavyweight Championship to one nationally recognized championship. Because individual NWA members, referred to as NWA territories, were allowed to create their own version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship, at least 22 different versions existed between 1949 and 1991. As it is a professional wrestling championship, it is not won or lost competitively, but instead is determined by the decision of the bookers of a wrestling promotion. The title is awarded after the chosen team \"wins\" a match to maintain the illusion that professional wrestling is a competitive sport.\n\nThe first championship team recognized in Detroit was that of the Tolos brothers (Chris and John Tolos), who were introduced as champions around February 1965 as having \"recently won\" the championship, though no records of a tournament exists. Kurt Von Hess and Karl Von Shotz held the championship five times as a team, the record for the 25-year history of this version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship, while Fred Curry holds the record for most overall reigns (9) with different partners. The shortest reign belongs to Lou Klein and Ed George, as Klein announced his retirement right after the match, making their reign only minutes long. The longest reign lasted at least 196 days as The Fabulous Kangaroos (Al Costello and Don Kent) won the championship on December 18, 1971, and held it until May 1972.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024990", "title": "Ombrone (department)", "text": "Ombrone (department)\n\nOmbrone was a department of the First French Empire in modern-day Italy. It was named after the river Ombrone. It was formed in 1808, when the Kingdom of Etruria (formerly the Grand Duchy of Tuscany) was annexed directly to France. Its capital was Siena.\n\nThe department was disbanded after the defeat of Napoleon in 1814. At the Congress of Vienna, the Grand Duchy of Tuscany was restored to its previous Habsburg-Lorraine prince, Ferdinand III. Its territory is now divided between the Italian provinces of Siena, Arezzo and Grosseto.\n\nThe department was subdivided into the following arrondissements and cantons (situation in 1812):\n\n\nIts population in 1812 was 189,307, and its area was 774,897 hectares. \n\n"}
{"id": "2024998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024998", "title": "Jim Lee (broadcaster)", "text": "Jim Lee (broadcaster)\n\nJames \"Jim\" Lee (born 21 April 1953 in Nuneaton, England) is a freelance continuity announcer and newsreader on BBC Radio 4 and the BBC World Service as well as providing links for BBC Radio 4 Extra. \n\nLee was born in Nuneaton, England and lived in Camp Hill (to the west towards Hartshill). He went to the King Edward VI Grammar School in Nuneaton (now the King Edward VI College). He worked for two years in a bank, and then decided to go to college. At Liverpool Polytechnic (now Liverpool John Moores University), he studied Business.\n\nHe worked in hospital radio at Walsgrave Hospital, and in 1980 was asked to join Mercia Sound in Coventry. He joined the BBC in 1989. He did the Breakfast Show on BBC CWR for 18 months from 1990, and then the Afternoon Show for two years. The BBC then decided to merge BBC CWR with BBC WM in Birmingham.\n\nIn the early 1990s he was involved in trials of DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting – i.e. Digital Radio), but was made redundant on 2 May 1997.\n\nShortly after he re-joined as a freelance continuity announcer on Radio 4 and the BBC World Service, and joined BBC Radio 7 in 2002. He is known for his distinctive accent, and often interjects humour into his announcements. After the Radio 4 UK Theme made it into the UK popular music charts, Lee introduced it by saying \"You don't often hear a hit single on Radio 4 ... but here's the UK theme\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2024999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024999", "title": "Josef Augusta (paleontologist)", "text": "Josef Augusta (paleontologist)\n\nJosef Augusta (March 17, 1903, Boskovice, Moravia – February 4, 1968, Prague) was a Czechoslovak paleontologist, geologist, and science popularizer.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1925 Augusta studied at the university in Brno. Between 1933 and 1968 he held posts at the Charles University in Prague as lecturer, professor, and dean of the faculty.\n\nIn addition to his scientific work (about 120 publications), Augusta wrote about twenty books popularizing his profession, mostly targeted to the youth. He is best known for his reconstructions of fossil flora and fauna, together with the painter Zdeněk Burian (1905–1981). He also participated in the famous movie \"Cesta do pravěku\" (\"Journey to the Beginning of Time\") (1954). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025006", "title": "Electoral division of Arnhem", "text": "Electoral division of Arnhem\n\nArnhem is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was first created in 1974, and takes its name from Arnhem Land, the region encompassing much of the northern part of the Territory.\n\nArnhem includes the Arnhem Land towns of Barunga, Beswick, Mataranka, Jabiru and Kakadu. In the redistribution before the 2016 election, gained territory from Arafura and Stuart, while losing territory to Nhulunbuy. There were 4,902 people enrolled within the electorate as of August 2012.\n\nArnhem was one of the initial electorates created along with the introduction of the Legislative Assembly in 1974. Though it consisted of predominantly indigenous towns which voted strongly for the Labor Party at a federal level, it was won by the Country Liberal Party amidst their landslide victory at the election of that year, in which the Labor Party won no seats. Arnhem returned to expectations at the 1977 election, when it was won by Labor candidate Bob Collins, who was elected leader of the party in 1981. After much of the northern portion of the seat was transferred to the new seat of Arafura in 1983, Collins transferred there and was succeeded in Arafura by new Labor candidate Wes Lanhupuy. Lanhupuy was comfortably re-elected three times, but died suddenly in 1995.\n\nLabor candidate Jack Ah Kit won the 1995 by-election resulting from Lanhupuy's death, and went on to serve as a Cabinet minister in the Martin government from 2001. He retired at the 2005 election, with former ABC TV presenter Barbara McCarthy being comfortably elected as his replacement. McCarthy was reelected unopposed in 2008, only to be ousted by the CLP's Larisa Lee in 2012 as the CLP swept into government. Lee herself sat under three different banners during the next parliament, leaving the CLP to sit as an independent, joining the Palmer United Party, before returning to be an independent. Selena Uibo regained the seat for Labor at the 2016 election. Lee won only 117 votes or 4.0 percent, finishing in fifth and last place.\n\nThe high proportion of indigenous people in the Arnhem population has been reflected in the seat having had five consecutive indigenous MPs, and McCarthy (now a Senator) having been an outspoken advocate of indigenous rights in parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025009", "title": "Alan Smith (radio presenter)", "text": "Alan Smith (radio presenter)\n\nAlan Smith (born 1966) is a presenter and newsreader on BBC Radio 4, who also appears on sister station Radio 4 Extra. Born in the Simpson Memorial Maternity Pavilion, Edinburgh, Scotland, he moved with his family to Cumbria when he was two.\n\nHe joined Radio 4 in 2002 after presenting on regional radio & TV. In addition to his BBC work, he hosts an in-flight entertainment programme for British Airways together with corporate presentations. In 2006/7 he had the unusual experience for a formal radio announcer, of having his vocals used as a rap on a dance track after UK electronica act The Young Punx sampled him reading the Shipping Forecast for their track \"Rockall\". Alan Smith has previously read the news for Radio 2.\n\nAs of June 2018, Alan Smith reads the news on the Radio 4 flagship Today Programme.\n"}
{"id": "2025010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025010", "title": "Rigshospitalet", "text": "Rigshospitalet\n\nRigshospitalet (meaning \"The National\", \"State\" or \"Kingdom Hospital\", but not usually translated) is one of the largest hospitals in Denmark and the most highly specialised hospital in Copenhagen. The hospital's main building is a 16 storey functionalist highrise, one of the tallest structures in the central parts of the city. Rigshospitalet neighbours the Panum Building which houses the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen. As a teaching hospital it is part of the framework organisation Copenhagen University Hospital.\n\nThe Danish name is not usually translated to English. The prefix \"Rigs-\" is used in the names of some Danish state institutions, especially in a solemn or prestigious context or for authorities serving for the whole Danish Realm including Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is the genitive of \"rige\" ('realm, kingdom, empire') and the cognate word is used similarly in Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic and Dutch (and in German until 1945). The prefix \"Stats-\" ('of the state') is more widely used, but implies a slightly lower level in the hierarchy. Although Rigshospitalet was founded as a state hospital, as opposed to the normal hospitals operated by counties, the Danish term \"Statshospital\" was until 1977 used only for psychiatric institutions.\n\nThe hospital itself explains the name was given because its predecessor, Royal Frederick's Hospital, was handed over to the state and became open to patients from the whole Danish Realm.\n\nRigshospitalet is often abbreviated \"RH\" and colloquially also called \"Riget\" (literally meaning 'the realm' or 'the kingdom'), hence the name of Lars von Trier's thriller TV series \"The Kingdom\" which was set at the hospital, and Stephen King's American version \"The Kingdom\".\n\nRigshospitalet was founded on 30 March 1757 as Kongelig Frederiks Hospital, named after King Frederick V and situated in Bredgade in central Copenhagen. The buildings are now occupied by the Danish Museum of Art & Design. Since 1903 the state has been the owner of the hospital (whereas other hospitals in Denmark are owned by the regions, formerly by the counties). In 1910 the hospital was renamed and moved to its present location in ten low buildings surrounding a central garden designed by architect Martin Borch. In 1970 most of the buildings were replaced by the present highrise concrete building designed by architect Jørgen Stærmose, while some of the surrounding older buildings still serve hospital functions. In 1995 the hospital was handed over to Hovedstadens Sygehusfællesskab (HS, The Capital Hospital Trust) which in 2007 was absorbed by the Capital Region. In 2007 a helipad was built on top of the hospital. Until then, rescue helicopters and helicopters transferring patients would land in the neighbouring park Fælledparken.\n\nRigshospitalet's mission is to be Denmark's leading hospital for patients needing highly specialized treatment. Its main specialist role has been enhanced in recent years by the decision that it should serve as the host institution for many of Copenhagen's speciality departments. Because of this, other hospitals refer patients to Rigshospitalet for the unique expertise available there.\n\nRigshospitalet's neighbor, the Panum Building, houses the University of Copenhagen's Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences. This proximity optimizes a close cooperation between the two in the fields of research and development. The Nordic Cochrane Centre and the University Centre for Nursing and Care Research are in Rigshospitalet.\n\nWith 1,120 beds, Rigshospitalet has responsibility for 65,000 inpatients and approximately 420,000 outpatients annually. In addition to its 8,000 personnel (7,000 full-time equivalents), the hospital trains, hosts, and has the in-service advantages of students of medicine and other health care sciences, as well as scientists working within Rigshospitalet under a variety of research grants.\nRigshospitalet has a trauma centre specialised at receiving severely injured patients. Ordinary emergency department treatment has been relegated to the other hospitals in Copenhagen.\n\nThe hospital was the location of Lars von Trier's television horror mini-series \"The Kingdom\".\n\nIt's the preferred hospital when members of the Danish royal family give birth. \n\nQueen Margrethe and Prince Henrik's children, Crown Prince Frederik and Prince Joachim, were both born at Rigshospitalet. Likewise Crown Princess Mary gave birth to her four children by Crown Prince Frederik: Christian, Isabella, Vincent, and Josephine, and all of Prince Joachim's four children were born here: Nikolai, Felix, Henrik and Athena.\n\nIn 2007 Rigshospitalet celebrated its 250th anniversary.\n\nTwo patients were infected with HIV at Rigshospitalet in February 2007 after getting a blood transfusion with infected blood. The contagion could, according to experts, probably have been discovered if the blood had been tested with a NAT test, which since 2009 is a requirement.\n\nThough the hospital complex also houses the Psychiatric Centre Rigshospitalet, this centre is administratively under the region-wide psychiatric hospital, Region Hovedstadens Psykiatri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025011", "title": "Serjeanty", "text": "Serjeanty\n\nUnder feudalism in England during the medieval era, tenure by serjeanty () was a form of tenure in return for some specified non-standard service, thus distinguishing it from knight-service. It is also used of similar forms in Continental Europe.\n\nThe word comes from the French noun \"sergent\", itself from the Latin \"serviens, servientis\", \"serving\", the present participle of the verb \"servo\", \"to keep, preserve, save, rescue, deliver\". \"Sergeant\" is derived from the same source, though developing an entirely different meaning.\n\nSerjeanty originated in the assignation of an estate in land on condition of the performance of a certain duty other than knight-service, usually the discharge of duties in the household of the king or a noble. It ranged from non-standard service in the king's army (distinguished only by equipment from that of the knight), to petty renders (for example the rendering of a quantity of basic food such as a goose) scarcely distinguishable from those of the rent-paying tenant or socager.\n\nThe legal historians Pollock and Maitland (1895) described it as being a free \"servantship\" in the sense that the serjeant, whatever his task, was essentially a menial servant. However the feudal historian Round objected that their definition does not cover military serjeanties and glosses over the honorific value of at least some of the services.\n\nThe historian Mary Bateson stated as follows concerning serjeanties:\n(They) were neither always military nor always agricultural, but might approach very closely the service of knights or the service of farmers ... The serjeanty of holding the king's head when he made a rough passage across the Channel, of pulling a rope when his vessel landed, of counting his chessmen on Christmas day, of bringing fuel to his castle, of doing his carpentry, of finding his pot-herbs, of forging his irons for his ploughs, of tending his garden, of nursing the hounds gored and injured in the hunt, of serving as veterinary to his sick falcons, such and many others might be the ceremonial or menial services due from a given serjeanty.\n\nThe varieties of serjeanty were later increased by lawyers, who the sake of convenience categorised under this head such duties as escort service to the Abbess of Barking, or of military service on the Welsh border by the men of Archenfield.\n\nSerjeants (\"servientes\") already appear as a distinct class in the Domesday Book of 1086, though not in all cases differentiated from the barons, who held by knight-service. A few mediaeval tenures by serjeanty can be definitely traced as far back as Domesday in the case of three Hampshire serjeanties: those of acting as king's marshal, of finding an archer for his service, and of keeping the gaol in Winchester Castle. It is probable, however, that many supposed tenures by serjeanty were not really such, although so described in returns, in inquisitions post mortems, and other records. The simplest legal test of the tenure was that serjeants, though liable to the feudal exactions of wardship, etc., were not liable to scutage; they made in place of this exaction special composition with the Crown.\n\nSome of the Domesday Book tenants may have been serjeants before the Norman Conquest, in the time of King Edward the Confessor. For instance, a certain Siward \"Accipitrarius\" (from Latin \"accipiter\", \"hawk\"), presumably hawker to Edward the Confessor, held from the king an estate worth £7 in Somerset and did so in an area appropriate to his occupation, close to a water habitat. J.H. Round ascribed the development of serjeanties in England to Norman influence, though he did not dismiss earlier roots. The Anglo-Saxon historian James Campbell has suggested that serjeanties such as the messenger services recorded in the 13th century may represent \"semi-fossilised remnants of important parts of the Anglo-Saxon governmental system\".\n\nThe germ of the later distinction between \"grand\" (French: \"grand\", \"large\") and \"petty\" (French \"petit\", \"small\") serjeanty is found in the Magna Carta of 1215, the king there renouncing the right of prerogative wardship in the case of those who held of him by the render of small articles. The legal doctrine which developed that serjeanties were inalienable (i.e. non-transferable) and impartible, led during the reign of King Henry III (1216–1272) to the arrentation of those serjeanties the lands of which had been partly alienated, which were thereby converted into socage tenures (i.e. paying money rents), or in some cases, tenures by knight-service. Gradually the gulf widened, and \"petty\" serjeanties, consisting of renders, together with serjeanties held of mesne lords, sank into socage, while \"grand\" serjeanties, the holders of which performed their service in person, became alone liable to the burden of wardship and marriage. In Littleton's \"Tenures\" (15th century), this distinction appears as well defined, but the development was one of legal theory.\n\nBy the reign of King Edward I (1272–1307), tenure by serjeanty was well on the retreat, as Kimball (1936) observes:\n\n\"Once it began to give way, serjeanty disintegrated more quickly and easily than the other tenures as the feudal conception of society lost its hold...Its miscellaneous services had...many fates. A large number soon became obsolete; others were commuted to money payments or changed to knight's service; a few that were honourable or ornamental were retained in their original form as part of the coronation ceremony. Some being still useful were performed by deputy, or absorbed into the regular administrative system.\n\nWhen the military tenure of knight-service was abolished at the Restoration of the Monarchy by King Charles II (1649–1651), that of grand serjeanty was retained, doubtless on account of its honorary character, it being then limited in practice to the performance of certain duties at coronations, the discharge of which as a right has always been coveted, and the earliest record of which is that of the coronation of Queen Eleanor of Provence in 1236. The most conspicuous are those of Queen's Champion, appurtenant to the manor of Scrivelsby, long held by the Dymoke family, and of supporting the king's right arm, appurtenant to the manor of Worksop.\n\nAlthough today any surviving remnants of grand sergeanty are regarded as roles of high honour, it should be remembered that originally grand sergeanty was a duty, not a right. Clearly even by the medieval era much grand sergeanty had become in practice merely a token of high honour given by a monarch, where the duty was patently absurd and entirely non-onerous, except for the requirement of the physical presence of the tenant concerned. The duty of supporting the king's right arm was still performed at the coronation of King Edward VII in 1902. Although the first holder of such heritable grand sergeanties was clearly a man well liked and respected by the appointing monarch, and suitable to the role, the character of the tenant's heir in the duty, often involving close personal proximity, might be less pleasing to future monarchs. The meaning of serjeant as a household officer is still preserved in the monarch's serjeants-at-arms, serjeant-surgeons and serjeant-trumpeter. The horse and foot serjeants (\"servientes\") of the king's army in the 12th century, who ranked after the knights and were more lightly armed, were unconnected with land tenure.\n\n\nSerjeanty is to be distinguished from offices held hereditarily \"in gross\". These are not serjeanties, as they were not incidents of the tenure of a manor or other land. They are heritable in the same way as baronies by writ, so that they can pass to a daughter where there is no male heir, and be split between daughters as co-heiresses if there are several.\n\nExamples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025013", "title": "British Rail Class 43 (HST)", "text": "British Rail Class 43 (HST)\n\nThe British Rail Class 43 (HST) is the TOPS classification used for the InterCity 125 \"High Speed Train\" (formerly classes 253 and 254) power cars, built by British Rail Engineering Limited from 1975 to 1982, and in service in the UK since 1976.\n\nThe class is officially the fastest diesel locomotive in the world, with an absolute maximum speed of , and a regular service speed of . The record run was led by 43102 and trailed by 43159.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the British Railways Board made the decision to replace its main-line express diesel traction. Financial limitations were tight, so mass electrification was not possible. As a result, a new generation of high-speed diesel trains had to be developed.\n\nExperience with the high-speed Class 55 \"Deltic\" locomotives had shown that a low axle weight was essential to avoid damage to the track at sustained high speed, and that high-speed engines were the only way to provide a good enough power-to-weight ratio for diesels. To power the HST at up to , each power car had a new diesel engine, the 12-cylinder Paxman Valenta, running at 1,500 rpm and developing . The 70-tonne weight of the power car gave it a 17.5-tonne (per-)axle loading.\n\nThe prototype set was developed at the Railway Technical Centre, Derby, the power cars having been constructed by British Rail Engineering Limited's (BREL) Crewe Works and the British Rail Mark 3 passenger cars by BREL's Derby Litchurch Lane Works. The engine used in the prototype power cars was the Paxman 'Valenta' 12RP200L, which developed . The electrical equipment was supplied by Brush. The power cars had a main driver's position at one aerodynamically shaped end with the other flat and gangwayed end having only an auxiliary driving position for shunting purposes.\n\nThe two prototype power cars emerged from the works in June and August 1972 and were initially numbered 41001 and 41002, but after a short period the entire set, including the passenger coaches, became reclassified as a diesel-electric multiple unit: British Rail Class 252. The power cars were given the coaching stock numbers 43000 and 43001. After proving trials on the Eastern Region the prototype High Speed Diesel Train (HSDT) was transferred to the Western Region, where it was deployed on Paddington Bristol/Weston-super-Mare services.\n\nIn May 2011 the National Railway Museum (NRM) announced that the remaining HST prototype power car 41001 would undergo full restoration work. A long-term loan was agreed between the NRM and the 125 Group of volunteers for the locomotive and a Paxman Valenta RP200L engine. The replacement engine (no. S508) was required as the original Valenta engine (no. S183) had been sectioned for display purposes. The S508 engine was lifted into the locomotive at Neville Hill TMD on 29 June 2012. The loan agreement ended in November 2019 and 41001 returned to the NRM.\n\nIn order to facilitate a main line move, Class 41 prototype HST power car 41001 was re-registered as a Class 43/9 locomotive, with the number 43000. It is the only locomotive in this sub-class.\n\nThe design was successful and led to production orders being placed for similar trains for the Western, Eastern, Scottish and London Midland Regions. The production power cars featured a redesigned front end without conventional buffers, although a rigid drawbar can be used to connect an HST to an ordinary locomotive. Following the introduction of production HST sets, the prototype unit was withdrawn, the power cars passing to the Research Division at Derby. Of the ten prototype coaches, two were adapted for use in the Royal Train, five were modified for use with the production HSTs, and three were transferred to Departmental stock.\n\nThe 197 power cars produced are numbered 43002-43198. 43001 was applied to the second of the two prototype power cars, while the first of the pair (now preserved and operational at the Great Central Railway (Nottingham)) became 43000, which is unusual because BR TOPS classification numbered its locomotives from 001 upwards (this was because it was not, at the time, classified as a locomotive).\n\nIn 1987, as electrification of the East Coast Main Line was under way, British Rail realised that the new Mark 4 carriages for the Class 89 and Class 91 locomotives were not going to be finished in time for the introduction of electric services on the East Coast Main Line so, in late 1987, a total of eight Eastern Region power cars (Numbers 43013/014/065/067/068/080/084/123) conversions (on 43014/123) were carried out at the Derby Engineering Development Unit, whilst the other six (43013/065/067/068/080/084) were converted by the diesel repair shop at Stratford to have the lower valancing removed and buffers fitted.\n\nAfter being fitted with buffers, these power cars began work as surrogate DVTs to work with the Class 91s and 89. The locomotives, working with conventional Mk3 stock, worked on the line between 1987 and 1991, when the last Class 91 locomotives entered service. As well as buffers being fitted to these powercars, special remote control equipment was also added to the locomotives so they could be controlled by the locomotive at the front. Once these locomotives left DVT duties, the remote equipment was removed.\n\nAfter privatisation, these power cars joined the Virgin Trains fleet working both Virgin CrossCountry and Virgin Trains West Coast routes, where they displaced loco-hauled stock. All the units were repainted from their original InterCity colours to the Virgin red livery. Later, Virgin Trains withdrew the HSTs when new Class 220 and 221 units were delivered, and nearly all of these power cars went into storage at Long Marston.\n\nAfter years of storage, several of the powercars were bought by Midland Mainline to be part of Project Rio, special services running from London St Pancras to Manchester while major engineering works were undertaken on the West Coast Main Line. These units were kept in the de-branded Virgin Trains livery throughout their time with Midland Mainline and put back in storage once Project Rio had finished in 2006.\n\n43013 and 43014 joined Network Rail's New Measurement Train in 2003 and have continued to work with this service ever since. Both of these units have now had MTU engines fitted.\n\n43080 was leased to GNER as a one-off powercar, working as a spare unit that could be easily called for if a HST failed. For most of its time with GNER, it was based at Craigentinny yard in Edinburgh and was painted into GNER colours. This locomotive's lease ended in 2006 and it was returned to storage at Long Marston.\n\nIn 2007, Grand Central took an interest in the stored power cars and amalgamated them into its fleet of three HST sets. In total, 43065/067/068/080/084/123 were bought by the company and now run high-speed services between Sunderland and London Kings Cross. HSTs 43084 and 43123 were the final operational Paxman Valenta power cars, being re-engined in 2010 with the MTU treatment. While at the works being re-engined, Grand Central added the orange stripe that appears on its Class 180 units, re-painted the front ends (making them look more like the non-buffered HSTs), and re-numbered the power cars into the four-hundreds. These are the current numbers: 43465 (065)/467 (067)/468 (068)/480 (080)/484 (084)/423 (123).\n\nBritish Rail experimented with Mirrlees Blackstone MB190 engines in four Western region examples (43167–43170) between 1987 and 1996, but this experiment was unsuccessful and the standard Paxman Valenta engines re-installed. These four locomotives have since all been re-engined with the MTU 16V4000 engines. 43167 is now 43367 and operates with London North Eastern Railway, whilst 43168-43170 are still in service, in the former Western region area under Great Western Railway\n\nPaxman began development of the Valenta's successor, the VP185, in 1987. The suggestion that British Rail participate in a trial of the new VP185 engine in the IC125 was first mooted in January 1991, and a formal agreement for the trial was signed in May 1993.\n\nA qualifying requirement for the trial was that the engine should undergo a British Rail Type Test which was carried out between December 1993 and February 1994. The test involved completion of 3,000 cycles, each of 10 minutes duration, with four minutes at the maximum power of and six minutes at idle, simulating the typical 'on-off' nature of IC125 duty. The test was much more severe than operational duty, where the train operates at a maximum of . The successful results of the test cleared the way for installation of a VP185 in Power Car 43170 at Plymouth Laira Depot for in-service trials in the summer of 1994. Power car 43170 entered service on 22 September 1994. 43170 was given the nameplate \"Edward Paxman\".\n\nDuring the late 1990s twenty-five HST power cars were re-engined with Paxman 12VP185L engines in order to improve fuel consumption and reduce emissions.\n\nThe very last VP185 engine to be manufactured at Paxman's Colchester Works was despatched from the factory on 15 September 2003 as part of a program to convert 14 Midland Mainline power cars to VP185 engines to supplement the four already converted during 1994/95, and this led to 43043/045/048-050/052/055/060/061/072/073/076/082 joining 43047/059/074/075 with this engine type.\n\nToday there are no production power cars fitted with a Paxman Valenta engine, although the 125 Group have reinstalled a Paxman Valenta in the surviving prototype powercar, 41001 (formerly 43000).\n\nIn 2007 Brush Traction and Hitachi equipped Paxman Valenta powered 43089 and a semi-permanently coupled Mark 3 coach with a diesel-battery hybrid power system for experimental trials. The power car was named \"Hayabusa\" (\"Hayabusa\", はやぶさ, Japanese for Peregrine falcon, project name 'V-Train 2'). It returned to normal service with East Midlands Trains.\n\nThe HST, having been in operation since the late 1970s, is due for replacement by the Hitachi Super Express. The development cycle for the replacement series is such that the existing fleet may be required to operate through to 2019 or beyond.\n\nWhen Crewe Works built them, the InterCity 125 units were considered to be diesel multiple units, and were allocated Classes 253 and 254 for Western and Eastern Region services respectively. The locomotives were introduced in the Midland region later.\n\nUntil the HST's introduction, the maximum speed of British trains was limited to 100 mph (160 km/h). The increased speed and rapid acceleration and deceleration of the HST made it ideal for passenger use, and it slashed journey times around the country. The prototype InterCity 125 (power cars 43000 and 43001) set the world record for diesel traction at 143 mph (230 km/h) on 12 June 1973. An HST also holds the world speed record for a diesel train carrying passengers. On 27 September 1985, a special press run for the launch of a new Tees-Tyne Pullman service from Newcastle to London King's Cross, formed of a shortened 2+5 set, briefly touched north of York.\n\nDuring 1987, eight HST power cars were converted for use as driving van trailers (DVTs) with Class 91 locomotives during trials on the East Coast Main Line. The power cars were fitted with buffers and Time Division Multiplex equipment that allowed them to directly control a Class 91, and were moved over to the ECML where they were used on workings with Class 89 and then Class 91 locomotives from London to Leeds. After the Mk 4 stock had been delivered, the HST power cars had the TDM equipment removed, and then reverted to their normal duties. The power cars used for this project can be easily identified as they are still fitted with buffers. They were then transferred to Virgin Cross Country, and put in storage when Virgin replaced its HST fleet with Bombardier Voyagers (though Arriva, upon later taking over the franchise, acquired 10 power cars, 4 of which were buffered). Grand Central bought six of these for services from Sunderland to London, the remaining two having been integrated into Network Rail's New Measurement Train.\n\nAfter the privatisation of British Rail the HST sets continued to be used. 194 of the 197 locomotives built remain in service, the most at any one point in history. The three units that are not in service, 43173, 43011 and 43019, were written off by fatal rail accidents in 1997, 1999 and 2004 respectively.\n\nAll HSTs operating with Great Western Railway, London North Eastern Railway were replaced by Class 800/801/802s in 2018/2019. Twenty-seven sets each with four or five carriages moved from Great Western Railway to Abellio ScotRail and be refurbished with controlled emission tanks and plug automatic doors. They will operate on services from Edinburgh and Glasgow to Aberdeen and Inverness. The first two were delivered to Craigentinny TMD for crew training in September 2017. The first entered service in October 2018.\n\nGreat Western Railway retained 24 powercars to form 11 four-carriage formations known as \"Castle Class\" sets for use on local services between Cardiff and Penzance.\n\nGB Railfreight have expressed interest in the possibility of converting displaced HST sets for use carrying parcels and other mail.\n\nPorterbrook will donate 2 powercars (43048 & 43089) to the 125 Group when they are released from front line service with East Midlands Railway in early 2020.\n\nIn early 2020, 18 former LNER MTU powered powercars (43238, 43251, 43257, 43274, 43290, 43295, 43299, 43302, 43305, 43306-43308, 43310, 43314, 43316-43320) will move with nine InterCity 125 sets to East Midlands Railway to replace an equivalent number of Paxman VP 185 powered powercars. This is being driven by the Mark 3s in these sets being more compliant with the disability regulations.\n\nOn 2 May 2016 an open day was held at Bristol St Philip's Marsh depot with a line up of Class 43s from each operator (except Cross Country) to celebrate the HST's fortieth anniversary. Several locomotives and passenger trains also appeared, such as 150 247 and 166 214 both in their new GWR liveries, 158 798 in its Springboard Opportunity Group livery and the prototype Class 41 HST. At the event, powercar 43002 (Numbered 253 001 as a Diesel Multiple Unit) was unveiled in original Intercity 125 livery, and named \"Sir Kenneth Grange\" after the Class 43's bodyshell designer. On 2 October 2016, powercar 43185 had been unveiled in InterCity \"Swallow\" livery. Both were operated by Great Western Railway (First Great Western) and 43002 is now preserved.\n\nThere have been minor incidents involving Class 43s, among which have been:\n\nPowercar 43160 had two minor incidents, which happened at the South West England region.\n\nThere have also been three serious incidents involving Class 43s, which all took place on the Great Western Main Line; these accidents resulted in three power cars being written off.\n\nBuilt between 1975 and 1982, the fleet is now in its fifth decade, and replacements for the High Speed Train are currently being built. This project, the Intercity Express Programme is being spearheaded by the Department for Transport. A consortium headed by Hitachi has designed and is building the replacement Hitachi Super Express Train. Various formations are being built; both electric and bi-mode (electro-diesel) versions in 5 or 9 carriage lengths. The initial batches will replace HSTs on the Great Western Main Line and East Coast Main Lines.\n\nOn the Greater Western franchise, the last of the full length HSTs was withdrawn in June 2019. Between twelve and twenty HST sets were originally to be retained and refurbished to carry on providing services between London, Devon and Cornwall, where no electrification was planned, and where the Class 800's engines would not be capable of negotiating the steep gradients along the South Devon Banks, through to the mid-2020s. A report published in 2011 concluded that the Mark 3 coaches could remain in service as late as 2035 with some minor rewiring and enhancements required under disability legislation, however, it was announced in March 2015 that the HSTs would be replaced with the Class 802s, a more powerful derivative of the bi-mode Class 800s.\n\nInitially, high-speed Bombardier Voyager and Alstom Class 180 (Adelante) replaced numerous HSTs, but all locomotives and sets have been brought back into service as a result of increasing demand. Some Great Western sets were cascaded to Abellio ScotRail to replace the Class 170 units while others were retained by GWR to operate local services.\n\nGrand Central railway leased five more Class 180 units cascaded from Great Western Railway to replace their HST trains and increase their overall fleet size. This in turn allowed the HSTs to be cascaded to East Midlands Trains. The East Midlands Trains sets were passed to the new East Midlands Railway franchise which announced it would replace them with Class 810 bi-mode units in the early 2020s.\n\nUpon being retired, 43002 was preserved by the National Railway Museum in York. It is to be joined by 43102\n\nCurrently only one production power car has been saved for preservation. The powercar in question being the first to be built, 43002, which is now based at the National Railway Museum in York. 43102 is to later join 43002 at the NRM, this power car in question being the one that holds the record for being the fastest diesel locomotive on the planet.\n\nPorterbrook, who own many Class 43 power cars, have donated 43048 and 43089 to the 125 Group. The power cars will move to the group when their lease ends with East Midlands Railway.\n\nLocomotive Services Limited are also hoping to save two powercars and a full set of British Railways Mark 3 coaches for use on excursion trains.\n\nIn 1977 Hornby Railways launched its first version of the BR Class 43 (HST) in OO gauge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025017", "title": "British Rail Class 43 (Warship Class)", "text": "British Rail Class 43 (Warship Class)\n\nThe British Rail Class 43 diesel-hydraulic locomotives were built by the North British Locomotive Company (NBL) from 1960–1962. They were numbered D833-D865.\n\nThe D800 series diesel-hydraulic 'Warship Class', of B-B wheel arrangement, was constructed by two different builders. Those locomotives built by British Railways at Swindon Works were originally numbered D800-D832 and D866-D870. They were allocated Class 42 under the 1968 classification system, while those built by the North British Locomotive Company (NBL) were originally numbered D833-D865 and allocated Class 43. Because of their early withdrawal dates, neither the Swindon- nor the NBL-built locomotives carried TOPS numbers. More detail on factors common to both types can be found in the article on the Swindon-built British Rail Class 42.\n\nThe NBL-built D800s differed mechanically from the Swindon-built batch: the Swindon locomotives used Maybach engines connected to Mekydro hydraulic transmissions whereas the NBL-built examples used MAN engines and Voith transmissions. NBL had entered into an arrangement with the German company MAN AG in the early 1950s to market MAN's engine designs in the UK: NBL were anxious to enter the diesel locomotive market, especially once it became apparent that British Railways would be seeking large quantities of such locomotives when the \"Modernisation Plan\" was announced. MAN were equally keen to obtain a slice of the UK market for themselves. The first results of this collaboration were the D600-D604 locomotives which failed to take advantage of the weight-saving potential of light alloy stressed-skin construction allied to hydraulic transmissions.\nNo further examples of this design were ordered but NBL then received an order for 33 locomotives to a more advanced design, the D800 design drawn up by Swindon Works in turn derived from the original German Krauss-Maffei V200 design. The prime mechanical components of these were two MAN L12V18/21B diesel engines, each rated at at 1530 rpm and coupled to a Voith LT306r hydraulic transmission; each engine/transmission combination drove one bogie. Unlike the Mekydro four-speed transmissions in the Swindon-built locomotives, the Voith was only a three-speed design but was chosen because it kept compatibility with D600-4 and because NBL already had a licence to manufacture it. Whereas the Swindon-built locomotives had all their engines and transmissions supplied by the German manufacturers (albeit with ten engines and three transmissions supplied as kits of parts for the British licensee to re-assemble) the engines and transmissions required for D833-65 were all built by NBL.\n\nIn operational service, the NBL locomotives were less reliable than their Swindon-built cousins. Mild steel was used for the exhaust manifolds and these components were prone to fracture. Not only did this result in a loss of exhaust pressure to drive the turbochargers but also the driving cabs rapidly filled with exhaust fumes. The MAN-built engines used in the German DB class V 200 design had nickel-resist steel manifolds and were far less troublesome. The engine design also suffered from being quite highly rated for a design with no active piston cooling and piston ring life expectancy was decreased as a result. One MAN L12V18/21B was sent to the British Internal Combustion Engine Research Association for various tests and potential modifications to improve the deficiencies but nothing ever came of this. Further problems arose because of the conversion from metric to imperial feet and inches when the MAN drawings were received by NBL. It is almost certain that rounding errors in these conversions resulted in poor tolerances and lowered reliability in practice. Despite all this, figures for 1965 show the North British Warships covered a far greater annual mileage than contemporary Type 4's such as the Westerns, Peaks and Brush Type 4.\n\nDespite being their last year in service, Class 43 locomotives were still hauling long distance passenger trains over the summer of 1971 on services between Paddington and locations in Devon.\n\n\nThe NBL-built D800s were withdrawn before their Class 42 sisters, themselves doomed to a short life because of the decision to standardise on diesel-electric transmission for mainline locomotives. None have survived into preservation. Many of the names were allocated to Class 50 locomotives, which were also named after British warships. They were allocated to Bristol Bath Road, Laira Plymouth, Newton Abbot and Old Oak Common.\n\nBuilt by NBL, date of order 3 July 1958, maker's order no. L100, Swindon lot no. 443\n"}
{"id": "2025021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025021", "title": "Alloxan", "text": "Alloxan\n\nAlloxan, sometimes referred to as \"alloxan hydrate\", refers to the organic compound with the formula OC(N(H)CO)C(OH). It is classified as a derivative of pyrimidine. The anhydrous derivative OC(N(H)CO)CO is also known as well as a dimeric derivative. These are some of the earliest known organic compounds. They also exhibit a variety of biological activities.\n\nThe compound was discovered by Justus von Liebig and Friedrich Wöhler. It is one of the oldest named organic compounds. It was originally prepared in 1818 by Luigi Valentino Brugnatelli (1761-1818) and was named in 1838 by Wöhler and Liebig. The name \"Alloxan\" emerged from an amalgamation of the words \"allantoin\" and \"Oxalsäure\" (oxalic acid). The alloxan model of diabetes was first described in rabbits by Dunn, Sheehan and McLetchie in 1943. The name is derived from allantoin, a product of uric acid excreted by the fetus into the allantois, and oxaluric acid derived from oxalic acid and urea, found in urine.\n\nAlloxan was used in the production of the purple dye murexide, discovered by Carl Wilhelm Scheele in 1776. Murexide is the product of the complex \"in-situ\" multistep reaction of alloxantin and gaseous ammonia. Murexide results from the condensation of the unisolated intermediate uramil with alloxan, liberated during the course of the reaction.\nScheele sourced uric acid from human calculi (such as kidney stones) and called the compound lithic acid. William Prout investigated the compound in 1818 and he used boa constrictor excrement with up to 90% ammonium acid urate.\n\nIn the chapter \"Nitrogen\" of his memoir \"The Periodic Table\", Primo Levi tells of his futile attempt to make alloxan for a cosmetics manufacturer who has read that it can cause permanent reddening of the lips. Levi considers the droppings of pythons as a source for uric acid for making alloxan, but he is turned down by the director of the Turin zoo because the zoo already has lucrative contracts with pharmaceutical companies, so he is obliged to use chickens as his source of uric acid. The synthesis fails, however, \"and the alloxan and its resonant name remained a resonant name.\"\n\nIt was originally obtained by oxidation of uric acid by nitric acid. It is prepared by oxidation of barbituric acid by chromium trioxide.\n\nA dimeric derivative alloxantin can be prepared by partial reduction of alloxan with hydrogen sulfide.\n\nAlloxan is a toxic glucose analogue, which selectively destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas (that is, beta cells) when administered to rodents and many other animal species. This causes an insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (called \"alloxan diabetes\") in these animals, with characteristics similar to type 1 diabetes in humans. Alloxan is selectively toxic to insulin-producing pancreatic beta cells because it preferentially accumulates in beta cells through uptake via the GLUT2 glucose transporter. Alloxan, in the presence of intracellular thiols, generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a cyclic reaction with its reduction product, dialuric acid. The beta cell toxic action of alloxan is initiated by free radicals formed in this redox reaction. Studies suggests that alloxan does not cause diabetes in humans. Others found a significant difference in alloxan plasma levels in children with and without diabetes Type 1.\n\nBecause it selectively kills the insulin-producing beta-cells found in the pancreas, alloxan is used to induce diabetes in laboratory animals. This occurs most likely because of selective uptake of the compound due to its structural similarity to glucose as well as the beta-cell's highly efficient uptake mechanism (GLUT2). In addition, alloxan has a high affinity to SH-containing cellular compounds and, as a result, reduces glutathione content. Furthermore, alloxan inhibits glucokinase, a SH-containing protein essential for insulin secretion induced by glucose.\n\nMost studies have shown that alloxan is not toxic to the human beta-cell, even in very high doses, probably because of differing glucose uptake mechanisms in humans and rodents.\n\nAlloxan is, however, toxic to the liver and the kidneys in high doses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025028", "title": "Iodine deficiency", "text": "Iodine deficiency\n\nIodine deficiency is a lack of the trace element iodine, an essential nutrient in the diet. It may result in metabolic problems such as goiter, sometimes as an endemic goiter as well as cretinism due to untreated congenital hypothyroidism, which results in developmental delays and other health problems. Iodine deficiency is an important global health issue, especially for fertile and pregnant women. It is also a preventable cause of intellectual disability.\nIodine is an essential dietary mineral for neurodevelopment among offsprings and toddlers. The thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine contain iodine. In areas where there is little iodine in the diet, typically remote inland areas where no marine foods are eaten, iodine deficiency is common. It is also common in mountainous regions of the world where food is grown in iodine-poor soil.\nPrevention includes adding small amounts of iodine to table salt, a product known as \"iodized salt\". Iodine compounds have also been added to other foodstuffs, such as flour, water and milk, in areas of deficiency. Seafood is also a well known source of iodine.\n\nIn the U.S., the use of iodine has decreased over concerns of overdoses since mid-20th century, and the iodine antagonists bromine, perchlorate and fluoride have become more ubiquitous. In particular, around 1980 the practice of using potassium iodate as dough conditioner in bread and baked goods was gradually replaced by the use of other conditioning agents such as bromide.\nIodine deficiency resulting in goiter occurs in 187 million people globally (2.7% of the population). It resulted in 2700 deaths in 2013 up from 2100 deaths in 1990.\n\nA low amount of thyroxine (one of the two thyroid hormones) in the blood, due to lack of dietary iodine to make it, gives rise to high levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which stimulates the thyroid gland to increase many biochemical processes; the cellular growth and proliferation can result in the characteristic swelling or hyperplasia of the thyroid gland, or goiter. In mild iodine deficiency, levels of triiodiothyronine (T) may be elevated in the presence of low levels of levothyroxine, as the body converts more of the levothyroxine to triiodothyronine as a compensation. Some such patients may have a goiter, without an elevated TSH. The introduction of iodized salt since the early 1900s has eliminated this condition in many affluent countries; however, in Australia, New Zealand, and several European countries, iodine deficiency is a significant public health problem. It is more common in developing countries. Public health initiatives to lower the risk of cardiovascular disease have resulted in lower discretionary salt use at the table. Additionally, there is a trend towards consuming more processed foods in western countries. The noniodized salt used in these foods means that people are less likely to obtain iodine from adding salt during cooking.\n\nGoiter is said to be endemic when the prevalence in a population is > 5%, and in most cases goiter can be treated with iodine supplementation. If goiter is untreated for around five years, however, iodine supplementation or thyroxine treatment may not reduce the size of the thyroid gland because the thyroid is permanently damaged.\n\nCongenital iodine deficiency syndrome, previously known as \"cretinism\", is a condition associated with iodine deficiency and goiter, commonly characterised by mental deficiency, deafness, squint, disorders of stance and gait and stunted growth due to hypothyroidism. Paracelsus was the first to point out the relation between goitrous parents and their mentally disabled children.\n\nAs a result of restricted diet, isolation, intermarriage, etc., as well as low iodine content in their food, children often had peculiar stunted bodies and retarded mental faculties, a condition later known to be associated with thyroid hormone deficiency. Diderot, in his 1754 \"Encyclopédie\", described these patients as \"crétins\". In French, the term \"crétin des Alpes\" also became current, since the condition was observed in remote valleys of the Alps in particular. The word \"cretin\" appeared in English in 1779.\n\nWhile reporting recent progress towards overcoming iodine-deficiency disorders worldwide, \"The Lancet\" noted: \"According to World Health Organization, in 2007, nearly 2 billion individuals had insufficient iodine intake, a third being of school age.\" A conclusion was made that the single most preventable cause of intellectual disability is that of iodine deficiency.\n\nThere is preliminary evidence that iodine deficiency enhances the sensitivity of breast tissue to estrogen. In rats treated with estradiol, iodine deficiency has been shown to lead to changes similar to benign breast changes that are reversible by increased iodine in the diet. In a few studies, iodine supplementation had beneficial effects (such as reducing the presence of breast cyst, fibrous tissue plaques and breast pain) in women with fibrocystic breast changes.\n\nProtective effects of iodine on breast cancer have been postulated from epidemiologic evidence and described in animal models. In view of the antiproliferative properties of iodine in breast tissue, molecular iodine supplementation has been suggested as an adjuvant in breast cancer therapy.\n\nFollowing is a list of potential risk factors that may lead to iodine deficiency:\n\n\nIodine accounts for 65% of the molecular weight of T4 and 59% of T3. There is a total of 15–20 mg of iodine in the human body, primarily concentrated in thyroid tissue and hormones. Thirty percent of iodine is distributed in other tissues, including the mammary glands, eyes, gastric mucosa, choroid plexus, arterial walls, the cervix, and salivary glands. In the cells of these tissues, iodide enters directly by sodium-iodide symporter (NIS).\n\nThe diagnostic workup of a suspected iodine deficiency includes signs and symptoms as well as possible risk factors mentioned above. A 24-hour urine iodine collection is a useful medical test, as approximately 90% of ingested iodine is excreted in the urine. For the standardized 24-hour test, a 50 mg iodine load is given first, and 90% of this load is expected to be recovered in the urine of the following 24 hours. Recovery of less than 90% is taken to mean high retention, that is, iodine deficiency. The recovery may, however, be well less than 90% during pregnancy, and an intake of goitrogens can alter the test results.\n\nIf a 24-hour urine collection is not practical, a random urine iodine-to-creatinine ratio can alternatively be used. However, the 24-hour test is found to be more reliable.\n\nA general idea of whether a deficiency exists can be determined through a functional iodine test in the form of an iodine skin test. In this test, the skin is painted with an iodine solution: if the iodine patch disappears quickly, this is taken as a sign of iodine deficiency. However, no accepted norms exist on the expected time interval for the patch to disappear, and in persons with dark skin color the disappeance of the patch may be difficult to assess. If a urine test is taken shortly after, the results may be altered due to the iodine absorbed previously in a skin test.\n\nIodine deficiency is treated by ingestion of iodine salts, such as found in food supplements. Mild cases may be treated by using iodized salt in daily food consumption, or drinking more milk, or eating egg yolks, and saltwater fish. For a salt and/or animal product restricted diet, sea vegetables (kelp, hijiki, dulse, nori (found in sushi)) may be incorporated regularly into a diet as a good source of iodine.\n\nThe recommended daily intake of iodine for adult women is 150–300 µg for maintenance of normal thyroid function; for men, it is somewhat less at 150 µg.\n\nNonetheless, there is a lack of evidence on iodine fortification in foods, beverages, condiments, or seasonings other than salt in preventing goiter or improving physical development. On the other hand, such a measure may increase iodine concentration in urine.\n\nHowever, too high iodine intake, for example due to overdosage of iodine supplements, can have toxic side effects. It can lead to hyperthyroidism and consequently high blood levels of thyroid hormones (hyperthyroxinemia). In case of extremely high single-dose iodine intake, typically a short-term suppression of thyroid function (Wolff–Chaikoff effect) occurs. Persons with pre-existing thyroid disease, elderly persons, fetuses and neonates, and patients with other risk factors are at a higher risk of experiencing iodine-induced thyroid abnormalities. In particular, in persons with goiter due to iodine deficiency or with altered thyroid function, a form of hyperthyroidism called Jod-Basedow phenomenon can be triggered even at small or single iodine dosages, for example as a side effect of administration of iodine-containing contrast agents. In some cases, excessive iodine contributes to a risk of autoimmune thyroid diseases (Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease).\n\nWith iodine supplementation, goiters caused by iodine deficiency decrease in size in very young children and pregnant women. Generally, however, long-standing goiters caused by iodine deficiency respond with only small amounts of shrinkage after iodine supplementation, and patients are at risk for developing hyperthyroidism. Following the adoption of iodised salt in the United States in 1924, there was a gradual increase in average intelligence of 1 standard deviation, 15 points in iodine-deficient areas, 3.5 points nationally, but also an increase in deaths of older people in iodine-deficient areas due to hyperthyroidism.\n\nIodine deficiency resulting in goiter occurs in 187 million people globally (2.7% of the population). Certain areas of the world, due to natural deficiency and unavailability of iodine, are severely affected by iodine deficiency, which affects approximately two billion people worldwide. It is particularly common in the Western Pacific, South-East Asia and Africa. Among other nations affected by iodine deficiency, China and Kazakhstan have begun taking action, while Russia has not. Successful campaigns for the adoption of the use of iodized salt require education of salt producers and sellers and a communication campaign directed at the public. The cost of adding iodine to salt is negligible—\"Only a few cents a ton.\"\n\nIodine deficiency has largely been confined to the developing world for several generations, but reductions in salt consumption and changes in dairy processing practices eliminating the use of iodine-based disinfectants have led to increasing prevalence of the condition in Australia and New Zealand in recent years. A proposal to mandate the use of iodized salt in most commercial breadmaking was adopted there in October, 2009. In a study of the United Kingdom published in 2011, almost 70% of test subjects were found to be iodine deficient. The study's authors suggested an investigation regarding \"evidence-based recommendations for iodine supplementation\".\n\nIt is well known that micronutrient deficiencies change the development of intelligence and iodine is no exception. Lacking iodine during human development causes a fall, in average, of 12 IQ points in China.\nIt has been found in the U.S. that the proliferation of iodized salt increased IQ by 15 points in some areas.\n\nIn iodine-deficient or mildly iodine-deficient areas of Europe, iodine deficiency is frequent during pregnancy despite the widespread use of iodised salt, posing risks to the neurodevelopment of foetuses. In one study performed in a mildly iodine-deficient area, iodine deficiency was found to be present in more than half of breastfeeding women; in contrast, the majority of their newborns had iodine excess, mostly due to neonatal exposure to iodine-containing disinfectants. A 2014 meta-analysis found that iodine supplementation \"improves some maternal thyroid indices and may benefit aspects of cognitive function in school-age children, even in marginally iodine-deficient areas.\"\n\nIn areas where there is little iodine in the diet, typically remote inland areas and semi-arid equatorial climates where no marine foods are eaten, iodine deficiency gives rise to hypothyroidism, symptoms of which are extreme fatigue, goiter, mental slowing, depression, weight gain, and low basal body temperatures.\n\nIodine deficiency is the leading cause of preventable mental retardation, a result which occurs primarily when babies or small children are rendered hypothyroidic by a lack of the element. The addition of iodine to table salt has largely eliminated this problem in the wealthier nations, but as of March 2006, iodine deficiency remained a serious public health problem in the developing world.\n\nIodine deficiency is also a problem in certain areas of Europe. In Germany it has been estimated to cause a billion dollars in health care costs per year. A modelling analysis suggests universal iodine supplementation for pregnant women in England may save £199 (2013 UK pounds) to the health service per pregnant woman and save £4476 per pregnant woman in societal costs.\n\nIodine deficiency was previously a common disease in Norway, because the content of iodine in the drinking water was low. Before 1950 goiter was a widespread disease caused by iodine deficiency. Up to 80 per cent of the population were affected in inland areas. In the coastal communities, saltwater fish were an important part of the diet, and because of the presence of iodine in seawater, goiter was less common than in the inland districts. From the 1950s, Norwegians started adding iodine to dairy cow feed. Since milk was an essential part of the Norwegian diet, the incidence of goiter decreased in the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025030", "title": "Philip of Poitou", "text": "Philip of Poitou\n\nPhilip of Poitou (sometimes Philip of Poitiers; died 22 April 1208) was Bishop of Durham from 1197 to 1208, and prior to this Archdeacon of Canterbury.\n\nPhilip's origins and early life are unknown, although it is believed he may have had a university education. The first records of him are in 1191, when he was accompanying Richard I on the Third Crusade, in documents relating to Richard's marriage on Cyprus. Philip was with Richard's party when the king was captured in Germany. He was appointed Archdeacon of Canterbury prior to March 1194 by Richard I, having previously a royal clerk. An attempt was made to appoint him as Dean of York, but political factors prevented this.\n\nPhilip was appointed as Bishop of Durham in November 1195. He was formally elected by the chapter in January 1196. The pope confirmed the election on 13 April 1196 and he was ordained a priest on 15 June 1196. On 20 April 1197 he was finally consecrated as bishop, by the pope in Rome. Prior to his consecration, he obtained a licence to operate a mint in Durham, and installed his nephew Aimeric (or Aimery) as the Archdeacon of both Durham and Carlisle.\n\nPhilip, along with Wiliam de Rupierre, Bishop of Lisieux, went to Rome in the early part of 1197 to argue before Pope Celestine III about contested lands in France. It was in the course of this successful negotiation that the pope consecrated him as bishop. In 1198 Philip was sent to Germany to attend the election of a successor to Emperor Henry VI.\n\nPhilip was present at the coronation of King John in 1199, and attempted to protest the fact that the coronation took place without the Archbishop of York. After the coronation he was employed by John on diplomacy with Scotland. In 1201 he went on pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela. After his return, he was involved in the resolution of the dower rights of Richard's queen, Berengaria of Navarre, but afterwards was not at the king's court for almost three years.\n\nIn 1207, Philip quarrelled with King John over the right of John to tax tenants of the Church. Philip denied that John had such a right, but, along with Archbishop Geoffrey of York, had his lands confiscated. Both Geoffrey and Philip went to the court of the king, and begged to be forgiven. Philip had to pay a fine for forgiveness.\n\nAs bishop, Philip quarreled with the monks of his church over the right of the bishop to name clergy to serve churches. At one point, the monks were besieged in the cathedral, and the prior of the monks was excommunicated. Some sources blame the bishop's nephew Aimeric for fanning the flames of the quarrel, but Philip also violently disputed the monks' side. Eventually a settlement was reached.\n\nPhilip died on 22 April 1208. It is said the monks refused him a Christian burial, his body ending up in an obscure grave with no religious ceremony. However, his gravestone is recorded in the chapter-house.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025041", "title": "Mehrabad International Airport", "text": "Mehrabad International Airport\n\nMehrabad International Airport () , is an international airport serving Tehran, the capital city of Iran. Until 2007 and before construction of Tehran’s larger new airport, Mehrabad was Tehran's primary airport in both international and domestic traffic, but after 2007 International flights transferred to Imam Khomeini International Airport. All International flights in Tehran are currently served by Imam Khomeini International Airport and all domestic flights are served by this airport.\nAlthough only domestic flights are served by this airport, in 2016 Mehrabad Airport handled 16,678,351 passengers and was the busiest airport in Iran in terms of passengers. The airport is also used by the Government of Iran and is one of the bases of the Iranian Air Force.\n\nThe airport was used for the first time as an airfield for aviation club planes in 1938, then after World War II along with becoming internationally recognized by joining Iran civil aviation organization to the ICAO in 1949, the airport also became an air force base.\n\nNewly delivered Republic F-84G Thunderjets (fighter) and Lockheed T-33A Shooting Star (trainer) arrived, May 1957 and April 1956, respectively. Iranian Air Force. In 1955 just after construction of first asphalt paved runway a new terminal building (Current Terminal 1) for both international and domestic flights was designed and constructed. Among the designers of the initial modern buildings of the airport was the famous architect William Pereira.\n\nThe new Tehran Imam Khomeini International Airport (IKA) was scheduled to open in 2004 with international flights gradually changing from Mehrabad starting with flights to countries bordering the Persian Gulf. After IKA's initial opening in May 2004, due to complications, it was not until the end of 2007 that the plan to move the majority of international flights to the new airport was completed. All international flights have now been moved to IKA.\n\nMehrabad International Airport consists of six terminals:\n\n\nAn aircraft engineering and maintenance company Fajr Ashian, has a maintenance hangar adjacent to main airport premises. The hangar is linked to Mehrabad Airport through a taxiway crossing \"Tehran-Karaj\" Highway. Fajr Ashian takes care of Aircraft of many companies e.g. Iran Air, Mahan Air, Meraj Airlines.\n\nThe airport is home to the head offices of Iran Air and the Iran Civil Aviation Organization. In addition the Iranian Airports Holding Company also has its head office at Mehrabad Airport, nearby Terminal 2.\n\n\nThe airport is served by two stations of the Tehran Metro:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025047", "title": "Aplacophora", "text": "Aplacophora\n\nAplacophora is a monophyletic group of small, deep-water, exclusively benthic, marine molluscs found in all oceans of the world. All known modern forms are shell-less: only some extinct primitive forms possessed valves. The group comprises the two clades Solenogastres (Neomeniomorpha) and Caudofoveata (Chaetodermomorpha), which between them contain 28 families and about 320 species. The aplacophorans are traditionally considered ancestral to the other mollusc classes. However, the relationship between the two aplacophoran groups and to the other molluscan classes and to each other is as yet unclear.\n\nAplacophorans are cylindrical and worm-like in form, and most very small, being no longer than ; some species, however, can reach a length of .\n\nCaudofoveates generally burrow into the substrate while solenogasters are usually epibenthic. Both taxa are most common in water regions deeper than where some species may reach densities up to four or five specimens per square metre (three or four per square yard). Solenogasters are typically carnivores feeding on cnidarians or sometimes annelids or other taxa while caudofoveates are mostly detritovores or feed on foraminiferans.\n\nAplacophorans are worm-like animals, with little resemblance to most other molluscs. They have no shell, although small calcified spicules are embedded in the skin; these spicules are occasionally coated with an organic pellicle that is presumably secreted by microvilli. Caudofoveates lack a foot while solenogasters have a narrow foot which lacks intrinsic musculature. The mantle cavity is reduced into a simple cloaca, into which the anus and excretory organs empty, and is located at the posterior of the animal. The head is rudimentary, and has no eyes or tentacles. The cuticle of both subclasses is chitinous, and has an irregular texture. Spines bear an organic matrix. Sclerites can be hollow or solid; the void within the sclerites of some species fills during growth. Sclerites generally form within the cuticle, protruding through when they are fully grown. They probably start life as amorphous calcium carbonate, which the organic matrix coaxes into an aragonitic habit as the spines mature. Sclerites can be shaped as simple spines, straight, curved, keeled, striated or hooked; or as cupped blades; more complex arrangements are common in copulatory spicules. In several species of solenogaster, sclerites change morphology during growth; young specimens might bear flat, solid, scale-like sclerites, to be replaced with longer hollow spine-like sclerites in adults.\n\nThe relationship with other molluscs, however, is apparent from some features of the digestive system; aplacophorans possess both a radula and a style. A variety of radular forms and functions exist. Solenogasters are hermaphroditic, but caudofoveates have two sexes, and reproduce by external fertilization. During development, the mantle cavity of the larva curls up and closes, creating the worm-like form of the adult.\n\nThis class was once classified as sea cucumbers in the echinoderms. In 1987, they were officially recognized as molluscs and given their own class. It consists of two clades: the Solenogastres and the Caudofoveata. It has been considered polyphyletic but more recent molecular evidence supports it as a monophyletic clade.\n\nThe affinities of Aplacophorans have long been uncertain. Molecular and fossil evidence seemed to put Aplacophorans in the clade Aculifera, as a sister group to Polyplacophora. The discovery of \"Kulindroplax\" in 2012, a fossil aplacophoran with a polyplacophoran-like armour, strongly supports this hypothesis, and shows that aplacophorans evolved from progenitors that bore valves.\n"}
{"id": "2025048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025048", "title": "Tanaro", "text": "Tanaro\n\nThe Tanaro (), known as Tanarus in ancient times and \"Tane\" or \"Tani\" in piedmontese language, is a long river in northwestern Italy. The river begins in the Ligurian Alps, near the border with France, and is the most significant right-side tributary to the Po in terms of length, size of drainage basin (partly Alpine, partly Apennine), and discharge.\n\nThe Tanaro proper begins in Liguria at the confluence of two small streams, the sources of which are in Piedmont: the Tanarello and the Negrone.\n\nThe main source of the Tanarello is on the slopes of Monte Saccarello above Monesi, a village belonging to the commune of Triora. This mountain straddles the French département of Alpes-Maritimes, the Piedmontese province of Cuneo and the Ligurian province of Imperia and marks the juncture of the watersheds between three drainage basins: that of the Tanaro itself; that of the Roya , which rises in France but enters the sea at Ventimiglia; and the Argentina, which flows into the Ligurian Sea at Taggia.\n\nThe sources of the Negrone are some to the north, south of Punta Marguareis and very close to the French border.\n\nThe Tanaro flows past the towns Ceva, Alba, Asti, and Alessandria before entering the Po near Bassignana in the Province of Alessandria. At its confluence with Po, it is longer by about than the upper Po, a case similar to the famous Missouri tributary being longer than Mississippi in the United States.\n\nThe main tributaries to the Tanaro are the Stura di Demonte, the Pesio, the Ellero and the Borbore from the left and the Bormida and the Belbo from the right.\n\nThe flow is subject to a great deal of seasonal variation. Although the river has an Alpine origin, which is unique among the Po’s right-side tributaries, the Ligurian Alps are of an insufficient elevation and too close to the sea to allow for the formation of snow fields or glaciers large enough to provide a steady source of water during the summer. Furthermore, the Alpine zone forms only a part of the basin drained by the Tanaro. The seasonal regime of the river is therefore more typical of an Apennine stream, with a maximum discharge that can reach , in spring and autumn and a very low rate of flow in the summer.\n\nThe river is highly prone to flooding. During the two hundred-year period between 1801 and 2001, sections of the Tanaro basin were affected by floods on 136 occasions, the most devastating being those in November 1994, when the whole of the river valley was affected by severe flooding, especially the town of Alessandria.\n\nThe left bank of the Tanaro River near Asti is the scene of the Battle of Pollentia on April 6, 402.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025050", "title": "Electoral division of Nightcliff", "text": "Electoral division of Nightcliff\n\nNightcliff is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was first created in 1974, and takes its name from the suburb of the same name. Nightcliff is one of the smallest electorates in the Territory, covering only 3.37 km² and taking in the Darwin suburb of Nightcliff, most of Rapid Creek and a small area of Coconut Grove. There were 5,341 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2016.\n\nNightcliff has tended to be somewhat marginal, with incumbent members generally holding the seat for several years. The seat's first member, independent Dawn Lawrie, was one of only two non-Country Liberal Party members in the first parliament. Upon her retirement in 1983, it was taken by the CLP's Stephen Hatton, who later went on to become Chief Minister of the Territory. Hatton retired in 2001, and while Nightcliff was not a particularly safe CLP seat, it was widely expected that Hatton's son Jason would succeed him. However, he was unexpectedly defeated by Labor Party candidate Jane Aagaard on a large swing that, after preferences, made Nightcliff technically a safe Labor seat. Her victory was part of a Labor sweep of north Darwin that enabled the party to win government for the first time.\n\nAagaard served a controversial stint as Health Minister and was ultimately axed from the ministry altogether, which led some commentators to suggest that she was in danger of losing her seat at the 2005 election. Despite this, she had very little difficulty holding the seat amid the massive Labor wave that swept through the Territory; after preferences she actually picked up a healthy swing of 8.5 percent, with almost double the votes of the CLP challenger.\n\nAagaard retired in 2012, and despite a swing against Labor at that year's election, the seat was held for the party by winning candidate Natasha Fyles. Labor's massive landslide at the 2016 election saw Fyles consolidate her hold on the seat; she now sits on a majority of 26.9 percent, making Nightcliff the safest seat in the Territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025052", "title": "NWA World Tag Team Championship (Minneapolis version)", "text": "NWA World Tag Team Championship (Minneapolis version)\n\nFrom January 8, 1957, through August 1960 the NWA Minneapolis Wrestling and Boxing Club promoted the Minneapolis version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship as the main professional wrestling championship for tag teams on their shows held in and around Minneapolis. The Minneapolis Wrestling and Boxing Club was a member of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) from its formation in 1948, but left the group in 1960 to help form the American Wrestling Association (AWA). The NWA Board of Directors allowed each member, referred to as a NWA territory, to create and control its own individual \"NWA World Tag Team Championship\" to be defended within its territory. At one point in 1957, no less than 13 different versions of the NWA World Tag Team Championship were recognized across the United States. As with all professional wrestling championships, this championship was not contested for in competitive matches, but in matches with predetermined outcomes to maintain the illusion that professional wrestling is a competitive sport.\n\nRecords indicate that brothers Al and Tiny Mills were recognized as NWA World Tag Team Champions in Minnesota in June 1953, as they lost the championship to Tony Baillargeon and Pat O'Connor on June 20, 1953. The records did not indicate how the Mills brothers won the championship, nor is it clear what happened after Baillargeon and O'Connor won the championship. Records of an active NWA World Tag Team Championship in the Minneapolis area do not indicate new champions until January 8, 1957, when The Kalmikoffs (Ivan and Karol Kalmikoff) defeated Fritz Von Erich and Karl Von Schober in the finals of a tournament to win the championship. In 1960 the Minneapolis promotion left the NWA to found the AWA, which meant that the last holders of the NWA championship, Murder Inc. (Stan Kowalski and Tiny Mills), became the first AWA World Tag Team Champions as all NWA-branded championships were abandoned.\n\nThe Kalmikoffs held the championship a total of four times, the record both for teams and for Ivan and Karol Kalmikoffs as individuals. Verne Gagne shares the record of four championship reigns, with three different partners: Leo Nomellini, Bronco Nagurski, and Butch Levy. Due to lack of details surrounding various championship changes, it is uncertain which team had the shortest reign; Herb and Seymore Freeman's reign of seven days is the shortest confirmed reign, but the possibility exists that another team had a shorter reign. The last reign was also the longest reign, as Murder Inc. held the championship for 193 days before being awarded the AWA World Tag Team Championship.\n\nKey\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "2025055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025055", "title": "Quartet on the Middle East", "text": "Quartet on the Middle East\n\nThe Quartet on the Middle East or Middle East Quartet, sometimes called the Diplomatic Quartet or Madrid Quartet or simply the Quartet, is a foursome of nations and international and supranational entities involved in mediating the Israeli–Palestinian peace process. The Quartet comprises the United Nations, the United States, the European Union, and Russia. The group was established in Madrid in 2002, recalling Madrid Conference of 1991, as a result of the escalating conflict in the Middle East. \n\nIn 2002, the Quartet established the Office of the Quartet in East Jerusalem to take \"tangible steps on the ground to advance the Palestinian economy and preserve the possibility of a two state solution.\" Kito de Boer was the head of the Office from January 2015 to June 2017, assuming the position after the resignation of Tony Blair. The objective of the head of the Office is to promote the Quartet’s strategy on Palestinian economic and institutional empowerment, including matters concerning rule of law and economic development, as well as movement and access.\n\nThe initiative to establish the Quartet evolved following the outbreak of the Second Intifada in September 2000 and the futile cease-fire attempts that followed. On October 25, 2001, representatives of the EU, UN and the US and Russian governments met Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and jointly expressed support for his policy of implementing cease-fire and security reforms in the Palestinian Authority. During the Israeli incursions into Palestinian areas in April 2002, the representatives of the same four entities met in Madrid and again called for implementation of cease-fire agreements brokered by the US government before. In the same meeting, they also agreed to transform their quadripartite cooperation into a permanent forum for follow-up of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.\n\nJames Wolfensohn, the former president of the World Bank, was appointed Special Envoy for Israel's disengagement from Gaza in April 2005. He stepped down the following year because of restrictions in dealing with the Islamic militant group Hamas and the withholding of money from the Palestinian Authority, risking its collapse.\n\nTony Blair announced that he had accepted the position of the official envoy of the Quartet, the same day he resigned as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and as a Member of Parliament on 27 June 2007. The approval came after initial objections by Russia. The United Nations were overseeing the finances and security of his mission, before his resignation on 27 May 2015.\n\nThe special envoy from November 2015 to January 2017 was the Dutch national Kito de Boer.\n\nTony Blair periodically travelled to the Middle East following his appointment as Special Envoy. On a trip there in March 2008, he met with Israeli leaders to discuss recent violence. A planned meeting between Israeli and Palestinian businessmen was postponed due to recent fighting. In May 2008 Blair announced a new plan for peace and for Palestinian rights, based heavily on the ideas of the Peace Valley plan.\n\nIn an August 2009 interview, Blair said that he would like to see Hamas and Hezbollah included in peace talks but under the right conditions, that religious leaders should be more involved in the peace process, and that resolving the conflict could be easier than it was in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn a speech given in Israel on August 24, 2010, Blair sharply criticised the campaign of \"delegitimization\" being carried out by enemies of Israel and proponents of the Palestinians, which refuses to grant Israel its legitimate right to its own point of view and self-defense. \"Don't apply rules to the Government of Israel that you would never dream of applying to your own country,\" he said. He characterized such double standards and prejudice as being an \"affront to humanity\" which \"it is a democratic duty to counter.\"\n\n\nDespite the significance officially attached to the Quartet's part in promoting the peace process, many of its statements are merely repetition of previous statements and no significant changes in policy by either the Israeli government or the Palestinian Authority have occurred resulting from a Quartet meeting.\n\nThe Quartet has been fiercely criticized for its ineffectiveness. When Tony Blair held the function of Quartet representative, in December 2012, Palestinian officials said that \"Tony Blair shouldn't take it personally, but he should pack up his desk at the Office of the Quartet Representative in Jerusalem and go home. They said his job, and the body he represents, are ′useless, useless, useless′\".\n\nThe Center for Middle East Policy said in February 2012 that \"The Quartet has little to show for its decade-long involvement in the peace process. ... Having spent most of the last three years in a state of near paralysis, and having failed to dissuade the Palestinians from seeking UN membership and recognition in September 2011, the Quartet has finally reached the limits of its utility. ... The current mechanism is too outdated, dysfunctional, and discredited to be reformed. Instead of undertaking another vain attempt to 'reactivate' the Quartet, the United States, the European Union, United Nations, and Russia should simply allow the existing mechanism to go quietly into the night,\".\n\nThe Quartet's meetings have been held on the following dates:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025059", "title": "Josef Ladislav Píč", "text": "Josef Ladislav Píč\n\nJosef Ladislav Píč (January 19, 1847 in Mšeno near Mělník – December 19, 1911 in Prague) was Czech archaeologist and paleontologist, one of founders of modern Czech archaeology.\n\nPíč studied history and Slavic languages at the Charles University in Prague (then called \"Karl-Ferdinand University\"). In 1883, he became docent of history at the university. Since 1893, he was named custodian and later director of archeologic collection at the National Museum (then named \"České museum\") in Prague. Píč created and maintained collection prehistoric artefacts. His major literary work was \"Starožitnosti země české\" (1899–1909), in three parts, about ancient history of Czech lands.\n\nExhaustion, conflicts with colleagues about his work and involvement in fights over validity of \"Rukopis královédvorský a zelenohorský\" drove him to suicide.\n"}
{"id": "2025062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025062", "title": "Crocodylus", "text": "Crocodylus\n\nCrocodylus is a genus in the family Crocodylidae. The scientific name was proposed by Josephus Nicolaus Laurenti in 1768.\n\nThe 13-14 living species are:\n\nEstablished species also include six extinct species:\n\nThe cladogram below follows the topology from a 2011 analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences by Robert W. Meredith, Evon R. Hekkala, George Amato and John Gatesy.\n\nThe cladogram below follows the topology from a 2012 analysis of morphological traits by Christopher A. Brochu and Glenn W. Storrs. Many extinct species of \"Crocodylus\" might represent different genera. \"C. suchus\" was not included, because its morphological codings were identical to these of \"C. niloticus\". However, the authors suggested that it could be explained by their specimen sampling, and considered the two species to be distinct.\n\n\"Crocodylus\" species originated from an ancestor in the Indo-Pacific region between and . They radiated into Africa between and . This was followed between to by a trans-Atlantic migration to the Americas.\n"}
{"id": "2025065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025065", "title": "Karun Airlines", "text": "Karun Airlines\n\nKarun Airlines (formerly Iranian Naft Airlines), is an airline based in Ahvaz, Iran. It operates cargo and passenger scheduled and charter services within Iran and to neighbouring regions. Its main bases are Tehran-Mehrabad and Ahwaz International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1992. In 2004 it officially became known as \"Iranian Naft Airline\". Owned and operated by the Retirement Organization of National Iranian Oil Company, it has more than 600 employees.\n\nIn September 2017, it was announced that the airline was to be renamed as Karun Airlines.\n\nThe Karun Airlines fleet consists of the following aircraft as of August 2019:\n\nThe airline previously operated the following aircraft:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025079", "title": "Jack Greenberg", "text": "Jack Greenberg\n\nJack Greenberg (December 22, 1924 – October 12, 2016) was an American attorney and legal scholar. He was the Director-Counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund from 1961 to 1984, succeeding Thurgood Marshall.\n\nHe was involved in numerous crucial cases, including \"Brown v. Board of Education\", which ended segregation in public schools. In all, he argued 40 civil rights cases before the U.S. Supreme Court, and won almost all of them.\n\nHe was Alphonse Fletcher Jr. Professor of Law Emeritus at Columbia Law School, and had previously served as dean of Columbia College and vice dean of Columbia Law School. He died on October 12, 2016.\n\nGreenberg was born into a Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York on December 22, 1924.\n\nDuring World War II, Greenberg served in the United States Navy and fought at Okinawa and Iwo Jima. Greenberg commanded a landing craft in the invasion of Iheya Shima, one of the final campaigns of the war. During his service, he was disturbed by racial prejudice he perceived in the Navy, and was threatened with a court martial for shouting at a superior officer in defense of a black crewman that he felt was being mistreated.\n\nAfter an interruption due to his war service Greenberg graduated from Columbia College with a B.A. in 1945. He further received an LL.B. from Columbia Law School in 1948, and an LL.D. from Columbia Law in 1984.\n\nGreenberg became the only white legal counselor for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund (\"LDF\") in 1949, and, in 1961, succeeded Thurgood Marshall as LDF's Director-Counsel.\n\nGreenberg recalled his earliest arguments before the Supreme Court, saying: \n\nIt was like a religious experience; the first few times I was there I was full of awe. I had an almost tactile feeling. The first time I was in the Court, I wasn't arguing. I felt as if I were in a synagogue, and reached to see whether or not I had a yarmulke on. I thought I ought to have one on.\n\nIn perhaps his greatest stride, Greenberg argued \"Brown v. Board of Education\" in 1954 before the Supreme Court as co-counsel with Thurgood Marshall. \"Brown\" declared state laws establishing separate public schools for black and white students to be unconstitutional. In \"Brown\", Greenberg found social scientists and other authorities from the fields of psychology and sociology who addressed the detrimental effects forced segregation could have on young public school students.\n\nIn 1962, Greenberg argued \"Meredith v. Fair\", a case which became a first step in integrating the University of Mississippi by allowing the enrollment of student James Meredith.\n\nOther civil rights cases Greenberg argued include \"Alexander v. Holmes County Board of Education\" in 1969, which ordered the end of segregated school systems \"at once\", and \"Griggs v. Duke Power Company\" in 1971, which outlawed basing employment and promotion decisions on the results of tests with a discriminatory impact.\n\nIn 1972, he argued \"Furman v. Georgia\" (1972), in which the Court held that the death penalty as it was then applied was a violation of the \"cruel and unusual punishment\" clause of the Eighth Amendment.\n\nGreenberg was a founding member of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund (MALDEF) and of Human Rights Watch.\n\nGreenberg was an adjunct professor at Columbia Law School from 1970–84, a visiting lecturer at Yale Law School in 1971, and a visiting professor at College of the City of New York in 1977.\n\nIn 1982, he was appointed to co-teach Julius L. Chambers' class on race law at Harvard Law School. The university declined to replace Greenberg with a black professor, so black students boycotted the class. When asked if he was frightened to pass through a group of protesters on his way to class the first day, Greenberg said, \"No, I was on the beach at Iwo Jima.\"\n\nGreenberg left LDF in 1984 to become a professor and Vice Dean at Columbia Law School. He served as Dean of Columbia College from 1989 to 1993. Greenberg's teaching interests include constitutional law, civil rights, and human rights law, civil procedure, \"Kafka and the Law\", and South Africa's post-apartheid constitution. As of fall 2013, Greenberg still taught at Columbia Law School, and served as a senior director of LDF.\n\nHe was also a distinguished visiting professor at University of Tokyo Faculty of Law in 1993-94 and at St. Louis University Law School in 1994, and a visiting professor at Lewis and Clark Law School in 1994 and 1996, at Princeton University in 1995, at the University of Munich in 1998, at Tokyo University in 1996 and 1998, at the University of Nuremberg-Erlangen in 1999-2000, and at Hebrew University in 2005.\n\nGreenberg had varied intellectual interests: aside from several books on law and civil rights, including \"Crusaders in the Courts,\" he has written a cookbook (\"Dean Cuisine\", with Harvard Law School Dean James Vorenberg), and appeared as a panelist for a \"New York Times\" tasting of Oregon pinot noir. He also edited \"\" (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2008) with two other scholars.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025085", "title": "Elyse Sewell", "text": "Elyse Sewell\n\nElyse Marie Sewell (born June 10, 1982) is an American fashion model. She is best known for her appearance as a contestant in the first cycle of the reality television series \"America's Next Top Model\".\n\nShe was named one of \"Wired\" Magazine's 2005's 10 Sexiest Geeks.\n\nSewell was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She obtained a Bachelor of Arts in Spanish and a Bachelor of Science in Biology from the University of New Mexico. She also worked as a research assistant in an evolutionary biology lab.\n\nSewell's start in modeling came with her appearance on the first cycle of \"America's Next Top Model\". She was known on the show as the \"edgy pre-med student\". She placed third, after Adrianne Curry and Shannon Stewart.\n\nIn 2005, one of her \"confessional\" clips from the show, in which she expressed a profanity-laden rant against the people on the show, earned her 16th place on \"E!'s Most Outrageous TV Moments\". She attributes this outburst to the unusual requirement on the show to voice one's private thoughts and to soliloquize in a \"confessional booth\".\n\nWhile on the show, she said that she would be going to medical school if she did not win the competition.\n\nAlthough Sewell did not win the competition, she carved out a successful modeling career in East Asia, working mainly in Hong Kong. Sewell has appeared in print advertisements for Chanel and Chow Sang Sang Jewelry, and appeared on the cover of \"Harper's Bazaar Hong Kong\" and in editorials for Hong Kong \"Esquire\" and \"Cosmopolitan\". Despite Tyra Banks' hope that Sewell would come to see that modeling was not as easy as it was often made out to be, Sewell continued to insist that it was the \"easiest job in the world\".\n\nIn 2004, Sewell started a LiveJournal blog about her experiences of modeling overseas. She published a book called \"Beauty and The Biz: The International Adventures of America's Third-to-Next Top Model\", in Hong Kong in 2006 based in part on her (now abandoned) blog. She appeared at multiple book signings across Hong Kong. Her other writing credits include a satirical piece for \"Bust Magazine\" on how to be a reality TV star, as well as posts for the website Lemondrop.\n\nIn a June 5, 2009 blog entry, Sewell wrote that she was leaving Hong Kong and returning to her hometown of Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025088", "title": "Fraxinus pennsylvanica", "text": "Fraxinus pennsylvanica\n\nFraxinus pennsylvanica, the green ash or red ash, is a species of ash native to eastern and central North America, from Nova Scotia west to southeastern Alberta and eastern Colorado, south to northern Florida, and southwest to Oklahoma and eastern Texas. It has spread and become naturalized in much of the western United States and also in Europe from Spain to Russia.\n\nOther names more rarely used include downy ash, swamp ash and water ash.\n\n\"Fraxinus pennsylvanica\" is a medium-sized deciduous tree reaching (rarely to ) tall with a trunk up to in diameter. The bark is smooth and gray on young trees, becoming thick and fissured with age. The winter buds are reddish-brown, with a velvety texture. The leaves are long, pinnately compound with seven to nine (occasionally five or eleven) leaflets, these (rarely ) long and broad, with serrated margins and short but distinct, downy petiolules a few millimeters long. They are green both above and below. The autumn color is golden-yellow and depending on the climate, Green Ash's leaves may begin changing color the first week of September. The flowers are produced in spring at the same time as the new leaves, in compact panicles; they are inconspicuous with no petals, and are wind-pollinated. The fruit is a samara long comprising a single seed long with an elongated apical wing long and broad.\n\nIt is sometimes divided into two varieties, \"Fraxinus pennsylvanica\" var. \"pennsylvanica\" (red ash) and \"Fraxinus pennsylvanica\" var. \"lanceolata\" (Borkh.) Sarg. (syn. var. \"subintegerrima\" (Vahl) Fern.; green ash) on the basis of the hairless leaves with narrower leaflets of the latter, but the two intergrade completely, and the distinction is no longer upheld by most botanists.\n\nIt is the most widely distributed of all the American ashes, although its range centers on the midwestern U.S. and Great Plains. The natural habitat of green ash is almost exclusively stream sides and bottomlands. The large seed crops provide food to many kinds of wildlife.\n\nGreen ash is threatened by the emerald ash borer, a beetle introduced accidentally from Asia. Asian ashes have a high tannin content in their leaves which makes them unpalatable to the beetle, while most American species (with the notable exception of blue ash) do not. A common garden experiment showed that green ash is killed readily when exposed to emerald ash borer, while the Asian species \"F. mandschurica\" shows resistance against emerald ash borer. The United States Forest Service has discovered small numbers of green ash in the wild that have remained healthy after emerald ash borer swept through the population. The possibility of these trees possessing genetic resistance to the beetle is currently being investigated with the hope that green ash could be restored using the surviving trees.\nThe spread of emerald ash borer was facilitated by the extensive use of green ash as an ornamental tree in the central U.S. following the loss of American elms in the 1950s–60s due to Dutch elm disease. That epidemic was the result of a similar overuse of elms in urban environments, leading to a monoculture that lacked any disease or pest resistance. Scientifically for green ash this is because modern cultivars utilized regionally were parented from sometimes only four individual trees selected for unique traits and male seedless flowering. Proclaiming a harsh lesson learned, cities like Chicago did not replace dead elms with a 1:1 ash:elm ratio. Instead, Norway, silver, red and sugar maples, honey locust, linden/basswood, redbud, crabapples, and hackberry, among others, were also utilized during this recovery period and in new urban and suburban areas. Fortunately, with these additional species, many cities were able to reduce the percent of ash and other species to much lower levels (20% average) than during the Dutch elm disease era where from 56% to 100% of the trees were elm.\n\nInjections and spraying of ashes with pesticides has been used in city parks to protect valued trees from emerald ash borer.\n\nRecord cold temperatures during the winter of 2018–19 are estimated to have killed as much as 80% of ash borer larva in the Upper Midwest.\n\nBoth American elm and green ash were extremely popular due to rapid growth and tolerance of urban pollution and road salt, so many housing developments in Michigan were lined from end to end with ashes, a result of which the beetles had an enormous food supply to boost their population well above Infestation thresholds. The tree was also extensively propagated and sold by local nurseries. According to the American Nursery Industry, \"Back in the late 1980s, Dr. Frank Santamour Jr., then a research geneticist with the U.S. National Arboretum, proposed the 10-20-30 formula for diversity in the urban forest, limiting the plantings in a community to no more than 10 percent within a single species, 20 percent within a genus and 30 percent within a family.\" Many communities are using a more strict 5-10-20 rule today, because of the threat posed by emerald ash borer.\n\nThe emerald ash borer proved to be a far worse and potentially more serious threat than epidemics of the past such as chestnut blight and Dutch elm disease because those diseases spread at a slower rate, only affected one species, and did not kill the trees before they could attain reproductive maturity. Many areas have banned the sale of ash seedlings in nurseries, although seeds may be sold as they are not a vector for the insect.\n\nGreen ash is also vulnerable to many other diseases including ash yellows and dieback that can cause gradual loss of vigor and exhibit similar symptoms to emerald ash borer infestation such as crown dieback, bark cracking, and epicormal sprouts. These conditions are most common on stressed trees in areas of poor soil, urban pollution, and lack of moisture. A wave of ash dieback struck the northeastern United States in the 1950s–60s that killed an estimated 70% of ashes in the region.\n\nGreen ash is one of the most widely planted ornamental trees throughout the United States and much of Canada but mostly Alberta, including in western areas where it is not native. It is also widely planted in Argentina. It is very popular due to its good form and resistance to disease. About 40% of boulevard trees in Edmonton, Alberta are green ash.\n\nFor the last two centuries American elm and ash, which both belong to the ancient Elm-Ash-Cottonwood Bottomland ecosystem, achieved distinction as North America's two most popularly planted urban species, used primarily for their superior survival traits and slowly maturing 180–300 year majestic natural beauty. Today used as living national monuments, the National Park Service is protecting Thomas Jefferson's 200-year-old planted example, and George Washington's 250-year-old white ash which has a 600-year possible lifespan. Green ash had been widely used as a primary ornamental and long lived monument tree until the elm fad of the 1880s, and regained top position once again after Dutch elm disease arrived.\n\nOther continents learned of American ash species' urban survivability and unique beauty through the worldwide popularity of Midwestern Prairie style ecology and architectural movement. Modernizing cities in Russia and China then began using imported green ash a century ago to line streets and landscape new public parks.Advantages of green ash include its tolerance of harsh urban environmental conditions, ease of propagation, and (in eastern North America) its value for wildlife as a native keystone species.\n\nNorth American native ash tree species are used by North American frogs as a critical food source, as the leaves that fall from the trees are particularly suitable for tadpoles to feed upon in ponds (both temporary and permanent), large puddles, and other water sources. Species such as red maple, which are taking the place of ash due to the ash borer, are much less suitable for the frogs as a food source — resulting in poor frog survival rates and small frog sizes. It is the lack of tannins in the American ash varieties that makes them good for the frogs as a food source and also not resistant to the ash borer. Varieties of ash from outside North America typically have much higher tannin levels and resist the borer. Maples and various non-native invasive trees, trees that are taking the place of American ash species in the North American ecosystem, typically have much higher leaf tannin levels. Ash species native to North America also provide important habit and food for various other creatures that are native to North America.\n\nGreen ash wood is similar in properties to white ash wood, and is marketed together as \"white ash\". The commercial supply is mostly in the South. It is very popular, used in making electric guitars because it can be somewhat lighter than white ash without sacrificing too much in tone. It has a bright sound with long sustain, plus the wood grain is aesthetically desirable to many guitar players. Gibson, Fender, Ibanez, Warwick, and many other luthiers use ash in the construction of their guitars.\n"}
{"id": "2025100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025100", "title": "Sill (river)", "text": "Sill (river)\n\nThe Sill is a river in Tyrol, Austria. It is one of the larger tributaries of the Inn in Tyrol. It flows north through the Wipptal to Innsbruck. Its source lies east of the Brenner Pass. At the - the name of the point where it meets the Inn at Innsbruck - there is a recreation area with cycling trails.\n\nThe Viggarbach merges with it in Schönberg im Stubaital.\n\nThe natural river basin is ; are covered by glacier ice.\n\nThe water power generated by the river flow is used for three power plants.\n\nWaterfalls on the river include the Sill Fall, which has a height of abourt , and from where water is taken out for urban use. In the fall basin, fishes such as trouts can be found. The Bretterkeller waterfall is located at the bottom of the in Innsbruck.\n\nThe Sill features prominently in the stories and by the Austrian writer Thomas Bernhard.\n"}
{"id": "2025103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025103", "title": "Erik Prosperin", "text": "Erik Prosperin\n\nErik Prosperin (25 July 1739 – 4 April 1803) was a Swedish astronomer.\n\nProsperin was a lecturer in mathematics and physics at Uppsala University in 1767, professor of observational astronomy (Observator) in 1773 – 1796, and professor of Astronomy in 1797 – 1798. He became a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (KVA) in Stockholm in 1771 and a member of the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala in 1774 (secretary from 1786 onwards).\n\nProsperin was a famous calculator of orbits: comets, planets, and their satellites. He calculated the orbits of the new (discovered in 1781) planet Uranus — for which he proposed the names \"Astraea\", \"Cybele\", and \"Neptune\" — and its satellites. He was also one of the first to calculate the orbit of the first asteroid, 1 Ceres, in 1801.\n\nProsperin calculated orbits for a total of 84 comets, especially Comet Messier (C/1769 P1), Comet Lexell (D/1770 L1), the Great Comet of 1771 (C/1771 A1, 1770 II), Comet Montaigne (C/1774 P1), Comet Bode (C/1779 A1), and Comet Encke (2P/1795 V1).\n\nThe asteroid 7292 Prosperin was named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025104", "title": "Michael Donnellan (politician)", "text": "Michael Donnellan (politician)\n\nMichael Donnellan (1900 – 27 September 1964) was an Irish Clann na Talmhan politician. \n\nMichael Donnellan was born in Dunmore, County Galway in 1900. He joined Sinn Féin after the Easter Rising in 1916. Donnellan served as a member of Galway County Council from 1927 until 1945, originally as a member of Fianna Fáil.\n\nDonnellan became disenchanted with the party in the mid-1930s, as did many supporters in the province of Connacht. He became involved in talks with a number of farmers in order to create a new Farmers' Party. The original group was known as the Irish Farmers Federation, however, it split shortly afterwards between the larger more conservative farmers and poorer more radical farmers from the West over the issue of de-rating. Donnellan led the radical faction, which founded Clann na Talmhan in 1939. In 1940 a by-election was called in the Galway East constituency and his supporters persuaded him to stand. Fine Gael stood aside hoping to inflict damage on Fianna Fáil, which won, though Donnellan secured almost 30% of the votes cast. \n\nAt the first Ard-Chomhairle of Clann na Talmhan in March 1943, he stated that the party's reason for existing was to \"break the stranglehold of the money-grubbers and Jews\". According to historian RM Douglas, this was not the only act of anti-Semitism Donnellan committed as party leader.\n\nHe was elected to Dáil Éireann as a TD for Galway East at the 1943 general election. and re-elected in 1944. Following constituency revision, he represented Galway North between 1948 and 1961 before being elected again for Galway East in the 1961 general election.\n\nDonnellan, however, proved too radical for the party members from the province of Leinster, due to his more left-wing leanings: He supported land redistribution in cases where large farmer holders were being inefficient as well as free access to education and healthcare. He was soon replaced as party leader by conservative Mayoman Joseph Blowick. Donnellan's decision to abstain on Éamon de Valera's nomination for Taoiseach in 1943 led some to suspect he had done so out of loyalty to his old party leader. Donnellan served as a Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Finance on two occasions with responsibility for the Office of Public Works.\n\nIn his youth Donnellan was a talented footballer who won a All-Ireland medal with the Galway senior football team in 1925, captaining them in their 1933 defeat to Cavan. He died in Croke Park at the 1964 All-Ireland final, shortly before his son John Donnellan, as victorious Galway captain, received the Sam Maguire Cup. The subsequent by-election was won by John, standing as a Fine Gael candidate.\n\nHis grandson, Michael Donnellan also won All-Ireland medals with Galway in 1998 and 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025107", "title": "Cyclone Taylor", "text": "Cyclone Taylor\n\nFrederick Wellington \"Cyclone\" Taylor, MBE (June 23, 1884 – June 9, 1979) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and civil servant. A cover-point and rover, he played professionally from 1906 to 1922 for the Portage Lakes Hockey Club, the Renfrew Creamery Kings, the Ottawa Hockey Club and the Vancouver Millionaires. Acknowledged as one of the first stars of hockey, Taylor was recognised during his career as one of the fastest skaters and most prolific scorers. He won five scoring championships in the Pacific Coast Hockey Association, and twice won the Stanley Cup, with Ottawa in 1909 and Vancouver in 1915, and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1947.\n\nBorn and raised in Southern Ontario, Taylor moved to Manitoba in 1906 to continue his hockey career. He quickly departed to play in Houghton, Michigan and spent two years in the International Hockey League, the first openly professional hockey league in the world. He returned to Canada in 1907 and joined the Senators, spending two seasons with the team. In 1909 he signed with Renfrew, becoming the highest paid athlete in the world on a per-game basis, before moving to Vancouver in 1912. Taylor played for the Millionaires until 1922, when his career ended.\n\nUpon moving to Ottawa in 1907 Taylor was given a position within the federal Interior Department as an immigration clerk, and remained a immigration official for the next several decades. In 1914 Taylor was the first Canadian official to board the \"Komagata Maru\", which was involved in a major incident relating to Canadian immigration. Taylor ultimately became the Commissioner of Immigration for British Columbia and the Yukon, the highest position in the region, and in 1946 was named a Member of the Order of the British Empire for his services in immigration, retiring in 1950.\n\nFrederick Wellington Taylor was born in Tara, Ontario, the second son and fourth of five children to Archie and Mary Taylor. The exact date of Taylor's birth is uncertain, though most sources give it as June 23, 1884. Archie, the son of Scottish immigrants, was a travelling salesman who sold farm equipment. Mary stayed at home and raised the children. Taylor was close to his mother, a devout Methodist, and took after her in that he never smoked, drank, or swore. Taylor was named Frederick Wellington after a local veterinarian, who was a friend of Archie; Taylor's biographer Eric Whitehead states that on the day of Taylor's birth the two men were fishing, so Archie decided to name his son after the elder Frederick. At the age of six, Taylor moved with his family to Listowel, a town south of Tara. The Taylor family lived a modest lifestyle in Listowel: Archie initially made around C$50–60 a month, a low wage for the era and not a lot to raise five children on. To help the family out Taylor left school when he was 17 and started working in a local piano factory. His earnings of around $20 a month helped to supplement Archie's salary, which had risen to $75 a month.\n\nThough he had first skated at the age of five on ponds near Tara, it was in Listowel that Taylor learned to play hockey. He was given his first pair of skates and was taught by a local barber named Jack Riggs, who was known in the community for his speed skating. Taylor first joined an organized team, the Listowel Mintos, in 1897 when he was 13, and spent the next five years with them. Though initially a couple of years younger than the other players, Taylor was one of the most skilled on his team. The Mintos joined the Ontario Hockey Association (OHA), the governing body of hockey in Ontario, for the 1900–01 season. They entered a local league, winning the championship as Taylor played a major role. The team reached the provincial junior championship in 1904, losing in sudden-death overtime. This greatly enhanced Taylor's name across the province, and several teams were interested in having him join them.\n\nIn October 1903 Taylor was reportedly invited by Bill Hewitt, the secretary of the OHA, to play for the Toronto Marlboros. Happy with his life in Listowel, where he had his family and job, Taylor turned down the offer. This angered Hewitt, who had expected Taylor to accept his invitation and move cities. He thus banned Taylor from playing hockey in Ontario for the 1903–04 season, as players had to apply to change teams, and with Taylor assigned to the Marlboros he was not supposed to play anywhere else. Taylor left Listowel in 1904 and tried to join a team in Thessalon, Ontario, but player transfers were regulated by the OHA, ostensibly to keep players from moving from team to team and to preserve the ideals of amateurism. As a result, he was not sanctioned to play in Thessalon and barred from joining the team. Rather than play anywhere else, Taylor sat out the 1904–05 season.\n\nFrustrated with sitting out a whole season of hockey, Taylor looked for other options for the upcoming season. He moved west in early January 1906 and joined a team in Portage la Prairie, Manitoba for 1905–06. Taylor moved to Manitoba because the OHA only had jurisdiction in Ontario, so there was no ban on him joining teams there. As hockey was strictly amateur in Canada at the time, Taylor was offered room, board and $25 a month in spending money to join the team. In his first game with Portage la Prairie Taylor scored two goals, impressing his opponents with his skilled play. After one match against the Kenora Thistles, the top team in the league, Taylor was offered a chance to join them as they travelled east to challenge for the Stanley Cup, the championship trophy of Canadian hockey. While considering the offer Taylor was approached by representatives from the Portage Lakes Hockey Club, a professional team based in Houghton, Michigan that played in the International Hockey League (IHL), the first openly professional hockey league. Offered US$400 to join the team, plus expenses, Taylor agreed. Taylor had previously played in Houghton in the 1902–03 season, when he had been invited to join a few friends studying dentistry there to play a series of exhibition games against local teams.\n\nIn early February, having played four games for Portage la Prairie, Taylor left the team for Houghton. Playing cover-point (an early version of a defenceman), Taylor scored eleven goals in six games for Portage Lakes as the team won the 1906 IHL championship. The following season saw Taylor score 14 goals in 23 games as Portage Lakes repeated as league champions. Taylor recalled his time in the IHL, a rough and physical league, with fondness, noting that the \"league was a wonderful testing and training ground, and I was a far better player for my experience there.\" He also found the atmosphere nice, as \"[t]here was a different feeling there with the sport seemingly so far from its home and us all down from Canada as sort of paid mercenaries.\"\n\nOffering high salaries, the IHL brought in many of the top Canadian players, who were happy to be paid to play hockey for the first time in their careers (though some had been covertly paid in Canada). However the high wages were unsustainable, and with the decision of the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA), the top league in Canada, to allow professional players in 1907, the IHL folded that summer, allowing the players to return to Canada. Taylor returned to Listowel for the summer of 1907, playing lacrosse and entertaining offers to join various hockey teams for the upcoming season. Representatives from the Quebec Bulldogs, Montreal Victorias, Montreal Wanderers, and Cobalt Silver Kings all met with Taylor. Cobalt's offer was the most interesting to Taylor largely due to their wealthy owner, rail-builder and mine-owner Michael John O'Brien, though he turned Cobalt down as the club did not offer enough money.\n\nTaylor ended up signing with the Ottawa Senators, who played in the ECAHA (the league would drop the word \"Amateur\" in 1908 and become known as the ECHA). The Senators offered him $500 for the season, a high salary for the time though not extravagant. What attracted Taylor to Ottawa was that the club also promised him a job within the immigration branch of the federal Department of the Interior. Taylor was intrigued by the offer: as Whitehead wrote, \"[t]he chance that it could turn into a permanent career job\" was important, as a career in the civil service promised job security for Taylor after his hockey career ended. He thus took up a position as a junior clerk for $35 a month.\n\nSoon after arriving in Ottawa, Taylor received offers to leave the Senators and join different teams. The Ottawa Victorias, who played in the Federal Amateur Hockey League, a rival to the ECAHA, asked Taylor to play a two-game series against the Renfrew Creamery Kings of the local Upper Ottawa Valley Hockey League, with the possibility of a full-season contract. Renfrew, owned by O'Brien, challenged the offer but made their own proposal to Taylor after the series ended: $1,500 for the season. They argued that as Taylor had not signed a contract with Ottawa he was free to leave the team. Taylor visited Renfrew, about from Ottawa, and initially agreed to sign there as he heard rumours that he was not wanted in Ottawa. However representatives from the Senators met up with Taylor and confirmed the club did want him, so he returned for the start of the season.\nTaylor played at centre for the Senators in the first game of the season. Listed as being and , Taylor was of average size for a hockey player in the era. As one of the main forwards and one of the fastest players in hockey, he was constantly offside, as rules at the time did not allow players to pass the puck ahead of themselves and he was too quick for his linemates. It was decided then that he would be moved to cover-point for the rest of the season, as he would be further back on the ice and able to better utilize his speed. Later on in the season, during a January 11, 1908 match against the Montreal Wanderers, the Earl Grey, Governor General of Canada, was reportedly in attendance. Afterwards he was overheard by \"Ottawa Free Press\" reporter Malcolm Brice saying, \"That new No.4, Taylor, he's a cyclone if ever I saw one,\" a reference to Taylor's speed. Though previously referenced as both a \"tornado\" and a \"whirlwind\", the \"Cyclone\" moniker remained for the rest of Taylor's career. Taylor performed well in his first season with Ottawa, scoring nine goals in ten games and being named the best cover-point in the ECAHA. After the season ended the Senators traveled to New York City for a series of exhibition matches against the Wanderers, Taylor garnering the most press attention with his skills.\n\nAt the start of the 1908–09 season, Taylor signed with the Pittsburgh Athletic Club of the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League. However, after three games there he and Fred Lake were released, with both accused of trying to undermine the team's management and of intentionally losing a game to do so. Taylor considered offers from other teams but decided to return to Ottawa for the season, playing 11 games and scoring 9 goals. The Senators won the league championship and were awarded the Stanley Cup as a result.\n\nIn the lead-up to the 1909–10 season Taylor was again courted by O'Brien to join his team in Renfrew. Throughout November 1909 there were contradictory newspaper reports about with whom Taylor would sign, and both Ottawa and Renfrew claimed he had signed with them. By December 30 Taylor finalized an agreement with Renfrew. The salary was reported to be as high as $5,250 for the season, which if accurate would have made Taylor the highest-paid athlete in Canadian history. A comparison was made with baseball player Ty Cobb, who had signed around the same time for $6,500, though it was noted that there were 154 games in a baseball season, while hockey only had 12; thus on a per-game basis Taylor was the highest-paid athlete in the world.\n\nThe signing of Taylor was important for O'Brien for a different reason. He had long sought to win the Stanley Cup, and previous efforts to challenge for it had been rebuffed, as were his efforts to join the Canadian Hockey Association (CHA), as the ECHA had re-constituted itself in November 1909. He thus started a new league, the National Hockey Association (NHA), which was composed of teams refused entry to the CHA and new teams O'Brien owned. By adding Taylor to the new league, the NHA gained immediate legitimacy, and the CHA folded within a few weeks, its remaining teams admitted into the NHA.\n\nAside from the high salary, Taylor was interested in joining Renfrew because they made it known they were trying to build a strong team, and were willing to pay for it. Shortly before he signed with the club, they had agreed to terms with the highly sought brothers, Lester and Frank Patrick. The Patricks had been approached by no fewer than six teams before they agreed to sign with Renfrew for $3,000 and $2,000, respectively. Other prominent players that joined the club were goaltender Bert Lindsay, and forward Herb Jordan, who agreed to turn professional when he signed with Renfrew. The team was further bolstered mid-way through the season when Newsy Lalonde, one of the highest-scoring players of the era, was acquired.\n\nDespite the high-priced talent, with four future members of the Hockey Hall of Fame on the roster, Renfrew finished third in the NHA, and thus were not able to make a challenge for the Stanley Cup (only the league winner could do so). Taylor performed well, finishing fourth on the team in scoring with ten goals in twelve games. During the season one of the most famous legends about Taylor developed: prior to Renfrew's first game in Ottawa against the Senators, Taylor boasted he would score a goal while skating backwards (at the time few players skated this way, let alone scored goals while doing so). Despite his boast prior to the February 12, 1908 game, Taylor was held scoreless as Ottawa won 8–5. However, during the next game between the two, on March 8 in Renfrew, the Millionaires won 17–2, and Taylor scored three times, including one where he skated backwards.\n\nTaylor re-signed with Renfrew for the 1910–11 season, though a league-wide drop in salaries saw him earn $1,800. Reflecting later on, Taylor said that he and the other players \"knew those big first-year salaries couldn't last.\" The Patrick brothers had moved west to join their father to establish a lumber company in British Columbia, and Lalonde joined the rival Montreal Canadiens. A weakened Renfew team again finished third. Taylor scored twelve goals in sixteen games to again place fourth on the team in scoring.\n\nRenfrew disbanded prior to the 1911–12 season, and the rights to its players were dispersed to the other teams in the league. Taylor was claimed by the Wanderers, whose owner, Sam Lichtenhein, was working on a new arena and needed a star player to bolster attendance. However Taylor was not interested in moving to, or playing in, Montreal, so refused to report to the club, stating he would only play for Ottawa or not at all. Despite attempts by the Senators to trade for him, Taylor's rights remained with the Wanderers, and so he sat out the season. Though he did not play, Taylor was still paid a salary of $1,200 by the Senators in hopes that he would join them for the following season, and he spent the winter playing a few games and working as a referee in the local semi-professional league. At the end of the season the NHA sent an all-star team to Vancouver to play a series of games against teams from the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA), a new professional league established by the Patricks. Though Taylor had not played all year, the Patricks consented to the exhibition if Taylor was included on the NHA team. Though Taylor played sparingly in the series, he was credited with drawing large crowds.\n\nHaving moved out west in 1910, Lester and Frank Patrick worked with their father Joe in the lumber industry, though they sold the family business in 1911. Using the money from the sale the brothers set up the PCHA, and began to recruit players from Eastern Canada to join the league.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the 1911–12 season the Wanderers gave up trying to sign Taylor. He was offered a contract of $3,000 to join the Toronto Tecumsehs, double the salary of any other player, but turned it down saying he did not like the idea of being bought and sold. Ottawa also made an offer of $1,800 for the season, but again Taylor turned it down. During the off-season Taylor had been in frequent contact with the Patricks, who encouraged him to move west and play in their league. After months of discussion, Taylor agreed to join the Vancouver Millionaires, with the decision announced on November 20. He was given a salary of $2,200, transportation back to Ottawa, and a four-month leave of absence from his immigration job. The offer made Taylor the highest-paid player in hockey again, and was at least $500 more than anyone had earned in the PCHA the previous season. As was his style, Taylor did not sign a contract, later stating that there \"never was in those days with the Patricks. It was just a verbal agreement, and we shook hands on it.\" Speaking after the agreement, Lester Patrick noted that they \"had Fred Taylor in mind right from the beginning. His acquisition was just a matter of timing.\"\n\nMuch like he had for the NHA, Taylor's presence gave legitimacy to the PCHA. The first games of the PCHA's inaugural season only had half the tickets sold, while the Millionaires sold out their home opener, the first sell-out for the PCHA, for the 1912–13 season, Taylor's debut in the league. Prior to that first game, against the New Westminster Royals on December 10, Taylor had severe stomach pains and nearly missed the match. He barely made it to the game, though he ended up scoring in a 7–2 Vancouver victory. The stomach pain turned out to be appendicitis, which left Taylor severely ill during his first season in the west. He wanted to wait until the season was over to have surgery, though ultimately postponed it. Even so, he managed to play in all sixteen games for Vancouver during the season, finishing with ten goals and eight assists (the PCHA was the first league to officially keep track of assists), fourth on his team and sixth overall in the league for scoring.\n\nThe following season saw Taylor move positions to rover, a position that combined offence and defence; he would play as a rover for the remainder of his career. The change to a position that allowed for more offence helped Taylor lead the PCHA in scoring with 39 points in 16 games, and he tied with Tommy Dunderdale for the goal-scoring title, each having 24. Taylor repeated as the scoring leader in 1914–15, with 45 points in 16 games, and finished tied for second in goals scored with 23. Vancouver finished first in the league and thus earned the right to compete for the Stanley Cup. Starting in 1914 the Cup had been competed for between the champions of the PCHA and the NHA, with each league hosting a best-of-five series in alternating years; the 1915 Final was held in Vancouver, and as the leagues used different rules, games alternated between PCHA and NHA rules. The NHA champions were the Ottawa Senators, who Taylor had played for previously and won the Cup with in 1909, and they placed all their focus on trying to contain him, to no avail. Vancouver won the first three games to win the Cup, as Taylor scored seven goals and three assists.\n\nTaylor repeated as PCHA scoring champion again in 1915–16 with 35 points in 18 games, finishing second for goals with 21 and tied for the lead in assists with 14, though Vancouver finished second in the league and thus was unable to defend its Stanley Cup title. After the season ended Taylor announced his retirement, though this was not taken seriously by the league or his peers, and was largely ignored. True enough, he was convinced to re-join the team prior to the start of the 1916–17 season. He started the season strongly, leading the league in scoring early on, but in early December his appendicitis flared up and he was forced to miss time and have surgery to remove his appendix. Playing in 12 of the Millionaires' 23 games Taylor finished ninth overall in league scoring with 29 points and third in assists with 15.\n\nPlaying at full health for the 1917–18 season, Taylor appeared in 18 games and finished first in goals (32) and points (43), and was second for assists (11); he was named the most valuable player of the league. Vancouver won the PCHA championship and traveled to Toronto to play the National Hockey League (NHL) champion, the Toronto Arenas in the 1918 Stanley Cup Finals. Though Taylor scored the most goals in the series (9), and the Millionaires outscored the Arenas (21 to 18), Toronto won the best-of-five series and the Cup. Taylor repeated as scoring champion of the PCHA in 1918–19, and for the first time led in goals (23), assists (13), and points (36). It marked the fifth and final time he led the PCHA in scoring.\n\nAfter the end of the season Taylor again announced his intent to retire, though he was back for the start of the 1919–20 season. A leg injury forced him out of several games, and he only played in ten, recording twelve points and finishing far behind the scoring leaders. This contributed to a third retirement announcement, which he insisted was final. However he was coaxed out of it by Frank Patrick, who ran the Millionaires and agreed to let Taylor only play only in home games and only as a replacement player. Taylor had five goals and one assist in the six games he played in, and appeared in three of the five games Vancouver played in the Stanley Cup Final against the Senators, recording one assist. Ottawa won the Cup and Taylor decided that he was retiring yet again. He sat out the 1921–22 season, but decided to attempt a return for the 1922–23 season appearing with Vancouver, then known as the Maroons, against the Victoria Cougars on December 8, 1922. Unable to keep pace with the game Taylor decided after the one game to finally quit hockey.\n\nIn October 1907 Taylor had joined the Immigration Branch of the Department of the Interior, a job that was arranged by the Ottawa Senators as an inducement to get Taylor to play with the club. Taylor liked the idea of a position within the federal government, seeing it as something that would ensure job security after his hockey career ended. He started out as a junior clerk, earning $35 a month. When Taylor moved to Vancouver in 1912 he initially took a leave of absence from his position. Frank Patrick would later use his close connection with Sir Richard McBride, the Premier of British Columbia, to get Taylor's position transferred west, and helped Taylor get promoted to senior immigration inspector.\n\nBy 1914 Taylor was in charge of overseeing traffic into the port of Vancouver, boarding ships and checking crew and passenger manifests. It was in this capacity that Taylor was involved in the \"Komagata Maru\" incident. The \"Komagata Maru\" was a steamship that carried 376 Hindu, Muslim and Sikh immigrants from India in an attempt to circumvent the restrictive Canadian immigration laws, which were set up to keep non-Europeans from entering. The ship reached Vancouver on May 23, 1914, and Taylor was the first immigration officer to board the ship. Taylor spent considerable time on the ship as it sat in the Vancouver harbour: with the passengers unable to disembark or given additional supplies, Taylor took on the role of supervising everyone until it left back for India on July 23, the passengers refused entry into Canada. Reflecting on the incident later in life, Taylor said that \"[i]t was a terrible affair, and nobody was proud of it.\"\n\nWhen the First World War broke out in August 1914 Taylor enlisted in the Canadian Army. Though reluctant to go overseas, he wanted to help out and was willing to do whatever was necessary, though shortly after his enlistment it was announced that immigration officials were deemed a vital job and exempt from service, so Taylor was discharged from the military and spent the war working in Vancouver.\n\nAfter he retired from hockey Taylor kept his immigration post, and eventually rose to become the Commissioner of Immigration for British Columbia and the Yukon, the top position in the region. In 1946 Taylor was named as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for outstanding service to the country and community as an immigration officer in two wars. He retired from the civil service in 1950.\n\nTaylor remained involved in hockey after he stopped playing. He was the inaugural president of the Pacific Coast Hockey League, serving from 1936 to 1940. In 1970 he dropped the puck in the ceremonial face-off that preceded the expansion Vancouver Canucks' first home game when the team joined the NHL. A season-ticket holder, Taylor was a fixture at Canucks games until his death.\n\nAs a member of the B.C. Progressive Conservative party Taylor unsuccessfully ran for election in the Vancouver Centre riding in the 1952 British Columbia general election, finishing fourth out of six candidates. He ran again in Vancouver Centre in the 1953 British Columbia general election, where he had 1,007 votes for 5.27% of the ballots, and again finished fourth of six candidates. In 1952 he was elected to one term as a member of the Vancouver Parks Board.\n\nRaised a Methodist, Taylor never drank alcohol, smoked cigarettes, or cursed, which was unusual for hockey players. He attributed these values to his mother's religious devotion. His family were staunch supporters of the federal Conservative Party, which caused some concerns when Taylor was offered a position in the Immigration Department upon his move to Ottawa; many federal jobs were patronage appointments, and with the Liberal Party in power at the time it was unusual for a Conservative supporter to be given such a position. In the summer of 1908 Taylor helped found Scout troop No.7 in Ottawa, starting a lifelong involvement with the Scouting movement. In Vancouver he continued this work, and took on an active role with the YMCA. Known for his \"way with words\" and \"admired for his easy, courtly manner,\" Taylor also was known to be well-dressed throughout his playing career, and continued to maintain this style in later life. Taylor is also reported to have been a Freemason.\n\nTaylor enjoyed other sports than hockey, and actively played lacrosse during the summers of his hockey career. While in Ottawa during the summer of 1908, he joined the Ottawa Capitals of the National Lacrosse Union. Taylor was seen as a good lacrosse player, though Whitehead has suggested that Taylor's abilities may have been embellished by reporters due to his hockey fame. Overall his time with the Capitals was uneventful, except for an incident during a game on June 27, 1908. Taylor got into a fight with a player and during the scuffle he accidentally punched the referee, Tom Carlind. Police immediately arrested Taylor and jailed him for several hours, until Carlind arrived and explained it was unintentional. League officials considered banning Taylor over the incident, but because he drew large crowds, they let him play the rest of the season. In 1914 he joined the Vancouver Terminals, playing for $50 per game.\n\nIn February 1908 Taylor met Thirza Cook. A hockey fan, she worked as a secretary in the Immigration Department, and met Taylor there after watching him play the previous night. After their first date Taylor met Cook's widowed mother, who was from a well-off family and related by marriage to John Rudolphus Booth, an Ottawa lumber tycoon. Cook's mother was not impressed with Taylor, as his background was of a lower social standing than her own, and did not like the idea of her daughter being with a hockey player. This feeling was shared by Cook's six siblings. Despite this animosity Taylor resolved to win the family over, and decided he would save $10,000 to prove his worth. Earning a combined $2,800 from his two jobs at the time, Taylor needed six years to reach his goal. While playing in Renfrew, Taylor took a train to Ottawa several times per week to visit Cook. When he moved to Vancouver in 1912 he promised he would return for the spring and summer of 1913, initially planning for a wedding that autumn. Taylor and Cook were married on March 19, 1914 at her Ottawa home, with Frank Patrick serving as the best man. They went to New York on their honeymoon, where Taylor joined the Millionaires in an exhibition series. The couple moved to Vancouver after the series ended, spending the rest of their lives there. Thirza died in March 1963, from heart troubles.\n\nTaylor had five children: three sons and two daughters. John, the second oldest child, also played hockey and won two Canadian university championships while attending the University of Toronto. Offered a contract by the Toronto Maple Leafs of the NHL, he turned it down on advice of his father and instead earned a law degree. John worked in immigration law before entering politics, and was elected to the House of Commons in 1957, representing Vancouver—Burrard until his defeat in the 1962 election. A grandson, Mark Taylor, played in the NHL from 1981 to 1986 with the Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins and Washington Capitals. Taylor's oldest son, Fred Jr., opened a chain of sporting-goods stores and named them \"Cyclone Taylor Sports\" after his father. Joan, Taylor's youngest child, predeceased him, dying in 1976 from heart issues brought on from her figure skating career. After breaking his hip in 1978, Taylor's health deteriorated and he died in his sleep in Vancouver on June 9, 1979.\n\nTaylor was regarded as one of the best hockey players throughout his playing career, and was able to command attention and a high salary anywhere he went. In 1908 when he went to play in Pittsburgh, it was noted in the \"Pittsburgh Press\" how he was \"in a position to get almost anything he asked for the coming season and there were lots of bidders,\" and that his signing in Pittsburgh was a great achievement for the team. Likewise, when he left Ottawa in 1912 and moved to Vancouver, the \"Ottawa Citizen\" said he was \"the greatest drawing card in the game\" and that the Senators should have increased their salary offer to him. Listed as and during his career, Taylor was an average size for a hockey player of his era; he was known more for speed and creativity than for his physical prowess. His ability to draw crowds made him a valuable addition to any team, and in an era when players only signed on for one season at a time, Taylor always had several teams interested in his services, and thus was able to command some of the highest salaries of his time.\n\nIn 1947 Taylor was elected into the Hockey Hall of Fame, and he was later inducted into the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame and the British Columbia Sports Hall of Fame. When the Hockey Hall of Fame started construction on a new building in 1961, Taylor was given the honour to turn the sod.\n\nThere are several awards named after Taylor. The Vancouver Canucks team award for most valuable player is named the Cyclone Taylor Trophy. The Cyclone Taylor Cup was donated in 1966 and is awarded to the champion of a tournament between the winners of the British Columbia Junior B leagues. As well the junior Listowel Cyclones, based in Taylor's hometown, are named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025110", "title": "Oatlands, Tasmania", "text": "Oatlands, Tasmania\n\nOatlands is an important historical village on the shores of Lake Dulverton in the centre of Tasmania, Australia. Oatlands is located 84 km north of Hobart and 115 km south of Launceston on the Midland Highway. At the 2016 census, Oatlands had a population of 683.\n\nOatlands is considered to have the largest number of colonial sandstone buildings in any town in Australia, and many of them were built by convict labour. It is the largest town in the Southern Midlands Council area and is surrounded by rich agricultural land.\n\nOatlands is served by 97.1 MID FM \"The Voice of the Midlands\"\n\nOatlands is one of Tasmania's oldest settlements and was named by Governor Macquarie after an English town in the county of Surrey in 1821. It was developed as a military base for the control and management of convicts because of its central location between Hobart and Launceston. Convicts were assigned to nearby farms and properties, and also worked on public buildings, roads and bridges.\n\nOatlands Post Office opened on 1 June 1832.\n\nMuch of the Black War (early settlers against local aborigines) took place in the surrounding districts, and Oatlands was also the home of the ex-convict Solomon Blay, Tasmania's most feared hangman. There are a number of unique landmarks in Oatlands, including the Callington Mill and St Pauls' Church. The mill was built in 1837 and was restored to working order during June/July 2010, and the Catholic Church was designed by Augustus Welby Pugin, the father of Gothic Revival architecture.\n\nFor some years after 1848, Oatlands was the place of exile of the Irish nationalist leader Kevin Izod O'Doherty, where his stone cottage still stands. A railway connected Oatlands with Parattah Junction, on the main Hobart to Launceston line. The railway opened on 13 May 1885 and it closed on 10 June 1949.\n\nOatlands was generally a relatively prosperous town in the 20th century but by the 1990s the Tasmanian economy slump, the highway bypass and a Tasmanian Midlands rural drought had a very negative effect on the town. Much of Tasmania's economic renewal, like the highway, has bypassed Oatlands, along with Ross, Tunbridge, Kempton, and Pontville, which today is a lot quieter than it used to be. The residents are attempting to grow the town once more by making it a peaceful local centre with a tourist friendly image. Oatlands is home to the world-renowned Casaveen Knitwear.\n\nThe Oatlands Court House is an historic Georgian building in Oatlands. Built by convict labour in 1829, the Oatlands Court House is the oldest supreme court house in rural Australia and the oldest building in Oatlands. This fine example of a Georgian public building was originally constructed as a combined Chapel and Police Office. It was purchased by the National Trust in 1977.\n\nOatlands has the largest collection of sandstone buildings in a village setting in Australia. The town’s authentic colonial character is reflected in 87 original sandstone buildings along the town’s main street. The stone for their construction was quarried along the shores of Lake Dulverton. Some of the more significant buildings include the Oatlands gaol (1835), Commissariat’s store and watch house (1830s) and officers’ quarters (1830s). The Callington Mill (1837) is the only working example of a Lincolnshire windmill in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025111", "title": "Chieti", "text": "Chieti\n\nChieti (, ; , , ; ; , ) is a city and \"comune\" (municipality) in Central Italy, east by northeast of Rome. It is the capital of the province of Chieti in the Abruzzo region.\n\nIn Italian, the adjectival form is \"teatino\" and inhabitants of Chieti are called \"teatini\". The English form of this name is preserved in that of the Theatines, a Catholic religious order.\n\nChieti is amongst the most ancient of Italian cities. According to mythological legends, the city was founded in 1181 BC by the Homeric Greek hero Achilles and was named in honor of his mother, Thetis. It was called Theate () (or Teate in Latin). As Theate Marrucinorum, Chieti was the chief town of the warlike Marrucini. According to Strabo, it was founded by the Arcadians as Thegeate (Θηγεάτη).\n\nDiscoveries of great importance to the prehistory of Abruzzo were those of two hand axes and some Clactonian splinters at Madonna del Freddo's fluvial terraces, traces of settlements dating back to  850,000 – 400,000 years ago. Instead, over Chieti's hill the oldest archaeological finds of human settlements date back to 5000 BC.\n\nAfter the Marrucini were defeated by the Romans, they became loyal allies of the more powerful forces. Their territory was placed under Roman municipal jurisdiction after the Social War. In imperial times, Chieti's population reached 60,000 inhabitants but, after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, it was destroyed by Visigoths and Heruli. Later it was seat of a gastaldate under the Lombard kings. After its destruction by Peppin, it became a fief of the Duchy of Benevento.\n\nChieti recovered some political and economic importance under the Norman rule of Southern Italy, a role it kept also under the Hohenstaufen, Angevine and Aragonese rulers.\n\nAfter a cultural and architectural flourishing during the 17th century, under the aegis of the Counter-Reformation, Chieti was decimated by fatalities from plague in 1656. In the 18th century, several new academies and schools were developed here, which contributed to the city's artistic heritage. In 1806 Chieti was turned into a fortress by Napoleon's France. In 1860 it became part of the newly created Kingdom of Italy.\n\nDuring World War II, Chieti was declared an open city (like Rome) and was not extensively bombed by either side. It was the site of an infamous POW Camp for British and Commonwealth officers (PG 21) where its commandante – Barela – was later convicted of war crimes for his treatment of POWs. Imprisonment in wartime Italy was tough enough. At some camps conditions were much harder, and the regime more brutal, than at others.\n\nPG 21 was a very large camp through which many POWs passed, often on their way to other camps such as Veano and Fontanellato. It was overcrowded, with little running water, poor sanitation and, in winter, no heating. Shortage of food and warm clothing prompted debate in the UK House of Commons.\n\nThe story of the camp between August 1942 and September 1943 is told in a book published in November 2014 and written by Brian Lett, a former chairman of the Monte San Martino Trust and the author of several books, including S.A.S. in Tuscany. He tells of suffering under a violently pro-Fascist regime. The first Commandant personally beat up one recaptured escapee. A pilot was murdered by an Italian guard following his escape attempt. Tunnels were dug, and the prisoners were even prepared to swim through human sewage to try to get out. Somehow, morale remained remarkably high.\n\nAfter the war, a number of the camp's staff were arrested for war crimes, concluding its unhappy history. The city at this time welcomed many refugees from the near towns and villages. Allied forces liberated the city on June 9, 1944, one day after the Germans left the city.\n\nChieti is situated a few kilometers away from the Adriatic Sea, and with the Majella and Gran Sasso mountains in the background. It is divided into the old town on the homonymous hill overlooking the Aterno-Pescara and the more recent commercial and industrial area, which is called Chieti Scalo and has developed thanks to the Chieti railway station along the ancient layout of Via Tiburtina, in the valley of the Aterno-Pescara.\n\nThe cathedral dedicated to Saint Justin of Chieti was probably founded in the 8th century and, according to tradition, was re-built by bishop Teodorico I in 840, after the sack by Pepin of Italy. It was again re-built by bishop Attone I in 1069, but of that building only parts of the Romanesque crypt remain. The church was beautified in the 14th and 15th centuries thanks to different bishops. The first three floors of the bell tower were erected in 1335 by Bartolomeo di Giacomo and in 1498 Antonio da Lodi built its bellcote and tented roof. The church was decorated again in the 17th century in the Baroque style. The 1703 Apennine earthquakes destroyed the tented roof of the bell tower and damaged the church, whose aspect was changed by the archbishop Francesco Brancia between 1764 and 1770. In the early 20th century the architect Antonio Cirilli consolidated the bell tower and extensively modified the exterior. The crypt hosts the relics of Saint Justin of Chieti. Close to the cathedral there is the Baroque oratory of the Mount of the Dead Brotherhood, the oldest catholic fraternity of Chieti that was officially acknowledged by Pope Innocent X in 1648.\n\nThe Church of Saint Francis, which has the traditional Latin cross plan, was probably founded in 1239 thanks to the nobleman Antonio Gizio, who donated his estate to the project. In the second half of the 14th century a new façade was constructed, but it was rebuilt in the 17th century except the top with a rose window. After years of decay, in 1689 they started an extensive restoration which changed the appearance of this church. At the end of the 19th century, the architect Torquato Scaraviglia added an external stairway and another intervention was commissioned by the noblewoman Theresa de Hortalis. The church has an hemispherical dome with \"trompe-l'œil\" paintings and ten chapels, whose improvements were financed by some of the most important and ancient families of Chieti.\n\nThe Baroque Church of Saint Clare (Santa Chiara) was built for the nuns of the Order of Saint Clare between 1644 and 1720.\n\nThe Teatro Marrucino (Italian for \"Marrucinian Theatre\") was built between 1813 and 1818 in the Neoclassical style and in 1872 the Neapolitan artist Giovanni Ponticelli painted the front curtain, representing the triumph over Dalmatae of Gaius Asinius Pollio.\n\nThere are different Roman sites in Chieti, including three temples, a theatre, an amphitheatre, \"thermae\" and underground cisterns.\n\nIn the area of La Civitella there are the remains of a Roman theatre, which was probably built in the 1st century CE, a period of prosperity. The building had a diameter of about 80 meters and could host about 5,000 spectators, but today they can see little more than the left wing of its \"cavea\" with some corridors.\n\nIn 1935 Desiderato Scenna discovered the remains of four ancient Roman temples, the best-preserved one of which was used as a church since the 8th century and renamed after Saint Peter and Saint Paul, whereas another one has been removed to build a post office. The construction of the two twin temples and the smaller one was commissioned by Marcus Vetius Marcellus and his wife Helvidia Priscilla, who were favored by Nero. They do not know what divinities they were dedicated to, even if some scholars proposed that they were consecrated to the Capitoline Triad (Jupiter, Juno and Minerva). The walls are made of bricks, marble slabs, stone slabs and stone tiles, and the plan of the twin temples included a portico and underground spaces.\n\nThe \"thermae\" are connected to an underground cistern, which is a part of a complex Roman water supply system. In addition, underneath the 18th-century Palazzo de' Mayo there is the so-called \"via tecta\", an over 4 meters tall ancient Roman underground street, whose function is still debated.\n\nChieti climate is considered genuine Mediterranean. It presents high humidity all year round, with rainy/snowy warm winters and hot and dry summers. Rain is a common event, especially during fall and spring, with accumulations of around a year. Snowfall is sometimes consistent during winter, with temperatures that often drop below during winter nights. Fog is a common event during fall and winter, due to very high humidity in these seasons. Wind from the north-east (from the Adriatic sea) carries cold from the Eurasian Steppe, while wind from south-west (from the Tyrrhenian Sea) carries heat from Algerian Desert. Wind is present year-round.\nDifferent inhabited areas surrounding Chieti's city center are at risk from landslides (16% of the population lives there) or from wildfires, and some areas close to the Aterno-Pescara are prone to floods. Chieti lies in an area of \"average seismicity\": in its territory, on hard ground, there is the 10% probability of the maximum peak ground acceleration equal to or greater than 0.145-0.170 in a 50-year period.\n\nAccording to the statistics conducted by Istat, at the beginning of 2019 people aged 0–19 totaled 15.2% of the population compared to people aged 65 and over who number 26.3%. In 2018 5% of the population (2.537 people) consisted of non-Italians with Romanians (651 people), Albanians (461) and Ukrainians (129) that were the largest immigrant groups. According to income tax data, in 2016 the per capita income was €14,034.\n\nChieti is a culture and administration-oriented town, with the tourism being a consistent sector: it hosts the seat of the homonymous province, a tribunal, a television station (Rete 8), hospitals, sport venues and different hotels.\n\nThe agriculture has remained an important economic sector thanks to horticulture, cereal cultivation, olive cultivation, cultivation of tobacco and cultivation of grapes, from which are made well-known wines, such as Montepulciano d'Abruzzo and Trebbiano d'Abruzzo. Financial services, trade and industry are developed, especially in the production of food, chemicals, paper, building material, packaging, engineering industry, and metallurgy.\n\nChieti has different state and private kindergartens, different state primary and middle schools, a private secondary school (the D.O.G.E. School College) and 7 state secondary schools: Istituto \"Luigi di Savoia\" (1529 students), Istituto tecnico \"Galiani-De Sterlich\", Liceo \"Isabella Gonzaga\", Liceo scientifico \"Filippo Masci\", Istituto \"Umberto Pomilio\", Liceo classico \"G.B. Vico\" and Liceo artistico statale.\n\nThe University of Chieti (\"Università G. d'Annunzio – Chieti e Pescara\") is based in Chieti and Pescara and hosts about 35,000 students, covering areas of Architecture, Arts and Philosophy, Economics, Foreign Languages and Literatures, Management, Medicine, Pharmacy, Psychology, Sciences, Social Sciences and Sports Medicine.\n\nIn Chieti the public healthcare system is under the administration of Azienda Sanitaria Locale Lanciano Vasto Chieti, which manages \"Santissima Annunziata\" polyclinic, the main Chieti’s hospital, with its emergency department. In addition, there are other private clinics, police and Carabinieri stations, a prison, and a fire station.\n\nAccording to some historians, Good Friday procession, which is considered Italy's oldest religious procession, has taken place in Chieti since 842. From historical documented sources, the origins of its current form date back to the 16th century. It is organized by the Mount of the Dead Brotherhood, an old local fraternity, with different sacred symbols, such as a wooden figure of Christ and a mourning Virgin Mary. Hooded adults and children, a choir and an orchestra playing \"Miserere\" by Saverio Selecchy (a local composer of the 18th century) takes part in the event.\n\nAbruzzese dialect, which is considered by some linguists a separate language, is still spoken in Chieti.\n\n\nThe public transport bus service of Chieti is provided by companies Società Unica Abruzzese di Trasporto and La Panoramica, which manages also the Chieti trolleybus system. The territory between Pescara and Chieti is crossed by two motorways, the Autostrada A14 Bologna-Taranto and the Autostrada A25 Roma-Pescara.\n\nChieti Scalo is crossed by the Rome–Sulmona–Pescara railway and has two train stations, the Chieti railway station and the smaller Chieti–Madonna delle Piane railway station. A railway connecting the old town and Chieti Scalo was closed in 1943.\n\nChieti is about 12 kilometers from the Abruzzo Airport and 17 kilometers from the Port of Pescara.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025117", "title": "Childe", "text": "Childe\n\nIn the Middle Ages, a childe or child (from \"Young Lord\") was the son of a nobleman who had not yet attained knighthood or had not yet won his spurs. As a rank in chivalry it was used as a title, e.g. Child Horn in \"King Horn\", whilst a male progressed through the positions of squire and then knight. The term is now obsolete in standard English but is still well-known from poetry, such as Robert Browning's \"Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came\" and Lord Byron's \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\".\n\nHowever, the word is still used in the local Doric dialect of north-east Scotland known as \"Doric a Childe\". Here it may be directly translated as 'fellow' or 'man' into Standard English. For example, a \"working childe\" would mean a working man, while a \"dour childe\" would indicate a taciturn individual.\n\nThe term is used in application to an expected next stage in human evolution in the \"Childe Cycle\" novels by Gordon R. Dickson.\n\nChilde in Stephen King's \"The Dark Tower\" is, in Roland Deschain's own words, \"...a term that describes a knight - or a gunslinger - on a quest. A formal term, and ancient. We never used it among ourselves...for it means holy, chosen by ka. We never liked to think of ourselves in such terms, and I haven't thought of myself so in many years.\" (p. 859, \"\", Pocket Books, 2006 ed.)\n\nThe term also exists, albeit with a different meaning, in the roleplaying system \"\" and in various spin-offs. It signifies the \"offspring\" of a vampire, while the creating vampire is called \"Sire\".\n"}
{"id": "2025121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025121", "title": "Harry Trihey", "text": "Harry Trihey\n\nHenry Judah \"Flip\" Trihey (December 25, 1877 – December 9, 1942) was a Canadian amateur ice hockey player and executive in the era before professional ice hockey. Trihey played the centre forward position for the Montreal Shamrocks, and was regarded as the best forward of his day during his playing years.\n\nAfter his retirement as a hockey player, Trihey became a noted lawyer in Montreal, operating his own law firm and partnering in others while serving as an executive in the Canadian Amateur Hockey League. He served in World War I as battalion commander of the Irish Canadian Rangers, and held the post of Port Commissioner for the Montreal Harbor Commission in later years. He is an Honoured Member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nBefore making his major senior debut, Trihey starred in high school hockey with St. Mary's of Montreal between 1893 and 1896, and also appeared with the Montreal Orioles of the Quebec Amateur Hockey Association in 1896.\n\nAppearing in a single game with the Montreal Shamrocks of the Amateur Hockey Association of Canada in 1897, he secured a regular shift with the club the following year. Teamed with linemates Arthur Farrell and Fred Scanlan in 1899, Trihey was named captain of the \"Fighting Irish\" and had a breakout season, leading the league in scoring with 19 goals. On February 4, 1899, Trihey amassed ten goals in one game in a match versus Quebec, which remains the record for the most goals scored by a single player in a major senior regular season match. He went on to score the only goal of the second to the last game of the regular season against the perennial champion Montreal Victorias, which clinched the regular season title for the Shamrocks and earned them the right to defend the Stanley Cup. The defence took place on March 14 against Queen's University of Ontario, a match won by the Shamrocks 6-2, led by Trihey's three goals. In the off-season, he also served on the athletic club's lacrosse side.\n\nAlready respected enough to serve on a competition committee regarding the adoption of goal nets and to be quoted as the preeminent authority on forward play by his linemate Arthur Farrell in his 1899 book, Trihey continued his high level of play in 1900, once again leading the Shamrocks to an easy league championship, while repeating his league scoring championship with 17 goals. His best match during the regular season came against the Victorias on January 18, when he scored five goals. The Shamrocks had two defenses of the Stanley Cup that season, the first a best-of-three match against the team from Winnipeg in February. Trihey led the Shamrocks in scoring with seven goals, scoring the game-winning goals in both of the Montreal victories. After the regular season was over, the Shamrocks made a second defense as champions of the Canadian Amateur Hockey League against the Halifax Crescents in March; Trihey added five more goals to his playoff total as Montreal overwhelmed the Maritimers in 10-2 and 11-0 victories, securing the Shamrocks' third and final Cup win.\n\nHampered by an injured hand, Trihey lost considerable form in 1901, scoring only seven goals in seven regular season matches. The Shamrocks defended the Stanley Cup one last time, again against Winnipeg Victorias in January, but lost in two games. Trihey was again injured in the final game, scoring his last goal in that match, and retired from organized play.\n\nNoted for being a strategic minded player, Trihey had two lasting impacts on the sport. Firstly, he was the first known player to plan advance forward line strategies rather than improvising on the ice. Secondly, reversing the accustomed practice of defencemen flipping the puck into the air and over their opponents' heads, Trihey insisted that they rush the puck up the ice, passing the puck off as the situation warranted. These innovations are regarded as having been crucial to the Shamrocks' success during Trihey's tenure and were widely adopted thereafter. He was also a strong proponent of physical conditioning and diet, unusual to the era. Even after his retirement, he continued to proffer advice on how best to play the game.\n\nTrihey served as secretary-treasurer and president of the CAHL following his retirement as a player until 1904, as well as developing a successful law practice. He also served as a referee both for league and Stanley Cup play and sat on the advisory board of the Montreal Wanderers Hockey Club. During World War I, he was the lieutenant colonel commanding the Irish Rangers regiment. Trihey resigned his commission and returned to Montreal in 1917 after the British army reversed its earlier promise to send the Rangers into battle as a discrete unit, instead choosing to plug them into the front line as reinforcements, and in the wake of unrest over the Easter Rising in Ireland in 1916. Later in life, he was a partner in the law firm of Plimsoll and Coonan from the 1920s to 1932, and served as a Port Commissioner of the Montreal Harbor Commission.\n\nTrihey lived in Westmount after his playing days, and had three children, Harry Henry O'Neill, Elizabeth Alice Mary and Mary Patricia. He was posthumously inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1950.\n"}
{"id": "2025128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025128", "title": "Keikogi", "text": "Keikogi\n\n, or dōgi (), is a uniform for training in Japanese martial arts and their derivatives. (\"Keiko\" means practice, \"gi\" means dress or clothes.) The prototype for the modern keikogi emerged in the late 19th century. The keikogi was developed by judo founder Kanō Jigorō. Japanese martial arts historian Dave Lowry speculates Kanō derived the uniform's design from the uniforms of Japanese firefighters' heavy hemp jackets, \"hanten\" (半纏). By 1920, the keikogi as it exists today was worn by Kanō's students for judo practice. The Kodokan (judo headquarters) has a photo taken in 1920 that shows Kanō wearing a modern keikogi.\nUntil the 1920s, Okinawan karate practice was usually performed in everyday clothes. Given the social climate between the Japanese and Okinawans during this time, karate was seen as brutish compared to Japanese martial arts which had their roots in samurai culture, such as jujutsu. To help market karate to the Japanese, Gichin Funakoshi—the founder of Shotokan karate and the instructor responsible for importing karate to mainland Japan—adopted a uniform style similar to Kanō's design. Over time, Karate practitioners modified the keikogi for karate by lightening the weave of the fabric and adding strings to the inside of the jacket that are tied to keep the jacket neatly closed. The jacket is also held closed by the belt or obi.\n\nThe top part of the keikogi is called the \"uwagi\" (上着 \"uwa\" means \"upper\"). The pants of the keikogi are called \"shitabaki\" (下穿き), which literally means underpants (or \"zubon\" (ズボン), which means pants or trousers).\n\nIn modern times, white, black, blue and indigo are the most common colors of keikogi. In competitive judo, one contestant wears a white uniform and his or her opponent wears a blue one. However, traditionally, the keikogi was white.\n\nIn English, the \"keikogi\" is almost always referred to simply as gi, which would be an incorrect use of the word in Japanese, but is well understood in context. Often \"keiko\" is replaced with the name of the Japanese martial art being practiced.\n\nIn Russian, Polish, and French, this kind of uniform is often called a \"kimono\".\n\nThe alternate term \"keikoi\" (稽古衣) is also used in Japanese.\n\nCommonly used keikogi include:\n\n\n\"Keiko\" can also be replaced by \"dō\" which refers to \"the way\", meaning both the martial art and the lifestyle of the martial artist. In this it is similar to the term for Korean martial arts uniforms, dobok.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025130", "title": "Chintz", "text": "Chintz\n\nChintz originally referred to glazed calico textiles, specifically those imported from India, printed with designs featuring flowers and other patterns in different colours, typically on a light plain background. (The name is derived from the Hindi chīnt, meaning ‘spotted’, ‘variegated’, ‘speckled’, or ‘sprayed’). Since the 19th century the term has also been used for the style of floral decoration developed in those calico textiles, but then used more widely, for example on chintzware pottery and wallpaper. Chintz designs are mostly European patterns loosely derived from the style of Indian designs themselves reflecting Mughal art. A white base with floral and animal prints are its basic characteristics.\n\nUnglazed calico was traditionally called \"cretonne\". The word \"calico\" is derived from the name of the Indian city Calicut (Kozhikkode in native Malayalam), to which it had a manufacturing association. In contemporary language, the words \"chintz\" and \"chintzy\" can be used to refer to clothing or furnishings which are vulgar or florid in appearance, and commonly in informal speech, to refer to cheap, low quality, or gaudy things, and similarly, to personal behavior.\n\nChintz was originally a woodblock printed, painted or stained calico produced in India from 1600 to 1800 and popular for bed covers, quilts and draperies. After Vasco da Gama successfully reached Calicut in India in 1498, the fabric became known in Europe. Around 1600, Portuguese and Dutch traders were bringing examples of Indian chintz into Europe on a small scale, but the English and French merchants began sending large quantities. By 1680 more than a million pieces of chintz were being imported into England per year, and a similar quantity was going to France and the Dutch Republic. These early imports were probably mostly used for curtains, furnishing fabrics, and bed hangings and covers (Samuel Pepys bought a set for his wife). It has been suggested that wearing them as clothes began when these were replaced and given to maidservants, who made them into dresses, and also that they were first worn as linings. \n\nWith imported chintz becoming so popular with Europeans during the late 17th century, French and English mills grew concerned, as they did not know how to make chintz. In 1686 the French declared a ban on all chintz imports. In 1720 England's Parliament enacted a law that forbade \"the Use and Warings in Apparel of imported chintz, and also its use or Wear in or about any Bed, Chair, Cushion or other Household furniture\".\n\nEven though chintz was outlawed, there were loopholes in the legislation. The Court of Versailles was outside the law and fashionable young courtiers continued wearing chintz. In 1734, French naval officer, M. de Beaulieu, who was stationed at Pondicherry, India, sent home letters along with actual samples of chintz fabric during each stage of the process to a chemist friend detailing the dyeing process of cotton chintz. His letters and samples can be seen today in the Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle in Paris.\n\nIn 1742, another Frenchman, Father Coeurdoux, also supplied details of the chintz making process, while he was trying to convert the Indians to Catholicism. In 1759 the ban against chintz was lifted. By this time French and English mills were able to produce chintz.\n\nEuropeans at first produced reproductions of Indian designs, and later added original patterns. A well-known make was \"toile de Jouy\", which was manufactured in Jouy, France, between 1700 and 1843. Eventually the word in English came to describe any industrially printed cotton. Modern chintz usually consists of bright overall floral patterns printed on a light background but there are some popular patterns on black backgrounds as well.\n\nThe term 'chintzy' is attributed to novelist George Eliot, who in 1851 wrote about muslin fabric to her sister, saying: “The quality of the spotted one is best, but the effect is chintzy”. This is believed to have been said about cheap British imitations of real chintz, which became common at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025134", "title": "Nicolaus-Cusanus-Gymnasium Bonn", "text": "Nicolaus-Cusanus-Gymnasium Bonn\n\nThe Nicolaus-Cusanus-Gymnasium (NCG) is a secondary school in Bonn-Bad Godesberg, Germany. Its pupils range from Grade 5 to Grade 12. The main aspects of the school are a bilingual English-German branch, with lessons such as Geography, Politics and History taught in English and participation at THIMUN. In Grade 5 pupils can choose, if they want to be taught bilingual lessons.\nThe school's headteacher is Nicole Auen, her deputy Frank Pelster.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025138", "title": "Chouan", "text": "Chouan\n\nChouan (\"the silent one\", or \"owl\") is a French surname. It was used as a nom de guerre by the Chouan brothers, most notably Jean Cottereau, better known as Jean Chouan, who led a major revolt in Bas-Maine against the French Revolution. Participants in this revolt–and to some extent French anti-Revolutionary activists in general–came to be known as \"Chouans\", and the revolt itself came to be known as the \"Chouannerie\".\n\nJean Cottereau and his brothers all inherited the surname Chouan from their father, a clog merchant and \"homme honorable\" from Saint-Berthevin in Mayenne, on the border with Brittany. One view is that this nickname originated from his talent for impersonating the cry of the owl (\"chouette\" in French), or specifically the tawny owl, which was called \"chouan\" in old French (French \"chat-huant\"), a designation that survived in the western \"langue d'oïl\" dialect spoken in Mayenne. According to another authority, the only reason the members of the Cottereau family had long borne the surname Chouan was that their grandparent was sad and taciturn by nature, and according to yet another, because they used owl-calls as warning and recognition signals whilst out on smuggling trips. Writing within living memory of the events, Jacques Duchemin des Cépeaux insisted that,\nThe surname of Chouan was given to Jean Chouan's grandfather because he was by nature taciturn and sad and because, at meetings, he kept himself out of the way in a corner. Since that time, the Cottereau family has maintained this surname. It was in turn given to all men who mustered to fight under the command of Jean Chouan, and finally to other royalists in arms in the western provinces. As for the account that the first Chouans imitated the cry of birds of the night to recognise and call each other, it is a supposition made by those who - not knowing the true explanation - nevertheless wanted to have some explanation to satisfy their curiosity... Maybe some insurgents had this idea which was suggested to them by their nickname. Although it is only some, it is to be noted that the bird formerly dedicated to armed wisdom became a sort of emblem for the bellicose piety of our peasants.\"\n\nOne possible reason the name was extended to the royalist troops of Maine, Normandy and Britanny is the riot at Saint-Ouën-des-Toits on 15 August 1792, in which (among others) Jean and René Cottereau participated. There, they signalled to the Laval authorities. Another is that the royalist troops mustered at night using the owl call as a signal.\n\nThe opinion of some historians (including abbot Paulouin) writing on the revolt states that \"the insurgents of the Sarthe did not receive the nickname Chouans, but took it up of their own accord at the beginning of their resistance career\".\n\nThe 19th century historians — J.-J. M. Savary, J.-M. Lequinio the author of \"Mémoires d'un Administrateur des Armées Républicaines dans la Vendée\" — differed. Joseph de Puisaye, the best-informed on the topic after having been the Chouannerie's supreme commander, affirmed that the Chouan brothers gave their name to the revolt which they had first organised.\n\nA curious shield of the revolt seems to bear a sort of official use of owls (also the emblem of Minerva) in representing the Chouannerie. It bore the arms of France, \"right\", supported by two owls, with a double motto, \"IN SAPIENTIA ROBUR\" at the top, \"SIC REFLORESCENT\" at the bottom. It is to be found on some publications emanating from the \"Royalist agencies in England\", notably on the frontispiece of \"l’Almanach Royaliste pour l'année 1795, troisième du règne de Louis XVII, à Nantes (Londres) et se trouve dans toutes les villes de la Bretagne, de la Normandie, du Poitou, du Maine, du Perche, de l'Anjou, etc., et bientôt dans toute la France\" or, in English, \"The Royalist Almanac for the year 1795, third year of the reign of Louis XVII, at Nantes (ie London) and found in all the towns of Britanny, Normandy, Poitou, Maine, Perche, Anjou, and soon throughout the whole of France\".\n"}
{"id": "2025143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025143", "title": "Knight-service", "text": "Knight-service\n\nKnight-service was a form of feudal land tenure under which a knight held a fief or estate of land termed a knight's fee (\"fee\" being synonymous with \"fief\") from an overlord conditional on him as tenant performing military service for his overlord.\n\nIt is associated in its origin with that development in warfare which made the mailed horseman, armed with lance and sword, the most important factor in battle. It was long believed that knight-service was developed out of the liability, under the English system, of every five hides of land to provide one soldier in war. It is now held that, on the contrary, it was a novel system in England when it was introduced after the Conquest by the Normans, who relied essentially on their mounted knights, while the English fought on foot. It existed in Normandy where a knight held a fief termed a \"fief du haubert\", from the hauberk or coat of mail (Latin: \"lorica\") worn by knights. Allusion is made to this in the coronation charter of Henry I (1100), which speaks of those holding by knight-service as \"\" (literally \"soldiers who serve [or are subject to] their lands by means of armour\").\n\nWilliam the Conqueror divided the lay lands of England among his magnates in the form of \"honours\" or great blocks of land. These were subdivided by the magnates into smaller manors and yet smaller divisions or fiefs just large enough to support one knight, termed knight's fees. The knight paid homage to his overlord by taking a vow of loyalty and accepting the obligation to perform military service for his overlord.\n\nThe same system was adopted in Ireland when that country was conquered under Henry II. The magnate who had been enfeoffed by his sovereign for his honour of land could provide the knights required either by hiring them for pay or, more conveniently when wealth was mainly represented by land, by a process of subinfeudation, analogous to that by which he himself had been enfeoffed. That is to say, he could assign to an under-tenant a certain portion of his fief to be held by direct military service or the service of providing a mercenary knight. The land so held would then be described as consisting of one or more knight's fees, but the knight's fee had not any fixed area, as different soils and climates required differing acreages to produce a given profit requisite to support a knight and his entourage. This process could be carried farther till there was a chain of mesne lords between the tenant-in-chief and the actual occupier of the land. The liability for performance of the knight-service was however always carefully defined.\n\nThe chief sources of information for the extent and development of knight-service are the returns (\"cartae\") of the barons (i.e. the tenants-in-chief) in 1166, informing the king, at his request, of the names of their tenants by knight-service with the number of fees they held, supplemented by the payments for scutage recorded on the pipe rolls, by the later returns printed in the \"Book of Fees\", and by the still later ones collected in Feudal Aids.\n\nIn the returns made in 1166 some of the barons appear as having enfeoffed more and some less than the number of knights they had to find. In the latter case they described the balance as being chargeable on their \"demesne\", that is, on the portion of their fief which remained in their own hands. These returns further prove that lands had already been granted for the service of a fraction of a knight, such service being in practice already commuted for a proportionate money payment; and they show that the total number of knights with which land held by military service was charged was not, as was formerly supposed, sixty thousand, but, probably, somewhere between five and six thousand. Similar returns were made for Normandy, and are valuable for the light they throw on its system of knight-service.\n\nThe primary obligation incumbent on every knight was service in the field, when called upon, for forty days a year, with specified armour and arms. There was, however, a standing dispute as to whether he could be called upon to perform this service outside the realm, nor was the question of his expenses free from difficulty. In addition to this primary duty he had, in numerous cases at least, to perform that of castle ward at his lords chief castle for a fixed number of days in the year. On certain baronies also was incumbent the duty of providing knights for the guard of royal castles, such as Windsor, Rockingham and Dover.\n\nUnder the feudal system the tenant by knight-service had also the same pecuniary obligations to his lord as had his lord to the king. These consisted of:\n\nThe principle of commuting for money the obligation of military service struck at the root of the whole system, and so complete was the change of conception that tenure by knight-service of a mesne lord becomes, first in fact and then in law, tenure by \"escuage\" (i.e. scutage). By the time of Henry III, as Bracton states, the test of tenure was scutage; liability, however small, to scutage payment made the tenure military.\n\nThe disintegration of the system was carried further in the latter half of the 13th century as a consequence of changes in warfare, which were increasing the importance of foot soldiers and making the service of a knight for forty days of less value to the king. The barons, instead of paying scutage, compounded for their service by the payment of lump sums, and, by a process which is still obscure, the nominal quotas of knight-service due from each had, by the time of Edward I, been largely reduced. The knight's fee, however, remained a knight's fee, and the pecuniary incidents of military tenure, especially wardship, marriage, and fines on alienation, long continued to be a source of revenue to the crown. But at the Restoration (1660) tenure by knight-service was abolished by the Tenures Abolition Act 1660, and with it these vexatious exactions were abolished.\n\nThe returns of 1166 are preserved in the \"Liber Niger\" (13th century), edited by Hearne, and the \"Liber Rubeus\" or \"Red Book of the Exchequer\" (13th century), edited by H. Hall for the Rolls Series in 1896. The later returns are in the \"Book of Fees\" and in the Record Office volumes of \"Feudal Aids\", arranged under counties.\n\nFor the financial side of knight-service the early pipe rolls have been printed by the Record Commission and the Pipe Roll Society, and abstracts of later ones will be found in \"The Red Book of the Exchequer\", which may be studied on the whole question; but the editors view must be received with caution and checked by JH Round's \"Studies on the Red Book of the Exchequer\" (for private circulation). The \"Baronia Anglica\" of Madox may also be consulted.\n\nThe existing theory on knight-service was enunciated by Mr Round in \"English Historical Review\", vi., vii, and reissued by him in his \"Feudal England\" (1895). It is accepted by Pollock and Maitland (\"History of English Law\"), who discuss the question at length; by Mr JF Baldwin in his \"Scutage and Knight-service in England\" (University of Chicago Press, 1897), a valuable monograph with bibliography; and by Petit-Dutaillis, in his \"Studies supplementary to Stubbs' Constitutional History\" (Manchester University Series, 1908).\n\n"}
{"id": "2025145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025145", "title": "The Revolution Will Not Be Televised (film)", "text": "The Revolution Will Not Be Televised (film)\n\nThe Revolution Will Not Be Televised (Spanish: ), also known as Chávez: Inside the Coup, is a 2003 Irish documentary film. It focuses on events in Venezuela leading up to and during the April 2002 coup d'état attempt, which saw President Hugo Chávez removed from office for two days. With particular emphasis on the role played by Venezuela's private media, the film examines several key incidents: the protest march and subsequent violence that provided the impetus for Chávez's ousting; the opposition's formation of an interim government headed by business leader Pedro Carmona; and the Carmona administration's collapse, which paved the way for Chávez's return. \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" was directed by Irish filmmakers Kim Bartley and Donnacha Ó Briain. Given direct access to Chávez, the filmmakers intended to make a fly-on-the-wall biography of the president. They spent seven months filming in Venezuela, following Chávez and his staff and interviewing ordinary citizens. As the coup unfolded on 11 April, Bartley and Ó Briain filmed on the streets of the capital, Caracas, capturing footage of protesters and the erupting violence. Later, they filmed many of the political upheavals inside Miraflores, the presidential palace.\n\nBartley and Ó Briain conceived of the film after Bartley returned from documenting the aftermath of the 1999 Vargas mudslides for an Irish charity. Following a visit to Venezuela to determine the feasibility of a film project, the pair formed a production company and applied to Ireland's film board, Bord Scannán na hÉireann (BSÉ), for a development grant. At BSÉ's request, the filmmakers partnered with a more experienced producer and shot a short pilot to show to potential investors. Funding for the €200,000 production was provided by BSÉ and several European broadcasters. Bartley and Ó Briain shot more than 200 hours of material; editing focused on identifying footage that would make the film entertaining and drive the plot. It was at this stage that the film's coverage narrowed to concentrate more on the coup attempt.\n\nThe film was positively received by mainstream film critics and won several awards. Reviewers cited the filmmakers' unprecedented proximity to key events and praised the film for its \"riveting narrative\"; criticism focused on its lack of context and pro-Chávez bias. First shown on television in Europe and Venezuela in 2003, \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" later appeared at film festivals and secured a limited theatrical release on the art house circuit. Independent activists held unofficial screenings, and Venezuelan government officials encouraged its circulation to build support for Chávez's administration. The film is regularly shown on Venezuelan television, and in the capital it is often broadcast during \"contentious political conjunctures\". \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" paints Chávez in a favorable light, which has led to disputes over its neutrality and accuracy; particular attention is paid to its framing of the violence of 11–13 April, the filmmakers' editing of the timeline, and the alleged omission of incidents and personnel. The film is variously cited as an accurate portrayal or a misrepresentation of the events of April 2002.\n\nThroughout much of the twentieth century, Venezuela was beset by political, civil and military unrest. After Juan Vicente Gómez's long reign as president ended in 1935, a series of military rulers followed, concluding with Marcos Pérez Jiménez's overthrow by general uprising in 1958. Although the military remained influential, Venezuela's government has since been chosen by civilians through democratic processes. Until 1998, the dominant political parties were Acción Democrática and COPEI, who shared seven presidencies between them. In 1989, during the second term in office for Acción Democrática's Carlos Andrés Pérez, Venezuela was hit by a severe economic crisis. A wave of protests known as the \"Caracazo\" engulfed the country and dozens were killed in rioting.\nHugo Chávez, then a Lieutenant Colonel in the army, had formed a secret revolutionary group (MBR-200) in the early 1980s and was planning a \"rebellious intervention\". He later felt the \"Caracazo\" was a missed opportunity for his movement. Three years later, Chávez saw another chance; in February 1992, he led an unsuccessful military coup d'état and was imprisoned. A second coup attempt, without his involvement, also failed. Chávez enjoyed some popular support for his actions. Released from prison in 1994, he recast his revolutionary group as a legitimate socialist political party, the Fifth Republic Movement. The movement adopted former Venezuelan leader Simón Bolívar as its \"iconic hero\" and \"reference point\"; Bolívar had played a key role in Latin America's successful struggle for independence from Spain in the 1820s. In the 1998 presidential election, Chávez won 56.2% of the vote, on a promise to \"end the corruption of several decades\" and institute a new Bolivarian Revolution that he felt would secure Latin America's true independence from the outside world.\n\nChávez strengthened his support among the poor with a series of social initiatives known as the Bolivarian Missions, and created a network of grass-roots workers' councils, the Bolivarian Circles. Nevertheless, by early 2002, Venezuela was \"embroiled ... in a severe political crisis\" as Chávez sought to bring more of the country's vast oil wealth under state control. Although the state-owned radio and television stations remained staunch advocates of Chávez's stated policies—to redistribute the nation's wealth to the poorest—the private media was more hostile. The crisis reached a head when Chávez attempted to remove the management of the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA), provoking a showdown. \"Oil managers, business leaders, and large segments of organized labor\" called a general strike. The strike was backed by a large segment of the population, \"particularly the country's increasingly impoverished middle class\" and army officers upset at the increasing politicization of the military.\n\nOn 11 April 2002, hundreds of thousands of people marched in protest against the government. Abandoning their planned route, the marchers advanced towards the palace, a path that took them close to government supporters who had come out in opposition to the protest. Journalist Phil Gunson wrote, \"Shooting broke out on all sides. A score of civilians died and more than 150 suffered gunshot wounds. The military high command called for Chávez to resign, and at 3:20 the next morning they announced he had agreed to do so. The presidency was assumed by a business leader, Pedro Carmona Estanga, but his government collapsed in less than forty-eight hours and Chávez returned to power.\"\n\n\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" opens in 2001 with footage of Chávez as he tours the country. Met with \"popular enthusiasm\", he speaks at rallies, decrying neoliberalism and the international community's attacks on his character. The film outlines Chávez's rise to power, before covering his day-to-day routine and appearances on his television show, \"Aló Presidente\", which includes a phone-in for citizens to speak with the president. Chávez outlines his aspiration to be seen as a modern-day Bolívar. Clips from Venezuelan and United States news reports demonstrate a \"relentless campaign\" against the president.\n\nInterviews with communities from both sides of the political divide indicate how Chávez is seen by the rich and poor. The latter support his stated aim to redistribute the country's oil wealth; the former fear totalitarianism and are worried Chávez will institute communism. In February 2002, the media war intensifies after Chavez takes control of PDVSA. The film states that the company was previously run as a private interest for the benefit of a minority, despite being state-owned. Business leader Pedro Carmona and union boss Carlos Ortega are the main voices of the opposition. After the pair visit Washington, D.C., the CIA and the State Department express concern about Chávez's rule and stress the importance of Venezuela's oil. A Venezuelan general appears on private television to voice similar disquiet. Carmona appeals for a public protest at the offices of PDVSA.\n\nOn 11 April, opposition protesters begin their march outside PDVSA's headquarters in Caracas; Chávez's supporters gather outside the presidential palace. The protest route is changed to take it to the palace; shots ring out and civilians are killed. The private media blames Chávez's supporters, citing footage that shows them shooting at opposition protesters from a bridge. The narration states, \"What the TV stations didn't broadcast was [this camera angle], which clearly shows that the streets below were empty. The opposition march had never taken that route.\" Later, the state television signal is cut; rumors circulate that the opposition has taken over the studio. At the palace, members of the military high command demand Chávez's resignation, threatening to bomb the building. The president refuses to resign, but submits to their custody. He is led away, and Carmona announces on television that a transitional government will be established.\n\nOn 12 April, opposition leaders appear on private television, where they disclose their plan to unseat Chávez. Carmona is sworn in as president while images play of unrest on the streets. Defying media censorship, Chávez's supporters disseminate the story that the president did not resign. On 13 April, they gather to protest outside Miraflores, while palace guards plot to retake the building. The guards take up key positions and, at a prearranged signal, take members of the new government prisoner. The state television channel is relaunched and urges the army to back Chávez. \"Full military control\" is returned to the Chávez administration and the president arrives at the palace amid celebratory scenes. Chávez makes an address in which he says it is fine to oppose him, but not the Constitution of Venezuela. The closing titles say Carmona fled to Miami while under house arrest, and that Ortega went into hiding, only reappearing to help lead the opposition after Chávez said there would be no repercussions. Most of the dissident generals, after being expelled from the army, fled to the US. Others remained as part of the opposition.\n\nIn December 1999, independent Irish filmmaker Kim Bartley visited Venezuela as part of Concern Worldwide's emergency response team, to document the aftermath of the 1999 Vargas mudslides that had devastated much of Vargas State in the north of the country. Bartley become fascinated with how those affected by the tragedy perceived Chávez, and in late 2000, she and Donnacha Ó Briain—a filmmaker and former colleague who shared her interest in \"Latin American politics and issues around globalization\"—spent two weeks in Caracas to determine the feasibility of a film project. The pair formed a production company, Runway Films, and in January 2001 applied to Ireland's film board, Bord Scannán na hÉireann (BSÉ), for a development grant. Bartley and Ó Briain proposed a fly-on-the-wall documentary, a \"personal profile and intimate portrait\" of Chávez that would be \"broadly supportive\" of him. During their 2000 visit, the filmmakers had sensed that \"something genuinely was happening\" in Caracas, and felt an urgency to get the project underway; even so, it wasn't until April 2001 that BSÉ approved the £6000 (€9500) grant.\n\nThe project was at this point named \"Aló Presidente\", a working title taken from Chávez's weekly television and radio program. BSÉ set about exploring avenues of funding; the organization persuaded Bartley and Ó Briain to make a short pilot to show to potential investors, but refused the filmmakers' application for a €60,000 grant towards their €131,000 production budget. BSÉ felt the pair needed to partner with a production company that had experience in the field, and which could help raise the remaining funds. Bartley and Ó Briain approached Power Pictures and, with the addition of David Power as a producer, reapplied for the grant. Even as filming began, the full budget—now at €200,000—had not been secured. David Power pitched the project at several documentary festivals and markets. At Dublin's Stranger Than Fiction festival in September 2001, the BBC, S4C and Channel 4 declined to invest. Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ) expressed interest in providing development funds; no such deal was made, but RTÉ did offer €10,000 (subsequently €20,000) for the Irish broadcast rights. In October, the Dutch broadcaster Nederlandse Programma Stichting also committed €10,000. At a November market in Amsterdam, Power once again approached the BBC and was turned down, as the organization believed the film's subject was \"too far away to be relevant to [its viewers'] lives\". However, RTÉ's Kevin Dawson pushed the film at a European Broadcasting Union pitching session, securing the interest of German television channel ZDF, which subsequently provided funds. In late 2001, BSÉ finally approved a production grant of €63,000.\n\nIn 2000, Bartley and Ó Briain had been promised \"exclusive access\" to Chávez by the government's Minister of Communications. They arrived in Venezuela in September 2001. While filming the pilot they met the president, after which they reconsidered their approach. Bartley explained, \"We had ... this notion of investigating Chávez—was he a demagogue? Was the media persona just that? What makes him tick? My sense had changed as we got closer; what we're seeing here is a guy who is motivated, driven, not the demagogue with another side, drinking, carousing. I began to see him as more transparent—what you see is what you get.\" Bartley and Ó Briain began by attempting to build a relationship with Chávez that would allow them the access they required. At first, the president's staff treated the filmmakers with suspicion and made filming difficult. After numerous delays, Bartley and Ó Briain finally got through to Chávez. They calculated that they needed to \"press the right buttons\" to gain his support, so they presented him with an old edition of the memoirs of the general Daniel Florence O'Leary, who had fought alongside Simón Bolívar. Inside, they had written a quote from the Irish socialist playwright Seán O'Casey. Slowly, Bartley and Ó Briain gained their subjects' trust, \"dissolving any self-consciousness as a result of their cameras\".\n\nAlthough ensconced with Chávez and his entourage, Bartley and Ó Briain felt a disconnect from the events of the outside world. During a \"chaotic\" road-trip with Chávez, they \"knew something was coming\", and divined that Chávez's trip was intended to bolster his support and \"get people used to being on the streets\". Chávez had recently \"upped the ante\" with the introduction of the Land Law. Increasing tensions further, in February 2002, Chávez took control of PDVSA; the private media stepped up its criticism of Chávez, which for Bartley and Ó Briain \"marked the beginning of an exciting phase\". By April 2002, Bartley and Ó Briain were in Caracas and spent much of their time filming at the presidential palace, following Chávez and his staff. As the 11 April crisis unfolded, Bartley and Ó Briain filmed outside the palace, first capturing footage of the demonstrations and subsequent violence, then events inside the palace during the afternoon, evening and early hours of 12 April. Through their previous contacts at the palace, Bartley and Ó Briain were able to continue filming without interference: \"no one paid any attention to us—we just blended in.\" Later that day, Bartley and Ó Briain stayed away from the palace through fears for their safety. Unable to leave the country—the international airport was closed—the filmmakers instead took to the streets, \"to document the repression [they] were witnessing\". At the same time, a press office cameraman was in the palace, \"reluctant to lose his job despite the change in government\". He filmed the formation of the interim government. When Bartley and Ó Briain returned to the palace on 13 April, the cameraman let them have his footage. They remained filming in Venezuela until July 2002, interviewing residents and recording \"witness\" accounts from those who had been present during the coup—ministers, security guards and journalists.\n\nUsing two digital video (DV) cameras, Bartley and Ó Briain shot over 200 hours of material on 300 DV tapes. They intended that editing take ten weeks; instead, it took six months. Rod Stoneman, BSÉ's CEO at the time, described the amount of footage compared to the film's final length as \"exceptional\". The 200:1 ratio was far above the norm for most documentaries, which usually have a ratio of 10:1 or 15:1. When the filmmakers returned to Ireland, they decided they needed an editor who spoke Spanish. Bartley remembered a documentary she had seen about baseball in Cuba, \"El juego de Cuba\", so they hired its editor, Ángel Hernández Zoido. Zoido approached the film as if it were entertainment, feeling that the primary concern was to ensure the audience did not get bored. He tackled each scene the same way. After watching the rushes with Bartley and Ó Briain, Zoido asked them, \"What do we want to tell in this scene?\" He focused on two factors: how much information would be necessary to drive the plot, and provide an emotional core. Preferring to work alone, Zoido would then send the filmmakers from the edit suite. After Zoido completed the scene, the trio discussed whether those aims had been realized.\n\nThe large amount of footage, and the fact that the filmmakers were \"in a sense ... looking at it for the first time\", meant that the film's concept only became clear during editing. The events of 11–13 April gave it \"a new dramatic centre\", although Bartley and Ó Briain were keen that the film did not concentrate entirely on the coup. They had intended to include more historical and political context; it wasn't until late in post-production that the focus narrowed to include more emphasis on the media's role in Venezuelan politics. In October 2002, a two-hour \"rough cut\" was shown to Stoneman and Brendan McCarthy, BSÉ's head of Production and Development. This version included the \"witness\" accounts that Bartley and Ó Briain had captured after April 2002. Stoneman felt that these sequences reinforced the film's claims, but \"diluted its originality\". He argued that they be cut, and that to compensate, Bartley and Ó Briain should record a voice-over and place themselves more in the frame as witness-protagonists, ideas that the filmmakers initially resisted.\n\nAs editing progressed, budget shortfalls prevented BSÉ from finalizing contracts. The organization also restricted post-production funds to \"limit [its] exposure\" in the event the project was not completed. Stoneman contacted a former colleague at the BBC, Nick Fraser, who had declined to help finance the film in 2001. Fraser was commissioning editor for the BBC's \"Storyville\" documentaries series. According to Stoneman, Fraser was \"still undecided\", having been told by the head of BBC Two that \"we've done Chávez\". Nevertheless, the BBC pre-purchased the film and in December 2002 received a rough cut. At the BBC's behest, the opening of the television version was made more dramatic. Fraser was unsure about the voice-over; he asked for a more \"opinionated\" narration that, according to Bartley, would \"get the boot in\". Although the BBC did not ask outright, Bartley's impression was that the organization wanted the film to be \"against Chávez\". Fraser later said he had asked for the filmmakers to \"include [an interview] with someone not a Chávez supporter\". He also suggested that a more experienced director be employed to help edit the film. The filmmakers \"made a few minor concessions\", but resisted major edits. Ó Briain's voice-over in the final cut was \"polished up but not significantly changed\".\n\nThe filmmakers created two versions of the film. \"Chávez: Inside the Coup\", intended for television broadcast, lasts 52 minutes. The feature-length \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\"—which takes its name from the Gil Scott-Heron song of the same name—is 74 minutes long.\n\n\"Chávez: Inside the Coup\" aired on RTÉ One on 18 February 2003, as an installment of the channel's \"True Lives\" documentary series. The broadcast prompted a passionate public and critical response, and \"lively debate\" on radio and in newspapers; RTÉ soon arranged for a repeat broadcast. In the United Kingdom, it aired on BBC Two on 16 October 2003, as part of the channel's \"Storyville\" documentary strand, and on BBC Four on 18 November 2003. \"Chavez: Inside the Coup\" also aired in Canada, Japan, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Finland and Denmark. The speed of the television broadcasts left a full theatrical run unlikely—a fact the filmmakers later regretted. The film also failed to be picked up by a television company in the US, although HBO was interested at one point. In Venezuela, \"La revolución no será transmitida\" premièred on 13 April 2003, on state television channel Venezolana de Televisión (VTV). It has since been shown regularly on Venezuelan television; the state-funded community station Catia TVe often broadcasts the film during \"contentious political conjunctures\", such as the 2004 recall referendum, the 2006 presidential election, and in 2007 to \"help build support\" for the government's controversial attempt to not renew the license of private television network RCTV.\n\n\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" screened at several film festivals in 2003, winning numerous awards. Beginning with the South by Southwest festival on 7 March, its festival appearances included the Banff World Television Festival, the Seattle International Film Festival, the Marseille Festival of Documentary Film, the Three Continents Film Festival, the Chicago International Film Festival, the Monaco International Film Festival, the Galway Film Fleadh and the Los Angeles Wine & Country Festival. In March 2003, a VHS copy of the film screened to under 100 people as part of an American Cinematheque Irish film festival in Los Angeles. Among the viewers was the president of Vitagraph Films, David Schultz, who bought the rights for theatrical distribution and paid for the film to be converted from video. Schultz initially struggled to secure the support of exhibitors; they were skeptical of the film's commercial prospects, and believed \"the environment was not hospitable\" for a film critical of the US so close to the start of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. They only became receptive a few months later, when political perceptions shifted and the public became more aware of Venezuela because of its oil wealth. One such exhibitor was the Film Forum in New York City. Mike Maggiore, a programmer at the theater, worked to market the film and raise its profile with film critics. He created press kits and circulated information to appeal to \"a particular audience\".\n\n\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" premièred to the public at the Film Forum in November 2003. The showing was accompanied by protests outside the theater from supporters and detractors of the film, both of whom \"attempted to influence audience reception\". A few weeks previously, the film had been withdrawn from an Amnesty International film festival in Vancouver; staff at the organization's Caracas arm said they \"feared for their safety if it were shown\". The film's success at the 2003 Grierson Awards was also overshadowed by a letter to the Grierson jury from London-based Venezuelan filmmakers, who disputed its version of events. Opposition demonstrators at the Film Forum première attempted to throw doubt on the film's \"impartiality, precision, veracity, editorial integrity, and ideological independence\", while supporters \"encouraged theatergoers to denounce censorship\" and sign a petition. Opposition protests also greeted showings in Canada, Australia and France. The run at the Film Forum earned $26,495 (€22,600)—several thousand above Maggiore's expectations. After a limited run in theaters in six cities, the film had earned over $200,000 (€171,000), not quite profitable, but still considered \"a significant sum for a documentary\".\n\nBartley and Ó Briain showed the film to Chávez in February 2003. They recalled his response as \"quite emotional\". BSÉ waived Venezuelan licensing fees for the film; on 13 April, it was screened simultaneously with the television broadcast at a cinema in Caracas, before which Chávez made a speech saying, \"Watch this film and you will see the face of the coup.\" Pro-Chávez activists also distributed the film unofficially. The Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador screened the film in New York City, where Bolivarian Circle members \"accepted donations\" for bootleg copies. \"El Universal\" said the Venezuelan government had 10,000 copies made, and according to \"National Review\", the Venezuela Information Office (VIO) \"encouraged art-house theaters\" to screen the film. Government representatives aided the film's distribution officially and unofficially. Venezuelan filmmaker Wolfgang Schalk said the film counted on the worldwide support of Venezuelan embassies and a public relations effort to show the film free at universities and theaters in cities such as San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago and New York. Peace Action New York was given permission for a screening during a fund raiser in the Lincoln Center, where 250 people paid $35 (€30) each to see the film and take part in a \"question-and-answer session\" with guests such as Leonor Granado, the Venezuelan Consul General. The consulate office made DVDs of the film available to \"anyone who wanted a copy\", as Granado said the film was vital to \"building support in [the US] for the Venezuelan government\".\n\nJournalist Michael McCaughan invited a group of people who held anti-Chávez views to a screening of the film. He said some among the audience changed their opinion of Chávez after seeing it, although many remained hostile. McCaughan said the consensus opinion was that the film was excellent' and reasonably objective\", but that \"Chávez remained a dictator leading the country to a totalitarian grave\". As of 2006, groups such as Global Exchange were arranging tours to Venezuela that included a screening of the film.\n\nIn Venezuela, debate about \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" is \"often acrimonious\". The film has become key to framing people's understanding of the events of April 2002. The previously accepted international view was that Chávez's ousting came from a \"spontaneous popular response\" to the repression of his regime; the film \"directly contradicts\" this position, and since its release it has rapidly become \"the prevailing interpretation of [the crisis]\". The film's critics charge that it omits or misrepresents important events. Much of the criticism is centered on the filmmakers' \"use of stock [documentary] devices\", such as compositing clips from several events to present them as one incident. Parallel editing also depicts sequences as if they occurred at the same time, when some of the footage was captured on different days. Bartley and Ó Briain justify these methods as standard practice in the construction of documentary realist films. Caracas-based journalist Phil Gunson, writing in \"Columbia Journalism Review\", says that most of the film critics who embraced the film ignored \"the complex, messy reality\" of the situation. He charges that the filmmakers \"omit key facts, invent others, twist the sequence of events to support their case, and replace inconvenient images with others dredged from archives\". Bartley and Ó Briain argue that Gunson's points are \"issues of dispute\" that \"continue to divide opinion\" in Venezuela. Author Brian A. Nelson says that Bartley and Ó Briain—in their initial meeting with Chávez—did more than merely invoke the Irish general Daniel O'Leary to gain the president's support for filming; Nelson alleges that they offered to portray the president positively in return for open access, with a \"you scratch my back if I scratch yours\" understanding that he says was ultimately reflected in the film's \"unabashed pro-Chavismo.\"\n\nSoon after the film's October 2003 broadcast on BBC Two, Venezuelan engineer and filmmaker Wolfgang Schalk began a campaign against \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\", representing \"El Gusano de Luz\" (\"The Worm of Light\"), an organization associated with the Venezuelan opposition. In July, Schalk had complained to RTÉ about its broadcast of the film. On 21 October, \"El Gusano de Luz\" published a \"detailed critique\" as part of an internet petition that attracted 11,000 signatories, 85% of whom self-identified as Venezuelan. Directed at the European broadcasters that financed and aired the film, the petition said in part, \"\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" is being presented as an author's film, as an objective journalistic research film, while it is really a very well plotted and accomplished propaganda operation, supported logistically by the Venezuelan government, with the aim of misleading unprepared spectators of countries who do not know the totality of events.\" The petition submitted 18 specific points of contention with the film. Venezuelan private television soon aired two programs \"dissecting and denouncing\" the film, and similar newspaper articles followed.\n\nMuch of the anger about the film stemmed from its high-profile internationally; that it had been \"blessed with the imprimatur of the BBC ... with its connotations of fair and authoritative reporting\" only made matters worse. John Burns, writing in \"The Sunday Times\", restated many of Gunson's arguments, and the BBC received 4,000 e-mails demanding that \"Storyville\"s commissioning editor, Nick Fraser, be sacked. Toward the end of 2003, the weight of criticism forced the BBC to act. The corporation's complaints unit opened an investigation, and Fraser said the BBC would not show the film again until it had concluded. He wrote to David Power expressing particular concern over an error with the end titles and the use of out-of-chronology footage, saying the latter was \"a real problem—particularly ... since it has been used in a film dedicated to exposing the frauds of Venezuelan TV\". The furor came at a difficult time for the corporation, which was under the spotlight of the Hutton Inquiry, the official investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of David Kelly; the BBC had been criticized for reporting that intelligence dossiers had been \"sexed up\" by the UK government to justify the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nThe petition's claims were also taken up by the UK's independent telecommunications regulator, Ofcom. The body investigated official protests made by several Caracas residents. The concerns largely focused on footage of the residents' attending a neighborhood meeting in June 2002, which was positioned in the film as a prelude to the April coup attempt. The residents said that the filmmakers had used footage of them without consent and that the film had misrepresented their views. In September 2005, Ofcom provisionally ruled that it had not upheld the complaints, citing the BBC's internal review and rebuttal as grounds. A subsequent appeal by the residents was unsuccessful. Two weeks after Ofcom's initial ruling, the BBC announced it had closed the complaint and that no further investigations would take place. Stoneman believed the BBC had overreacted, saying its guardedness was merely a product of being a frequent victim of press attacks on its ethos. Fraser said, \"The film was very good in many respects, but also misleading.\" He believed the filmmakers considered Chávez honorable, but having written a book on Peronism was more skeptical himself. Fraser concluded, \"I still think it's a good film, because of the coup sequence. It should be seen as a Venezuelan \"West Wing\"—biased, of course, but highly entertaining.\"\n\nOne of the film's key contentions is that the private media aired footage selectively to make it look like the violence of 11 April was caused by Chávez's supporters, portraying them as an \"irrational and uncivilized mob\". Private television repeatedly showed Chávez's supporters on Puente Llaguno as they shot at Baralt Avenue below, an area purportedly full of opposition marchers. The film says this footage was edited to show the gunmen but not the people near them who were ducking to avoid being shot. It follows with images taken from above the bridge showing an empty Baralt Avenue, claiming that \"the opposition march had never taken that route\" and that Chávez's supporters were only returning fire. Gunson charges that this edit is itself a misrepresentation, stating that the film does not mention that both sets of marchers were fired upon, and taking issue with the implication that \"coup plotters\" were the shooters. In response, the filmmakers say, \"Nowhere in the film did we say that only [Chávez's supporters] were shot ... Nobody can say with certainty who orchestrated the shootings.\" Gunson also asserts that the footage of the empty street was taken earlier that day, citing an \"analysis of the shadows\" by Schalk, who created a counter-documentary, \"X-Ray of a Lie\", to examine \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" \"scene by scene to uncover [its] narrative strategies and use of artifice\". Brian A. Nelson agreed with the analysis, claiming that Baralt Avenue was not as empty as the film portrays and that the filmmakers \"put a black bar at the top of the frame to hide the Metropolitan Police trucks that were still there\". Bartley and Ó Briain reaffirmed their claim that the opposition did not pass below the Puente Llaguno bridge, citing eyewitness statements—including one from \"Le Monde Diplomatique\"s deputy editor—and an Australian documentary, \"Anatomy of a Coup\", that \"came to conclusions similar to our own\". A Venezuelan documentary, \"\", also supported Bartley and Ó Briain's view.\n\nOther issues of contention include the lack of historical context; the film does not cover some of the events leading up to Chávez's ousting, including the long-running political crisis and the general strike. Gunson also criticizes the filmmakers for showing events out of order. In June 2002, they filmed an opposition community group as its members considered \"how to defend themselves against possible ... attacks\" from Chávez's supporters. In the film, this sequence is placed before the march. Bartley justified the action, saying that the residents' opinions were representative of those held \"long before\" the events of April 2002. Responding to the critique, the BBC added a date stamp to the sequence for the film's repeat broadcast. Gunson also cites footage of Caracas mayor Freddy Bernal as he sings to a happy group of Chávez supporters in front of the palace. Later images of a \"differently dressed Bernal\" reveal that the footage was from another day. Similarly, Gunson says that until shot at, \"The opposition march was entirely peaceful.\" The film presents footage of its \"violent finale\"—including an image from another day—as if it occurred during the protest's approach to the palace, accompanied by the narrated claim that \"some in the vanguard looked ready for a fight\". Bartley and Ó Briain admit that they included a \"limited\" amount of archive footage, but say it was a \"legitimate reconstruction\" to build context \"before the core narrative of the coup [took] off\" as they \"could not be everywhere filming at all times\".\n\n\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" claims that state television was \"the only channel to which [Chávez] had access\", but does not mention that during the violence he requisitioned \"all radio and TV frequencies\" to broadcast his two-hour address. Private television circumvented the rules allowing this action by splitting the screen, showing Chávez's address on one side and footage of the violence on the other. Chávez subsequently took television stations RCTV and Venevisión off the air. The film's assertion that VTV was taken over by opposition \"plotters\" is also disputed; according to \"X-Ray of a Lie\" and Gunson, staff left willingly. Gunson further alleges that footage of VTV's signal being cut—mid-interview with a government legislator—was fabricated. Bartley and Ó Briain say they witnessed ministers' being unable to broadcast and that the International Federation of Journalists corroborated their claim that opposition forces took over VTV. The film also presents footage of armored vehicles around the palace, which Gunson says were there at the request of the president, not the opposition. He also challenges the film for presenting Chávez's supporters as \"invariably poor, brown-skinned, and cheerful\" and the opposition as \"rich, white, racist, and violent\". He says that the opposition protests were multiracial and that armed government supporters \"made the center of Caracas a no-go area\". Bartley and Ó Briain cite several commentators who uphold the claim that Chávez's supporters \"were broadly poor and dark-skinned and the opposition broadly white and middle class\", including Gunson himself in an April 2002 article in \"The Christian Science Monitor\". Gunson does agree that the film was right to point out that the private media \"behaved disgracefully\" by \"systematically [excluding the pro-Chávez] viewpoint from print, radio, and TV\" during the period of the coup.\n\nOf greater concern, Gunson says, is the \"deliberate blurring of responsibility for the coup\". The film presents the idea that the military commanders dispersed, \"leaving a total power vacuum\". However, the high command's senior figure, General Lucas Rincón (who announced Chávez's resignation on television), was not part of the coup and remained in the government after April 2002. The petition draws the conclusion, \"(1) either General Rincón stated a truth that was accepted throughout the whole country ... or (2) General Rincón lied, because he was an accomplice ... that seems not to be the truth because he [remained in Chávez's administration].\" Only one of the high command joined Carmona's interim administration before contributing to its downfall by withdrawing his support. The military leaders shown withdrawing their support for Chávez were not the high command, and Vice-Admiral Hector Ramirez Perez was not the head of the navy, as the film claims. Gunson says, \"With one solitary exception, these generals and admirals had not 'fled abroad' after the Carmona government collapsed.\" Although Bartley and Ó Briain accept that Rincón said Chávez \"had agreed to resign\", they reiterate that \"elements in the military [threatened] force in the effort to make Chávez resign\"; the filmmakers say it is \"irrelevant\" that the whole military did not join the coup, as this \"is the case with most coups\". General Rincón's announcement was omitted because they felt it was \"supplementary to the main, key fact of the story\", that no documentary evidence of the resignation exists.\n\nSchalk investigated \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" for five months. In 2004, he and producer Thaelman Urguelles responded to the film with their own documentary, \"X-Ray of a Lie\", which set out to expose its \"manipulation\". Schalk said the film \"presented a distorted version of events ... to fit a story that appeals to audiences\". Schalk is associated with the Venezuelan opposition; Bartley and Ó Briain say that it is \"not insignificant that Schalk has led the well-resourced campaign, linked to [the opposition], to discredit and suppress [the film]\".\n\nIn 2008, Stoneman published \"Chavez: The Revolution Will Not Be Televised – A Case Study of Politics and the Media\". A book \"of film studies rather than politics\", it nevertheless looks in detail at the petition's arguments. Stoneman \"broadly absolves\" the filmmakers; he concludes, \"There were some relatively small examples of slippage in the grammar of the piece, but overall the film was made with honesty and integrity. Of the 18 objections made, 15, if not 17, were wrong. The filmmakers spent a long time assembling evidence to show why they'd done what they'd done in the film and mostly it's true.\" Stoneman conceded that the filmmakers' \"cinéma vérité\" approach meant that for wider historical and political context, viewers should look elsewhere. Stoneman received an \"Executive Producer\" credit on the film, which he explains as an unasked-for gratuity that came by virtue of his position as head of BSÉ.\n\nAmong mainstream critics in the US and UK, the film received almost exclusively positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 98% of 48 sampled critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 7.9 out of 10. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average out of 100 to critics' reviews, the film received a score of 82 based on 24 reviews. Almost all local and national film critics in the United States said the film presented a \"riveting narrative\", but conceded that it was a biased account of the events.\nFrank Scheck, writing in \"The Hollywood Reporter\", said the film presented an enthralling story that \"resembles a taut ... political thriller\", and Roger Ebert in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called it a \"remarkable documentary\" full of \"astonishing shots\". Both critics said the film was made so through the filmmakers' unique inside access to the events at the palace with Ebert calling that aspect \"unique in film history\". Although Ebert was generally very praising of the film, he criticised the way in which Chávez's opponents were portrayed, while Shenk faulted the lack of historical context; however, he said this was balanced by the film's \"brevity and succinctness\". In \"Variety\", Scott Foundas wrote that the film was a \"superior example of fearless filmmakers in exactly the right place at the right time\", and likely the best of a string of documentaries that have shone the light on US involvement in South America. He had praise for the camera work and editing, and said the film was a \"startling record\" that reached \"another level\" when events shifted to the presidential palace. He cited these scenes—along with those of the protesters' clashing—as ones that \"spark with a vibrant tension and uncertainty\".\n\nJ. Hoberman of \"The Village Voice\" said the film was a \"gripping\" account that did \"an excellent job in deconstructing the Venezuelan TV news footage of blood, chaos, and rival crowds\", and said it was \"nearly a textbook on media manipulation\". Writing for \"The New York Times\", Stephen Holden said the film was \"a riveting documentary\" that delivered \"the suspense of a smaller-scale \"Seven Days in May\"\", citing the way in which it examined how television can be used to \"deceive and manipulate the public\". He reproached the film's uncritical depiction of Chávez, and how it hinted at CIA involvement without presenting any proof. Ty Burr in \"The Boston Globe\" called the film \"our best chance\" to find out what really happened on 11–13 April, but cautioned that the filmmakers' \"pro-Chávez stance\" meant that for wider context audiences should look elsewhere, as it left out too much of Chávez's record. Burr also said the film's attempt to make the US into a villain was ineffective. He said, \"because [the filmmakers] view the chasm that divides Venezuela purely in the context of the Cold War and Latin American political instability, they downplay the class warfare that's exploding right in front of them.\" Nevertheless, Burr concluded that the film's narrow focus remained engrossing.\n\nDesson Thomson of \"The Washington Post\" stated that the film successfully reproduced the \"panic and fear\" at the palace as events unfolded, saying it came across like a \"raw, Costa-Gavras-style thriller\" that was \"worth watching down to the last thrilling minute\". He said that knowing how uncertain Venezuela's future was made the film even more powerful. Thomson believed the handheld video was put to good use, calling its \"news-breaking immediacy ... intoxicating\". He concluded, \"\"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" is an extraordinary piece of electronic history. And a riveting movie.\" In the \"Miami New Times\", Brett Sokol agreed that the film was \"never less than thrilling\", but said that as history, it was \"strictly agitprop\". Similarly, Mark Jenkins wrote in the \"Washington City Paper\" that the film was \"unapologetically polemical\", but \"notable foremost as a gripping you-are-there account\".\n\nThe film won several awards in 2003–04. It was also nominated for Best Documentary and Best Irish Film at the Irish Film and Television Awards. The annual International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam gives an acclaimed filmmaker the chance to screen his or her Top 10 films. In 2007, Iranian filmmaker Maziar Bahari selected \"The Revolution will not be Televised\" for his top ten classics from the history of films.\n\nAnnotations\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2025146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025146", "title": "Háry János", "text": "Háry János\n\nHáry János is a Hungarian folk opera (that is, a spoken play with songs, in the manner of a \"Singspiel\") in four acts by Zoltán Kodály to a Hungarian libretto by (1881–1945) and Zsolt Harsányi, based on the comic epic \"The Veteran\" (\"Az obsitos\") by János Garay. The first performance was at the Royal Hungarian Opera House, Budapest, 1926. The subtitle of the piece is \"Háry János kalandozásai Nagyabonytul a Burgváráig\" – \"János Háry: his Adventures from Nagyabony (Great Abony) to the Vienna Burg\". The UK stage premiere was at the Buxton Festival in 1982 conducted by Anthony Hose with Alan Opie in the title role.\n\nThe story is of a veteran hussar in the Austrian army in the first half of the 19th century who sits in the village inn regaling his listeners with fantastic tales of heroism (in the tradition of Miles Gloriosus). His supposed exploits include winning the heart of the Empress Marie Louise, the wife of Napoleon, and then single-handedly defeating Napoleon and his armies. Nevertheless, he finally renounces all riches in order to go back to his village with his sweetheart.\n\nKodály wrote in his preface to the score: \"Háry is a peasant, a veteran soldier who day after day sits at the tavern spinning yarns about his heroic exploits... the stories released by his imagination are an inextricable mixture of realism and naivety, of comic humour and pathos.\" He also comments that \"though superficially he appears to be merely a braggart, essentially he is a natural visionary and poet. That his stories are not true is irrelevant, for they are the fruit of a lively imagination, seeking to create, for himself and for others, a beautiful dream world.\" \"Háry János\" embodies the poetic power of folklore to go beyond political frustrations; Kodály intended to bring his national folk music to an operatic setting.\n\nBoth the opera and the suite begin with an orchestral 'musical sneeze', best explained in Kodály's own words: \"According to Hungarian superstition, if a statement is followed by a sneeze of one of the hearers, it is regarded as confirmation of its truth. The Suite begins with a sneeze of this kind! One of Háry's group of faithful listeners … sneezes at the wildest assertions of the old tale-spinner.\"\n\nOverture\n\n\"Prologue – The Tale Begins\"\n\nIn the Hungarian village of Nagyabony people gather at the tavern. A picture of Napoleon hangs on the wall. The regulars and students wait glass in hand for the next tale from the old soldier Háry János.\n\n\"First Adventure – On the frontier near Moscow\"\n\nA border crossing point between Galicia and Russia; there is frost and ice on the Russian side, sun shining and flowers blooming on the Hungarian side. János, after having got rid of all his female admirers meets Örzse. \n\nThe court chamberlain complains that Mária Lujza and her retinue have not been able to cross the frontier. Örzse and János talk with Marci, a Hungarian coachman working at the French Court, who tells them that Mária Lujza, the daughter of the Emperor, is being refused passage by the Russian guard. János pushes the border gate along the ground, so that she finds herself across the Hungarian frontier. Marci toasts the young couple as Örzse and János sing a duet. Ebelasztin says the noise is disturbing the rest of the princess. However when Mária Lujza enters she takes a fancy to János and invites him to come to Vienna and enter the Imperial Guard. He asks for double rations for his horse, Hungarian livery for Marci, and for Örzse to come with him. The Russian sentry is worried that he will be punished if he is found in the wrong country. Ebelasztin fails to push the frontier post back, but János manages to do it.\n\n\"Intermezzo\"\n\n\"Second Adventure – In the Garden of the Imperial Palace, Vienna Burg\"\n\nThe park is resplendent. In the course of conversation between János and Marci Ebelasztin's dislike of János becomes clear. Mária Lujza tells János to seek her if he ever needs assistance. Ebelasztin sends János to the stables where he has to ride the wildest horse, but János returns from the roof unruffled by the ride. Mária Lujza points out János to the Empress. The envious Ebelasztin tells Örzse that he has in his pocket the declaration of war from Napoleon which he intends to use; moments later military sounds emerge from inside the palace. János has been promoted to captain by the Emperor. As the curtain falls an enormous cannon is wheeled on.\n\n\"Third Adventure – A battlefield near Milan.\"\n\nHáry János, by now promoted to the rank of colonel, single-handedly wins the battle with the wind from drawing his sword, and has Napoleon kneeling for mercy. The emperor’s wife now wants to win his heart, to the consternation of Örzse. Mária Lujza and Örzse argue over János, who refuses to marry the princess, who in turn threatens suicide. János saves the situation and leads the soldiers in a rousing march.\n\n\"Fourth Adventure – Imperial Palace, Vienna Burg.\"\n\nThe preparations for the wedding of the hero János and the infatuated princess are under way, but János can't eat. All the archdukes come and pay homage to the hero. Örzse arrives to take leave of Háry but, now an infantryman, he swears allegiance to the Emperor - whether as a soldier or farmer. True to her and to his homeland, despite all the imperial trappings they leave the court.\n\n\"Epilogue\"\n\nBack at the inn in Nagyabony, János concludes by telling his sleeping audience that the condition of freeing Napoleon was that a gold watch should be sent to the headman of the village – who replies that he never got it. János states that the only person who can corroborate his story is Örzse – who is now dead.\n\n\nFrom the music of the opera, Kodály extracted the orchestral \"Háry János Suite\", a popular piece in the classical repertoire. This notably includes the cimbalom, a traditional Hungarian variant of the hammer dulcimer. The world première of the suite was at the Gran Teatro del Liceo Barcelona, on 24 March 1927, by the Pau Casals Orchester conducted by Antal Fleischer.\n\nThe suite is scored for three flutes (all doubling piccolo), 2 oboes, 2 clarinets in B-flat (one doubling clarinet in E-flat and one doubling alto saxophone), 2 bassoons, 4 horns in F, 3 trumpets in C, 3 cornets in B-flat (used in the last movement only), 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, snare drum, bass drum, cymbals, triangle, tambourine, tam-tam, glockenspiel, chimes, xylophone, celesta, piano, cimbalom and strings.\n\nThe movements of the Háry János Suite are as follows:\n\nThe play has thrice been adapted into films, all Hungarian: a 1941 film \"Háry János\" directed by Frigyes Bán, a 1965 film \"Háry János\" directed by Miklós Szinetár and a 1983 animated film \"Háry János\" directed by Zsolt Richly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025149", "title": "Claude-François-Dorothée, marquis de Jouffroy d'Abbans", "text": "Claude-François-Dorothée, marquis de Jouffroy d'Abbans\n\nClaude-François-Dorothée, marquis de Jouffroy d'Abbans, born on September 30th 1751 - died on July 18th 1832 is a French naval architect and engineer. He is the inventor of the first steamboat, leading to the first industrial revolution by launching a new dynamic on the waters of the globe.\n\nIn 1773, Jouffroy d'Abbans met with the brothers and studied in their workshop the \"\" (Fire pump), which had been used as a motive force for the hydraulic machine developed by Chaillot, in order to apply it to ship propulsion.\n\nIn 1776, Jouffroy d'Abbans developed a 13-meter steamship, the \"Palmipède\", in which the engine moved oars equipped with rotating blades. The ship sailed on the Doubs in June and July 1776.\nIn 1783, he made a paddle steamer named the \"Pyroscaphe\" ply on the Saône. However, the Académie des Sciences prohibited him from using his invention in Paris, and instead nominated Périer, one of de Jouffroy d'Abbans' opponents whose previous attempts had failed, to inspect the project. Further misfortunes due to the French Revolution hindered his progress. His claim was acknowledged by Arago and in 1840 by the French Academy. Jouffroy published \"Les bateaux à vapeur\" and wrote for the Academy \"Mémoires sur les pompes à feu\". Impoverished, he retired to the Hôtel des Invalides and died there of cholera.\n\nIn 1803, more than 20 years after d'Abbans' inaugural trip, Robert Fulton would succeed in sailing a steamship of his conception on the Seine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025168", "title": "Never the Twain", "text": "Never the Twain\n\nNever the Twain is a British sitcom that ran for eleven series from 7 September 1981 to 9 October 1991.\n\nIt was created by Johnnie Mortimer, and was the only sitcom he ever created without his usual writing partner, Brian Cooke. Mortimer wrote the entirety of the first two series, one episode of the seventh, and five out of six episodes of the eighth, with the rest being mainly written by John Kane and Vince Powell (who wrote the whole of the last three series).\n\nThe series starred Windsor Davies (previously known for \"It Ain't Half Hot, Mum\") and Donald Sinden as rival antique dealers, and also co-starred Robin Kermode (later replaced by Christopher Morris), Julia Watson (later replaced by Tacy Kneale), Honor Blackman, Teddy Turner, Derek Deadman, Maria Charles and Zara Nutley.\n\nIt was made by Thames Television for the ITV network. Since its run ended, it has been repeated a few times, including on UK Gold, later on ITV3, and more recently on Forces TV. Unfortunately on the last two screenings of the series on Forces TV, the penultimate episode was screened twice rather than the final episode.\n\nThe title is taken from the Rudyard Kipling poem \"The Ballad of East and West\". The show's theme tune was composed by Jack Trombey and the track was entitled \"Domino\".\n\nOliver Smallbridge, played by Windsor Davies, and Simon Peel, played by Donald Sinden, are antiques dealers who are also bitter enemies (after a falling-out having been business partners) and next-door neighbours, both in their homes and shops. They are engaged in a continuous game of one-upmanship, so both of them are shocked when they find out that their respective children (Smallbridge's daughter Lyn – played by Watson and later Kneale – and Peel's son David – played by Kermode and later Morris) are in love and want to marry as soon as possible. The fathers are forced to reluctantly accept the relationship and marriage, which takes place at the end of the first series.\n\nIt is the impending marriage of Lyn and David and the early days of their marriage, alongside Oliver and Simon battling over the affection of middle-class widow Veronica Barton (played by Blackman), that provides the basis for the first two series (both written entirely by Mortimer). The third series features a failed attempt by Simon and Oliver to try to renew their business partnership.\n\nAfter the third series, Lyn and David move to Vancouver in Canada, leaving the daily goings on at Simon and Oliver's shops and in their private lives as the main themes of the show. Other notable characters in the series are Simon's butler Banks (played by Turner), a replacement for a foreign au pair that Simon had requested; Ringo (played by Deadman), Oliver's idiotic assistant in his shop; and Mrs. Sadler (played by Charles), Oliver's clumsy cleaner, who has an annoying tendency to accidentally break things. Banks and Mrs. Sadler's amorous relationship provides humorous material in these series, with both of them marrying and leaving the show at the end of the seventh series. The fourth to seventh series were written by a group of writers, Powell and \"Me and My Girl\" co-creator Kane being the most prominent.\n\nIn the eighth series (mostly written again by Mortimer), Lyn and David return from Canada with their son (and Oliver's and Simon's grandson) Martin, who provides a new platform on which Simon and Oliver can develop their long-standing rivalry, fighting over who is the better grandfather. However, at the end of that series, Lyn, David and Martin move to a new flat in Friern Barnet.\n\nSimon and Oliver's daily personal and business lives are the primary focus of the final three series (all written in their entirety by Powell). In these series, another character (who had already made two appearances in series 4 and 7) begins to appear regularly: Simon's Aunt Eleanor (played by Nutley, who had also appeared in Vince Powell's earlier sitcom \"Mind Your Language\"), moves near Oliver and Simon.\n\nAlso, appearing in some episodes of the series were Donald Sinden's sons Marc and Jeremy, while his wife Diana appeared in the last ever episode.\n\nThe complete first series was released on DVD in June 2001 by Clear Vision and no other series were released. It was announced that a different company would release a DVD featuring the first two series, it was released in September 2010. However, an 11-disc complete series set (through Network) is scheduled for release on 21 October 2019. \n\nThe outside filming location for the two antique shops in the early series was a double-fronted restaurant on The Green in the village of Claygate in Surrey, just six miles to the south of Thames Television’s Teddington studios. They then used some shops in Hersham, Surrey. The churches used for the weddings were St Andrew's Church, Ham, Surrey and St Andrew's Church, Cobham, Surrey. The houses used in the early series were on Burtenshaw Road, Thames Ditton, Surrey. One of these has since been demolished and another house built on the plot. Later houses on Brook Farm Road and Oak Road, Cobham were used.\n\nBeginning in early 2006, ITV3 began showing repeats beginning with series one in a late afternoon timeslot with other classic series such as \"Rising Damp\" and \"On The Buses\". From late January 2019, coincidentally a short time after the announcement of Windsor Davies's death, Forces TV started broadcasting the show as double bills from the very start.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025169", "title": "River Till, Northumberland", "text": "River Till, Northumberland\n\nThe River Till is a river of north-eastern Northumberland. It is a tributary of the River Tweed, of which it is the only major tributary to flow wholly in England. The upper part of the Till, which rises on Comb Fell in the Cheviots, is known as the River Breamish.\n\nIts tributaries include Wooler Water, which originates in the Cheviot Hills, and the River Glen in Glendale. \nIt meets the Tweed near Berwick-upon-Tweed and Twizell Bridge. According to local folklore:\n\nRecent environmental projects have included an attempt to conserve the native brown trout.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025184", "title": "Contarini", "text": "Contarini\n\nContarini is one of the founding families of Venice and one of the oldest families of the Italian Nobility. In total eight Doges to the Republic of Venice emerged from this family, as well as 44 Procurators of San Marco, numerous ambassadors, diplomats and other notables. Among the ruling families of the republic, they held the most seats in the Great Council of Venice from the period before the Serrata del Maggior Consiglio when Councillors were elected annually to the end of the republic in 1797. The Contarini claimed to be of Roman origin through their patrilineal descendance of the Aurelii Cottae, a branch of the Roman family Aurelia, and traditionally trace their lineage back to Gaius Aurelius Cotta, consul of the Roman Republic in 252 BC and 248 BC.\n\nThe House of Contarini is one of the twelve founding families of the Venetian Republic, the apostolic families, and were and remain through extended family consanguinity present in the Veneto's population, represented in over twenty auxiliary and cadet noble branches that include ranks currently among European sovereign, royal and aristocratic descendants. In the male line the family went extinct in Venice, but a branch remains in Sicily today. With the arrival of Alvise Contarini in Syracuse at the invitation of Martin I of Sicily this branch of the family was established in Sicily in 1394, the year in which Alvise married Cesarea Modica of Baron Pietro di Modica. Alvise Contarini was given the fiefdoms of San Giacomo Belmineo and Solarino as part of the dowry. In 1406 he was elected mayor of Syracuse, followed by numerous other communal, ministerial and military official positions for his descendants in the Kingdom of Sicily and the Kingdom of Italy after the Risorgimento. In Sicily the family carries the title Duke .\n\n853 AD marks the first officially verified documentation of the Contarini in the Republic of Venice, with Andrea Contarini named in the testament of Orso Partecipazio, son of Giovanni I Participazio. According to manuscripts in the Biblioteca Marciana and the family archives the Contarini claim direct descent of the Roman gens Aurelii Cottae through Publius Aurelius Cotta, son of Marcus Aurelius Cotta (consul in 74 BC and maternal uncle of Julius Caesar), who transferred his family to Padua. His grandson, Lucius Aurelius Cotta was elected prefect of the Reno; the area around the Reno near Bologna. His first and second son and his male grandchildren continued in this position and added the cognomen Reno, becoming Cotta Reno or Cottareno. The last person to register Cottareno was Marcus Aurelius Cottareno in Padua in 290 AD and subsequently the family name was written as Contareno, or Contarini in Venetian (both the Latin and Venetian denomination of the family name have been used interchangeably since).\nIn 338 AD Marcus Aurelius Contareno (or Marco Aurelio Contarini in Venetian), prefect of Concordia under Constantine I, was the first Contarini to permanently move his residence to the Venetian area. In 425 another Marcus Aurelius Contarini took part in the third Consular Triumvirate of Rialto, following the invasions of the Goths under Alaric I, who from 402 pillaged the rich provinces of Istria and Venetia and sacked Rome in 410. From the outset the affairs of the early exiles in the islands of the Venetian lagoon were managed by Roman Consuls elected at Padua, including the Contarini. Following the invasion by the Huns of Attila in 452 and the destruction of the large Roman cities of Padua and Aquileia, the islands became a more permanent refuge for the swelling number of exiles. In 466 the exiles decided upon a form of self-government through the annual election of Tribunes, who ultimately in 539 came under Byzantine rule through the Exarch of Ravenna, forming a loose association of islands with its capital in Eraclea. According to tradition, in 697 under the guidance of the Patriarch of Grado, twelve Tribunes ruling the Byzantine district of Venice elected the first Doge in Eraclea, forming the independent Republic of Venice. One of these Tribunes was Marcus Aurelius Contarini. Twentieth century studies, however, cast doubt on the historicity of the first Doge Paolo Luccio Anafesto and his successor Doge Marcello Tegalliano, suggesting that only following the murder of the Byzantine viceroy Paul Exarch of Ravenna, did the inhabitants of the islands chose their first Doge, Orso Ipato from Eraclea. Whoever was historically the first, the Contarini family has since the earliest Venetian chronicles been associated with the birth of the Republic and election of the first Doge. They formed part of the 'duodecim nobiliorum proles Venetiarum' (or the 'twelve noblest families of Venice') and the 12 apostolic families, the oldest of the 247 patrician families in the Great Council following the Serrata of 1297. As the first inhabitants in the lagoon came from what were provinces of Rome in the 5th century, the Rialto initially being governed by a Consular Triumvirate elected at Padua and subsequently by Tribunes who were elected from among the most prominent members in their former Roman communes, it is not uncommon among the oldest Venetian patrician families to find Roman ancestry (e.g. descended from gens Sulpicii Quirini, descended from gens Claudii Marcelli), families who often kept their praenomina traditions and preserved their genealogy. The older branch Aurelli Cottae of the gens Aurelia came to prominence with the election of Gaius Aurelius Cotta as consul in 252 BC and again in 248 BC during the First Punic War and by the time Publius Aurelius Cotta moved to Padua four of his patrilineal ancestors, including his father, had achieved consulship in the Roman Republic.\n\nIn the Republic of Venice in 1043 Domenico I was elected and became the first Doge in the family Contarini. By 1797, when the last Doge was forced to abdicate, the family had produced eight Doges of their own - the greatest number of Doges in one family. The Contarini count as well 44 Procurators of San Marco, the second most prestigious life appointment after that of the Doge, plus various important ambassadors, diplomats, cardinals and navy commanders among them (in the famous Battle of Lepanto no less than 6 ships were commanded by Contarini). The Republic, in one form or another, lasted as a functioning independent state for over 1100 years until Napoleon's march into Venice sounded its demise. Like Carthage, Athens and Rome, Venice overcame a territorial disadvantage, grew into a great city, and from a great city became a great empire. The power of Carthage was chiefly maritime, that of Athens chiefly military; but Rome and Venice obtained supremacy both by sea and land. Marvellously in advance of her contemporaries in all her institutions and ideas. The Contarini led the Venetian Republic forward through ever changing ages and commensurate with ample changes in trade, technology, trade, science, religion, art, banking and finance as well as in diplomacy and war.\n\nAndrea Palladio, who was employed by the Contarini and their relatives, designed several of the most outstanding neo-classical structures in the Veneto's environs. Importantly, his works satisfied his clients, which, full-circle, he had helped to create. Many such works are found to have often favored a minimalist, if neo-classical, dialog among their design elements. A passion for purity of line, scale and proportion were fundamental to and codified in Palladio's \"I quattro libri dell'architettura\", detailing vital points of design interest for architecture and decoration enthusiasts and professionals, and remains used by architecture students even today. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025190", "title": "Augustus Wollaston Franks", "text": "Augustus Wollaston Franks\n\nSir Augustus Wollaston Franks (20 March 182621 May 1897) was an English antiquary and museum administrator. Franks was described by Marjorie Caygill, historian of the British Museum, as \"arguably the most important collector in the history of the British Museum, and one of the greatest collectors of his age\".\n\nBorn at Geneva, he was elder son of Captain Frederick Franks, R.N., and of Frederica Anne, daughter of Sir John Saunders Sebright. His godfather was William Hyde Wollaston, a friend of his mother. His early years were spent mainly in Rome and Geneva. In September 1839 he went to Eton College, where he remained until 1843.\n\nFranks then studied at Trinity College, Cambridge. As undergraduate he began his collection of brass rubbings, ultimately given to the Society of Antiquaries; was one of the founders of the Cambridge Architectural Society and an early member of the Cambridge Antiquarian Society; and was also one of the four student members of the Ray Club. On leaving Cambridge in 1849 Franks devoted his energies to the Royal Archæological Institute, then newly established, and laid the foundations of his knowledge of ancient and medieval art, in arranging its collections for annual congresses. In 1850 he was secretary of the first exhibition of medieval art held in the rooms of the Society of Arts.\n\nIn 1851, Franks was appointed assistant in the Department of Antiquities of the British Museum. The post was newly founded, and the brief was to develop a collection of \"British antiquities\". Franks in a 45-year career at the Museum went on to launch five distinct departments. David M. Wilson writes that \"In many respects Franks was the second founder of the British Museum\".\n\nAt the British Museum, and as director of the Society of Antiquaries of London, an appointment he received in 1858, he made himself the leading authority in England on medieval antiquities of all descriptions, upon porcelain, glass, artefacts of anthropological interest, and works of art later than the Classical period.\n\nIn 1866, British and medieval antiquities, together with the ethnographic collections, were formed into a separate department under his superintendence, as Keeper of British and Mediaeval Antiquities and Ethnography. The Christy collection of ethnography in Victoria Street, London, was also under his care before its incorporation into the British Museum collections.\nHe became vice-president and ultimately president of the Society of Antiquaries; and in 1878 he declined the principal librarianship (then the title of the executive head of the British Museum).\n\nFranks retired on his seventieth birthday in 1896.\n\nIn 1855 Franks was responsible for acquiring for the museum the finest items from the collection of Ralph Bernal, the Liberal politician and collector, including the outstanding Lothair Crystal. In 1892 he succeeded in raising the £8,000 needed to buy the Royal Gold Cup; \"to Franks this was his greatest acquisition, and the one of which he was most proud\". He had temporarily had to fund the purchase with £5,000 of his own money.\n\nTowards the end of his career, he wrote: \n\nFranks used personal influence on behalf of the Museum to help in the acquisition of collections. This he applied in the cases of Felix Slade, John Henderson, Lady Fellows for the collection of Sir Charles Fellows, William Burges, and Octavius Morgan.\n\nFranks had a substantial personal fortune, which he used to build up some remarkable personal collections in parallel with his museum work on acquisitions. Though this activity was as an independent collector, it was of benefit also to the holdings of the British Museum, either in the short or longer term. It was largely devoted to the collection of ceramics and precious objects of medieval art; it also included many items from the Oxus Treasure, and Franks built up that side of his collection through dealers in India and by purchase from Alexander Cunningham.\n\nFranks was also an authority on classical art, especially Roman remains in Britain. He set up an exhibition of his Asian ceramics, mainly porcelain, at the Bethnal Green Museum in 1876. He collected \"netsuke\" and \"tsuba\" from Japan, finger rings and drinking vessels. He was interested too in bookplates and playing-cards, of both of which he formed important collections; the friendship of John Warren, 3rd Baron de Tabley led him to bookplates, and he completed the reference work of Charlotte Elizabeth Schreiber on playing cards.\n\nFranks' great-grandmother, Sarah Knight, was a cousin of Richard Payne Knight, another wealthy bachelor benefactor of the British Museum. Augustus blamed his obsessive collecting on his genes. In a manuscript account of his life, which was discovered in 1983, Franks began, \"Collecting is a hereditary disease, and I fear incurable.\"\n\nFranks died 21 May 1897, and was buried at Kensal Green Cemetery, London. Most of the items in his collections became the property of the nation, by bequest at his death, where they had not been donations in his lifetime. Franks purchased over 20,000 important objects for the British Museum's collections.\n\nOne of his best known donations was the ninth-century ivory Franks Casket from Northumbria, with its runic inscriptions. It had been dismissed as 'some Ancient carvings in ivory', and turned down by the Museum's Trustees in 1858 when offered to them for 100 guineas. In 1867, Franks gave the casket to the British Museum as a gift.\n\nIn the case of the collection of Samuel Rush Meyrick, of arms and armour, Franks failed to persuade George Ward Hunt to purchase it complete for the nation when Augustus W. H. Meyrick put it up for sale around 1871. The Meyrick Collection went to auction, and was broken up, but Franks did buy and then donate items such as the Meyrick Helmet.\n\nWhen the British Museum was considering buying the ceramics collection of Sir Andrew Fountaine and his heirs, which came onto the market in 1884, Franks eased the deal by matching the money required with purchases of his own.\n\nHe wrote numerous memoirs on archaeological subjects. His major publications were:\n\n\nHe also edited John Mitchell Kemble's \"Horæ Ferales\" (1863); and Edward Hawkins's \"Medallic Illustrations of British History\", 1885. In writing about British Celtic art he introduced the term \"Late Celtic period\", but its application proved contentious, and was considered somewhat misleading in the European picture of Celtic art.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025193", "title": "Sub-bituminous coal", "text": "Sub-bituminous coal\n\nSub-bituminous coal is a type of coal whose properties range from those of lignite to those of bituminous coal and are used primarily as fuel for steam-electric power generation.\n\nSub-bituminous coals may be dull, dark brown to black, soft and crumbly at the lower end of the range, to bright jet-black, hard, and relatively strong at the upper end. They contain 15-30% inherent moisture by weight and are non-coking (undergo little swelling upon heating). The heat content of sub-bituminous coals range from 8300 to 11,500 BTu/lb or 19.3 to 26.7 MJ/kg. Their relatively low density and high water content renders some types of sub-bituminous coals susceptible to spontaneous combustion if not packed densely during storage in order to exclude free air flow.\n\nA major source of sub-bituminous coal in the United States is the Powder River Basin in Wyoming.\n\nSub-bituminous coals, in the United States, typically have a sulfur content less than 1% by weight, which makes them an attractive choice for power plants to reduce SO emissions under the Acid Rain Program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025194", "title": "RNZAF Base Woodbourne", "text": "RNZAF Base Woodbourne\n\nRNZAF Base Woodbourne is a base of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, located 8 km west of Blenheim.\n\nWoodbourne was established in 1939 as the base for No. 2 Service Flying Training School (No.2 SFTS). Also located nearby during World War II were the ground training camps of the Delta. In 1942–43, No. 16 Squadron RNZAF and No. 18 Squadron RNZAF Squadrons flying Curtiss P-40 Warhawks used the satellite Fairhall field. In 1945 No.2 SFTS was closed and the Royal New Zealand Air Force Central Flying School and some ground training units, including the Officers' School of Instruction were relocated to Woodbourne. In 1949, The Aircraft Repair Depot RNZAF was relocated from Ohakea, and in 1951 the Boy Entrant School was established at Woodbourne.\n\nToday, Woodbourne is the Air Force's only support base and has no operational squadrons based there. It shares its runways with the Blenheim civil airport, Woodbourne Airport.\n\nThe Ground Training Wing was created in 1995 from existing units at Woodbourne and those relocated from Wigram and Hobsonville, and is responsible for the training of recruits (General Service Training School), initial officer training (Command Training School), trade training (except aircrew, medical and photography training) and command training.\n\nAlso at Woodbourne is the Air Force's only heavy maintenance facility for the repair of aircraft airframes, engines and avionics systems. This squadron was responsible for reconditioning airframes of RNZAF aircraft. Formally the Airframe Reconditioning Squadron RNZAF, the unit was commercialised in 1998 and is now managed by SAFE Air Ltd. In 2015 SAFE Air Ltd was purchased by the Airbus and it continues to maintain military aircraft. SAFE Air Ltd is currently finishing the last of the Air Force's C-130 Hercules airframe refurbishments. This will see the most highly houred C-130 Hercules (NZ7002) remain in flying service.\n\nPersonnel strength around 800\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025195", "title": "Mid-South North American Heavyweight Championship", "text": "Mid-South North American Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe Mid-South North American Heavyweight Championship was the major singles title in the Mid-South Wrestling Association from 1979 until the promotion became the Universal Wrestling Federation in 1986. The title was retired then in favor of the UWF Heavyweight Championship. The promotion was originally a member of the National Wrestling Alliance referred to as NWA Tri-State, hence the title was originally the Tri-State version of the NWA North American Heavyweight Championship from 1969 to 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025197", "title": "Vojtech Zamarovský", "text": "Vojtech Zamarovský\n\nVojtech Zamarovský (October 5, 1919 in Zamarovce – July 26, 2006 in Prague) was a popular Slovak writer of historical non-fiction literature. He also translated from English, German, French and Latin.\n\nAfter studying law and economics in Bratislava and Prague, Zamarovský moved to Prague and worked in several state offices. From 1956 on he worked only as a writer. His books concentrated on the life of ancient Mediterranean nations. He wrote both in the Slovak and Czech languages. Zamarovský became immensely popular in Czechoslovakia, and his works were also translated abroad.\n\nZamarovský was a collaborator with the communist secret police StB for more than 20 years. Since 1962 he had worked under the code name of \"Belo\", in 1977 he became an intelligence agent, and his code name was changed to \"Veil\".\n\nDuring his final years he suffered from Parkinson's disease, and spent the last two months of his life in a coma.\n\nBooks (with literal English translations):\n\nTV series (13 episodes):\n\n"}
{"id": "2025204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025204", "title": "The Wrong Box", "text": "The Wrong Box\n\nThe Wrong Box is a 1966 British comedy film produced and directed by Bryan Forbes from a screenplay by Larry Gelbart and Burt Shevelove, based on the 1889 novel \"The Wrong Box\" by Robert Louis Stevenson and Lloyd Osbourne. It was made by Salamander Film Productions and distributed by Columbia Pictures.\n\nThe cast includes a number of Britain's leading actors and comic actors of the time, including John Mills, Ralph Richardson, Michael Caine, Peter Cook, Dudley Moore, Peter Sellers, Irene Handl, Nanette Newman, Wilfrid Lawson, and Tony Hancock. Included in the cast are other actors who later became more well-known, including John Le Mesurier, John Junkin, Leonard Rossiter, Nicholas Parsons, Jeremy Lloyd, Graham Stark, Thorley Walters, Norman Rossington, David Lodge, Juliet Mills and Norman Bird. Cicely Courtneidge also appears, as Salvation Army Major Martha and The Temperance Seven also appear (as themselves).\n\nIn the early 19th century a lawyer explains to a group of young boys that a tontine has been organised in which £20,000 has been invested in the name of each child and that the last survivor will win the accrued total of all invested sums. We then see a series of accidental deaths, explaining the demise of various of the group.\n\n63 years later, in Victorian London, elderly brothers Masterman (John Mills) and Joseph Finsbury (Ralph Richardson), who live next to each other, are the last surviving members of the tontine. Masterman is attended by his unpromising medical student grandson, Michael Finsbury (Michael Caine), who is sent next door to summon Joseph where he is greeted by his cousin Julia (Nanette Newman). They have seen each other often on the street and admired each other. She explains Joseph is in Bournemouth with her cousins. They talk in a room containing a large collection of eggs of different species.\n\nMeanwhile his greedy cousins Morris (Peter Cook) and John (Dudley Moore), receive a telegram from Michael in their boarding house in Bournemouth, saying that Masterman is dying. Masterman hasn't talked to his despised brother in many years.\n\nOn the train trip to London, Joseph escapes from his grandson minders, entering a compartment and boring the sole occupant with a diatribe of trivial facts about the history of knitting (the silent man is knitting). His traveling companion later turns out to be the \"Bournemouth Strangler.\" Joseph leaves to smoke a cigarette, leaving behind his coat, which the strangler dons. The train then collides with another one coming in the other direction. In the wreckage, Morris and John find the strangler's mangled body and mistakenly believe it is that of their uncle. They hide the body in the woods in order to hide the death. Morris tells John to crate the body up and post it to London. Meanwhile Joseph wanders off and obtains a ride on a coach where he bores the driver with tales of how many words are in the Bible.\n\nIn London Michael gets a telegram telling him to expect a crate containing a statue. Morris arrives at the door immediately after. He mistakes the elderly butler for Masterman.\n\nMorris decides to try to hide the body long enough for Masterman to pass away, then claim Joseph died of a heart attack upon hearing the news. Morris and John plot to ship the body to Joseph's London home where Julia lives. John, left behind to attend to this task, sends the body in a large barrel. However, it is delivered to Masterman's house by mistake. Joseph makes his way to London on his own and visits his brother. Masterman attempts to kill his brother a number of times, with Joseph oblivious to the attempts. They separate after quarreling. Joseph signs for a barrel for \"Mr Finsbury\" as he leaves Masterman's house. Minutes later a separate container, a crate and the \"wrong box\" of the title, arrives at Joseph's house, also to \"Mr Finsbury\". Julia signs for it believing it to be a large consignment of eggs. The house number is also partially obscured. Therefore the containers are mistakenly delivered to the wrong houses.\n\nMorris, arriving at Joseph's house in John's absence, sees a delivery wagon just leaving and assumes that his uncle's body has just been delivered. Morris then goes to Dr Pratt (Peter Sellers) to try to obtain a blank death certificate. Michael helps move the crate into Joseph's house. Julia swoons at the sight of him and they kiss for the first time. Julia explains she is not related by blood to Michael as Joseph is her guardian not her father. Her parents were eaten by cannibals.\n\nThings become complicated when Michael discovers the contents of the barrel and, after learning of the \"altercation\" between Masterman and Joseph from family butler Peacock (Wilfrid Lawson), assumes that his grandfather has killed his brother. Michael and Peacock debate who should take the blame in order to protect Masterman as they originally plan to tell the police.\n\nMichael hides the body in a piano when Julia brings Masterman some broth. That night Michael hires unscrupulous \"undertakers\" to remove the strangler's body from the piano and dump it into the Thames, but Masterman falls down the staircase and they assume his unconscious body is the one they are to dispose of. Morris observes the activity and gleefully assumes Masterman has died.\n\nFurther misunderstandings and antics ensue the next day as the cousins claim that the tontine has been won. The controlling lawyer says it has accrued to a total of £111,000.\n\nMasterman is returned home by the Salvation Army after being fished out of the canal: they presume he was trying to kill himself, but the \"undertakers\" threw him in. Julia orders a fancy coffin for her uncle. Morris orders a cheap coffin to remove the mutilated body he thinks is in Joseph's basement, the coffin is delivered to the wrong house, Michael sells the piano not knowing the strangler's body is still in it, the police are involved when the body in the piano is discovered, Masterman is revealed to be quite alive as he sits up in Julia's coffin. The cousins make off with the tontine money in the second hearse. Both hearses gallop through the park, Michael and Julia chasing Morris and John. They then encounter a real funeral procession in which Joseph is participating.\n\nAfter a confusing crash Morris and John realise they have a body instead of the money. The tontine money is about to be buried when they grab it and run off. The box bursts open and money goes around the cemetery. Joseph pops up from the grave just as Masterman arrives. The lawyer arrives to say the tontine has yet to be won. The police (Tony Hancock) arrive and say Morris is arrested. They ask who put the body in the piano as there is a £1000 reward for catching the Bournemouth Strangler. A new argument begins.\n\n\nPinewood Studios, Iver, Buckinghamshire, was the main production base for the studio sets and many exteriors, with the Victorian London crescent exteriors being shot on Bath's historic Royal Crescent, complete with TV aerials on the roofs. The funeral coach and horse chase was filmed in St James Square, Bath, and on Englefield Green, Surrey, and surrounding lanes.\n\nBosley Crowther wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"Perhaps the best of the clowning is the little bit Mr. Sellers does as this drink-sodden, absent-minded skip-jack, fumbling foolishly and a little sadly among his cats. But Mr. Richardson is splendid as a scholarly charlatan, and Mr. Mills and Mr. Lawson are capital as a couple of fuddy-duddy crooks. Sure, the whole nutty business is tumbled together haphazardly in the script that has been written—or maybe scrambled—by Larry Gelbert and Burt Shevelove. Some sections and bits are funnier than others. Some are labored and dull. It is that sort of story, that sort of comedy. But it adds up to a lively lark\"; while more recently, Dennis Schwartz called it a \"Mildly amusing silly black comedy.\" Allmovie wrote, \"By turns wacky and weird, \"Wrong Box\" is a welcome alternative to standard issue film comedies.\"\n\nIn his autobiography \"What's it all About?\", Michael Caine wrote of the movie's reception, that the film \"is so British that it met with a gentle success in most places except Britain, where it was a terrible flop. I suppose this was because the film shows us exactly as the world sees us - as eccentric, charming and polite - but the British knew better that they were none of these things, and it embarrassed us.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2025210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025210", "title": "Payam Air", "text": "Payam Air\n\nPayam Air is a cargo airline based in Tehran, Iran. It operates cargo services for the Iranian postal, telecom and commercial services. Its main base is Mehrabad International Airport, Tehran.\n\nThe airline was established in 1996 and is owned by Iran Telecommunications Company (50%) and Islamic Republic of Iran Post Company (50%). It has 245 employees (at March 2007). At present 100% of the Payam is owned by the Islamic Republic of Iran Post company and is completely state owned.\n\nThe Payam Air fleet consists of the following aircraft (at March 2013):\n\nAt January 2005 the airline also operated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025212", "title": "Ingrid (given name)", "text": "Ingrid (given name)\n\nIngrid is a Scandinavian, German, and Dutch feminine given name. It continues the Old Norse name \"Ingiríðr\", which was a short form of \"Ingfríðr\", composed of the theonym \"Ing\" and the element \"fríðr\" \"beloved; beautiful\" common in Germanic feminine given names.\nThe name Ingrid (more rarely in the variant \"Ingerid\" or \"Ingfrid\"; short forms \"Inga, Inger, Ingri\") remains widely given in all of Scandinavia, with the highest frequency in Norway.\nNorwegian usage peaked in the interbellum period, with more than 2% of newly born girls so named in 1920; popularity declined gradually over the 1930s to 1960s, but picked up again in the late 1970s, peaking above 1.5% in the 1990s.\n\nThe name became popular outside of Scandinavia from the 1940s due to the fame of Ingrid Bergman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025223", "title": "Giovanni Niccolò Servandoni", "text": "Giovanni Niccolò Servandoni\n\nJean-Nicolas Servan, also known as Giovanni Niccolò Servandoni (2 May 1695 – 19 January 1766) was an Italian decorator, architect, scene-painter, firework designer and trompe-l'œil specialist.\n\nHe was born in Florence, the son of a French carriage driver.\nHe was educated as an artist of perspective in Rome and was a pupil of Giovanni Paolo Panini worked in London as a set designer at the recently founded Royal Academy of Music but moved to Paris in 1724, where he became director of decorations (1724 to 1742) at the Paris Opera, at that time situated in the Théâtre du Palais-Royal. He became a member of the Académie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture in 1731. His activity was considerable, whether as a painter or as an inventor of scenic contrivances for fêtes at the marriage of royal personages. He decorated public festivals in England, France, and Portugal.\n\nDuring the years 1738–1743 and 1754–1758, Servandoni produced a series of successful theatrical productions much in the style of seventeenth-century machine plays, with an emphasis on elaborate changes in décor and special effects, often set to music. Unlike the machine plays of the seventeenth century, Servandoni's productions used pantomime rather than dialog, with a description of the story provided in the program. His productions were typically based on well-known stories from literature and mythology such as the \"Spectacle de Pandore\" (1739) which told the tale of Prometheus and Pandora or \"La forêt enchantée\" (1754) which was inspired by Torquato Tasso's \"Jerusalem Delivered\".\nHe died in Paris in the early 1766.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2025224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025224", "title": "Belagavi District", "text": "Belagavi District\n\nBelagavi is a district in the state of Karnataka, India. The district is known as Sugar Bowl of Karnataka with 1.5 lakh hectares being used for commercial production and it has displaced Mandya district in sugar cane production over the last decade.The city of Belagavi is the district headquarters in North Karnataka. It houses the second legislative building, where the Karnataka Legislature will meet once a year. According to the 2011 Census of India, it has a population of 4,779,661, of which 24.03% live in urban areas, making it the second most populous district in Karnataka (out of 30), after Bangalore. The district has an area of 13,415 square kilometers making it the largest district in Karnataka, and is bounded on the west and north by the state of Maharashtra, on the northeast by Bijapur District, on the east by Bagalkote District, on the southeast by Gadaga District, on the south by Dharawad District and Uttara Kannada districts, and on the southwest by the state of Goa.\n\nBelgaum is the Divisional Headquarters of North Karnataka. The original name of the town of Belgaum was Venugrama, meaning \"Bamboo Village\". It is also known as Malnad Pradesh. The most ancient place in the district is Halsi; and this, according to inscriptions on copper plates discovered in its neighborhood, was once the capital of a dynasty of nine Kadamba kings. It appears that from the middle of the 6th century to about 760 the area was held by the Chalukyas, who were succeeded by the Rashtrakutas. After the break-up of the Rashtrakuta dynasty a portion of it survived in the Rattas (875–1250), who from 1210 onward made Venugrama their capital. Inscriptions give evidence of a long struggle between the Rattas and the Kadambas of Goa, who succeeded in the latter years of the 12th century in acquiring and holding part of the district. By 1208, however, the Kadambas had been overthrown by the Rattas, who in their turn succumbed to the Yadavas of Devagiri in 1250. After the overthrow of the Yadavas by the Delhi Sultanate (1320), Belgaum was for a short time under the rule of the latter; but only a few years later the part south of the Ghataprabha River was subject to the Hindu rajas of Vijayanagara. In 1347 the northern part was conquered by the Bahmani Sultanate, which in 1473 took the town of Belgaum and conquered the southern part also. When Aurangzeb overthrew the Bijapura sultans in 1686, Belgaum passed to the Mughals. In 1776 the country was overrun by Hyder Ali of Mysore, but was taken by the Madhavrao Peshwa with British assistance. In 1818 it was handed over to the British East India Company, and was made part of the district of Dharwar. In 1836 this was divided into two parts, the northern district becoming Belgaum.\n\nYadur is situated beside the Krishna river, and there is a famous veerbhadra temple there. Many devotees visit the area from Karnataka and Maharashtra. Hooli is one of the oldest villages in Belgaum district. There are many Chalukya temples in the village, including the famous Panchaligeswara temple.\n\nKittur in Belgaum district is a place of historical importance. Rani Chennamma of Kittur (1778–1829) is known for her resistance to British rule.\n\nThe British had a sizable infantry post here, having realised the military importance of its geographic location. It is one of the reasons for Belgaum's sobriquet \"The Cradle of Infantry\". Development of a rail network for the movement of resources and later troops was one of the means employed by both the British East India Company and the British to exert control over India. Belgaum's railway station, the Mahatma Gandhi Railway Station was established by the British. A signboard declaring the sobriquet can be seen hung on Platform 1 at the station.\n\nBelgaum district was incorporated into the newly formed Mysore state (now Karnataka) with the passage of the \"States Reorganisation Act\" (1956), which reorganized India's states along linguistic lines since the majority of the people in the district spoke Kannada.\n\nAdministration of Belgaum District has been divided into 14 taluks. Athani taluk is the largest with an area of 1,997.70 km and Raybag taluk is the smallest with an area of 958.8 km. The district comprises three revenue sub-divisions headquartered at Belgaum, Bailhongal and Chikodi which are headed by the Assistant commissioner and taluks headed by Tehsildar and has six police sub-divisions. Apart from the Belgaum City Corporation, there are 17 municipalities, 20 towns, 485 gram panchayats, 1,138 inhabited villages and 26 non-inhabited villages. Belgaum is also the headquarters of the Belgaum Revenue Division.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Belgaum district has a population of 4,779,661, roughly equal to the nation of Singapore or the US state of Alabama. This gives it a ranking of 25th in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001–2011 was 13.38%. Belgaum has a sex ratio of 969 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 73.94%.\n\nBelgaum district is a home to 3 universities namely Visvesvaraya Technological University, Rani Channamma University, Belagavi and KLE University. Also, it has a 9 Engineering colleges, 2 Medical colleges, 2 Dental colleges, 15 Polytechnics, 7 Indian System of Medical colleges apart from 180 degree colleges in the district.\n\nThe district has 7 Industrial Areas, 1 Special economic zone(\"which is India’s first precision engineering SEZ with more than 200 acres\") and 16 Industrial Estates. The city's humble industrial growth begin when an entrepreneur named Babu Rao Pusalkar set up a small unit in city over a century ago and that transformed Belgaum city into foundry and hydraulics base. Now, the city has a large number of crankshaft, industrial castings and forging, machinery, hydraulics, and aluminium manufacturing units. \n\nList of industrial clusters in Belgaum district that are identified by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Govt of India\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2025225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025225", "title": "Zaynab (novel)", "text": "Zaynab (novel)\n\nMuhammad Husayn Haykal's novel Zaynab (commonly pronounced ) is considered the first modern Egyptian novel, published in 1913. The full title in Arabic is زينب: مناظر واخلاق ريفية (\"Zaynab: Manazir wa'akhlaq rifiyyah,\" or \"Zaynab: Country Scenes and Morals\"). The book depicts life in the Egyptian countryside and delves into the traditional romantic and marital relationships between men and women and the interactions between the laboring cotton worker and plantation owner classes.\n\nThe novel is a seminal event in Egyptian literature, since it was the first to feature a fully described, contemporary Egyptian setting and the first to feature dialogue in the Egyptian vernacular rather than formal standard written Arabic. Haykal, son of rural land owners himself, had spent considerable time in France, where he was studying to be a lawyer, and it was actually at this point that he wrote \"Zaynab\" in 1911. Notably in the first publication, the author chose the pseudonym \"Masri Fallah\" (\"An Egyptian Rustic\"), which perhaps underlines the lack of prestige attached to the genre at the time of his writing.\n\nOriginally intended to be a short story, Haykal found that his work had more mileage than he had first appreciated, becoming a full novel in three parts. The story deals with a beautiful young peasant girl named Zaynab and the three men who strive for her affections: Hamid, the plantation owner's oldest son; Ibrahim, the young peasant foreman with whom she falls in love; and Hassan, a slightly more well-to-do peasant who enters into an unhappy arranged marriage with her. An early liberal critique of arranged marriage, the veil and enforced seclusion of women, the novel ends tragically with the heroine's psychological deterioration and death by \"consumption.\"\n\nDespite the structural flaws of the novel (its unrestricted romanticism, its poor division of the focus on Zaynab and Hamid, and a letter by Hamid which is unashamedly Haykal's own recapitulation of all the events that have transpired thus far), the novel is hugely important as the beginning point of the era of the modern Egyptian novel, infused with vernacular language, local characters, and a liberal politico-social dimension.\n\nThe novel became the basis for Egypt's first (silent) film, \"Zaynab\", which was produced in 1925.\n"}
{"id": "2025228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025228", "title": "Railroader of the Year", "text": "Railroader of the Year\n\nRailroader of the Year is an annual award presented to a North American railroad industry worker by trade journal \"Railway Age\". The award was first presented in 1964 by trade journal \"Modern Railroads\" and has continued through the magazine acquisition in 1992 to the present.\n\nPast recipients of this award include:\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2025232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025232", "title": "Boda boda", "text": "Boda boda\n\nBoda bodas are bicycle and motorcycle taxis commonly found in East Africa. While motorcycle taxis like boda bodas are present throughout Africa and beyond, the term \"boda boda\" is specific to East Africa. In Kenya, they are more frequently called piki pikis. Their ubiquitous presence in East African cities is the result of a number of factors including an increasing demand for public transit, the ability to purchase motorcycles on credit, and an influx of cheap imports from Indian manufacturers like Bajaj. In the countries where they are present, boda bodas can provide transportation options to riders and job opportunities to drivers while at the same time resulting in an increase in road hazards and collisions and unnecessary injuries and deaths.\n\nA BBC journalist imagined its origin to be onomatopoeia.\n\nA competing suggestion is that the boda boda had an apocryphal ability to transport people across a border without a need to complete the paperwork using a motor vehicle would necessitate; i.e. from border to border.\n\nWhile there is no doubt boda bodas are commonplace in East African cities like Kampala and Nairobi, estimates of their number vary.\n\nFigures show a substantial increase (nearly 10,000%) of motorcycle imports to Tanzania in the three years from 2013 to 2015.\n\n\nIn 2013, one source claims 300,000 were operating in Kampala, Uganda. Data from the Kampala Capital City Authority show 120,000 registered motorcycles in the city around the same time although the number of boda bodas could be higher as some are unregistered according to a representative of the Kampala Boda-boda Riders Association. The same source indicated in 2015 that around 40,000 were operating in central Kampala. Another knowledgeable source suggested in 2015 that the true figure is closer to double that number.\n\nAcross Uganda riding boda bodas has become a substantial source of income for many youths, providing livelihood to thousands of families in the country. In Kampala, the business has attracted tour and travel investors with one company 'Uganda Adventure Safaris and Boda Boda Tours' providing city maneuver as one of their exciting tour packages for many visitors and tourists in Kampala.\n\nUnlike in most other cities, motorcycle taxi drivers in Kigali, Rwanda, are generally registered and considered law-abiding. Here, the preferred term for this form of transport is \"moto\".\n\nSafeBoda is an Uber-style e-hailing mobile app for motorcycle taxis providing safe and efficient boda boda rides for those in need of quick travel across several cities in Africa. The startup was founded in November 2014 by Maxime Dieudonne, Rapa Thomson Ricky and Alastair Sussock. In 2014, the motorcycle taxis had their greatest popularity globally in Uganda, with over 80,000 riding the streets of Kampala and that was where SafeBoda was begun. Speaking with CNN, Alastair Sussock said they wanted to seize upon Uganda's burgeoning young population which had relatively easy access to fast internet and smartphones. SafeBoda launched operations in Nairobi, Kenya in 2017 and in 2019 they forayed into Nigeria's Ibadan. SafeBoda provides training and helmets to drivers who access fares through its app. Their community of drivers all receive extensive training in road safety, first aid, and bike maintenance in partnership with The Red Cross to make them safe and professional while driving on the streets. SafeBoda drivers are equipped with hygiene hairnets and a spare DOT-Certified helmet for their customers. All SafeBoda drivers are identifiable and trackable through their system.\n\nSafeMotos was launched in Kigali, Rwanda and has expanded to the DR Congo.\n\nTaxify launched their boda boda e-hailing services in Uganda to complement its e-taxi services. It has however suffered criticisms about poor service delivery and threatened the termination of their services in February 2019.\n\nUber also added their e-boda services in Uganda in March 2018 and operates in Kampala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025236", "title": "Flora Europaea", "text": "Flora Europaea\n\nThe Flora Europaea is a 5-volume encyclopedia of plants, published between 1964 and 1993 by Cambridge University Press. The aim was to describe all the national Floras of Europe in a single, authoritative publication to help readers identify any wild or widely cultivated plant in Europe to the subspecies level. It also provides information on geographical distribution, habitat preference, and chromosome number, where known.\n\nThe \"Flora\" was released in CD form in 2001, and the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh have made an index to the plant names available online.\n\nThe idea of a pan-European Flora was first mooted at the 8th International Congress of Botany in Paris in 1954. In 1957, Britain's Science and Engineering Research Council provided grants to fund a secretariat of three people, and Volume 1 was published in 1964. More volumes were issued in the following years, culminating in 1980 with the monocots of Volume 5. The royalties were put into a trust fund administered by the Linnean Society, which allowed funding for Dr John Akeroyd to continue work on the project. A revised Volume 1 was launched at the Linnean Society on 11 March 1993.\n\nThe editors named on every edition are :\n\nFor the Revised Edition of Volume 1 only :\n\nFor the CD set only :\n\nA panel of regional advisers was formed, in order to ensure full coverage of the whole of Europe. Several of the advisers were also authors in their respective taxonomic specialities. For each country the representatives were:\n\nThe geographical distribution is indicated by a series of two letter codes.\n"}
{"id": "2025251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025251", "title": "RNZAF Base Auckland", "text": "RNZAF Base Auckland\n\nRNZAF Base Auckland is a Royal New Zealand Air Force base located near the upper reaches of the Waitematā Harbour in Auckland, New Zealand. The base formerly comprised two separate airfields, Whenuapai and Hobsonville. Hobsonville was established as a seaplane station in 1928 and was the RNZAF's primary flying boat base in New Zealand until 1967. Construction of Whenuapai as a base for Wellington bomber aircraft began in 1937, the hangars being built in 1939, and from 1945-1965 Whenuapai was also Auckland's civil international airport. Post World War II Auckland became a centre for RNZAF transport and maritime squadrons. These two independent bases were integrated in 1965 to form RNZAF Base Auckland. Hobsonville subsequently became a grass airfield for No. 3 Squadron RNZAF which has now moved to Ohakea. A NZ Army unit comprising various personnel from different regiments as well as the New Zealand Special Air Service were relocated to Papakura Military Camp in 2003. \n\nWhenuapai was expected to close as well, with the RNZAF being centralised at Ohakea. Infrastructure company Infratil and Waitakere local body leaders carried out feasibility studies to develop Whenuapai into a commercial airport if the RNZAF moved to Ohakea. In 2009 the government decided to retain the air force base at Whenuapai and implemented a reconstruction programme.\n\nA significant reconstruction phase has begun at RNZAF Base Whenuapai since the start of 2011, major works have been carried out on the main runway, taxiways, and also the relocation of several units from RNZAF Base Hobsonville. Further development will ensure the RNZAF will remain at the present location. A significant government spending programme has been carried out to ensure the present base is brought up to standard.\n\nIn 2016 new facilities were under construction to replace those lost with the closure of RNZAF Base Hobsonville or closed due to non-compliance with increased earthquake safety standards introduced following the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. This involves a brand new gymnasium, accommodation, a 25-metre weapons range, and a state of the art medical facility. All projects are expected to be completed by the end of 2016.\n\nAdditional funding will also improve areas to the flight line and aprons after a $30 million upgrade on the main runway and taxiways was completed in 2012.\n\nThe personnel strength is around 1500.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025253", "title": "Roy Dyson", "text": "Roy Dyson\n\nRoyden Patrick Dyson (born November 15, 1948), is an American politician. He is a former Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Maryland.\n\nBorn in Great Mills, Maryland, Dyson attended private schools and graduated from Great Mills High School in 1966. He attended the University of Maryland, College Park, and the University of Baltimore in 1968, 1969, and 1970. He also served as a legislative assistant in the United States House of Representatives from 1973 to 1974.\n\nDyson was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates, serving from 1975 to 1980, and was a delegate in 1978 to the Democratic National Issues Conference. Dyson ran for Congress in the Eastern Shore-based 1st District in 1976, losing to two-term Republican Robert Bauman. However, he defeated Bauman in 1980 after Bauman suffered a sex scandal in the weeks prior to election day. Dyson was reelected three more times without much difficulty.\n\nIn the 1988 election, Dyson was dogged by allegations of improper contributions from defense contractors. His Republican opponent was Wayne Gilchrest, a high school teacher who had never run for office before. Dyson barely held onto his seat, winning by only 460 votes. In 1990, Gilchrest defeated Dyson 57% to 43% despite again being badly outspent by Dyson, who received substantial PAC contributions in all of his later campaigns.\n\nIn 1995, Dyson was elected to the Maryland Senate, representing District 29 (St. Mary's County and southern Calvert County). As of 2014, he resided in Great Mills.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025255", "title": "State Legislative Council (India)", "text": "State Legislative Council (India)\n\nThe State Legislative Council () is the upper house in those states of India that have a bicameral state legislature; the lower house being the State Legislative Assembly. Its establishment is defined in Article 169 of the Constitution of India. \n\n, after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir, 6 out of 28 states have a State Legislative Council. The latest state to have a council is Telangana..\n\nEach Member of the State Legislative Council (MLC) serves for a six-year term, with terms staggered so that the terms of one third of a State Legislative Council's membership expire every two years. This arrangement parallels that for the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the Parliament of India.\n\nMLC must be a citizen of India, at least 30 years old, mentally sound, not an insolvent, and must be enrolled on the voters' list of the state for which he or she is contesting an election. He or she may not be a Member of Parliament at the same time.\n\nThe size of the State Legislative Council cannot be more than one third of the membership of the State Legislative Assembly. However, its size cannot be less than 40 members.\n\nMLCs are chosen in the following manner:\n\nThe existence of a State Legislative Council has proven politically controversial. A number of states that have had their Legislative Council abolished have subsequently requested its re-establishment; conversely, proposals for the re-establishment of the Legislative Council for a state have also met with opposition. Proposals for abolition or re-establishment of a state's Legislative Council require confirmation by the Parliament of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025263", "title": "American Hebrew Academy", "text": "American Hebrew Academy\n\nThe American Hebrew Academy (AHA) was the only international Jewish college preparatory school in the world for boarding and day students between 9th and 12th grade during its years of operation. The coeducational school was located in Greensboro, North Carolina, with a 100-acre (0.4 km²) campus designed by Aaron Green, protégé of renowned architect Frank Lloyd Wright.\n\nThe academy was nationally accredited in the United States by the Southern Association of Independent Schools (SAIS) and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). The academy was also a member in of The Association of Boarding Schools (TABS) and the only Jewish school awarded the Green Ribbon by the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nThe academy closed on June 11, 2019, but on September 13, 2019, it was announced that the school will reopen for the 2020–21 school year.\n\nThe academy opened in fall 2001. The school was founded by several leaders in Jewish education, including Alvin Mars, to create a pluralistic learning and leadership environment. The initial objective of the school was simply to create a high school option for the local Jewish community near Greensboro, and to draw a critical mass of students from other regions of the country where Jewish day school was not a feasible option. Subsequent to the school's founding, the school's unique identity as a coed, pluralistic Jewish boarding school attracted students globally and hosted a diverse student body from over 35 countries.\n\nThe academy's inception was sponsored and spearheaded by Maurice \"Chico\" Sabbah, a philanthropist, businessman, Sephardic Jew, and Zionist, and longtime resident of Greensboro. Sabbah’s nephew, Glenn Drew, continued to manage the school and served as CEO and General Counsel since the school's beginning.\n\nBoard members include Leeor Sabbah, Glenn Drew, Joseph Weilgus, Joel Fleishman of Duke University, investor Michael Steinhardt, Jehuda Reinharz of Brandeis University, Marsha Cohen, Bonnie Lipton, Scott Shay of Signature Bank, Douglas Greene, Abe Tawil and Larry Heyman.\n\nOn June 11, 2019, Glenn Drew notified community members that the school would close after 18 years, citing financial distress. The news was broadly reported as abrupt and unexpected by Academy students, parents, faculty and alumni and local community members. Public tax filings in prior years indicate the school spent $18 million in tax year 2017, $13 million more than covered by that year's tuition and donation revenue. 2017's filing shows the largest cash expenses included $2.75 million in annual Interest Expense and $2 million in annual undisclosed Other Expenses. From 2014-2017, filings also indicate total expenses rose in each year while total revenue declined. Over this time period, Glenn Drew (Treasurer, CEO, Secretary), was the only board member listed to receive direct compensation, which was $402,549 in 2014, $900,429 in 2015, $527,186 in 2016 and $538,362 in the tax year 2017. The school concurrently oversaw a large increase in balance sheet liabilities from approximately $1.7 million in 2013 to $20 million in 2017, coinciding with increases in interest expenses.\n\nOperating on a trimester calendar, the unique curriculum at AHA was based on a 'dual-curriculum' model in which the general studies (Mathematics, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Languages, Honors Level, Advanced Placement and Early College) courses were taught together with Jewish Studies which include Jewish Philosophy, History, Zionism, Religion and Culture). The school was dedicated to pluralistic education, which, unlike most Jewish day schools in the United States, means the academy does not specifically affiliate with a particular movement or denomination of Judaism. Rather, students were exposed to the wide range of ideas and teachings with the opportunity to explore her/his interests independently. The school therefore granted admission to students of any and all Jewish backgrounds.\n\nThe primary language of instruction was English and students were required to show a substantial progression with Hebrew language prior to graduation.\n\nDue to its large percentage of international students, AHA had an ESOL (English as a second language) department that prepared foreign students for the American university system.\n\nMany faculty members (24%) were also international or from a dual-language background. The faculty included 32% holding doctorate or equivalent degrees and 67% holding master's degrees. The academy was home to 29 National Merit Scholarship Award honorees and 3 Bronfman Fellows.\n\nThe American Hebrew Academy was situated on a 100-acre campus, including a 22-acre lake. Following a national architectural competition to design the campus, Frank Lloyd Wright’s associate architect, Aaron Green, was commissioned to create the master plan for the campus and building designs for every building the academy would eventually need for the immediate future and for years to come.\n\nIn addition to 16 single-sex dormitory houses and 34 staff resident apartments, the academy had 32 buildings including an 88,000 square feet (8,200 m2), $18 million athletic center and natatorium. The athletic center includes two basketball courts, rock climbing walls, a racquetball court, an exercise gym and an eight-lane pool.\n\nAHA had the largest closed-loop geothermal exchange well field in the United States to heat and cool its campus. In 2016, the academy dedicated the new Dr. Charlotte K. Frank Center for Plant Science & Ecology which provides a state of the art research and experimentation facility for advancing the study of hydroponics, aquaculture, soil and water conservation and Israel’s leadership in the development of agricultural technology.\n\nAll students were issued laptops. Classrooms have SMART Boards, projectors and cameras and microphones. Classroom seating was at a Harkness style table, teardrop-shaped that facilitates the socratic method. The maximum class-size for most classes was 12 students, allowing for one-on-one interaction with peers and instructors.\n\nIn addition to the 88,000 square foot athletic center and natatorium, the academy has playing fields including: a soccer stadium, baseball fields, softball fields, multiple all-purpose fields, and a rubberized track constructed of recycled materials. As a member of the Triad Athletic Conference, AHA offers baseball, basketball, cross-country, soccer, swimming, track and field, and volleyball. The academy also hosts a number of intramural and club sports including racquetball, tennis, softball, golf, touch football, ultimate frisbee, yoga, aerobic and weight training, kayaking and sailing, karate, and rock climbing.\n\nSince 2010 the grounds of AHA have been host to 6 Points Sports Academy, the first-in-the-nation Jewish sports summer camp, part of the Union for Reform Judaism's family of summer camps. Open to young athletes ages 9 to 17 from all over North America and abroad, 6 Points Sports is a sleep-away camping experience that offers intensive training in the individual's chosen sport as well as cross-conditioning electives.\n\nThe academy also served as the host site for the Piedmont Triad Regional Special Olympics for over ten years beginning in 2006.\n\nAs the only international Jewish boarding school in the world, international students represented a meaningful proportion of the AHA student body. Forty-five percent of the students came from 35 countries. The top five countries represented as of September 2017 were the United States, Mexico, Israel, Brazil and Canada. American students come from 26 states across the U.S.\n\nThe junior year class studied abroad in Israel for ten weeks each fall trimester. Students live in Hod HaSharon and study at the Alexander Muss High School in Israel. This immersion program enables students to explore their interest in and strengthen their ties to Jewish history, Israel and the Hebrew language.\n\nAHA students wanting to specialize in a particular area such as STEM, pre-med, law, business, technology, and the arts were able to enhance their studies through a formal partnership that AHA enjoys with The University of North Carolina at Greensboro and the North Carolina Joint School of Nanoscience and Nanoengineering as well as early university studies in all offered subject areas at Guilford College.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025271", "title": "RNZAF Base Ohakea", "text": "RNZAF Base Ohakea\n\nRNZAF Base Ohakea is an operational base of the Royal New Zealand Air Force. Opened in 1939, it is located near Bulls, 25 km north-west of Palmerston North in the Manawatu. It is also a diversion landing point for civilian aircraft. The base's motto is \"Defensio per vires\" (Latin for defence through strength).\n\nAn air base was originally proposed in the area in 1927, when Ohakea was selected as the most suitable site for a mooring mast for airships of the British Imperial Airship service. It was proposed to build one mast for a demonstration flight, with the potential for expansion to a full airship base with three masts, airship sheds and hydrogen production. However, there was no point in going ahead with the development of the site without a commitment from the Australian Government to build masts to provide bases in that country. When the Australian Government declined to build masts, the New Zealand Government declined likewise.\n\nIn 1935 the Labour government committed to an expansion of the military air service at the expense of the navy, seeing this as a way of reducing the total defence vote. At the end of 1935, the government accepted an air service expansion plan developed by RAF Wing Commander Ralph Cochrane.\n\nThe plan called for several new bases, with a major development at Ohakea, which would be home to 30 Wellington bombers on order for the RNZAF. Two large hangars (now hangars 2 and 3) were authorised to house the aircraft, to be designed by the Department of Public Works chief design engineer Charles Turner. Turner decided to build the hangars as monolithic reinforced concrete structures because structural steel could not be obtained in sufficient quantities without delays, while concrete and reinforcing steel could be delivered immediately. The same limitation forced Turner to adopt concrete doors. The arched hangars spanned 61 metres, with a height of 18 metres. The expense of the steel centring was spread across four hangars, as another two similar structures were ordered for RNZAF Base Auckland.\nThe two Ohakea hangars were completed in 1939, at a cost of about £76,750 each.\n\nUltimately, the Wellington bombers for which the hangars were built never arrived, as they were donated to Britain at the start of the Second World War, forming The New Zealand Squadron. However, the hangars have been in continuous use since their construction, and (re-roofed in steel) remain in use today.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Ohakea was the RNZAF's main training base for operational conversion to fighters, observers/navigators for medium bombers and air gunners. After the war, No. 14 Squadron RNZAF, No. 42 Squadron RNZAF and No. 75 Squadron RNZAF were re-formed at Ohakea, and No.1 Repair Depot relocated from RNZAF Base Te Rapa in Hamilton, New Zealand.\n\nIn August 1966 No. 1 Flying Training School RNZAF at Wigram was renamed Pilot Training Squadron (PTS).\n\nAfter the war, Ohakea was the RNZAF's strike base, with Nos 14 and 75 Squadrons resident. A long-time resident, No 42 Squadron relocated to Whenuapai in 1984 to allow the relocation of 2 Squadron RNZAF to HMAS Albatross, Nowra, Australia in 1991. In 1993, RNZAF flying training previously carried out at Wigram by the Pilot Training Squadron RNZAF and the Central Flying School RNZAF moved to Ohakea. Also in 1993 a new aviation wing of the Royal New Zealand Air Force Museum was opened at Ohakea. 14 Squadron and 75 Squadron disbanded in November 2001, and 42 Squadron relocated back to Ohakea in January 2002. There are currently around 1200 personnel based at Ohakea, which makes it the second largest Air Force base behind RNZAF Base Auckland.\n\nA plan to consolidate all RNZAF operations at Ohakea was abandoned in March 2009 as part of a change of policy on the part of the incoming National Government who chose to retain two operational air bases, Ohakea and Whenuapai, for use by the RNZAF.\n\nIn 2012 following the arrival of NH-90 and A-109 helicopters a new multi-purpose hangar was built to accommodate the 3 Squadron helicopter fleet. Another significant infrastructure has included a brand new main gate duty centre which the NZDF Military Police and RNZAF Security Forces personnel occupy, an international air movements terminal named after Sir Richard Bolt which was completed in 2014. This allows Ohakea the ability to accommodate international civilian flights if Wellington Airport was closed.\n\nNo. 14 Squadron RNZAF reformed in 2015 to take up the initial pilot training role with the new T-6C Texan II, resulting in disbandment of the Pilot Training Squadron.\n\nIn August 2017 the Republic of Singapore Air Force based its F-16D fighters at Ohakea as a feasibility study for establishment there of a training base for its F-15 fighters. The deployment gave the RSAF opportunity to fly in more open airspace and take advantage of the unique New Zealand flying conditions and mountainous terrain not available in Singapore. However the government cancelled the plan due to cost considerations.\n\nIn November 2019, construction commenced on the new hangar, taxiways, and aircraft aprons for the P-8 Poseidon aircraft that are due to arrive in 2022. This will see No. 5 Squadron RNZAF consolidate all personal and new aircraft to Ohakea from RNZAF Base Whenuapai by 2021.\n\nPersonnel Strength: around 1200\n\n\nOhakea is a secondary diversion airport for heavy civilian aircraft such as the Boeing 787 and Boeing 777 if an aircraft’s destination airport is temporarily closed. Ohakea has the facilities to process a significant number of passengers since the completion of a new terminal .\n\nOn 29 January 2017, an Emirates Airbus A380 was diverted to RNZAF Base Ohakea due to a Singapore Airlines Airbus A380 blocking the main runway at Auckland International Airport because of a landing gear malfunction. The Emirates A380 was refuelled by RNZAF fuel tankers and departed for Auckland. This was the first time an A380 has landed at Ohakea.\n\nOhakea has been the subject of a feasibility study into mixed-use military and civilian freight capability, which has included lengthening the main runway to accommodate the Boeing 747.\n\nThe Ohakea Airfield was used as a temporary motor racing circuit, predominantly in the 1950s. A 5.6-kilometre track hosted the inaugural New Zealand Grand Prix in 1950, while a shorter 3.5-kilometre circuit hosted the Ohakea Trophy from 1951 to 1956 and further national meetings from 1959 to 1962. The circuit was reopened for historic events in the 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025272", "title": "Sequani", "text": "Sequani\n\nThe Sequani were a Gallic tribe, dwelling in the upper river basin of the Arar river (Saône), the valley of the Doubs and the Jura Mountains. Their territory corresponded to Franche-Comté and part of Burgundy.\n\nThey are mentioned as \"Sequanos\" by Caesar (mid-1st c. BC) and Ammianus Marcellinus (4th c. AD), as \"Sequanis\" by Livy (late 1st c. BC), as \"Sēkoanoús\" (Σηκοανούς) by Strabo (early 1st c. AD), and as \"Sequani\" by Pliny (1st c. AD).\n\n\"Sequani\" is an exonym assigned by the Romans, most likely based on a similar-sounding endonym. The endonym is not known for certain. Sequani is like Sequana, Caesar's name for the Seine, but the country of the Sequani is not in the Seine's watershed. Strabo was originally responsible for the folk-etymologic connection by supposing that the Sequana flowed through the country of the Sequani, a geographic error. The French name of the Saône, however, the river forming the western border of the Sequani, derives from Celtic \"Souconna\". The Romans called it the \"Arar\". William Smith hypothesized that Sequani and Souconna were related.\n\nThe country of the Sequani can be defined by the reports of the ancient writers. The Jura Mountains separated the Sequani from the Helvetii on the east, but the mountains belonged to the Sequani, as the narrow pass between the Rhone and Lake Geneva was Sequanian. They did not occupy the confluence of the Saône into the Rhone, as the Helvetii plundered the lands of the Aedui there. Extending a line westward from the Jura estimates the southern border at about Mâcon, but Mâcon belonged to the Aedui. Strabo says that the Arar separates the Sequani from the Aedui and the Lingones, which means that the Sequani were on the left, or eastern, bank of the Saône only. On the northeast corner the country of the Sequani touched on the Rhine.\n\nBefore the arrival of Julius Caesar in Gaul, the Sequani had taken the side of the Arverni against their rivals the Aedui and hired the Suebi under Ariovistus to cross the Rhine and help them (71 BCE). Although his assistance enabled them to defeat the Aedui, the Sequani were worse off than before, for Ariovistus deprived them of a third of their territory and threatened to take another third, while subjugating them into semi-slavery.\n\nThe Sequani then appealed to Caesar, who drove back the Germanic tribesmen (58 BCE), but at the same time obliged the Sequani to surrender all that they had gained from the Aedui. This so exasperated the Sequani that they joined in the revolt of Vercingetorix (52 BCE) and shared in the defeat at Alesia. Under Augustus, the district known as Sequania formed part of Belgica. After the death of Vitellius (69 CE), the inhabitants refused to join the Gallic revolt against Rome instigated by Gaius Julius Civilis and Julius Sabinus, and drove back Sabinus, who had invaded their territory. A triumphal arch at Vesontio (Besançon), which in return for this service was made a colony, possibly commemorates this victory.\n\nDiocletian added Helvetia, and part of Germania Superior to Sequania, which was now called Provincia Maxima Sequanorum, Vesontio receiving the title of Metropolis civitas Vesontiensium. The southern reach of this territory was known as Sapaudia, which later developed into Savoy. Fifty years later, Gaul was overrun by the barbarians, and Vesontio sacked (355 CE). Under Julian, it recovered some of its importance as a fortified town, and was able to withstand the attacks of the Vandals. Later, when Rome was no longer able to afford protection to the inhabitants of Gaul, the Sequani became merged in the newly formed Kingdom of Burgundy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025278", "title": "Sayid Jarrah", "text": "Sayid Jarrah\n\nSayid Hassan Jarrah (, \"Sa‘īd Ḥassān Jarrāḥ\") is a fictional character from the ABC show \"Lost\" portrayed by Naveen Andrews.\n\nSayid originally served as a communications officer in Iraq's Special Republican Guard and was a skilled radio and mechanical engineer. Sayid served in the Gulf War and was captured by the U.S military. He was the only one in his unit who spoke English so he was told to extract information from his captured commanding officer. He also met Kelvin Inman who was working for military intelligence at the time. He explained that Sayid´s commanding officer had committed war crimes against the civilian population and gave him a tool box saying that Sayid would have to force his CO to give them the information they wanted. After he had tortured his old boss Inman told Sayid in Arabic that now he had the skills to do whatever was necessary and he gave him some money before letting him go. Later Sayid served as a coercive interrogator for the Guard for 5 years. At one point while in this capacity, he was ordered to interrogate an insurgent prisoner who turned out to be his childhood friend, Nadia. During her captivity, they fell in love, and in their talks she provided the impetus for what would become Sayid's road to redemption. Unlike his other prisoners, he did not torture her, and, when he was ordered to execute her for noncompliance, he instead facilitated her escape.\n\nSeven years later, in England, Sayid is picked up by ASIS and the CIA. They make him a deal: if Sayid can infiltrate a terrorist cell in Sydney, whose members he is familiar with, and uncover stolen C-4, then they will tell him where Nadia is.\n\nSayid accepts, and is dropped off in Australia, where he meets with his former college roommate, Essam, from Cairo University. Sayid convinces Essam to become a suicide bomber in order for the intelligence to take possession of the stolen explosives. At the last moment, however, Sayid admits that he is working with the CIA, and attempts to allow his friend to escape; Essam realizes that Sayid has deceived him over a woman, and kills himself. The CIA tell Sayid the whereabouts of Nadia and he is given a plane ticket to Los Angeles. However, he demands to recover the body of Essam, which will require him to stay one more day. Instead he is given a ticket for Oceanic Flight 815.\n\nSayid fixes the transceiver recovered from the cockpit, and leads a group into the jungle in order to send out a distress signal. Instead, he picks up a looping message (recorded by Danielle Rousseau). He tries to locate the message's origin, but is knocked out by Locke. When Shannon suffers from a near-fatal asthma attack, Sayid brutally interrogates Sawyer in an attempt to recover Shannon's medication. Having again broken his promise never to torture again, Sayid leaves the beach to explore the island. In the jungle, he is captured by Rousseau, who tells him she was part of a science team which crashed on the island. She identifies the Others as the carriers of a sickness that her companions caught. Sayid doesn’t believe her, and leaves.\n\nUpon returning, he seeks Shannon's help in translating maps stolen from Danielle. The two bond and eventually form a relationship. After Boone's death, Locke asks for Shannon's forgiveness. Shannon confronts Locke in the jungle, but Sayid tackles her just as she fires a gun. That night, Sayid tells Locke to take him to the hatch. Rousseau arrives on the beach one morning with news that the Others are coming to abduct a child. Later, he learns that Claire's baby, Aaron, has been kidnapped by Rousseau. Sayid surmises that Rousseau intends to attempt an exchange of Claire's baby for her own child, Alex, with the \"Others\". Sayid and Charlie find Rousseau's hiding place, and Rousseau returns the baby.\n\nShannon tells Sayid that she has seen Walt in the jungle, but he suggests she was dreaming. Shannon tells him she's going to find Walt. After an argument, Sayid tells Shannon that he loves her and will never leave her. Then they see Walt, and Shannon dashes after him. He then witnesses Ana Lucia shooting Shannon, who dies in his arms. Ana Lucia ties him up and interrogates him. She then frees Sayid, drops her weapon, and dares Sayid to take his revenge, but he refuses. Some time later, Danielle takes Sayid to a man she captured, who she suspects is an Other. The man identifies himself as Henry Gale, saying he crashed in a hot-air balloon on the island about four months ago. Sayid frees the man and brings him to the hatch, and tells Locke about him. Sayid tries to find out more by torturing Henry, until he is stopped by Jack.\n\nIn the jungle, Sayid, Charlie, and Ana Lucia discover Henry Gale's grave, along with the balloon. When he learns of Michael's return, and the deaths of Ana Lucia and Libby, Sayid tells Jack that he suspects Michael has been \"compromised\", and plans to follow him somehow. Fortunately, Desmond unexpectedly returns with his boat, and Sayid plans on using it. He asks Jin to accompany him, but Sun insists on joining them. They arrive at the Others' camp, only to learn that it is merely a decoy.\n\nIn the season it is revealed that during the Gulf War, Sayid's base was captured by the Americans. The only Iraqi in his squad who can speak English, Sayid is forced to ask his superior officer about a missing U.S. pilot by Kate Austen's father, Sam Austen, who was part of the American army stationed in Iraq. When Sayid learns of a planned attack on his home village, his head captor, Kelvin Inman forces Sayid to torture his superior officer to gain the information of the missing pilot, who he learns was executed earlier. At the end of the Gulf War, Sayid is released back into the Republican Guard. Inman tells him that he now has a valuable gift of being able to gain information.\n\nSayid plans to lure the Others to the pier, in an attempt to kidnap and torture two of them for interrogation. However, their plan backfires when the Others arrive via the sea and hijack the boat. Sayid and the Kwons make their way back to their camp. Upon returning, Sayid joins a group on a trek to the station. Once there, Sayid gains brief surveillance footage from another station, where they see an eye patched man. When Kate and Sawyer return, Sayid and Locke join her and Rousseau in rescuing Jack.\n\nThe four arrive at the station, where they encounter Mikhail, the man they saw in the surveillance feed of the Pearl. After a big struggle, Mikhail is defeated by Sayid and Kate, who tie him up. Sayid enters the basement of the Flame, and takes some maps of the different stations. The five move along following the maps indications, towards the Barracks, until they come across a sonar panel fencing, where Mikhail collapses. The four later arrive at the Others' barracks, where they watch as Jack bonds with the Others. That night, Sayid and Kate infiltrate the barracks, only to be captured by the Others. He is then gassed the next day, released only when Juliet discovers him. He returns to the beach with Jack, Kate and Juliet.\n\nSayid attempts to interrogate Juliet on the journey, but she says that if she tells him everything, then he will kill her. Sayid is soon informed of Naomi's presence, and after speaking to her begins to question her; he is soon taken aback when she gives him her satellite phone, having expected her to have no way to contact her boat. The next day, Sayid is taken into the jungle, where Jack and Juliet come clean and reveal their secretive plans to destroy the Others. When Karl warns them of their imminent arrival, Sayid remains on the beach to detonate the dynamite, along with Jin and Bernard. That night, Sayid shoots his target accurately, but ultimately winds up captured by the remaining three Others. Hurley runs over Ryan Pryce using the DHARMA Van which kills him and when the other walks in front of Sayid, Sayid trips him up and snaps his neck with his feet, killing him. He, along with Sawyer, Juliet, Hurley, Jin and Bernard wait at the beach for rescue.\n\nThe season reveals that Sayid left the Iraqi Special Republican Guard in order to find Nadia. He travelled to Paris, where he worked as a chef. Some time later, Sayid is taken prisoner and locked in the pantry. A person named Sami recognizes Sayid as the man who tortured his wife with boiling oil, and attempts to beat a confession out of him. When Sami's wife, Amira, confronts Sayid, he finally admits to torturing her, and tearfully apologizes to her. Sayid is forgiven, and Amira tells Sami that Sayid is not the man who tortured her after all; Sayid is released soon after.\n\nJack and Locke have a confrontation, and Sayid elects to remain with Jack. He goes out to hunt for more of the people who crashed on the helicopter. Sayid then makes a trade with Locke for Charlotte, whom he brings back to Jack and the helicopter. Charlotte then does not want to go home, so Sayid, Desmond, and a dead Naomi get on the helicopter. During the helicopter ride, Sayid witnesses Desmond's time travel. In the boat, Sayid helps Desmond to communicate with his girlfriend in order to stop the travels.\n\nLater, they wait, on deck, to meet with the captain of the freighter, Gault. Gault tells them his employer is Charles Widmore. Later they find Michael Dawson, who tells Sayid that he is a spy. Sayid and Desmond later witness Keamy's furious return to the boat after his failed attempt to capture Ben. Fearing Keamy's intentions, he persuades Gault to give him and Desmond a Zodiac boat to return to the island, hoping to save as many people as possible by moving them from the island to the boat.\n\nSayid returns to the beach on the freighter's Zodiac. Sayid and Kate go after Jack and Sawyer, who are following a homing beacon left by Lapidus. They are captured by Richard Alpert (Nestor Carbonell) and the rest of the Others. He and the Others successfully ambush Keamy and his mercenaries by sending Kate out to them, and then getting into a gunfight with them. They then go to the helicopter with Jack, Hurley, Sawyer and Lapidus, but Sawyer leaves them to reduce the weight. They are able to land on the ship, but are quickly informed that the ship is about to explode. They quickly refuel, and pick up Desmond, Sun, and Aaron, before lifting off. On the way back to the island, they see a white light envelop it, before the entire island appears to sink beneath the waves. They drift for several hours, but are eventually rescued by another boat owned by Penelope Widmore. Jack also informs all of them that they will have to lie about their entire experience on the island in order to protect the people still there from Charles Widmore.\n\nAt a press conference held by Oceanic Airlines Sayid is finally reunited with Nadia, and some time later the two get married. However, his and Nadia's happiness is abruptly cut short when she is killed, and Sayid decides to hold her funeral in their home country. In the first part of The Incident, it is revealed that Nadia was actually killed by a car, and more significantly a car that would have also killed Sayid had it not been for the intervention of Jacob, who posing as a tourist asks Sayid for directions, preventing him from crossing the road at that point. At the funeral, Sayid spots Ben spying on him, who tells Sayid about Nadia's killer, Bakir, to which Sayid carries out his revenge by shooting him repeatedly. Following this event, Sayid eventually begins working for Ben as an assassin, after being informed that Nadia's death was part of a larger plan orchestrated by Charles Widmore.\n\nOn one such mission, Sayid travels to Berlin, Germany, where he meets a woman named Elsa. The two bond quickly, but the relationship is cut short when Elsa, who works for one of Sayid's targets, learns about his true intentions, and injures him. Sayid shoots her before. Sayid is later visited by John Locke who asks him to return with him to the Island, but he refuses. In Los Angeles, Sayid kills a man who was staked out in front of the Santa Rosa Mental Hospital, and breaks Hurley out of the mental institution.\n\nSayid is wounded in a fight at his motel, and Hurley takes him home and has his father get Jack to treat Sayid. Upon awakening Sayid refuses to cooperate with Jack and Ben's plan to return everyone to the island; however; he appears the next day in law enforcement custody (whom he could have beaten up and killed) on board the plane.\n\nSayid's first appearance on the island takes place in 1977, when he vanished along with Jack, Kate, and Hurley en route from Los Angeles to Guam on Ajira Flight 316. After making his way to where the Dharma Initiative Station The Flame was located, he is captured by Jin. As a prisoner at the barracks, Sayid meets a young Benjamin Linus. Despite attempts by Sawyer to try to expedite his escape, he refuses to cooperate, leading him to be chemically interrogated by a shaman-like Dharma Initiative member. Later, Ben stages a fire to give him the cover and helps free Sayid in hopes he would take him to the Others. However; during the escape, Sayid shoots Ben, leaving him for dead before escaping into the jungle.\n\nSayid reappears in \"Follow the Leader\" as Jack, Kate, Richard, Eloise Hawking, a younger Charles Widmore, and an unnamed Other are walking through the jungle towards the hydrogen bomb \"Jughead\" . He fires his weapon and kills one of the Others after the man threatens to shoot Kate on the way to the ruins. Shortly before \"The Incident\" is about to occur, Sayid and Jack pose as Dharma employees and attempt to smuggle a core piece of the hydrogen bomb to the Swan Station. However; they are discovered by Roger Linus, and Sayid is shot in the ensuing chaos. Sayid is last seen in the Dharma van with Hurley and Miles, who state that Sayid will probably die from his wounds.\n\nIn the premiere of Season 6, \"LA X\", in the timeline that follows the survivors on the island, Sayid is taken to the Temple. Hurley and some of the other survivors also go to the Temple in order to heal him, which at the time is unsuccessful. Although his death is confirmed, Sayid unexpectedly gets up from the ground. Sayid is then taken by Dogen to be 'tested' and is branded. He is told he passed, but Jack is told later that Sayid is \"infected.\"\n\nSayid leaves the Temple after being asked by Dogen to kill the Smoke Monster with a blade. However, the knife proves worthless but the Smoke Monster (in Locke's form) allows Sayid to live and return to the temple with a message. Sayid indeed returns and warns everyone to leave or else they will all die. He then proceeds to confront Dogen and murders him and Lennon, allowing the Smoke Monster into the Temple to kill those who didn't defect. When Ilana's group rushes in to rescue the \"candidates\" (Jacob's choice of people to replace him as leader of the Island), Ben attempts to coax Sayid to leaving with them, but Sayid sinisterly replies otherwise. Ben runs off. The \"infection\" Dogen had spoken of appears to be a type of mind control that the Man in Black has placed over Sayid.\n\nSayid, the Man in Black, Claire, Kate Austen, and a group of the Others leave the Temple shortly after. In \"The Package\", the Man in Black asks Sayid to spy on Charles Widmore and his team on the other Island. Sayid agrees, but by this time he mentions he is devoid of any emotion: pain, happiness, etc.. Upon arriving at the shore of the second Island, he secretly watches a heavily sedated Desmond being dragged out of Widmore's submarine by two of Widmore's members. He waits in the sidelines for a few moments, and then he kills several of Widmore's men and has Desmond follow him. The next day, he ties him up to a tree and fetches the Man in Black. Sayid is ordered to head back to their camp. When the Man in Black returns, Sayid asks of Desmond, but the Man in Black tells him not to worry. Right after, Hurley, Jack, Frank Lapidus, and Sun arrive. Sayid of course shows no surprise at the sight of them. When Widmore's team threatens to waylay their camp with artillery shells, the Man in Black orders everyone to start leaving and asks Sayid to kill Desmond. Sayid heads to a well wherein Desmond was pushed in by the Man in Black, but instead of killing him, converses with him, and reveals that the Man in Black has promised to resurrect the woman he loves. When Desmond asks Sayid why he believes this, Sayid reveals it was the Man in Black who resurrected him after his death. Later, Sayid catches up with the Man in Black, telling him he has killed Desmond, which he later tells Jack is false. His conversation with Desmond seemed to break the Man in Black's spell over him.\n\nThe Man in Black plants a bomb in Jack's knapsack in order to kill the candidates, and Sayid later participates in the group's betrayal of the Man in Black. Upon boarding Widmore's submarine, the bomb is discovered. Sayid tells Jack where to find Desmond and then sacrifices himself to save the others, taking the bomb and running as it explodes.\n\nIn the flash sideways, Sayid is still a former Republican Guard torturer, but now works for an oil company. He's flying \nto Los Angeles to visit Nadia. Believing he didn't deserve her, he'd \"pushed\" her to his brother Omer, and they are now married with children.\n\nAboard Flight 815, Sayid kicks in a lavatory door to save a passenger, Charlie Pace, who'd locked himself inside. He runs into a fellow passenger at baggage claim then takes a cab to Nadia and Omer's house, where he meets them and their two children Eva and Sam. A call takes Omer from dinner early, and the children, looking for presents, find a picture of Nadia \nin Sayid's bag. That night, Omer asks for his help with a loan shark to whom he has become indebted, capitalizing on Sayid's feelings for Nadia, but Sayid tells Omer he is \"not that man\" anymore.\n\nThe next day, Omer is attacked, and Nadia urges Sayid not to take revenge. The men responsible come to Sayid and bring him to a restaurant to meet the loan shark – Martin Keamy. Keamy tries to get him to pay Omer's debt, but Sayid uses one of the men as a human shield then shoots Keamy and the other henchman. Leaving, he finds a prisoner in the freezer, and after some thought, he gives him a box cutter to free himself.\n\nA camera catches him fleeing the carnage, and the tape eventually reaches the LAPD (\"LA X, Parts 1 & 2\") (\"Sundown\") (\"The Package\") (\"The Last Recruit\") Sayid returns to Omer and Nadia's house and packs to flee and Nadia asks what he's done Then a police detective knocks on the door. Sayid runs out the back door but Detective James Ford trips him up, holds him at gunpoint and arrests him.\n\nHe meets Desmond Hume while in custody. Later, while Sayid, Desmond, and Kate Austen are being taken from holding to prison, Desmond offers to help him escape in exchange for a future favor. Sayid agrees with facetious gravity. The escorting officer frees them, and Hugo Reyes arrives, handing her a bribe. Hurley then drives Sayid to the Flightline Motel and offers him a tranquilizer gun to remind him of their previous adventures there. Sayid refuses.\n\nHurley abducts a victim and they drive next to a bar's parking lot. Two men emerge from a bar fighting, followed by a woman who attempts to stop them and is knocked to the ground. Sayid runs to her aid, and as they touch, Shannon and Sayid remember each other and their lives. They next go to the church and sit together as a bright light covers them. (\"The Last Recruit\") (\"What They Died For\") (\"The End\")\n\nSayid was not in the original draft of the pilot episode, but the producers knew early on that they wanted an international cast. Executive consultant Jeff Pinkner had worked with Naveen Andrews on a short-lived ABC series called \"The Beast\", and was keen to have him on \"Lost\". The producers were surprised that Andrews was interested in the role. When they cast him, all Andrews was told was that Sayid was from Iraq and had been in the army.\n\nA fan favorite since the show's inception, Chris Carabott of IGN stated that in the episode \"The Economist\" – \"Sayid Jarrah is a badass who could give Jack Bauer, James Bond, and Jason Bourne all a run for their money\".\nFaisal Abbas, Media Editor of the London-based international Arabic daily \"Asharq Al-Awsat\", considered that Jarrah, along with other 'heroic' Muslim characters (such as \"Sleeper Cell's\" Darwyn al-Sayeed) who emerged in American media after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, are proof that Arabs and Muslims have been undertaking more prominent roles within the media since those events. \"Entertainment Weekly\" describes \"tortured Sayid\" as a \"captivating minor character\".\n"}
{"id": "2025280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025280", "title": "Billy Bletcher", "text": "Billy Bletcher\n\nWilliam Bletcher (September 24, 1894 – January 5, 1979) was an American actor and voice actor. He is mostly well known for his role as the voice of Pete in the Mickey Mouse short films from 1932 to 1954.\n\nBletcher appeared on-screen in films and later television from the 1910s to the 1970s, including appearances in several \"Our Gang\" and \"The Three Stooges\" comedies.\n\nHe was most active as a voice actor. His voice was a deep, strong and booming baritone. Bletcher provided the voices of various characters for Walt Disney Animation Studios (Black Pete, Short Ghost and the Big Bad Wolf in \"Three Little Pigs\" and its spin-offs). He auditioned to play one of the dwarfs in Disney's \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937). However, Walt Disney disapproved for fear that people would recognize Bletcher from the studio's Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck short subjects.\n\nHis booming voice can also be heard as \"Don Del Oro\" the Yacqi Indian god in the 1939 Republic serial, \"Zorro's Fighting Legion\". He also provided voice work for Ub Iwerks as the Pincushion man in the 1935 animated short \"Balloon Land\", as well as Owl Jolson's disciplinarian violinist father in the 1936 Warner Bros. short subject based on the song \"I Love to Singa\" and the menacing spider in \"Bingo Crosbyana\".\n\nIn 1939, Billy Bletcher and Pinto Colvig were hired to perform ADR work for the Munchkins in \"The Wizard of Oz\".\nIn MGM films, he voiced Spike the Bulldog and on some occasions even Tom and Jerry, in \"Tom and Jerry\", and in Warner Bros. many characters, most notably the Papa Bear of Chuck Jones' The Three Bears. He portrayed the villainous wolf in \"Little Red Riding Rabbit\" (1944).\n\nBletcher did voice acting for the 1944 Private Snafu World War II training film \"\"Gas\"\", where Bletcher plays the villainous Gas Cloud. Bletcher also played The Captain in \"Captain and the Kids\" with MGM cartoons.\n\nIn 1950, he played several characters on \"The Lone Ranger\" radio program as well as appearing in episode 27 of the TV series.\n\nIn 1971, Bletcher played one of his final roles, Pappy Yokum in a television adaptation of \"Lil Abner\". In 1978, he was originally hired to voice the Weed on \"The Plastic Man Comedy/Adventure Show\", but had to drop out due to illness.\n\nBletcher married actress Arlyn H. Roberts in 1915; together they have a daughter, Barbra. They remained married until Bletcher's death in 1979.\n\nBletcher died at the age of 84 on January 5, 1979 in Los Angeles, California. He was survived by his wife Arlyn and their daughter Barbra. Bletcher's wife Arlyn, died thirteen years later on July 3, 1992 at the age of 99.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025286", "title": "William Oswald Mills", "text": "William Oswald Mills\n\nWilliam Oswald \"Bill\" Mills, Sr. (August 12, 1924 – May 24, 1973), was a Republican U.S. congressman who represented the 1st Congressional district of Maryland from May 25, 1971 until he his death in Easton, Maryland on May 24, 1973.\n\nU.S. Congressman, Bill Mills was born in the small town of Bethlehem, Maryland on August 12, 1924. He attended Caroline County, Maryland public schools, after graduating from Federalsburg High School in 1941, he then pursued military service. He served in the U.S. Army in 1942, during World War II, as part of general George Patton's Third Army during the crossing of the Rhine River in Germany and was awarded the Bronze Star. After the war, he worked his way up in rank as the manager of the offices of: Easton, Maryland; Preston, Maryland; and Cambridge, Maryland of the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company from 1946 to 1962. Beginning in 1962, he served on the staff of then-congressman Rogers Morton as a Democrat until finally becoming a Republican in 1970. When Morton was nominated by U.S. President, Richard Nixon and appointed United States Secretary of the Interior in 1971, Mills won the special election to succeed him as U.S. House Representative of Maryland's 1st District of the 93rd United States Congress.\n\nOn the morning of May 24, 1973, Mills was found dead at a stable near his home in Easton, Maryland at the age of 48. There was an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the left side of his chest, and a 12-gauge shotgun and spent casing were found by his side.\n\nIt was reported that he had been depressed following the death of three of his Congressional aides in a 1972 car accident, and by the fact that his mentor and predecessor, Rogers Morton, was suffering from cancer. However, five days before his death, it was revealed that Mills had received an undisclosed $25,000 gift from the finance committee of President Richard Nixon's re-election campaign during the 1971 special election. Overall, it was part of $900,000 in unaccounted donations made by the committee, according to the Government Accountability Office. If Mills were convicted of conducting illegal activity, he could have faced a $1,000 fine and one year in prison.\n\nWhile Mills initially stated that he had done nothing wrong, he began worrying that the campaign contribution would destroy his political career. In one of his suicide notes, Mills stated that he could not prove his innocence and saw suicide as the only solution. Overall, Mills produced at least seven notes, including one to his son warning him to be honest and another to his constituents.\n\nDespite his concern, Maryland authorities claimed soon after his death that he may not have broken the new state campaign finance law, which did not come into full effect until July 1971, two months after his special election. In fact, there were no indications that state authorities were even going to pursue an investigation.\n\nHe is buried at the Hillcrest Cemetery, in Federalsburg, Maryland.\n\"WASHINGTON, May 24 Representative William O. Mills of Maryland, a Republican whose 1971 special election was aided by an unreported cash transfer of $25,000 from the Nixon campaign committee, was found shot to death this morning, and the authorities called his death an apparent suicide.\nMr. Mills, a 48‐year‐old former telephone company executive on Maryland's Eastern Shore, was found near his home in Easton, Md., at 7:05 A.M., dead of a single 12‐gauge shotgun wound in the left side of his chest. The automatic gun and a single spent shell were at his side and Talbot County State's Attorney William S. Horne said, “It appears that the cause of death was a selfinflicted gunshot wound in the chest.”\nState authorities reported that Mr. Mills had left at least seven notes, including one found on his body in an Easton barn where he stabled his horses. One official said that in the notes, Mr. Mills said “he had done nothing wrong but said he couldn't prove it, and so there was no other way out.”\nMr. Mills was reported to have had no serious domestic or personal problems. But one former associate said that he had been “depressed” since the death in an automobile accident in 1972 of three of his Congressional aides, including his former campaign treasurer, Col. James L. Webster.\n‘Mood’ Was Affected\nThe announcement early this year that Mr. Mills's political mentor and predecessor in the Eastern Shore House seat, Secretary of the Interior Rogers C. B. Morton, was suffering from cancer was also said to have “affected his mood.”\nThe apparent suicide followed by five days the disclosure by the General Accounting office that Mr. Mills's 1971 campaign was aided by an unreported $25,000 cash transfer from the Finance Committee to Re‐elect the President.\nThe Washington Post reported yesterday that neither Mr. Mills nor his 1971 campaign treasurer, who has since died, had reported receiving the funds under Maryland's state campaign finance law.\nThe Post said 24 hours before the Mills shooting that this was “in apparent violation of state law.” But Willard Morris, the Maryland administrator of election laws, said in Annapolis today that there may have been no state violation.\nThe Mills election in 1971 was in May, and Mr. Morris, said that he was checking to see whether the $25,000 transaction might have been exempt, from Maryland disclosure requirements then in effect. The Maryland law was amended in July, 1971, to require fuller reporting, he said.\nMr. Mills ran in a special election that year in Maryland's First Congressional District for the seat then being vacated by Mr. Morton.\nMr. Mills was successful in that election and was re‐elected in 1972.\nTalking to newsmen today, Mr. Morton readily acknowledged that he had “initiated” the “perfectly proper and above‐board” $25,000 transfer to Mr. Mills's campaign.\"\nBy vacating the First District seat in a nonelection year, Mr. Morton said, he left his former administrative assistant in a financial vacuum, with no local funds accumulated for Republican House campaign.\nSo, Mr. Morton said, he sought‐national Republican help. He asked former Attorney General John N. Mitchell if the re‐election committee would grant a “loan” to Mr. Mills, Mr. Mills also received outright pay ments — reported in Maryland election records — of $5,000 and $2,000 from other national Republican campaign committees supporting members of Congress, apparently through Mr. Morton's intercession.\nThe $25,000 “loan” — a word that a Morton aide said later today the Secretary had “used loosely\"—was never intended to be repaid in cash. Mr. Morton said that he had agreed with Mr. Mitchell to “repay” it by making extra fund‐raising speaking appearances for the Nixon campaign in 1972 and also by soliciting wealthy friends to make larger‐than. usual contributions.\nReconstructing the shooting, Maryland authorities said that Mr. Mills drove early this morning to the nearby stable from his home in the center of Easton.\nShot Was Heard\nAccording to the police, shot was heard at about A.M. by Walter R. Soulsman, a caretaker at the Mullberry Hill Farm Stables where Mr. Mills kept his horses and where he frequently made early morning visits. Mr. Soulsman found Mr. Mills moments later lying face up near the barn door, the police said, and Mr. Mills was pronounced dead at Easton Memorial Hospital at 7:55 A.M.\nThe House of Representatives recessed later in the day in respect for Mr. Mills. He was a native of Bethlehem, Md., small Eastern Shore community, and a combat veteran of the Army ii World War II. After the war, he managed small Eastern Shore offices for the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. before joining Mr. Morton's Congressional staff in 1962.\nMr. Mills was an Elk and Rotarian.\nHe is survived by his wife, Mrs. Norma Lee Mills; a daughter, Mrs. Lawrence Haley, 24, and a son, William 0, Mills Jr., 16, all of Easton.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2025288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025288", "title": "Swing Bridge, River Tyne", "text": "Swing Bridge, River Tyne\n\nThe Swing Bridge is a swing bridge over the River Tyne, England, connecting Newcastle upon Tyne and Gateshead, and lying between the Tyne Bridge and the High Level Bridge. It is a Grade II* listed structure.\n\nThe Swing Bridge stands on the site of the Old Tyne Bridges of 1270 and 1781, and probably of the Roman Pons Aelius. \n\nThe previous bridge on the site was demolished in 1868 to enable larger ships to move upstream to William Armstrong's works. The hydraulic Swing Bridge was designed and paid for by Armstrong, with work beginning in 1873. It was first used for road traffic on 15 June 1876 and opened for river traffic on 17 July 1876. At the time of construction it was the largest swing bridge ever built. The construction cost was £240,000.\n\nThe hydraulic power still used to move the bridge is today derived from electrically driven pumps. These feed a hydraulic accumulator sunk into a shaft below the bridge; the water is then released under pressure which runs the machinery to turn the bridge. The mechanism used for this is still the same machinery originally installed by Armstrong.\n\nIt has an cantilevered span with a central axis of rotation able to move through 360° to allow vessels to pass on either side of it.\n\nThe busiest year of operation was 1924 when the bridge was rotated 6,000 times unlike current use where it is only required to turn occasionally to allow yachts and pleasure craft to pass by and on the first Wednesday of each month as a maintenance exercise.\n\nThe Bridge featured in the final episode and climax of the educational series Geordie Racer from Look and Read when the villains became stranded on the bridge after a robbery. \n\nThe bridge was renovated in 2018 at a cost of £200,000. The restoration involved 25,000 hours of work and 10,000 screws were used in repairs.\n"}
{"id": "2025291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025291", "title": "Zernike polynomials", "text": "Zernike polynomials\n\nIn mathematics, the Zernike polynomials are a sequence of polynomials that are orthogonal on the unit disk. Named after optical physicist Frits Zernike, winner of the 1953 Nobel Prize in Physics and the inventor of phase-contrast microscopy, they play important roles in various optics branches such as beam optics and imaging.\nThere are even and odd Zernike polynomials. The even Zernike polynomials are defined as\n\n(even function over the azimuthal angle formula_2), and the odd Zernike polynomials are defined as\n\n(odd function over the azimuthal angle formula_2) where \"m\" and \"n\" are nonnegative integers with \"n\" ≥ \"m ≥ 0\", \"formula_2\" is the azimuthal angle, \"ρ\" is the radial distance formula_6, and \"R\" are the radial polynomials defined below. Zernike polynomials have the property of being limited to a range of −1 to +1, i.e. formula_7. The radial polynomials \"R\" are defined as\n\nfor an even number of \"n\" − \"m\", while it is 0 for an odd number of \"n\" − \"m\". A special value is\n\nRewriting the ratios of factorials in the radial part as products of binomials shows that the coefficients are integer numbers:\n\nA notation as terminating Gaussian hypergeometric functions is useful to reveal recurrences, to demonstrate that they are special cases of Jacobi polynomials, to write down the differential equations, etc.:\n\nfor \"n\" − \"m\" even.\n\nThe factor formula_12 in the radial polynomial formula_13 may be expanded in a Bernstein basis of formula_14 for even formula_15 or formula_16 times a function of formula_17 for odd formula_15 in the range formula_19. The radial polynomial may therefore be expressed by a finite number of Bernstein Polynomials with rational coefficients:\n\nApplications often involve linear algebra, where integrals over products of Zernike polynomials and some other factor build the matrix elements.\nTo enumerate the rows and columns of these matrices by a single index, a conventional mapping of the two indices \"n\" and \"m\"' to a single index \"j\" has been introduced by Noll. The table of this association formula_21 starts as follows .\nformula_22\n\nThe rule is the following.\n\n\nOSA\n\nThe Fringe indexing scheme is used in commercial optical design software and optical testing.\n\nformula_30\n\nwhere formula_31 is the sign or signum function. The first 20 fringe numbers are listed below.\n\nJames C. Wyant uses the \"Fringe\" indexing scheme except it starts at 0 instead of 1 (subtract 1). This method is commonly used including interferogram analysis software in Zygo interferometers and the open source software DFTFringe.\n\nThe orthogonality in the radial part reads\n\nor\n\nformula_33\n\nOrthogonality in the angular part is represented by the elementary\n\nwhere formula_37 (sometimes called the Neumann factor because it frequently appears in conjunction with Bessel functions) is defined as \"2\" if formula_38 and \"1\" if formula_39. The product of the angular and radial parts establishes the orthogonality of the Zernike functions with respect to both indices if integrated over the unit disk,\n\nwhere formula_41 is the Jacobian of the circular coordinate system, and where formula_42 and formula_43 are both even.\n\nAny sufficiently smooth real-valued phase field over the unit disk formula_44 can be represented in terms of its Zernike coefficients (odd and even), just as periodic functions find an orthogonal representation with the Fourier series. We have\nwhere the coefficients can be calculated using inner products. On the space of formula_46 functions on the unit disk, there is an inner product defined by\nThe Zernike coefficients can then be expressed as follows:\n\nAlternatively, one can use the known values of phase function \"G\" on the circular grid to form a system of equations. The phase function is retrieved by the unknown-coefficient weighted product with (known values) of Zernike polynomial across the unit grid. Hence, coefficients can also be found by solving a linear system, for instance by matrix inversion. Fast algorithms to calculate the forward and inverse Zernike transform use symmetry properties of trigonometric functions, separability of radial and azimuthal parts of Zernike polynomials, and their rotational symmetries.\n\nThe parity with respect to reflection along the \"x\" axis is\nThe parity with respect to point reflection at the center of coordinates is\nwhere formula_51 could as well be written formula_52 because formula_42 is even for the relevant, non-vanishing values.\nThe radial polynomials are also either even or odd, depending on order \"n\" or \"m\":\n\nThe periodicity of the trigonometric functions implies invariance if rotated by multiples of formula_55 radian around the center:\n\nThe Zernike polynomials satisfy the following recurrence relation which depends neither on the degree nor on the azimuthal order of the radial polynomials:\n\nFrom the definition of formula_58 it can be seen that formula_59 and formula_60. The following three-term recurrence relation then allows to calculate all other formula_13:\n\nThe above relation is especially useful since the derivative of formula_58 can be calculated from two radial Zernike polynomials of adjacent degree:\n\nThe first few radial polynomials are:\n\nThe first few Zernike modes, with OSA/ANSI and Noll single-indices, are shown below. They are normalized such that \nThe functions are a basis defined over the circular support area, typically the pupil planes in classical optical imaging at visible and infrared wavelengths through systems of lenses and mirrors of finite diameter. Their advantages are the simple analytical properties inherited from the simplicity of the radial functions and the factorization in radial and azimuthal functions; this leads, for example, to closed-form expressions of the two-dimensional Fourier transform in terms of Bessel functions. Their disadvantage, in particular if high \"n\" are involved, is the unequal distribution of nodal lines over the unit disk, which introduces ringing effects near the perimeter formula_82, which often leads attempts to define other orthogonal functions over the circular disk.\n\nIn precision optical manufacturing, Zernike polynomials are used to characterize higher-order errors observed in interferometric analyses.\nIn optometry and ophthalmology, Zernike polynomials are used to describe aberrations of the cornea or lens from an ideal spherical shape, which result in refraction errors.\n\nThey are commonly used in adaptive optics, where they can be used to characterize atmospheric distortion. Obvious applications for this are IR or visual astronomy and satellite imagery.\n\nAnother application of the Zernike polynomials is found in the Extended Nijboer–Zernike theory of diffraction and aberrations.\n\nZernike polynomials are widely used as basis functions of image moments. Since Zernike polynomials are orthogonal to each other, Zernike moments can represent properties of an image with no redundancy or overlap of information between the moments. Although Zernike moments are significantly dependent on the scaling and the translation of the object in a region of interest (ROI), their magnitudes are independent of the rotation angle of the object. Thus, they can be utilized to extract features from images that describe the shape characteristics of an object. For instance, Zernike moments are utilized as shape descriptors to classify benign and malignant breast masses or the surface of vibrating disks. Zernike Moments also have been used to quantify shape of osteosarcoma cancer cell lines in single cell level.\n\nThe concept translates to higher dimensions \"D\" if multinomials formula_83 in Cartesian coordinates are converted to hyperspherical coordinates, formula_84, multiplied by a product of Jacobi polynomials of the angular variables. In formula_85 dimensions, the angular variables are spherical harmonics, for example. Linear combinations of the powers formula_86 define an orthogonal basis formula_87 satisfying\n\n(Note that a factor formula_89 is absorbed in the definition of \"R\" here, whereas in formula_90 the normalization is chosen slightly differently. This is largely a matter of taste, depending on whether one wishes to maintain an integer set of coefficients or prefers tighter formulas if the orthogonalization is involved.) The explicit representation is\n\nfor even formula_92, else identical to zero.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025293", "title": "United States Military Entrance Processing Command", "text": "United States Military Entrance Processing Command\n\nThe United States Military Entrance Processing Command (USMEPCOM) is a Major Command of the U.S. Department of Defense, which screens and processes applicants into the United States Armed Forces. USMEPCOM is headquartered in North Chicago, Illinois and operates 65 Military Entrance Processing Stations (MEPS) located throughout the United States. The command's motto is \"Freedom's Front Door\", signifying that a service member's career starts when they walk through the doors of the MEPS.\n\nUSMEPCOM is a joint service command under the direction of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy, who in turn reports to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.\n\nThese stations process applicants for military service, putting them through a battery of tests and examinations to ensure that they meet the standards required to serve in the United States Armed Forces. These tests include vision, hearing, blood, and blood pressure tests, a pregnancy test (for women), an examination by a doctor, a height and weight check, urinalysis, a breathalyzer test, a moral/background examination, as well as the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB). If applicants are deemed qualified for military service, they will also meet with a service counselor, negotiate and sign enlistment contracts, and swear or affirm an entrance oath.\n\nUSMEPCOM has been awarded the Joint Meritorious Unit Award twice. The first award was for the period of 1 July 1982 until 30 April 1985; the second award was for the period of 1 January 2005 until 31 December 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025294", "title": "Ash Priors", "text": "Ash Priors\n\nAsh Priors is a village and parish in Somerset, England, situated north west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 155.\n\nThe parish of Ash Priors was part of the Kilmersdon Hundred,\n\nThe current house known as The Priory was probably built in the 17th century. It was owned by the Priory in Taunton before the Reformation, hence the name of the village.\n\nThe Parish meeting of all residents has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\nThe Village is preserved by planning regulations as an \"area of restraint\", meaning that no major redevelopment should take place in Ash Priors itself.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nAsh Priors Common, south of the village is a local nature reserve of unimproved neutral grassland, semi-natural deciduous woodland, wet heath, scrub, carr, stream, ponds and hedgerows. The plants to be found at the site include early marsh-orchid and twayblade orchid while the animals include the Eurasian harvest mouse, viviparous lizard and tree pipit. It was the first and is the largest local nature reserve run by Taunton Deane Council.\n\nThe Church of the Holy Trinity was built in the 15th century. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nScience fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke was once resident at Ballifants Farm, on the outskirts of the village.\n"}
{"id": "2025304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025304", "title": "HMS Culloden (1776)", "text": "HMS Culloden (1776)\n\nHMS \"Culloden\" was a 74-gun third-rate ship of the line of the Royal Navy, built at Deptford Dockyard, England, and launched on 18 May 1776. She was the fourth warship to be named after the Battle of Culloden, which took place in Scotland in 1746 and saw the defeat of the Jacobite rising.\n\nShe served with the Channel Fleet during the American War of Independence, seeing action at the Battle of Cape St Vincent, before being sent out to the West Indies. Her stay there was brief, sailing for New York City with Admiral Rodney in August 1780 to join the North American station. The ship's specific duties were to blockade the French at Newport, Rhode Island where a French army of 6,000 had disembarked in July 1780.\nOn 23 January 1781, while trying to intercept French ships attempting to run the blockade at Newport, Rhode Island, \"Culloden\" encountered severe weather and ran aground at North Neck Point (Will's Point) in Montauk. All attempts to refloat the vessel were unsuccessful, but all the crew were saved, and \"Culloden's\" masts were taken aboard . The area is today known as Culloden Point.\n\nThe British conducted salvage operations on the ship throughout March, retrieving all 28 eighteen-pounder guns from the upper deck, and all 18 nine-pounders from the quarterdeck. The larger cannons were pushed into the sea and the ship was then burned to the waterline and abandoned.\n\nOn 24 July 1781, Joseph Woodbridge of Groton, Connecticut sent a letter to George Washington offering to sell him sixteen 32-pounders from the wreck, and on 14 July 1815, Samuel Jeffers arrived in Newport, Rhode Island with 12 tons of pig iron and a 32-pounder from the wreck.\n\nIn 1971 Henry W. Moeller, an undersea archaeologist associated with Dowling College, discovered the keel and large wooden beams resting in between and of water off Culloden Point. A gudgeon imprinted with the name \"Culloden\" was recovered. Subsequent recovery efforts brought up another 32-pounder cannon as well as copper sheathing. A sketch of the outline of the ruins showed the ship resting on a large boulder.\n\nSince 1979 the wreck site has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places, which prohibits SCUBA divers from taking artifacts from, or otherwise disturbing the wreck. The designated area is a 'circle with a radius of approximately and a centre at the point formed by UTM co-ordinates 19/2 51 370/45 50 810.\n\nThe application notes that in addition to Revolutionary War connections, the shipwreck is important for showing the British state-of-the-art copper sheathing of the ship as well as the possibility that it may reveal problems about corruption in the British shipyards at the time. The application notes:\n\nFinally, the Culloden shipwreck site may provide material insight into the political conditions existent in the British Admiralty during this period. James [1926:7-18) has written describing the strength and organization of the Royal Navy at the end of the Seven Years' War (1755–1762) and its subsequent dissipation between 1771 and 1778 through mismanagement and corruption under Lord Sandwich's control of the Admiralty. Construction of the Culloden occurred during the period that Admiralty corruption was at its height. Therefore, the Culloden may reflect in material terms corrupt practices plaguing England's shipyards at the time. Construction shortcuts and the manufacturing of parts that do not meet specifications have long characterized the defense industry of all nations. The Culloden shipwreck site may provide data illustrating this activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025306", "title": "Ashbrittle", "text": "Ashbrittle\n\nAshbrittle is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated nine miles west of Taunton and close to the River Tone and the route of the Grand Western Canal in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 225.\n\nThe parish of Ashbrittle was part of the Milverton Hundred.\n\nA 3- 4,000 year old Yew tree (\"Taxus baccata\") in the village was among the Great British Trees list that included 50 trees selected by the Tree Council in 2002 to spotlight trees in Great Britain in honour of the Queen's Golden Jubilee. The tree is growing on the top of a Bronze Age Bowl barrow. It is no longer one solid tree having divided into seven separate trunks in a circle with a diameter of .\n\nCourt Place Farmhouse was built in the late 15th century and has undergone several renovations and extensions since. It is a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe film \"Luna de Miel\" received its first UK showing in its restored form, in the village, after restoration by Charles Doble, on 21 June 2003.\n\nThe novels \"Two Cows And A Vanful Of Smoke\" and \"Isabel's Skin\" by Peter Benson, who lived in Ashbrittle during the 1970s, are set in the village and its surrounding area.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe Church of St John the Baptist dates from the 15th century and has been designated as a grade II* listed building.\n"}
{"id": "2025317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025317", "title": "Tramp Royale", "text": "Tramp Royale\n\nTramp Royale is a nonfiction travelogue by science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein, describing how he and his wife, Ginny, went around the world by ship and plane between 1953 and 1954. It was published posthumously in 1992, and subsequently went out of print.\n\nMuch of the book is devoted to social and political commentary and observation, including two lengthy but half-hearted defenses of the McCarthy hearings, about which the Heinleins were interrogated repeatedly in the countries they visited. Although Heinlein has been adopted as somewhat of a posterboy by the libertarian movement, the political commentary reveals that Heinlein was far from being a doctrinaire adherent of any particular political philosophy. For example, he compares the social welfare state of New Zealand unfavorably to that of Uruguay and says that he cannot explain why the one was so much more successful than the other.\n\nHeinlein devoted an entire chapter to his (almost) visit to Tristan da Cunha, arguably the most remote human settlement on Earth. He described the islands as being so far from the rest of human civilization that the next closest human settlement, St. Helena, \"[is] itself so remote that it was picked as a safe prison for Napoleon Bonaparte after he crushed his way out of Elba\". Tristan da Cunha is from St. Helena.\n\nThis trip, along with Heinlein's experiences as a naval officer, appears to have provided a great deal of the background material for some of Heinlein's science fiction novels, such as passenger liners used in \"Podkayne of Mars\" (in space) and in \"\" (on the oceans). Much of the humor in the book consists of riffs on the idea that Ginny is the hothead, while Robert is the easygoing one. For example, in a shipboard incident at the captain's table, Robert continues eating his dessert after being doused in salad during a food fight started by Ginny.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025319", "title": "Bathealton", "text": "Bathealton\n\nBathealton is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated west of Wellington and west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 194.\n\nThe Iron Age Castles Camp is approximately west of the village.\n\nIt was recorded in the Domesday Book as \"Badeheltone\". The parish of Bathealton was part of the Milverton Hundred,\n\nBathealton Court is a country house, dating from around 1766, but probably incorporating earlier dwelling. It was remodelled around 1850.\n\nThe routes of the Grand Western Canal and the Bristol and Exeter Railway pass within a short distance of the village.\n\nThe Village Hall, was previously the Village School until its last intake of pupils in the early 1950s.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe Church of St Bartholomew dates from 1854 and has been designated as a Grade II listed building. Its chancel retains monuments to the Webers and Moseys, eminent families in the history of the village.\n"}
{"id": "2025325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025325", "title": "Bickenhall", "text": "Bickenhall\n\nBickenhall is a hamlet and parish in Somerset, England, situated south east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish, which includes the hamlet of Batten's Green, has a population of 122.\n\nBickenhall is a widely scattered hamlet lying between the A358 and the village of Staple Fitzpaine.\n\nThe village consists of farms, houses and smallholdings. It has no shops or pubs, barring a recently opened sculpture studio at Bickenhall Farm. Bickenhall is also home to Neroche Parish Hall, formerly St. Pauls church (though has the appearance of a Methodist type church rather than one with a tower).\n\nThe name of the village comes from \"Bica's hall\" or \"hill\". The manor was held by Robert, Count of Mortain at the time of the Domesday Book in 1086. It later passed to the Portman family of Orchard Portman, who founded the Portman Estate.\n\nBickenhall was part of the hundred of Abdick and Bulstone.\n\nBickenhall was a haunt of smugglers at various times in the past. Aptly named Brandy Bridge in Bickenhall was the location of the \"Cat and Rags\" pub, which was used as a stop-off for goods smuggled from the south Dorset coast.\n\nThe village was once larger than the neighbouring Staple Fitzpaine due to a roaring trade in Teasels that were used in the wool trade but in the 19th century this declined dramatically and as a result many homes became derelict and are now only seen as stones in many of the fields. The Portland Estate that dominated the area also accommodated a manor house within the parish that sadly went the same way as the village homes. The land is generally now owned by The Crown and cultivated by a number of farms including arable and more recently a growth in Equestrian activities taking full use of the Bridlways and droves.\n\nFormerly Bickenhall had its own traditional-style village church, similar to those in nearby West Hatch and Hatch Beauchamp. This fell into disrepair however and was pulled down in around 1843, and was replaced by the current Neroche Parish Hall. The graveyard of the old church remains and can be seen by the roadside.\n\nA local ghost story stems from the above church changes. Sixteenth-century local landowner Rachel Portman lived nearby and is buried at the old church. She was commemorated inside the church by a large, wall-mounted relief statue which is now to be seen inside Staple Fitzpaine church. However, it is said that the demolition of her local church angered her spirit, and that now she can be seen to ride each midnight from the site of the old church to Neroche Parish Hall, upon a horse.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nBickenhall Orchard is a local nature reserve. It consists of Apple trees with mistletoe in a grass orchard with herbs and orchids.\n\nApproximately south east of the village is the Barrington Hill Meadows biological Site of Special Scientific Interest.\n"}
{"id": "2025330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025330", "title": "Judogi", "text": "Judogi\n\nJudogi (柔道着 or 柔道衣) is the formal Japanese name for the traditional uniform used for Judo practice and competition.\n\nA judogi is somewhat similar to a karategi (空手着 or 空手衣, Karate uniform) as it shares a common origin. Jigoro Kano derived the original Judogi from the Kimono and other Japanese garments around the turn of the 20th century, and, as such, the judogi was the first modern martial-arts-training uniform. Over the years, the sleeves and pants have been lengthened, the material and fit have changed, the traditional unbleached cotton is now a bleached white, and blue Judogi have become available; nevertheless, the uniform is still very close to that used 100 years ago. Other martial arts, notably Karate, later adopted the style of training uniform that is used in Judo.\n\nA judogi comprises three parts that are usually cut from different fabrics: a very heavy jacket (uwagi), lighter canvas pants (shitabaki or zubon), and a cotton belt (obi). Though similar to the shorter styles of kimono, an uwagi will invariably be made from heavy-weight cotton or cotton blend. All but the cheapest and lightest uwagi are cut from woven cotton, similar to, but much more tightly woven than, terrycloth. More expensive competition and hand-made judogi will often weigh several kilograms when finished. Due to the nature of judo practice, they commonly have heavier stitching and double-layered knee patches to provide durability. The obi's different colors denote the different ranks in judo.\nIn competition, judogi sizes and fit are strictly defined by the IJF rules of judo (see below). These rules define sleeve and pant length as well as the looseness of the fit; in competition, the referee can disqualify a competitor for wearing an ill-fitting judogi that may be used for advantage. In addition, various organizations and events oversee such matters as the attachment of commercial and team/national patches and competitors' names. All competitive judogi must be clean and free of holes, tears, or excessive wear.\n\nIn official national or international competition only white or blue judogi are allowed. Competitors must have available both colors because one contestant in each match is designated to wear a blue gi while the other wears a white gi. Most judo classes will permit students to wear either color, although white is the traditional color that is often preferred and white fits in better with the traditions of judo and Japanese culture. Less common colors, including red and black, can be found in less formal or specialized situations.\n\nThe left side of the gi must cross over the right one.\n\nJudogi are sold in many thicknesses, which can be generally grouped together in the two classes: single-weave and double-weave. Single-weave judogi are thinner and weigh less (upper jacket textile fabric weight usually 300–550 g/m). The thinner judogi are less durable, although some judoka (judo practitioners) may prefer them for long practices as they are less likely to foster overheating. Double-weave judogi are thicker and weigh more (fabric weight usually 650–1050 g/m). They are harder to grab than single-weave gis, which is considered an advantage in competition. Double-weave gis shrink less and those of high quality are often sold entirely pre-shrunk, this is important to know when comparing the fit of the gi. Double-weave gis generally cost considerably more than single-weave gis of comparable quality.\n\nPants by themselves should not be classified as single-weave or double-weave as the name only refers to the weaving style used for the upper section of the jacket. However, pants sold together with double-weave jackets will also tend to be heavier than normal due to stronger fabric or large reinforced sections.\n\nDouble-weave jackets designed for competition usually display a prominent seam that runs down the back of the jacket, joining two halves of fabric. Starting in the late nineties, some manufacturers made this overlapping part very wide, in effect doubling the fabric thickness for a large section of the back. This blocked the opponent from gripping there, which in 2005 caused the International Judo Federation to ban fighting in international competitions using a judogi with back seam area wider than 3 cm (a little more than one inch). Wider designs could still be permitted in local competitions depending on national rules. Single-weave jackets usually have no back seam, or a narrow one which only joins two fabric sections without interfering with grips.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025331", "title": "Thomas Francis Johnson", "text": "Thomas Francis Johnson\n\nThomas Francis Johnson (June 26, 1909 – February 1, 1988) was a U.S. Congressman who represented Maryland's 1st congressional district from January 3, 1959 to January 3, 1963. He lost his third re-election after criminal charges were brought against him.\n\nBorn in Worcester County, Maryland. He later graduated from Staunton Military Academy of Virginia in 1926, St. John's College, the University of Virginia, and the University of Maryland, College Park. He was admitted to the bar and commenced the practice of law in Snow Hill, Maryland. In 1932, he was elected chairman of the board of Commercial National Bank of Snow Hill. Johnson specialized in international law with practice in the Far East, Middle East, and continental Europe.\n\nIn 1934, at the age of 24, Johnson was appointed as state's attorney for Maryland, and, at age 28, he was elected to the Maryland State Senate, where he served from 1939 to 1951. He was the youngest man in state history to serve in those positions up to that point. In 1958, he was elected as a Democrat to the U.S. House of Representatives, and served (in the Eighty-sixth and Eighty-seventh Congresses) from 3 January 1959 until 3 January 1963. Johnson voted in favor of Civil Rights Act of 1960.\n\nIn 1962, while he was running for re-election, charges were brought against him regarding the receipt of illegal gratuities in Congress. He was convicted of conspiracy and conflict of interest in 1968, served three and a half months of a six-month sentence in jail, and paid a $5,000 fine. \n\nHe lost his 1962 re-election bid.\n\nAfter Congress, Johnson resumed the practice of law and lived in Berlin, Maryland until his death in an auto accident in Seaford, Delaware in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025332", "title": "Safiran Airlines", "text": "Safiran Airlines\n\nSafiran Airlines () was a cargo airline based in Tehran, Iran. It specialised in international cargo flights on a charter basis, especially outsized cargo, handling and wet-leasing aircraft when required.\n\nThe airline was established in 1988 and started operations in 1990. It was owned by M. A. Habibian and family (30%), M. B. Nahvi and family (30%), M. J. Nahvi and family (25%) and other shareholders (15%). The management structure is as follows:\n\nAs of March 2008 the Safiran Airlines fleet includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025339", "title": "Marshall Conferences", "text": "Marshall Conferences\n\nThe Marshall Conferences were a series of three meetings by Confederate leaders at Marshall, Texas, the capital of the exiled Confederate government of Missouri, at the suggestion of Confederate President Jefferson Davis.\n\nThe first conference took place in June 1862, and was between Texas governor Francis R. Lubbock and Confederate Missouri governor Claiborne F. Jackson. The two governors produced three recommendations for Jefferson that were later endorsed by the governors of Arkansas and Louisiana, who did not attend the meeting. The recommendations were as follows: establish a branch of the Confederate treasury located west of the Mississippi River, appoint a general with commanding jurisdiction over the Trans-Mississippi states, and establish more ammunition depots in the region to alleviate an arms shortage.\n\nThe second conference taking place in August 1863, brought in leaders from Arkansas, Confederate Indian Territory, Louisiana, Confederate Missouri, and Texas.\n\nThe third and final conference took place in May 1865 and produced unrealistic terms of surrender which the Union rejected.\n"}
{"id": "2025341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025341", "title": "Mid-South Louisiana Heavyweight Championship", "text": "Mid-South Louisiana Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe Mid-South Louisiana Heavyweight Championship was a secondary professional wrestling championship that was used and defended from 1964 though 1983. Initially, the championship originated in the NWA affiliated Gulf Coast Championship Wrestling. During this time, it was referred to as the NWA Gulf Coast Louisiana Heavyweight Championship until 1972. Beginning in '72, the title was used in the NWA affiliated NWA Tri-State then was called the NWA Tri-State Louisiana Heavyweight Championship from 1972 until 1979. In 1979, however, wrestler and promoter \"Cowboy\" Bill Watts purchased the Tri-State territory and renamed it Mid-South Wrestling Association. Although Watts kept close ties with the NWA for purpose of having access to wrestling talent, he withdrew Mid-South from the NWA and, as a result, renamed all of the promotion's championships accordingly.\n\n\"Silver areas in the history indicate periods of unknown lineage.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2025343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025343", "title": "Blood on Ice", "text": "Blood on Ice\n\nBlood on Ice is the ninth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on 27 May 1996, through Black Mark Production. It is a concept album.\n\nThe master tapes were recorded in 1989, but the album was not immediately released, both because the album was never properly finished, and because founder and songwriter Quorthon was worried that it presented too drastic a departure from the band's previous black metal sound. It was eventually released, after remastering and re-editing on more advanced studio equipment, in 1996, partly through fan pressure resulting from his mentioning of the project in an interview. Quorthon expands on this, as well as more specific matters about the recording of \"Blood on Ice\" and many of the other early Bathory albums in his liner notes for this release. The album's plot follows ideas and formats typical of the sagas, but was written by Quorthon himself. The album cover is drawn by Kristian Wåhlin.\n\nThe anonymous central character, aged ten when the tale begins, is the sole survivor of a raid by twenty black-clad horsemen bearing the banner of the 'twin-headed Beast' against his village. All the men are slain, and the women and children carried off to the far North, whilst the central character survives by hiding in a tree. He spends fifteen years alone in the wilderness, where he grows strong and learns the ways of the forest, the memories of the atrocities he has witnessed galvanising him. Then, one day, he meets a one-eyed old man (most probably Odin, although the tale always refers to him merely as 'One-Eyed Old Man') who tells him that he has foreseen his coming for a thousand years, and that he has been chosen as a champion of the Gods to fight their battle in the shadows beyond his world. To this end he will be granted a number of mighty artifacts and abilities, and be trained for a hundred days and nights by the old man. The first of these artifacts is a mighty sword (probably Tyrfing), forged in the dawn of the world, and the second given in a song is a mighty, eight-legged stallion ridden by 'his father's God' (Sleipnir, Odin's steed).\n\nHe will also be guided by two ravens (Huginn and Muninn), and is granted a number of supernatural powers: first, the woodwoman, a witch, takes his heart, for which price he can withstand any cut or slit. Then he travels to the bottomless lake in which all the knowledge of the worlds, old and new, is stored. The old man cast his left eye into the lake in order to give him his powers of wisdom and foresight (making the lake roughly analogous to Mimir's well), and the central character casts both his eyes into the lake, which not only means he gains all its powers of knowledge and vision, but also that he will not have to stare down the Beast during his final battle. He rides North, guided by the ravens and by the ancient Gods, to confront his destiny. He charges down the gates of Hel and defeats the Beast in combat, as well as freeing the souls of those that had been held captive here, riding with them to Valhalla.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025344", "title": "Bishop's Hull", "text": "Bishop's Hull\n\nBishop's Hull is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated in the western suburbs of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. It includes the areas of Rumwell, Rumwell Park, Roughmoor and Longaller and is close to the River Tone. The parish, which includes the hamlet of Netherclay, has a population of 2,975 in total.\n\nThe A38 and the A3065 pass through it.\n\nAt the top of Bishop's Hull Hill there is a post office, a village store and a butcher. The village has one primary school, Bishop's Hull Primary School, which was rebuilt in 1978, and the adjoining nursery called Checkmates.\n\nThe parish of Hull-Bishop's was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nHistorically the parish included the castle precincts in the centre of Taunton.\n\nIn June 2008, the village celebrated the 400th anniversary of the church bells with a week of events.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nNetherclay Community Woodland is a woodland with oak, ash, black poplar, dogwood and hazel. It is a local nature reserve.\n\nThe manor house dates from 1586, with a mid-19th century addition and internal alterations, and further restoration in 1901.\n\nRumwell Park house is a Grade II listed rococo mansion dating from 1857. It is located on Stonegallows, between Bishop's Hull and Galmington. \n\nRumwell Hall is an historic manor house now a business centre. A new house on the site was built for Sir Edward Seymour in 1733. The current house was built for William Cadbury and completed about 1815. It was altered in the early 20th century for Charles Leslie Fox J.P. and restored in the late 20th century as an hotel. \n\nBishop's Hull is home to St Margaret's Somerset Hospice, which provides palliative care to cancer patients from across the area.\n\nThe Frank Bond Centre, established in 1983, is named after its benefactor, a local builder who had two hobbies: collecting theatre organs and keeping exotic birds. He opened his garden once a year to the general public and all money that was raised went to charity. On his death he left his house and garden (now the Centre) and land to the community. The land was used for development, some for housing and some for the building of St Margaret's Hospice.\n\nThe St Peter and St Paul's Church, on Bishop's Hull Hill, which is a Grade II* listed building dating from the 13th century, and has an octagonal tower.\n\nUntil March 2005 Taunton United Reformed Church had a church on Bishop's Hull Road, the church was built in 1718 and the building is a Grade II* listed building. After the United Reformed Church in Bishop's Hull closed, services were moved to St Peter and St Paul's Church until 2013 when the United Reformed Church minister retired.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025349", "title": "Pierre van Ryneveld", "text": "Pierre van Ryneveld\n\nGeneral Sir Hesperus Andrias van Ryneveld, (2 May 1891 – 2 December 1972), known as Pierre van Ryneveld, was a South African military commander. He was the founding commander of the South African Air Force.\n\nVan Ryneveld began his military career in the First World War, in which he served in the Royal Flying Corps and later the Royal Air Force. For his service in the war, Van Ryneveld was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and Military Cross, Mentioned in Despatches, and presented with the Chevalier of the Legion of Honour from the French government.\n\nAfter the war, Van Ryneveld was called back to South Africa by the Prime Minister Jan Smuts in order to set up the South African Air Force (SAAF). He flew back home, across Africa, in a Vickers Vimy – a pioneering feat for which he and his co-pilot Quintin Brand were both knighted.\n\nColonel van Ryneveld established the SAAF in 1920, and directed it until 1933, when he was promoted to Chief of the General Staff (CGS), in command of the Union Defence Forces. However, for the next four years the SAAF remained under Van Ryneveld's direct control as no one was appointed as the Air Force's director until 1937.\n\nvan Ryneveld served as CGS for sixteen years, including the whole of the Second World War. He retired in 1949.\n\nThe Pretoria suburb of Pierre van Ryneveld Park was named in his honour and the airport just north of Upington in the Northern Cape is also named after Van Ryneveld. Sir Pierre van Ryneveld High School is in Kempton Park, Gauteng. The SAAF's annual air power symposium, is known as the Sir Pierre Van Ryneveld Air Power Symposium.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025362", "title": "All Singing, All Dancing", "text": "All Singing, All Dancing\n\n\"All Singing, All Dancing\" is the eleventh episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> ninth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 4, 1998. In the fourth \"Simpsons\" clip show, Homer claims he hates singing, so Marge shows family videos of musical numbers from previous seasons. Additionally, the episode itself takes the form of a sung-through musical, featuring spoken dialogue only at the start and end of the episode. The original material was directed by Mark Ervin and written by Steve O'Donnell. It was executive produced by David Mirkin. It features guest appearances from George Harrison, Patrick Stewart and Phil Hartman, although these are all clips and none of them recorded original material for the episode.\n\nHomer and Bart rent the film \"Paint Your Wagon\", expecting it to be a shoot-em-up Western. Homer is dismayed to find out that it is actually a musical, and expresses his distaste for such films. Marge is baffled by this, saying that he ironically loves singing. The family starts delivering their dialogue in song form, and Marge decides to prove that Homer loves to sing by showing family videos. Several clips are shown of various songs from past episodes, but Homer is not convinced. At this moment, Snake breaks into their house and holds them hostage. However, once he hears them singing, Snake decides that they would not make good hostages and leaves.\n\nThe family continues to sing and more videos are shown. Snake again breaks into the house and claims that he got a song stuck in his head and the only way to get rid of it is to kill the Simpsons. He tries to shoot them but discovers that his gun is out of ammunition and leaves again.\n\nAfter more clips, Snake returns for a final time, with ammunition, and aims his gun at them, but the family reveals that they are done singing. Snake declares that he has no problem with them and leaves. When Marge starts humming a tune, however, he fires a warning shot through the window.\n\nDuring the closing credits, Snake, still annoyed by all the music, shoots at the orchestra as they try to play the show's theme song. The third and final time they try to play, it is at a very soft volume, but Snake is not fooled and proceeds to shoot again, and once more when the Gracie Films logo music plays.\n\nThe clip show features several full songs from previous episodes of \"The Simpsons\".\nMany of them are among the most popular songs from the show. \"Who Needs The Kwik-E-Mart?\" and \"We Do\" had previously been nominated for best song at the Primetime Emmy Awards, and \"We Put the Spring in Springfield\" won the award in 1997.\n\nThe episode is the fourth and penultimate clip show episode of \"The Simpsons\". It was put together by Steve O'Donnell, who wrote this episode and \"The Joy of Sect\" (which, in production order, preceded this episode). Executive producer David Mirkin hated doing clip shows and \"wouldn't do them if we had a choice\" and this is referenced at the end of the episode. The episode contains two \"screw the audience act breaks\" in which a major problem is presented before the commercial but suddenly ends after the break. The episode also had problems with the censors as they objected to scenes of Snake pointing his shotgun at the Simpsons' baby daughter, Maggie. In spite of this, \"All Singing, All Dancing\" is one of the few episodes of \"The Simpsons\" that has been given a G-rating on American television.\n\nClint Eastwood is dressed as the Man with No Name from the \"Dollars Trilogy\" films. The film \"Paint Your Wagon\" is referenced at the beginning of the episode. The film does star Eastwood and Lee Marvin and was directed by Joshua Logan, but the writers did not base their parody or the song on the film at all. The man in the film that confronts Eastwood is modelled after Lee Van Cleef and his character Colonel Douglas Mortimer from the \"Dollars\" film \"For a Few Dollars More\".\n\nSeveral of the songs featured in the episode are references to actual musicals. \"Springfield, Springfield\", sung by Bart and Milhouse, is a reference to \"New York, New York\", from \"On the Town\". Krusty's \"Send in the Clowns\" uses different lyrics from the original version by Stephen Sondheim. Lyle Lanley's \"The Monorail Song\" takes references from a performance by character Professor Harold Hill in \"The Music Man\", including Lanley's costume and \"the crowd's mindless acceptance of his deceitful proposal\". \"See My Vest\" is a parody of the song \"Be Our Guest\", sung by Angela Lansbury in the 1991 film \"Beauty and the Beast\". While at the First Church of Springfield, Bart substitutes the lyrics from Iron Butterfly's \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida\" to \"In the Garden of Eden\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"All Singing, All Dancing\" finished 26th in ratings for the week of December 29, 1997 – January 4, 1998, with a Nielsen rating of 9.1, equivalent to approximately 8.9 million viewing households. It was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\".\n\nAlthough he normally dislikes clip shows, Mirkin liked this episode because of the singing and dancing and called the clips \"truly wonderful\". The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote \"for a clips show, it's not bad. The only one missing really is \"Dr Zaius\" from \"A Fish Called Selma\". In his book \"Planet Simpson\", author Chris Turner wrote, \"when songs spring up one at a time, you might notice a clever line or two, or the way that they serve the same kind of plot-advancing or energy-generating purposes they do in \"Singin' in the Rain\" or \"Cats\", but piled together in [\"All Singing, All Dancing\"], they amount to a sort of Simpsonian side project: \"Springfield: The Musical\". And ... it's a very impressive side project at that.\" The episode was nominated for a 1998 Emmy Award, in the \"Music Direction\" category. A review of \"The Simpsons\" season 9 DVD release in the \"Daily Post\" noted that it includes \"super illustrated colour commentaries\" on \"All Singing, All Dancing\" and \"Lost Our Lisa\". Isaac Mitchell-Frey of the \"Herald Sun\" cited the episode as a \"low moment\" of the season, noting it \"recycles parts of previous episodes\".\n\nMichael Dunne analyzed the episode in his book \"American Film Musical Themes and Forms\", and gave examples from it while explaining that singing and dancing performances are generally not seen as acceptable in the television medium. He notes that Homer calls singing \"fruity\" and \"the lowest form of communication\" during the episode. However, Dunne also notes the fact that Homer himself sings \"his objection that musicals are fake and phony\". Dunne describes the frame narrative as establishing Marge as \"more favorably disposed toward musicals than the males in her house\". Dunne concluded that \"musicals come out on top in this episode, but the victory is marginal at best\". Of the episode itself, Dunne wrote that \"the parodies contained in the show demonstrate that its creators are familiar enough with various forms of musical performance to echo them and confident enough that their viewers will catch the references\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2025365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025365", "title": "Bishops Lydeard", "text": "Bishops Lydeard\n\nBishops Lydeard () is a village and civil parish located in Somerset, England, north-west of Taunton in the district of Somerset West and Taunton. The civil parish had a population of 2,839 persons as recorded in the 2011 census; this figure however includes the village (and now separate parish) of Cotford St Luke.\n\nThe village is bypassed, since 1967, by the A358 road; the West Somerset Railway also runs through the area. The hamlet of East Lydeard is less than a mile to the east of the village; west of the village is Sandhill Park, an eighteenth-century country house.\n\nThe name of the village probably relates to Gisa, Bishop of Wells, who was one of the principal episcopal landowners of Somerset at the time of the Domesday Book in 1086. Lydeard is a compound of two Saxon personal names \"Lide\" (Lloyd) and \"Geard\", the latter remaining as a local name, \"Yarde\". As well as a personal name, \"geard\" means 'a fence, enclosure, courtyard or dwelling'.\n\nThe parish of Bishops Lydeard was part of the Kilmersdon Hundred.\n\nCotford St Luke is a new village, built in the southern part of Bishops Lydeard parish, which became a separate civil parish in 2011, splitting off from Bishops Lydeard.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing and environmental health, in addition to markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads (primary routes), public transport, policing and fire services, as well as trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThere is an electoral ward with the same name as the parish. However the most populous area of the ward is at Cotford St. Luke from where it visits Halse and then strikes north to West Bagborough. The ward has a population of 6,323 as at the 2011 Census.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nLydeard House was built in the mid 18th century. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nThere were originally two flour mills in the Bishops Lydeard. Higher Mill has been demolished. The Bishops Lydeard Mill and Rural Life Museum is housed in a building which dates from the 18th century, and was extended in the early 19th century with the addition of a millhouse. It has an overshot waterwheel and has been designated as a Grade II listed building. Since 2000 the building has been renovated and was opened by the town Mayor in 2003. The water wheel weighs over two tonnes and is driven by water from Back Stream which originates in the Brendon Hills. The museum focuses on traditional trades and crafts including a wheelwright's shop, cooper's shop, saddler's shop, blacksmith's shop and a Victorian kitchen.\n\nSandhill Park was built as a country house around 1720. It was built by John Periam, the Member of Parliament for Minehead, as Hill House and lived in by the Lethbridge family from 1767 to 1913. During World War I it was used as a prisoner of war camp for German and Austrian Officers. In 1919 it was converted by Somerset County Council into a home for handicapped children. It was requisitioned by the military in August 1940 and became the 41st General Military Hospital, providing accommodation in tents and huts. From 1941 the hospital was leased to the Americans as a neurological hospital for over 1,000 patients in 32 new wards which were completed in 1942. The hospital remained in military use until 1944. The psychiatric hospital reopened under the National Health Service in 1948 and further buildings were constructed. The hospital was sold in 1991 and housing built on part of the area.\n\nThe buildings of Sandhill Park were badly damaged in a fire on 22 November 2011, the east wing being gutted and extensive damage caused to the main house. The west wing and orangery appear to have survived.\n\nThe church of St Mary dates from the 14th and 15th centuries and in 1860–62 was extended by one bay and a vestry by Edward Jeboult of Taunton. It is a Grade I listed building. The tower has pierced tracery battlements, pinnacles, set back buttresses terminating in pinnacles at the bell-storey, and pinnacles on the buttresses at each stage. Several of the tombs in the churchyard are of historical importance, as are two crosses, one dating from the 14th century, the other being the town's market cross which was moved to the churchyard in the 19th century.\n\nBishops Lydeard railway station is a notable station on the West Somerset Railway, as the southern terminus of passenger services on the heritage line.\n\nThe village is served by scheduled bus services provided by First West of England on the Taunton — Minehead route. These run approximately every half-hour daytimes Monday to Saturday in both directions and generally every hour on Sundays.\n\nOther destinations, including Bridgwater and Kingston St Mary are also served but less frequently. A night bus service provided by Nippy Bus operates on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025368", "title": "Ballindine", "text": "Ballindine\n\nBallindine () is a village in County Mayo, Ireland. It is located along the Western Railway Corridor, 6.5 km (4 miles) south of Claremorris. The N17 road passes through the village, carrying over 10,000 vehicles daily, and it connects to the R328 road on the south side of town.\n\nThe remains of a possible fort are located in a field next to the National School. Folklore states that Ballindine got its name from this fort—\"Baile an Daingin\" meaning \"Town of the Fortress\" and that the souterrain, just outside it, was connected underground to the ruins of the old church in Cloonmore about 2 km (1.25 miles) to the east and also to the ruins of the old church in Garryduff, 5 km (3 miles) west.\n\nBallindine is in the Roman Catholic parish of Kilvine. Church records are held at the South Mayo Family Research Centre in Ballinrobe. Old school records dating to the 1800s are held in the present National School.\n\nThe village has had a monthly cattle and sheep fair since the 1960s and the Ballindine September fair was well known in West of Ireland. The July fair was also called 'The Gooseberry Fair' and Ballindine marked this tradition with an annual 'Gooseberry Festival' until 2002.\n\nThe Western Alzheimer's Foundation is headquartered in Ballindine.\n\nThe Ballindine Gaelic footballers join with Irishtown to form the Davitts team who play in red and black. The combined Davitts club plays in Division 1A league and Senior Championship. In 2011 Davitts won the Intermediate County Championship after beating Burrishoole in the final. They went on to win the Intermediate Connacht Championship after defeating Padraig Pearses.\n\nBallindine railway station was opened on 30 April 1894, and closed on 17 June 1963\n\nThe N17 passes through the village. However, as of 2010, the village was due to be bypassed as part of the Claremorris–Tuam dual-carriageway which (as of 2012) was in the early stages of planning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025372", "title": "Bangor Erris", "text": "Bangor Erris\n\nBangor Erris () is a town in Kiltane parish in Erris, County Mayo, Ireland with a population of over 300. It is on the banks of the Owenmore River and is a \"gateway\" to the Erris Peninsula linking Belmullet with Ballina and Westport. It is located at the foot of the \"Bangor Trail\" a 22-mile mountain pass across the Nephin Beg () Mountain Range to Newport. Approximately 2 km away is Carrowmore Lake, () Bangor is a centre for wild atlantic salmon and sea trout fishing. Bangor Erris is located in the Parish of Kiltane. Due west from Bangor are the towns of Belmullet, Geesala, Mulranny, Westport and Doolough.\n\nThe original name for Bangor was Doire Choinadaigh (Kennedy's Wood), a name found on maps from 1724 - 1829. the place was also called 'Coineadach' by John O'Donovan in the Ordnance Survey Name Books of 1838. In 1802 when James McPartlan (Statistical Survey p. 159) surveyed the area, he called the village 'Cahal' and noted that there were regular fairs held there at that time. Locally the village was known as 'Aonach Cathail' because a wealthy buyer of that name was a regular at the fair days. The name 'Bangor' was given to the village by Major Denis Bingham who established the town of Bangor Erris.\n\nThe reason Bangor was chosen as a site for Bingham's town was because it was situated at the crossroads of two old roads which were in use from about the middle of the 18th century. One road led from Carne (Mullet peninsula) to Castlebar and the other went from Inver (Kilcommon) to Newport. Both roads were repaired by order of the County Assizes in 1793. The crossroads was well sheltered from the worst of the prevailing winds and its situation on the banks of the Owenmore River also made it a suitable site.\n\nMajor Bingham introduced the Revenue Police to stamp out the illicit distillation of drink, in reality it was to get personal protection for himself in his house Bingham Lodge on the western edge of the town. A post office was established in the town in 1842.\n\nThe local parish church dates back to the mid 19th Century.\n\nThe Townagh flood\n\nIn December 1818, four lakes just outside Bangor Erris burst their banks after heavy rains, unleashing a torrent of water that killed 17 people. The majority of the victims were from the O'Hara family. Three soldiers from the 92nd Highlanders were also killed. The soldiers were on revenue duty and were lodging with the O'Hara family. All three soldiers were veterans of Waterloo. At the same times, two other soldiers were killed when they got lost in the bog during the storm.\n\nIrish War of Independence\n\nIn January 1921, a local man - Michael McAndrew (aged 27) was stabbed in the neck by a soldier. McAndrew was attempting to take the soldier's rifle when he received the wound. He was taken to Belmullet Hospital where he survived the injury.\n\nBus Éireann route 446 links Bangor Erris with Bellacorick, Crossmolina and Ballina. In the reverse direction it links to Belmullet and the Mullet Peninsula. There is one service a day in each direction, including Sundays. On Friday evenings an extra journey operates from Ballina. Onward rail and bus connections are available at Ballina.\n\nThere are three public houses in Bangor; the Talk Of The Town, the Kiltane Tavern and the West End Bar. There is one supermarket/grocery shop in Bangor, Carrabine's. There is a bookmakers and a hardware store also. Bangor National School which is attended by the children of Bangor and other neighboring villages such as Tawnagh and Bellacorick. Bangor Hibs have an all weather astroturf pitch which is used for 5 a side football. Across from the national school is the Catholic church.\n\nThe GAA Club in Kiltane is Kiltane GFC. Kiltane were founded in 1964 and wear blue and gold jerseys. They won the Junior and Intermediate Championships in 1972 and 1973 respectively. \n\nThe soccer club in Bangor Erris is named Bangor Hibernians F.C. They play at Ballybeg Park. Founded in 1995 the club plays in the Premier division of the Mayo Association League. The club's colours are blue and black vertical stripes. The club crest denotes the \"Big Bridge\" in Bangor which carries traffic over the Owenmore River and is situated close to the club's home ground. The club's first major Junior Cup Final victory came against Partry Athletic in the Tonra Cup in 2006. In 2011, the club claimed the Tuohy Cup. Also in 2011, the team recorded a first ever League title (PREMIER B) following a 2-1 home win over local rivals Crossmolina. Bangor Hibs were named Mayo League Club of the Year in 2011. Bangor Hibs added a second League title in 2015 when they also won the Premier Division B title. As of 2018 the club are in the Mayo League Premier Division.\n\n\nThe area around Bangor Erris is rich in local folklore. The legend of the Ulster Cycle took place not far from Bangor Erris at the fort at Rathmorgan beside Carrowmore Lake. Known as Táin Bó Flidhais it tells the story of a cattle raid around the 1st century AD. \n\nThere is a folktale that the road between Bangor Erris and Ballycroy is haunted by magical creatures. A phantom dog sometimes appears, as does a white cow, whose appearance is regarded as a warning of death. Several of the local lakes are associated with folk tales of 'water horses\", which sometimes come onto the land and try to get people to mount them, and subsequently take them off into the water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025374", "title": "Kbkg wz. 1960", "text": "Kbkg wz. 1960\n\nThe Karabinek-granatnik wzór 1960 (), also designated PMK-DGN-60 or PMK-60, is a Polish-made version of the AK-47 assault rifle that can fire rifle grenades.\n\nThe LON-I grenade launcher is screwed onto the forward end of the rifle barrel and locked into place by means of a spring-loaded plunger mounted in the front sight base of a modified AK-47 rifle. The sight for the launcher is mounted on the rear sight base. A valve is fitted to the right side of the gas block, allowing the gas to be shut off (preventing it from leaving the barrel via the gas port) when the grenades are fired.\n\nWhen using the rifle to launch grenades, a special rubber recoil pad is used and a special 10-round magazine is inserted. This magazine has a filler block that prevents it from being used with \"normal\" (i.e. bulleted) cartridges. There is also a regular version of this rifle as well that was not designed to shoot grenades.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025375", "title": "Bekan, County Mayo", "text": "Bekan, County Mayo\n\nBekan or Becan () is a small village in eastern County Mayo. Because of the almost entirely rural population, Bekan is traditionally a farming community. The village is off the R323 road between Knock and Ballyhaunis. The local school is St. Joseph's National School.\n\nThe Connacht GAA Centre of Excellence was built outside the village in December 2012 \n\nEastern Gaels is the local Gaelic Football club, which represents both Bekan and Brickeens. The Connacht GAA Centre of Excellence is the major sporting facility in the area. The centre is just outside the village. The centre has a 3G pitch, five floodlit Gaelic games pitches, and a gymnasium.\n\nBekan railway station opened on 1 January 1909 and closed on 17 June 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025377", "title": "Edward Tylor Miller", "text": "Edward Tylor Miller\n\nEdward Tylor Miller (February 1, 1895 – January 20, 1968), a Republican, was a U.S. Congressman who represented the Maryland's 1st congressional district from 1947 to 1959.\n\nMiller was born in Woodside, a neighborhood in Silver Spring, Maryland. He attended Sidwell Friends School of Washington, D.C., and graduated from Yale University in 1916. During the First World War, Miller served in the United States Army as commanding officer of Company C of the 320th Infantry in the 80th Infantry Division from May 14, 1917, to August 8, 1919.\n\nAfter the War, Miller studied law at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. He was admitted to the bar in 1920 and commenced practice in Easton, Maryland. He served as Referee in Bankruptcy from 1923 to 1941, and as police and juvenile judge for Talbot County, Maryland from 1934 to 1938. During the Second World War, Miller served as a colonel in the Infantry in the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1946, where he saw duty in North Africa, India, and China.\n\nIn 1946, Miller was elected as a Republican to the Eightieth and to the five succeeding Congresses, serving from January 3, 1947, to January 3, 1959. Miller did not sign the 1956 Southern Manifesto and voted in favor of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1958 to the Eighty-sixth Congress and for election in 1960 to the Eighty-seventh Congress. Miller later served as vice chairman of the United States Delegation to Second United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea at Geneva, Switzerland, in 1960. He unsuccessfully sought candidacy in 1962 for the United States Senate, and afterwards resumed the practice of law. He served as Republican national committeeman from 1960–1964, as delegate to the Republican National Convention of 1964, and was elected Talbot County delegate to Maryland Constitutional Convention of 1967. Miller died in Easton, and is interred in Meeting House Cemetery.\n\n Retrieved on 2009-02-21\n"}
{"id": "2025378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025378", "title": "Greco-Italian War", "text": "Greco-Italian War\n\nThe Greco-Italian War (Italo-Greek War, Italian Campaign in Greece; in Greece: War of '40) took place between the kingdoms of Italy and Greece from 28 October 1940 to 23 April 1941. This local war began the Balkans Campaign of World War II between the Axis powers and the Allies. It turned into the Battle of Greece when British and German ground forces intervened early in 1941.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, the Italian Prime Minister Benito Mussolini began an aggressive foreign policy and annexed Albania in the spring of 1939. World War II began on 1 September 1939 and on 10 June 1940, Italy declared war on the Allies. By September 1940, the Italians had invaded France, British Somaliland and Egypt; preparations had also begun to occupy Greece. In the late 1930s, the Greeks had begun to build the Metaxas Line opposite Bulgaria and from 1939 accelerated their defensive preparations against an Italian attack from Albania. In 1940, there was a hostile press campaign in Italy and other provocations, culminating in the sinking of the Greek light cruiser \"Elli\" by the Italians on 15 August (the Christian Dormition of the Mother of God festival). On 28 October, Mussolini issued an ultimatum to Greece demanding the cession of Greek territory, which the Prime Minister of Greece, Ioannis Metaxas, rejected.\n\nThe Italian army invaded Greece on 28 October, before the Italian ultimatum had expired. The invasion was a disaster, the 140,000 troops of the Italian Army in Albania encountering an entrenched and determined enemy. The Italians had to contend with the mountainous terrain on the Albanian–Greek border and unexpectedly tenacious resistance by the Greek Army. By mid-November, the Greeks had stopped the Italian invasion just inside Greek territory. After completing their mobilization, the Greeks counter-attacked with the bulk of their army and pushed the Italians back into Albania – an advance which culminated in the Capture of Klisura Pass in January 1941, a few dozen kilometers inside the Albanian border. The defeat of the Italian invasion and the Greek counter-offensive of 1940 have been called the \"first Axis setback of the entire war\" by Mark Mazower, the Greeks \"surprising everyone with the tenacity of their resistance\". The front stabilized in February 1941, by which time the Italians had reinforced the Albanian front to 28 divisions against the Greeks' 14 divisions (though Greek divisions were larger). In March, the Italians conducted the unsuccessful Spring Offensive. At this point, losses were mutually costly, but the Greeks had far less ability than the Italians to replenish their losses in both men and materiel, and they were dangerously low on ammunition and other supplies. They also lacked the ability to rotate out their men and equipment, unlike the Italians. Requests by the Greeks to the British for material aid only partly alleviated the situation, and by April 1941 the Greek Army only possessed 1 more month's worth of heavy artillery ammunition and was unable to properly equip and mobilize the bulk of its 200,000–300,000 strong reserves.\n\nWhile originally content to simply let the Italians wear the Greeks down and (he predicted) finish the war in the summer of 1941, Adolf Hitler decided in December 1940 that potential British intervention in the conflict represented a threat to Germany's rear. This caused him to come to the aid of his Axis ally. German build-up in the Balkans accelerated after Bulgaria joined the Axis on 1 March 1941. British ground forces began arriving in Greece the next day. On 6 April, the Germans invaded northern Greece (\"Operation Marita\"). The Greeks had deployed the vast majority of their men into a mutually costly stalemate with the Italians on the Albanian front, leaving the fortified Metaxas Line with only a third of its authorized strength. During the Battle of Greece, Greek and British forces in northern Greece were overwhelmed and the Germans advanced rapidly west and south. In Albania, the Greek army made a belated withdrawal to avoid being cut off by the Germans but was followed up slowly by the Italians. Greece surrendered to German troops on 20 April 1941, under the condition that they would not have to surrender to the Italians; this condition was agreed to but revoked several days later after protests from Mussolini, and the Greek army surrendered to Italy as well. Greece was subsequently occupied by Bulgarian, German and Italian troops. The Italian army suffered 102,064 combat casualties (with 13,700 dead and 3,900 missing) and fifty thousand sick; the Greeks suffered over 90,000 combat casualties (including 14,000 killed and 5,000 missing) and an unknown number of sick. The economic and military failings of the Italian fascist regime were exposed by the Greek debacle and simultaneous defeats against the British in North Africa, which reduced the Italian fascist regime to dependence on Germany.\n\nIn the late 1920s, Italian Prime Minister Benito Mussolini said that Fascist Italy needed \"Spazio vitale\", an outlet for its surplus population and that it would be in the best interests of other countries to aid in the expansion of Imperial Italy. The regime wanted hegemony in the Mediterranean–Danubian–Balkan region and Mussolini imagined the conquest \"of an empire stretching from the Strait of Gibraltar to the Strait of Hormuz\".\n\nThere were designs for a protectorate over the Albanian Kingdom and for the annexation of Dalmatia and economic and military control of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Greece. The fascist regime also sought to establish protectorates over the First Austrian Republic, the Kingdom of Hungary, the Kingdom of Romania and the Kingdom of Bulgaria, which lay on the periphery of an Italian European sphere of influence.\n\nIn 1935, Italy began the Second Italo-Ethiopian War to expand the empire; a more aggressive Italian foreign policy which \"exposed [the] vulnerabilities\" of the British and French and created an opportunity the Fascist regime needed to realize its imperial goals. In 1936, the Spanish Civil War began and Italy made a military contribution so vast that it played a decisive role in the victory of the rebel forces of Francisco Franco. \"A full-scale external war\" was fought for Spanish subservience to the Italian Empire, to place Italy on a war footing, and to create \"a warrior culture\".\n\nIn September 1938, the Italian army had made plans to invade Albania, which began on 7 April 1939, and in three days had occupied most of the country. Albania was a territory that Italy could acquire for \"\"living space\" to ease its overpopulation\" as well as a foothold for expansion in the Balkans. Italy invaded France in June 1940, followed by their invasion of Egypt in September. A plan to invade Yugoslavia was drawn up, but postponed due to opposition from Nazi Germany and a lack of Italian army transport.\n\nItaly had captured the predominantly Greek-inhabited Dodecanese Islands in the Aegean Sea from the Ottoman Empire in the Italo-Turkish War of 1912. It had occupied them since, after reneging on the 1919 Venizelos–Tittoni agreement to cede them to Greece. When the Italians found that Greece had been promised land in Anatolia at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919, for aid in the defeat of the Ottoman Empire during the First World War, the Italian delegation withdrew from the conference for several months. Italy occupied parts of Anatolia which threatened the Greek occupation zone and the city of Smyrna. Greek troops were landed and the Greco-Turkish War (1919–22) began with Greek troops advanced into Anatolia. Turkish forces eventually defeated the Greeks and with Italian aid, recovered the lost territory, including Smyrna. In 1923, Mussolini used the murder of an Italian general on the Greco-Albanian border as a pretext to bombard and temporarily occupy Corfu, the most important of the Ionian Islands.\n\nThe Greek defeat in Anatolia and the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne (1923) ended the expansionist \"Megali Idea\". Henceforth Greek foreign policy was largely aimed at preserving the \"status quo\". Territorial claims to Northern Epirus (southern Albania), the Italian-ruled Dodecanese, and British-ruled Cyprus remained open but inactive in view of the country's weakness and isolation. The main threat Greece faced was from Bulgaria, which claimed Greece's northern territories. The years after 1923 were marked by almost complete diplomatic isolation and unresolved disputes with practically every neighbouring country. The dictatorship of Theodoros Pangalos in 1925–26 sought to revise the Treaty of Lausanne by a war with Turkey. To this end, Pangalos sought Italian diplomatic support, as Italy still had ambitions in Anatolia, but in the event, nothing came of his overtures to Mussolini. After the fall of Pangalos and the restoration of relative political stability in 1926, efforts were undertaken to normalize relations with Turkey, Yugoslavia, Albania and Romania, without much success at first. The same period saw Greece draw closer to Britain and away from France, exacerbated by a dispute over the two sides' financial claims from World War I.\n\nThe Greek government put renewed emphasis on improving relations with Italy and in November 1926, a trade agreement was signed between the two states. Initiated and energetically pursued by Andreas Michalakopoulos, the Italian–Greek rapprochement had a positive impact on Greek relations with Romania and Turkey and after 1928 was continued by the new government of Eleftherios Venizelos. This policy culminated with the signing of a treaty of friendship on 23 September 1928. Mussolini exploited this treaty, as it aided in his efforts to diplomatically isolate Yugoslavia from potential Balkan allies. An offer of alliance between the two countries was rebuffed by Venizelos but during the talks Mussolini personally offered \"to guarantee Greek sovereignty\" on Macedonia and assured Venizelos that in case of an external attack on Thessaloniki by Yugoslavia, Italy would join Greece.\n\nDuring the late 1920s and early 1930s, Mussolini sought diplomatically to create \"an Italian-dominated Balkan bloc that would link Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria, and Hungary\". Venizelos countered the policy with diplomatic agreements among Greek neighbours and established an \"annual Balkan conference ... to study questions of common interest, particularly of an economic nature, with the ultimate aim of establishing some kind of regional union\". This increased diplomatic relations and by 1934 was resistant to \"all forms of territorial revisionism\". Venizelos adroitly maintained a principle of \"open diplomacy\" and was careful not to alienate traditional Greek patrons in Britain and France. The Greco-Italian friendship agreement ended Greek diplomatic isolation and led to a series of bilateral agreements, most notably the Greco-Turkish Friendship Convention in 1930. This process culminated in the signature of the Balkan Pact between Greece, Yugoslavia, Turkey and Romania, which was a counter to Bulgarian revisionism.\n\nThe Second Italo-Ethiopian War marked a renewal of Italian expansionism, and began a period where Greece increasingly sought a firm British commitment for its security. Although Britain offered guarantees to Greece (as well as Turkey and Yugoslavia) for the duration of the Ethiopian crisis, it was unwilling to commit itself further so as to avoid limiting its freedom of manoeuvre vis-à-vis Italy. Furthermore, with the (British-backed) restoration of the Greek monarchy in 1935 in the person of the anglophile King George II, Britain had secured its dominant influence in the country. This did not change after the establishment of the dictatorial 4th of August Regime of Ioannis Metaxas in 1936. Although imitating the Fascist regime in Italy in its ideology and outward appearance, the regime lacked a mass popular base, and its main pillar was the King, who commanded the allegiance of the army. Greek foreign policy thus remained aligned with that of Britain, despite the parallel ever-growing economic penetration of the country by Nazi Germany. Metaxas himself, although an ardent Germanophile in World War I, followed this line, and after the Munich Conference in October 1938 suggested a British–Greek alliance to the British ambassador, arguing that Greece \"should prepare for the eventuality of a war between Great Britain and Italy, which sooner or later Greece would find itself drawn into\". Loath to be embroiled in a possible Greek–Bulgarian war, dismissive of Greece's military ability, and disliking the regime, the British rebuffed the offer.\n\nOn 4 February 1939, Mussolini addressed the Fascist Grand Council on foreign policy. The speech outlined Mussolini's belief that Italy was being imprisoned by France and the United Kingdom and what territory would be needed to break free. During this speech, Mussolini declared Greece to be a \"vital [enemy] of Italy and its expansion.\" On 18 March, as signs for an imminent Italian invasion of Albania as well as a possible attack on Corfu mounted, Metaxas wrote in his diary of his determination to resist any Italian attack.\n\nFollowing the Italian annexation of Albania in April, relations between Italy and Greece deteriorated rapidly. The Greeks began making defensive preparations for an Italian attack, while the Italians began improving infrastructure in Albania to facilitate troop movements. The new Italian ambassador, Emanuele Grazzi, arrived in Athens later in April. During his tenure, Grazzi worked earnestly for the improvement of Italian–Greek relations, something that Metaxas too desired—despite his anglophile stance, Grazzi considered him \"the only real friend Italy could claim in Greece\"—but he was in the awkward position of being ignorant of his country's actual policy towards Greece: he had arrived with no instructions whatsoever, and was constantly left out of the loop thereafter, frequently receiving no replies to his dispatches. Tensions mounted as a result of a continued anti-Greek campaign in the Italian press, combined with provocative Italian actions. Thus during Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano's visit to Albania, posters supporting Albanian irredentism in Chameria were publicly displayed; the governor of the Italian Dodecanese, Cesare Maria De Vecchi, closed the remaining Greek communal schools in the province, and Italian troops were heard singing \"\"Andremo nell'Egeo, prenderemo pure il Pireo. E, se tutto va bene, prenderemo anche Aténe.\"\" (\"We go to the Aegean, and will take even Piraeus. And if all goes well, we will take Athens too.\"). Four of the five Italian divisions in Albania moved towards the Greek border, and on 16 August the Italian Chief of the General Staff, Marshal Pietro Badoglio, received orders to begin planning for an attack on Greece. On 4 August, Metaxas had ordered Greek forces to a state of readiness and a partial mobilization.\nAlthough both Britain and France publicly guaranteed the independence of Greece and Romania on 13 April 1939, the British still refused to be drawn into concrete undertakings towards Greece, as they hoped to entice Mussolini to remain neutral in the coming conflict with Germany, and saw in a potential Greek alliance only a drain on their own resources. With British encouragement, Metaxas made diplomatic overtures to Italy in August, and on 12 September, Mussolini wrote to Metaxas, assuring him that if he entered the war, Italy would respect Greek neutrality, and that Italian troops based in Albania would be pulled back about from the Greek border. The Italian dictator even instructed Grazzi, to express his trust towards Metaxas and offer to sell Greece aircraft. On 20 September, the Italians offered to formalize relations by renewing the 1928 treaty. Metaxas rejected this, as the British Foreign Office was opposed to a formal commitment by Greece to Italy, and made only a public declaration of friendship and good-will. Greek–Italian relations entered a friendly phase that lasted until spring 1940.\n\nIn May 1940, as Italian entry into the war became imminent, the Italian press began an anti-Greek propaganda campaign, accusing the country of being a foreign puppet and tolerating British warships in its waters. Following the defeat of France, Greek–Italian relations deteriorated further. From 18 June, De Vecchi sent a series of protests to Rome, reporting on the presence of British warships in Crete and other Greek islands and claimed that a British base had been established at Milos. The allegations were overblown but not entirely unjustified: in January 1940, bowing to British pressure, Greece concluded a trade agreement with Britain, limiting its exports to Germany and allowing Britain to use the large Greek merchant fleet for its war effort, marking Greece a tacit member of the anti-Axis camp, despite its official neutrality. British warships did sail deep into the Aegean, leading the British ambassador in Athens to recommend, on 17 August, that the government put a stop to them. Mussolini saw his war as a \"guerra paralllela\" (\"parallel war\") under which Italy would finally conquer its \"spazio vitale\" allied to Germany, but without the help of Germany as until early 1941 he remained vehemently opposed to the Wehrmacht operating in the Mediterranean. As such, he wanted Italy to occupy all the territory that he saw as part of Italy's \"spazio vitale\", including in the Balkans, before Germany won the expected victory over Britain. The consistent German opposition to any Italian move into the Balkans was a major irritant to Mussolini as he saw it as a German attempt to block Italy from getting its fair share of the spoils before the war was won. In July 1940, Mussolini was forced under German pressure to cancel a planned invasion of Yugoslavia (an important source of raw materials for the \"Reich\"), which was frustrating to him as he long had designs on Yugoslav territory.\n\nItalian military forces harassed Greek forces with air attacks on Greek naval vessels at sea. On 12 July, while attacking a British petrol carrier off Crete, Italian aircraft based in the Dodecanese went on to bombard Greek warships in harbour at Kissamos. On 31 July Italian bombers attacked two Greek destroyers in the Gulf of Corinth and two submarines in Nafpaktos; two days later a coastguard vessel was attacked at Aegina, off Athens. Ciano's diary confirms that over the summer of 1940, Mussolini turned his attention to the Balkans: on 6 August, Mussolini was planning an attack on Yugoslavia, while on 10–12 August he railed against the Greeks, promising to rectify the \"unfinished business\" of 1923. Count Ciano was the Italian official who had pushed most strongly for the conquest of Albania in 1939 and afterwards Albania was ruled very much as his own \"personal fiefdom\" as the viceroy Francesco Jacomoni was a lackey of Ciano's. As a way of improving his prestige within the regime, Ciano was the Italian official who pressed the hardest for the invasion of Greece as he saw conquering Greece (an invasion that would have to be launched from Albania) as a way of showing off just how well run Albania was under his rule. On 10 August 1940, Ciano met Mussolini to tell him the story of the Albanian bandit Daut Hoxha, whom Ciano presented to Mussolini as a pro-Italian Albanian patriot murdered by the Greeks. In reality, Hoxha was a cattle-thief with a \"long history of extreme violence and criminality\" who had been beheaded by a rival gang of Albanian bandits. As intended, Ciano's story worked Mussolini into a state of rage against the Greeks, with Ciano writing in his diary: \"The Duce is considering an 'act of force because since 1923 [the Corfu incident] he has some accounts to settle and the Greeks deceive themselves if they think he has forgotten'\".\n\nOn 11 August, orchestrated by Ciano and the Italian viceroy in Albania, Francesco Jacomoni, the Italian and Albanian press began a campaign against Greece, on the pretext of the murder of the bandit Daut Hoxha in June. Hoxha was presented as a patriot fighting for the liberty of Chameria and his murder the work of Greek agents. Ciano wrote approvingly in his diary that Mussolini wanted more information on Ciamuria (the Italian term for Epirus) and had ordered both Jacomoni and General Count Sebastiano Visconti Prasca-Guzzoni to Rome. Visconti-Prasca, the aristocratic commander of the \"Regio Esercito\" forces in Albania was a bodybuilder excessively proud of his \"manly physique\" who neglected his military duties in favor of physical exercises, and promptly told Mussolini that his forces were more than capable of conquering Greece. Although Greek \"expansionism\" was denounced and claims for the surrender of Chameria made, Ciano and well-informed German sources regarded the press campaign as a means to intimidate Greece, rather than a prelude to war.\n\nOn 15 August 1940 (the Dormition of the Theotokos, a Greek national religious holiday), the Greek light cruiser \"Elli\" was sunk by the Italian submarine \"Delfino\" in Tinos harbour. The sinking was a result of orders by Mussolini and Navy chief Domenico Cavagnari allowing submarine attacks on neutral shipping. This was taken up by De Vecchi, who ordered the \"Delfino\"s commander to \"sink everything in sight in the vicinity of Tinos and Syros\", giving the impression that war was imminent. On the same day, another Greek steamship was bombarded by Italian planes in Crete. Despite evidence of Italian responsibility, the Greek government announced that the attack had been carried out by a submarine of unknown nationality. No-one was fooled and the sinking of \"Elli\" outraged the Greek people. Ambassador Grazzi wrote in his memoirs that the attack united a people \"deeply riven by unbridgeable political differences and old and deep-running political hatreds\" and imbued them with a firm resolve to resist. Grazzi's position was particularly problematic: a firm believer in Italian–Greek friendship, and unaware of Ciano's shift towards war, he tried his best to smooth over problems and avoid a conflict. As a result, Metaxas, who believed Grazzi to be a \"faithful executor of Rome’s orders\", was left unsure of Italy's true intentions, wavering between optimism and \"crises of prudent rationalism\", in the words of Tsirpanlis. Neither Metaxas nor Grazzi realized that the latter was being kept in his post \"deliberately in order to allay the suspicions of the Greek government and so that the aggressive plans against Greece might remain concealed\".\n\nGerman intervention, urging Italy to avoid Balkan complications and concentrate on Britain, along with the start of the Italian invasion of Egypt, led to the postponement of Italian ambitions in Greece and Yugoslavia: on 22 August, Mussolini postponed the attack on Greece for the end of September, and for 20 October on Yugoslavia. On 7 October, German troops entered Romania, to guard the Ploiești oil fields and prepare for Operation Barbarossa. Mussolini, who had not been informed in advance, regarded it as an encroachment on Italy's sphere of influence in the Balkans, and advanced plans for an invasion of Greece. The fact that Hitler never told Mussolini of any foreign policy moves in advance had long been considered humiliating by the latter and he was to determined to strike Greece without informing Hitler as a way of asserting Italian equality with Germany. On 13 October, Mussolini told Marshal Badoglio that Italy was going to war with Greece, with Badoglio making no objections. The next day, Badolgio first learned that Mussolini planned to occupy all of Greece instead of just Epirus as he had been led to understand, which led Badoglio to say that the \"Regio Esercito\" would require 20 divisions in Albania, which in turn would require 3 months, but he did not press this point. The one man in Italy who could have stopped the war, King Victor Emmanuel III, chose to bless it instead. The king told Mussolini at a meeting that he had his support as he expected the Greeks to \"crumble\". Victor Emmanuel was looking forward to having a fourth crown to wear (Mussolini had already given Victor Emmanuel the titles Emperor of Ethiopia and King of the Albanians).\n\nThe Italian war aim was to establish a Greek puppet state, which would permit the Italian annexation of the Ionian Islands and the Sporades and the Cyclades islands in the Aegean Sea, to be administered as a part of the Italian Aegean Islands. The islands were claimed on the basis that they had once belonged to the Venetian Republic and the Venetian client state of Naxos. The Epirus and Acarnania regions were to be separated from the rest of the Greek territory and the Italian-controlled Kingdom of Albania was to annex territory between the Greek north-western frontier and a line from Florina to Pindus, Arta and Preveza. The Italians intended to partly compensate Greece for its extensive territorial losses by allowing it to annex the British Crown Colony of Cyprus after the war.\nOn 13 October, Mussolini finalized the decision for war when he informed Marshal Badoglio to start preparing an attack for 26 October. Badoglio then issued the order for the Italian military to begin preparations for executing the existing war plan, \"Contingency G[reece]\", which envisioned the capture of Epirus as far as Arta but left the further pursuit of the campaign open. On the next day, Badoglio and acting Army Chief of Staff Mario Roatta met with Mussolini, who announced that his objective was the capture of the entire country and that he would contact Bulgaria for a joint operation. Roatta advised that an extension of the invasion beyond Epirus would require an additional ten divisions, which would take three months to arrive and suggested limiting the extent of the Italian demobilization. Both generals urged Mussolini to replace the local commander, Lieutenant-General Sebastiano Visconti Prasca, with someone of greater seniority and experience. Mussolini seemingly agreed but also insisted on the attack going ahead at the determined date, provisionally under Prasca's command. Badoglio and Roatta seemed unconvinced that the operation would take place, as with similar projects against Greece and Yugoslavia.\n\nThe following day Mussolini called another conference, with Badoglio, Roatta, Visconti Prasca, Ciano, and Jacomoni. Neither Admiral Domenico Cavagnari of the \"Regia Marina\" nor Francesco Pricolo of the \"Regia Aeronautica\" were asked to attend while Roatta arrived late as he was invited by Mussolini's secretary to the meeting just before it started. Mussolini reiterated his objectives; stated he believed that neither of Greece's allies in the Balkan Pact, Yugoslavia or Turkey would act; expressed his determination that the attack take place on 26 October and asked for the opinion of the assembled. Jacomoni agreed that the Albanians were enthusiastic but that the Greeks would fight, likely with British help, while Ciano suggested that the Greek people were apathetic and would not support the \"plutocratic\" ruling class. Prasca offered assurances that the operation was as perfectly planned as \"humanly possible\", and promised to finish off the Greek forces in Epirus (which he estimated at 30,000 men) and capture the port of Preveza in ten to fifteen days. Prasca regarded the campaign as an opportunity to win fame and achieve the coveted rank of Marshal of Italy by conquering Athens. He was relatively junior in his rank and knew that if he demanded more troops for the Albanian front, it was likely that a more senior officer would be sent to command the operation, earning the accolades and promotions instead.\n\nDuring the discussion only Badoglio voiced objections, pointing out that stopping after seizing Epirus—which he conceded would present little difficulty—would be an error, and that a force of at least twenty divisions would be necessary to conquer the whole country, including Crete, through he did not criticize Prasca's plans. Badoglio also stated he believed it was very unlikely that Britain would send forces to Greece and wanted an Italian offensive into Egypt to be timed with the invasion of Greece. Roatta suggested that the schedule of moving troops to Albania would have to be accelerated and called for two divisions to be sent against Thessaloniki as a diversion. Prasca pointed out the inadequacy of Albanian harbours for the rapid transfer of Italian divisions, the mountainous terrain, and the poor state of the Greek transport network, but remained confident that Athens could be captured after the fall of Epirus, with \"five or six divisions\". The meeting ended with an outline plan, summed up by Mussolini as \"offensive in Epirus; observation and pressure on Salonika, and, in a second phase, march on Athens\". The British historian Ian Kershaw called the meeting at the Palazzo Venezia on 15 October 1940 \"one of the most superficial and dilettantish discussions of high-risk military strategy ever recorded\". The Greek historian Aristotle Kallis wrote Mussolini in October 1940 \"was overpowered by hubris\", a supremely overconfident man whose vainglorious pursuit of power led him to believe that under his leadership Italy was about to win as he put it \"the glory she has sought in vain for three centuries\".\n\nThe staging of incidents at the border to provide a suitable pretext (analogous to the Gleiwitz incident) was agreed for 24 October. Mussolini suggested that the expected advance of the 10th Army (Marshal Rodolfo Graziani) on Mersa Matruh, in Egypt, be brought forward to prevent the British from aiding Greece. Over the next couple of days Badoglio failed to elicit objections to the attack from the other service chiefs or to achieve its cancellation on technical grounds. Mussolini, enraged by the Marshal's obstructionism, threatened to accept his resignation if offered. Badoglio backed down, managing only to secure a postponement of the attack until 28 October.\nThe front was roughly wide in mountain terrain with very few roads. The Pindus mountains divided it into two theatres of operations, Epirus and western Macedonia. The Italian forces in Albania were organised accordingly: the XXV \"Ciamuria\" Corps (Lieutenant-General ) in the west was charged with the conquest of Epirus, while the XXVI \"Corizza\" Corps (Lieutenant-General Gabriele Nasci) in the east, around Korçë, would initially remain passive in the direction of western Macedonia.\n\nOn 18 October Mussolini sent a letter to Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria inviting him to take part in the coming action against Greece, but Boris refused, citing his country's unreadiness and its encirclement by hostile neighbours. This was not regarded as a major setback, as the Italian leadership considered that the threat of Bulgarian intervention alone would compel the Greek High Command to commit most of its army in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. It was not until 24 October that Badoglio realized that not only were the Greeks already mobilizing, but that they were prepared to divert most of their forces to Epirus, leaving only six divisions against Bulgaria. Prasca would still have numerical superiority at the start of the campaign (some 150,000 men against 120,000) but concerns grew over the vulnerability of the left flank. The 29th Division \"Piemonte\" was diverted from the attack in Epirus to bolster XXVI Corps in the Korçë area, while the 19th Infantry Division \"Venezia\" was ordered south from its position along the Yugoslav border.\n\nIn 1936 General Alberto Pariani had been appointed Chief of Staff of the army, and had begun a reorganisation of divisions to fight \"wars of rapid decision\", according to thinking that speed, mobility and new technology could revolutionise military operations. In 1937, three-regiment (triangular) divisions began to change to two-regiment (binary divisions), as part of a ten years plan to reorganise the standing army into twelve mountain, three motorised and three armoured divisions. The effect of the change was to increase the administrative overhead of the army, with no corresponding increase in effectiveness, as the new technology of tanks, motor vehicles, and wireless communications was slow to arrive and was inferior to that of potential enemies. The dilution of the officer class by the need for extra unit staffs was made worse by the politicisation of the army and the addition of Blackshirt Militia. The reforms also promoted frontal assaults to the exclusion of other theories, dropping the previous emphasis on fast mobile warfare backed by artillery.\n\nPrior to the invasion Mussolini let and go home for the harvest. There were supposed to be 1,750 lorries used in the invasion but only 107 arrived. The possibility that Greek officials situated in the front area could be corrupted or would not react to an invasion proved to be mostly wishful thinking, used by Italian generals and personalities in favor of a military intervention; the same was true for an alleged revolt of the Albanian minority living in Chameria, located in the Greek territory immediately behind the boundary, which would break out after the beginning of the attack.\n\nOn the eve of 28 October 1940, Italy's ambassador in Athens, Emanuele Grazzi, handed an ultimatum from Mussolini to Metaxas. It demanded free passage for his troops to occupy unspecified strategic points inside Greek territory. Greece had been friendly towards Nazi Germany, profiting from mutual trade relations, but now Germany's ally, Italy, intended to invade Greece. Metaxas rejected the ultimatum with the words \"\" (French for \"then it is war.\"). In this, he echoed the will of the Greek people to resist, a will that was popularly expressed in one word: \"\"ochi\"\" (Greek for \"no\"). Within hours, Italy attacked Greece from Albania. The outbreak of hostilities was first announced by Athens Radio early in the morning of 28 October, with the two-sentence dispatch of the general staff,\n\nIn 1936, the 4th of August Regime came to power in Greece, under the leadership of Ioannis Metaxas. Plans were laid down for the reorganization of the Greek armed forces, including building the \"Metaxas Line'\", a defensive fortification along the Greco-Bulgarian frontier. Large sums of money were spent to re-equip the army but due to the increasing threat of and the eventual outbreak of war, the most significant foreign purchases from 1938 to 1939, were only partly delivered or not at all. A massive contingency plan was developed and great amounts of food and equipment were stockpiled in many parts of the country as a precaution in the event of war. After the Italian occupation of Albania in spring 1939, the Greek General Staff prepared the \"IB\" (Italy-Bulgaria) plan, anticipating a combined offensive by Italy and Bulgaria. Given the overwhelming superiority of such an alliance in manpower and matériel, the plan prescribed a purely defensive strategy, including the gradual retreat of the Greek forces in Epirus to the Arachthos River–Metsovo–Aliakmon River–Mt. Vermion line, to gain time for the completion of mobilization.\n\nWith the completion of partial mobilization of the frontier formations, the plan was revised with variants \"IBa\" (1 September 1939) and \"IBb\" (20 April 1940). These modified the role of the main Greek force in the region, the 8th Infantry Division (Major-General Charalambos Katsimitros). Plan \"IB\" foresaw it covering the left flank of the bulk of the Greek forces in western Macedonia, securing the Metsovon pass and blocking entry into Aetolia-Acarnania, \"IBa\" ordered the covering of Ioannina and the defence of the Kalamas river line. Katsimitros had discretion to choose the defensive line and chose the Kalpaki line, which lay astride the main invasion axis from Albania and allowed him to use the Kalamas swamps to neutralize the Italian tank threat. The Greek General Staff remained focused on Bulgaria as its main potential enemy: of the 851 million drachmas spent on fortification between April 1939 and October 1940, only 82 million went to the Albanian frontier and the rest on the Metaxas Line and other works in the north-east.\n\nNevertheless, given the enormous numerical and material superiority of the Italian military, the Greek leadership, from Metaxas down, was reserved and cautious, with few hopes of outright victory in a conflict with Italy. The General Staff's plan for the defence of Epirus envisaged withdrawal to a more defensible line, and it was only through Katsimitros' insistence that the Italian attack was confronted close to the border. Metaxas himself, during a briefing of the press on 30 October 1940, reiterated his unshakeable confidence on the ultimate victory of Britain, and hence of Greece, but was less confident on the short-term prospects, noting that \"Greece is not fighting for victory. It is fighting for glory. And for its honour. ... A nation must be able to fight, if it wants to remain great, even with no hope of victory. Just because it has to.\" On the other hand, this pessimism was not shared by the population at large, whose enthusiasm, optimism, and the almost religious indignation at the torpedoing of \"Elli\", created an élan that helped transform the conflict in Greece's favour. As late as March 1941, when the German intervention was looming, an Italian officer summed up the Greeks' attitude for Mussolini with the words of a captured Greek officer: \"we are sure that we will lose the war, but we will give you the spanking you need\".\n\nIn the Epirus sector, the XXV \"Ciamuria\" Corps consisted of the 23rd Infantry Division \"Ferrara\" and auxiliary troops), the 51st Infantry Division \"Siena\" and and the 131st Armoured Division \"Centauro\" and tanks, of which only In addition, it was reinforced by cavalry units in a brigade-level command operating on the extreme Italian right along the coast and The XXV Corps comprised battalions, three cavalry regiments, batteries and Along with Blackshirt battalions and auxiliary troops, it numbered XXVI \"Corizza\" Corps in the Korçë area comprised the 29th Infantry Division \"Piemonte\" and and the 49th Infantry Division \"Parma\" and In addition, the Corps comprised the \"Venezia\" Division and moving south from its deployment along the Yugoslav frontier between Lake Prespa and Elbasan, and was later reinforced with the 53rd Infantry Division \"Arezzo\" and around Shkodër. XXVI Corps totalled battalions, about ten tanks and two cavalry companies, for a total of men. The elite 3rd Alpine Division \"Julia\" with and was placed between the corps to cover the advance of XXV Corps along the Pindus mountains. The \"Regia Aeronautica\" had available for operations against Greece.\nAbout half of the fighter force consisted of 64 Fiat CR.42 \"Falco\" (Hawk) and 23 Fiat CR.32 \"Freccia\" (Arrow) biplanes (the latter already outdated). More modern and effective were the fifty Fiat G.50bis, Italian first all-metal fighters, available at the opening of the hostilities. Sixty CANT Z.1007s \"Alcione\" (Halcyon) represented the bulk of the Italian bomber force. Of wooden construction, these three-engined aircraft could endure a lot of punishment and were highly manoeuvrable. Other trimotors were also based on Albanian airfields: 72 Savoia-Marchetti SM.81 \"Pipistrello\" (Bat), a veteran of Spanish War, with fixed undercarriage, and 31 Savoia-Marchetti SM.79 \"Sparviero\" (Sparrowhawk) built with steel tubes, timber, aluminium, and fabric and carrying scarce defensive firepower.\n\nOn 28 October, the Greek army had divisions, one cavalry division and three infantry brigades, all at least partly mobilized since August; four infantry divisions and two brigades were on the border with Albania; five infantry divisions faced Bulgaria and five more with the cavalry division were in general reserve. Greek army divisions were triangular and held up to more infantry than the Italian binary divisions, with slightly more medium artillery and machine-guns but no tanks. Most Greek equipment was still of First World War issue, from countries like Belgium, Austria, Poland and France, all of which were under Axis occupation, cutting off the supply of spare parts and ammunition. Many senior Greek officers were veterans of a decade of almost continuous warfare, including the Balkan Wars of 1912–13, the First World War, and the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–22.\n\nIn Epirus, the 8th Infantry Division was already mobilized and reinforced with a regiment and the staff of the 3rd Infantry Brigade, fielding battalions and batteries. At the time of the Italian attack, the 2/39 Evzone Regiment was moving north from Missolonghi to reinforce the division. The western Macedonia sector was held by the Western Macedonia Army Section (TSDM), based at Kozani (Lieutenant-General Ioannis Pitsikas), with the II Army Corps (Lieutenant-General Dimitrios Papadopoulos) and III Army Corps (Lieutenant-General Georgios Tsolakoglou), each of two infantry divisions and an infantry brigade. The total forces available to TSDM on the outbreak of war consisted of battalions and batteries (seven heavy). The Pindus sector was covered by the \"Pindus Detachment\" () (Colonel Konstantinos Davakis) with two battalions, a cavalry company and batteries.\n\nThe Royal Hellenic Air Force (, RHAF) had to face the numerically and technologically superior \"Regia Aeronautica\". It comprised bombers, nine reconnaissance aircraft, about aeroplanes and cooperation aircraft. It consisted of the 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24th pursuit squadrons, the 31st, 32nd, 33rd bomber squadrons, the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th military cooperation squadrons, the 2828 Independent Military Cooperation Flight and the 11th, 12th and 13th naval cooperation squadrons. At the outbreak of the war the operational combat fleet of the Greek Air Force counted 24 PZL P.24 and nine Bloch MB.151 fighters, as well as eleven Bristol Blenheim Mk IV, ten Fairey Battle B.1 and eight Potez 633 B2 bombers. Serviceable ground attack and naval support aircraft included about nine Breguet 19 two-seater biplane bombers, 15 Henschel Hs 126 reconnaissance and observation aircraft, 17 Potez 25A observation aircraft, nine Fairey III amphibious reconnaissance aircraft, 12 Dornier Do 22G torpedo bombers, and 9 Avro Anson maritime reconnaissance aircraft. The main air bases were located in Sedes, Larissa, Dekeleia, Faleron, Eleusis, Nea Anchialos and Maleme.\n\nThe Royal Hellenic Navy had the elderly cruiser , two modern destroyers, four slightly older Italian destroyers and four obsolete s. There were six old submarines, fifteen obsolete torpedo boats and about thirty other auxiliary vessels.\n\nOn 22 October 1940, six days before the Italian invasion of Greece, despite the Italian invasion of Egypt, the RAF Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Middle East in Cairo was ordered to prepare squadrons for Greece, based on Ultra decodes and other sources that an Italian invasion of Greece was imminent. The RAF first sent 30 Squadron, consisting of one flight of Blenheim IF night fighters and one flight of Blenheim I light bombers, that were based at Athens-Eleusis airfield. Soon afterwards, six Vickers Wellington medium bombers were detached from 70 Squadron and a flight of Blenheim Is from 84 Squadron arrived. All RAF assets were placed under the command of Air vice-marshal John D'Albiac. The RAF aircraft participated in the Greek counter-offensive that began on 14 November, with No. 84 Squadron operating forward from Menidi. A few days later, the Gloster Gladiator fighters of 80 Squadron moved forward to Trikala, causing significant losses to the \"Regia Aeronautica\". 211 Squadron with Blenheim Is, followed before the end of November, joining 84 Squadron at Menidi and 80 Squadron moved to Yannina, about from the Albanian border. In the first week of December, 14 Gladiators were transferred from the RAF to the RHAF.\n\nThe Greek official history of the Greco-Italian War divides it into three periods:\n\nThe Greek commander-in-chief, Alexandros Papagos, in his memoirs regarded the second phase as ending on 28 December 1940; as the historian Ioannis Koliopoulos comments, this seems more appropriate, as December marked a watershed in the course of the war, with the Greek counter-offensive gradually grinding to a halt, the German threat becoming clear, and the beginning of British attempts to guide and shape Greek strategy. According to Koliopoulos, the final three months of the war were militarily of little significance as they did not alter the situation of the two combatants, but were mostly dominated by the diplomatic and political developments leading up to the German invasion.\n\nItalian forces invaded Greece in several columns. On the extreme Italian right, the coastal group moved south in the direction of Konispol with the final aim of capturing Igoumenitsa and thence driving onto Preveza. In the central sector, the \"Siena\" Division moved in two columns onto the area of Filiates, while the \"Ferrara\" Division moved in four columns against the main Greek resistance line at Kalpaki with the aim of capturing Ioannina. On the Pindus sector, the \"Julia\" Division launched five columns aiming to capture Metsovo and cut off the Greek forces in the Epirus sector from the east. With the onset of the Italian offensive, Papagos, until then the Chief of the Hellenic Army General Staff, was appointed commander-in-chief of the newly established General Headquarters. The Army General Staff, which functioned as the main field staff throughout the war, was handed over to Lieutenant-General Konstantinos Pallis, recalled from retirement. With Bulgarian neutrality assured—following the terms of the Balkan Pact of 1935, the Turks threatened to intervene on Greece's side if the Bulgarians attacked Greece—the Greek high command was free to throw the bulk of its army against Italian forces in Albania. Almost half the forces assigned to the Bulgarian front (13th and 17th Divisions, 16th Infantry Brigade) and the entirety of the general reserve (I Army Corps with 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Infantry Divisions, as well as the Cretan 5th Infantry Division and the Cavalry Division) were directed to the Albanian front.\n\nOn the Epirus sector, Katsimitros had left five battalions along the border to delay the Italian advance, and installed his main resistance line in a convex front with the Kalpaki pass in the centre, manned by nine battalions. Further two battalions under Major-General Nikolaos Lioumbas took over the coastal sector in Thesprotia. The swamps of the Kalamas river, especially before Kalpaki, formed a major obstacle not only to armoured formations, but even to the movement of infantry. A further battalion and some artillery were detached to the Preveza area in the event of an Italian landing, but as this did not materialize, they were swiftly moved to reinforce the coastal sector. By the night of 29/30 October, the Greek covering units had withdrawn to the Kalpaki line, and by 1 November, Italian units made contact with the Greek line. During these three days, the Italians prepared their assault, bombarding the Greek positions with aircraft and artillery. In the meantime, the developing Italian threat in the Pindus sector forced Papagos to cable Katsimitros that his main mission was to cover the Pindus passes and the flanks of the Greek forces in western Macedonia, and to avoid offering resistance if it left his forces depleted. Katsimitros had already decided to defend his line, however, and disregarded these instructions, but detached some forces to cover its right along the Aoös River. On 1 November, the Italians managed to capture Konitsa and the \"Comando Supremo\" gave the Albanian front priority over Africa.\nThe scheduled Italian amphibious assault on Corfu did not materialize due to bad weather. The Italian navy commander, Admiral Domenico Cavagnari, postponed the landing to 2 November, but by that time Visconti Prasca was urgently demanding reinforcements, and Mussolini ordered that the 47th Infantry Division \"Bari\", earmarked for the operation, be sent to Albania instead. Mussolini proposed a landing at Preveza on 3 November to break the emerging impasse, but the proposal met with immediate and categorical refusal by the service chiefs.\n\nThe main Italian attack on the Kalpaki front began on 2 November. An Albanian battalion, under the cover of a snowstorm, managed to capture the Grabala heights, but were thrown back by a counterattack on the next day. On the same day, an attack spearheaded by 50–60 tanks against the main Kalpaki sector was also repulsed. The Greek units east of the Kalamas were withdrawn during the night. On 5–7 November, repeated assaults were launched against the Grabala and other heights; on the night of the 7th, Grabala briefly fell once more, but was swiftly recaptured. On 8 November, the Italians began withdrawing and assuming defensive positions until the arrival of reinforcements. On the coastal sector, the Italians made better progress. The Greek covering units were forced south of the Kalamas already on the first day, but the bad state of the roads delayed the Italian advance. On the night of 4/5 November, the Italians crossed the river and broke through the defences of the local Greek battalion, forcing Lioumbas to order his forces to withdraw south of the Acheron River. Igoumenitsa was captured on 6 November, and on the next day, the Italians reached Margariti. This marked their deepest advance, as the Thesprotia Sector began receiving reinforcements from Katsimitros, and as on the other sectors the situation had already turned to the Greeks' favour.\n\nAs evidence of the Italian offensive's failure mounted, on 8 November, Visconti Prasca was relieved of overall command in Albania and relegated to command the Italian forces in the Epirus front, while General Ubaldo Soddu, State Undersecretary of War, assumed his place. Soddu's report from Albania underlined Greek resistance in Epirus and the mounting threat of the Greek concentration in western Macedonia, and recommended taking up defensive positions \"while awaiting the reinforcements that would permit us to resume action as soon as possible\". Mussolini consented. With the Italians on the defensive, 8th Division began launching local counterattacks to regain the lost ground. By 13 November, the Greek forces once again stood at the Kalamas river along its entire length. On 12 November, I Army Corps under Lieutenant-General Panagiotis Demestichas took over the Epirus sector. 8th Division was subordinated to it, while the coastal sector was placed under the independent Lioumbas Detachment.\n\nA greater threat to the Greek positions was posed by the advance of the \"Julia\" Alpine Division, under Mario Girotti, over the Pindus Mountains towards Metsovo, which threatened to separate the Greek forces in Epirus from those in Macedonia. The opposing Greek force, the Pindus Detachment, numbered 2,000 men, was formed of reservists of the 51st Regiment, mobilized on 29 August, while one of its three battalions (III/51) was formed as late as 15 October and was still on its way to the front. Colonel Davakis and his men had to cover a front some 37 km in width, and moreover over extremely broken terrain. The Italian attack began under torrential rainfall and made rapid progress, forcing the Greeks to abandon their forward posts, especially in the Detachment's central sector. Davakis was forced to deploy the companies of the III/51 Battalion piecemeal as soon as they arrived, leaving himself with no reserves.\n\nThe situation worried the TSDM, which began sending whatever reinforcements it could muster, and assigned the Pindus sector to the 1st Infantry Division. Despite the onset of snowfall on the 29th, the \"Julia\" Division continued pressing its attack on the Greek centre and left during 29–30 October, forcing the Greeks to withdraw towards Samarina. From 30 October, however, the Greeks managed to stabilize the situation. Command in the Pindus sector passed to 1st Division and Major-General Vasileios Vrachnos, while additional forces—the Cavalry Division, 5th Brigade, and he newly formed Cavalry Brigade—were deployed on the flanks of the Italian salient and in the rear to secure the vital passes.\n\nAfter covering of mountain terrain in icy rain, the \"Julia\" Division captured the village of Vovousa, on 2 November, but failed to reach its primary objective; Metsovo, south. That same day, Davakis was gravely wounded during a reconnaissance mission near Fourka. However, it had become clear to the Italians that they lacked the manpower and the supplies to continue in the face of the arriving Greek reserves. On 3 November, the Italian spearhead was surrounded from all sides. The commander of the \"Julia\" Division requested from the Italian headquarters relief attacks and Italian reserves were thrown into the battle. Thus, Visconti Prasca sent forward the \"Bari\" Division to its aid, but it was unable to reach the cut-off Italian forces. In the meantime, the assistance of the local civilians, including men, women, and children, to the Greek forces proved invaluable. As a result of the Greek pressure the \"Julia\" Division was virtually wiped out, while the villages previously taken by the Italians were recaptured on 3 and 4 November. Within less than a week, the remaining Italian troops in this sector were in roughly the same positions they occupied before the declaration of the war. By 13 November the Greek forces had completed the re-occupation of the Grammos and Smolikas mountain ranges. On the same day, Visconti Prasca was relieved and recalled to Italy.\n\nBy 14 November, the Italian forces in Albania had been reorganized in two field armies: the Ninth Army, formed out of the XXVI Corps in the Korçë sector, comprising five infantry and two Alpini divisions as well as a number of independent regiments, including Blackshirt and Albanian battalions; and the Eleventh Army (former XXV Corps) on the Epirus sector, with three infantry, an armoured, and a cavalry division, as well as a number of independent units. The Italian situation was very difficult, as the troops on the front had been fighting non-stop for three weeks and were exhausted. The supply situation was abysmal, with the army lacking lorries, horses, and mules; the limited capacity of Albania's two main ports, Valona and Durrës, created a bottleneck for supplies and reinforcements, while the airlift initiated between Italy and Tirana—which consumed all of the Italian Air Force's transport capacity to the detriment of Africa—could transport troops, but not heavy equipment. The Greek order of battle on 14 November consisted of Lieutenant-General Demestichas' I Corps on the coastal sector (2nd, 8th, and the Cavalry Divisions, and the Lioumbas Detachment), Lieutenant-General Papadopoulos' II Corps in the Pindus sector (1st Infantry Division, 5th Brigade and the Cavalry Brigade), and Lieutenant-General Tsolakoglou's III Corps in western Macedonia (9th, 10th, 15th Infantry Divisions, with 11th Division assembling in its rear). The latter two corps were under the command of TSDM, led by Lieutenant-General Pitsikas. The 3rd, 4th, and 5th Infantry Divisions, as well as the 16th Brigade, were kept in reserve. By 12 November, Papagos had over battalions on familiar terrain against fewer than fifty Italian battalions.\n\nFrom the first days of November, III Corps had undertaken limited advances into Albanian territory, and already on 6 November, it submitted plans for a general offensive. Judged too ambitious for the moment, Papagos postponed the offensive for 14 November. III Corps' main objective was the capture of the Korçë plateau, which controlled access to the interior of Albania along the valley of the Devoll river. The plateau lay behind the Morava and Ivan mountains on the Greco-Albanian frontier, which were held by the 29th \"Piemonte\", the 19th \"Venezia\", and the 49th \"Parma\" divisions. The Italians were later reinforced by the 2nd Alpine Division \"Tridentina\", the 53rd \"Arezzo\" Division, and 30–50 tanks of the \"Centauro\" Division. Leaving five battalions to secure its rear, III Corps attacked with twenty battalions and 37 artillery batteries. Due to the lack of tanks or anti-tank weapons to counter Italian armour, the Greeks decided to limit their movement along the mountain ridges, never descending to the valleys. The offensive was launched on the morning of 14 November, with the corps' three divisions moving on converging lines of attack towards Korçë. To achieve surprise, the attack was not preceded by an artillery barrage.\n\nThe Italian forces were indeed taken by surprise, allowing the Greeks to force several breaches in the Italian positions on 14–16 November. On 17 November, III Corps was reinforced with 13th Division, and on the next day, with 11th Division, which along with the 10th Division formed a new command, the \"K\" Group of Divisions or OMK (Lieutenant-General Georgios Kosmas). The most critical moment for the Greeks came on 18 November, when elements of the 13th Division panicked during an ill-coordinated attack and the division almost retreated; its commander was sacked on the spot and the new commander, Major-General Sotirios Moutousis, forbade any further retreat, restoring the front. On 19–21 November, the Greeks captured the summit of Morava. Fearing that they would be surrounded and cut off, the Italians retreated towards the Devoll valley during the night, and on 22 November the city of Korçë was captured by 9th Division. By 27 November, TSDM had captured the entire Korçë plateau, suffering 624 dead and 2,348 wounded. Further south and west, I and II Corps had moved to evict the Italians from Greek territory, which they achieved by 23 November. II Corps further moved across the border line, capturing Ersekë on 21 November and Leskovik on the next day. On 23 November, bowing to pressure from Badoglio and Roatta, Mussolini finally reversed his early October order for demobilization.\n\nFollowing the capture of Korçë and the eviction of the Italian forces from Greek soil, the Greek GHQ faced two options: continue the offensive in the Korçë sector in the direction of Elbasan or shift focus on the left flank and drive towards the port of Valona. The latter was chosen, as the capture of Valona would be of great strategic significance, leaving the Italians with only Durrës as an entrepôt. TSDM, comprising III Corps and OMK, would defend their positions on the Greek right and apply pressure, while I Corps would move north along the Gjirokastër–Tepelenë–Valona axis. II Corps would form the pivot of the movement, securing the connection between I Corps and TSDM, advancing in step with its western neighbour in the direction of Berat. I Corps was reinforced with 3rd Division (21 November) and II Corps with 11th Division (27 November) and the Cavalry Division (28 November).\n\nBetween 24 and 30 November, I Corps moved north into Albania along the Drinos river, while II Corps moved in the direction of Frashër, which it captured in early December. TSDM continued to apply pressure against the Italians and the 10th Division captured Moscopole on 24 November. Pogradec was captured unopposed by the 13th Division on 30 November. The continued Greek advance caused another crisis in the Italian hierarchy. The news of the fall of Pogradec and the pessimistic reports of the Italian commanders in Albania reportedly caused Mussolini to consider asking for a truce through the Germans but in the end he recovered his nerve and ordered Soddu to hold fast. The Greeks would be worn out, since they had \"... no war industry and can only count on supplies from Great Britain\". Mussolini, encouraged by the hardline Fascist Party secretary Roberto Farinacci, sacked Badoglio on 4 December and replaced him with Ugo Cavallero as Chief of the General Staff. The resignation of the governor of the Italian Dodecanese, Cesare Maria De Vecchi and Admiral Cavagnari, followed within a few days.\n\nI Corps captured Delvinë on 5 December and Gjirokastër on 8 December; the Lioumbas Detachment captured Sarandë— renamed Porto Edda after Edda Mussolini—on 6 December. Further east, the 2nd Division captured the Suhë Pass after a fierce struggle from 1–4 December, while 8th Division launched repeated attacks on the heights around the Kakavia Pass, forcing the Italians to withdraw on the night of 4/5 December. The division had suffered considerable losses but took over 1,500 prisoners, several artillery pieces and thirty tanks. In the TSDM sector, Lieutenant-General Kosmas (in command of the \"K Group\", essentially the 10th Division) captured the Ostravicë Mountain on 12 December, while III Corps—since 1 December reinforced with 17th Division, which replaced 13th Division—completed its occupation of the Kamia massif and secured Pogradec.\n\nOn 2 December, Papagos, and Crown Prince Paul, visited the front. Pitsikas and Tsolakoglou urged him to order an immediate attack on the strategic Klisura Pass, without waiting for I and II Corps to level with TSDM. Papagos refused and ordered the plan to continue, with III Corps relegated to a passive role. (This decision was later criticized, coupled with the onset of winter, it immobilised the Greek right wing. Despite the atrocious weather and the heavy snowfall, the Greek offensive continued on the left throughout December. I Corps, now comprising 2nd, 3rd and 4th Divisions (8th Division and the Lioumbas Detachment were moved back into reserve) captured Himarë on 22 December. II Corps, moving between the Aöos and the Apsos rivers, reached the vicinity of Klisura, but failed to capture the pass. To its right, the V Army Corps (the former \"K Group\" but still comprising only the 10th Division) managed to advance up to Mount Tomorr and secure the connection between II and III Corps, which remained in their positions.\n\nOn 28 December 1940, the Greek GHQ took the decision to halt large-scale offensive operations in view of the stiffening Italian resistance, the worsening supply situation and the bad weather, which \"inter alia\" led to a large number of frostbite casualties. This decision took effect on 6 January, whereby only local offensive operations would take place to improve Greek lines until the weather improved. The Italians had eleven infantry divisions, (11th Infantry Division \"Brennero\", 29th Infantry Division \"Piemonte\", 19th Infantry Division \"Venezia\", 23rd Infantry Division \"Ferrara\", 33rd Mountain Division \"Acqui\", 37th Mountain Division \"Modena\", 48th Infantry Division \"Taro\", 49th Infantry Division \"Parma\", 51st \"Siena\", 53rd \"Arezzo\" and 56th \"Casale\") and four Alpini divisions (2nd \"Tridentina\", 3rd \"Julia\", 4th \"Cuneense\", and 5th Alpine Division \"Pusteria\") and the \"Centauro\" Armoured Division, with the 6th Infantry Division \"Cuneo\" and the 7th Infantry Division \"Lupi di Toscana\" moving to the front. There were also two independent Bersaglieri regiments, a grenadier regiment, two cavalry regiments, Blackshirt and Albanian battalions and other units. According to official Italian documents, on 1 January 1941, Italy had 10,616 officers, 261,850 men, 7,563 vehicles, and 32,871 animals in Albania. This strengthening of the Italian position prompted Cavallero, who after Soddu's recall on 29 December combined his post as Chief of the General Staff with the overall command in Albania, to pronounce that the \"period of crisis [was] almost overcome\" and to begin planning for an attack aiming to recapture Korçë in early February.\n\nThe main operation envisaged by the Greek GHQ was the capture of the Klisura Pass by II Corps, coupled with minor offensives by I Corps and TSDM to improve their positions. II Corps attacked on 8 January, with 1st Division on the left and 15th Division, followed by the 11th Division, on the right flank. The 15th Division faced the \"Julia\" Division, and after a hard struggle managed to capture its positions in a costly success. The 11th Division followed up on 9 January next day captured the pass. The offensive forced Cavallero to deploy the reserves he had husbanded for the Korçë offensive, which never took place. The newly arrived \"Lupi di Toscana\" division was routed. The division went into action on 9 January to support the \"Julia\" Division, after a 24-hour forced march in horrendous weather, without having time to reconnoitre the front, without maps and without coordinating fire support with the \"Julia\" Division. The commander and the chief of staff failed to coordinate its two regiments, which became entangled on the same mule track. Despite attacking downhill and facing a numerically inferior enemy, the division lost a battalion to encirclement and were driven back to their starting positions after two days. By 16 January, the division had disintegrated and \"ceased to exist as an organized force\", with only 160 officers and men immediately available and over 4,000 casualties. On 26 January, the Italians counter-attacked to recover the pass but II Corps, reinforced with 5th Division, managed to repel them and then counter-attacked. In the Battle of Trebeshina, a series of engagements from 2–12 February, the Trebeshinë massif was captured. The capture of the strategic Klisura pass by the Greek army was considered a major success by the Allied forces, with the Commander of the British forces in the Middle East, Archibald Wavell, sending a congratulatory message to Alexander Papagos.\n\nAs the threat of a German invasion from Bulgaria increased, the need to transfer Greek divisions to the Bulgarian frontier forced Papagos to launch a final effort to capture Valona as quickly as possible. The RAF agreed to challenge the air superiority of the \"Regia Aeronautica\", which had recovered with the loss of much of the RHAF in ground-attack operations, rather than continue ineffective attempts at interdiction. With reinforcements from Egypt and the drying of a landing-ground at Paramythia, the RAF managed support sorties by the end of February. Launched in mid-February, the attack saw I Corps gain ground towards Tepelenë; Italian resistance and a deterioration in the weather forced a suspension of operations before Tepelenë, let alone Valona or Berat, were reached. The Italian defensive success was costly, and signs of an imminent Italian offensive in the central sector of the front forced a return to the defensive.\n\nBy early February 1941, the Greek Army was down to less than two months of artillery ammunition overall and had shortages in every area of material, while the Italians possessed ample reserves, endangering their position. The Greeks appealed to the United States for material aid,\nbut the British ensured that they themselves got first priority for US production. Furthermore, there were shortages of materials and even food across the country. Continuing degradation of their logistical capability would soon mean the end of effective Greek resistance.\nBritish material and air support had been provided, but at this point it was \"relatively small.\" Further British aid in March and April would only partially alleviate this problem.\n\nOn 14 February, in view of GHQ's increasing concern with developments on the Bulgarian frontier, a new higher command, the Epirus Army Section (TSI), under Lieutenant-General Markos Drakos, was formed, comprising I and II Corps. Despite Greek success in Albania, dissension within the Greek leadership emerged over strategy towards the expected German attack and the need for a withdrawal in Albania. The front commanders in Albania represented their views to GHQ in Athens and in early March, Papagos moved to replace virtually the entire leadership in the Albanian front: Drakos, Kosmas and Papadopoulos, the commanders of TSI, I and II Corps respectively, were replaced by the TSDM commander Lieutenant-General Pitsikas, Lieutenant-General Demestichas and Major-General Georgios Bakos, TSDM being taken over by Tsolakoglou.\n\nOn 4 March, the British sent the first convoy of Operation Lustre with \"W Force\" (Lieutenant-General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson) and supplies for Greece. The Italian leadership desired to achieve a success against the Greek army before the impending German intervention and reinforced the Albanian front to 28 divisions with an average of 26 serviceable bombers, 150 fighters, along with 134 bombers and 54 fighters of the 4° \"Squadra\" in Italy. Cavallero planned an attack on a of the centre of the front, to recapture Klisura and advance towards Leskovik and Ioannina. The attack would be carried out by the VIII Army Corps (59th \"Cagliari\", 38th \"Puglie\" and 24th \"Pinerolo\" divisions), XXV Corps' \"Sforzesca\" Division, the 47th \"Bari\", 51st \"Siena\", and 7th \"Lupi di Toscana\" divisions as a second echelon, and the \"Centauro\" and \"Piemonte\" divisions as general reserves. The Greek units opposite them were II Corps (17th, 5th, 1st, 15th, and 11th Divisions), with three regiments as TSI's general reserve, and 4th Division providing reinforcement. II Corps continued limited offensive action as late as 8 March to improve its positions.\n\nThe Italian attack, watched by Mussolini, began on 9 March, with a heavy artillery barrage and air bombardment; on the main sector, held by the Greek 1st Division, over 100,000 shells were dropped on a front. Despite repeated assaults and heavy shelling, the positions of 1st Division held during 9–10 March. A flanking manoeuvre on 11 March ended in Italian defeat. The exhausted \"Puglie\" Division was withdrawn and replaced with the \"Bari\" Division during the subsequent night, but all attacks until 15 March failed. The Italian offensive halted on 16–18 March, allowing the Greeks to bring reserves forward and begin a gradual reshuffle their line, relieving the 1st Division with the 17th. The Italian offensive resumed on 19 March with another attack on Height 731 (the 18th thus far). Attacks, preceded by heavy artillery bombardments, followed daily until 24 March, the last day of the Italian offensive, without achieving any result. Mussolini admitted that the result of the Italian offensive was \"zero\". Italian casualties amounted to over 11,800 dead and wounded, while the Greeks suffered 1,243 dead, 4,016 wounded and 42 missing in action.\n\nAlthough it failed, the Italian Spring Offensive revealed a \"chronic shortage of arms and equipment\" in the Greek Army. Even with British support, the Greeks were fast approaching the end of their logistical tether. British intelligence estimated that Greece's reserves, although numbering 200,000–300,000 partly-trained men on paper, could not be mobilized for lack of arms and equipment, which were being consumed by the Albanian front. By the end of March 1941, the Greek Army as a whole possessed only a single month's supply of 105mm, 85mm, and 155mm artillery ammunition. Requests were sent to London after the Italian Spring Offensive for 5 million 75mm, 200,000 105mm, 120,000 85mm, 120,000 125mm, and 75,000 155mm shells, as well as 41 million rifle rounds. The British had already supplied, among other goods, 40 million 7.92 rounds and 150 mortars (50 51mm and 100 76mm) the previous month, but had not yet fulfilled the Greeks' mid-January request of 300,000 uniforms and sets of shoes.\n\nWorse, while the Italians still had reserves of men and materiel, the Greek defences of Macedonia and Thrace, which would face the German attack, were left undermanned and underequipped due to the demands of the Albanian front. The Eastern Macedonia Army Section (TSAM), which manned the Metaxas Line, was left with only 70,000 men to defend against any potential German advance, though plans called for the fortifications to be held by 200,000 men. Furthermore, by the end of February TSAM was left with only 100 artillery pieces. British planners disagreed with the Greek plan to hold on to the Metaxas Line, as well as the insistence of not ceding a single bit of ground to the Italians, noting that the Greek forces—\"a small force\" spread over \"an impossibly long front\"—were insufficient to prevent or resist a German breakthrough. The Central Macedonia Army Section (TSKM), which manned the Yugoslav border, was even weaker: its three divisions were recently raised from reserves and possessed no anti-air weaponry, anti-tank weaponry, armored vehicles, or almost any motor vehicles. They had few automatic weapons and faced even shortages of basic supplies such as tents and helmets. 14 out of the 20 available divisions of the Greek army were facing the Italians on the Albanian front as part of the Epirus Army Section, totaling 33 regiments.\n\nIn an effort to keep Greece in the fight, British aid drastically stepped up in March and April, which included uniforms, weapons, and ammunition of various types. Among other goods, the British sent the Greeks 200,000 boots, 50,000 helmets, 45 tons of uniform cloth, 23,000 tents, 1,009 cars/trucks, 104 light tanks and Universal Carriers, 2,000 cases of artillery fuses, 40,000 cases of artillery shells, 18,000 Italian 75mm shells, 200,000 Italian mortar shells, 600 cases of .303 ammunition, 5 million rounds of Italian rifle ammunition, 20,000 Italian rifles and machine guns, and extensive amounts of food, explosive materials, coiled wire, and other goods. However, the Greeks still did not consider this sufficient for successfully prosecuting the rest of the war. On 2 April, the Greek Prime Minister implored the British in a message to immediately supply 700,000 more shells and 30,000 more rifles. Even if the British could spare these stocks, they could not transport them to Greece in a timely manner.\n\nWith most of the Greek army on the Albanian border, Operation Marita began through Bulgaria on 6 April, which created a second front. Greece had received a small reinforcement from British forces based in Egypt in anticipation of the German attack, but no more help was sent after the invasion. The Greek army was outnumbered; the Bulgarian defensive line did not receive adequate troop reinforcements and was quickly overrun. The Germans outflanked the immobile Greek forces on the Albanian border, forcing the surrender of the Eastern Macedonia Field Army section in only four days. The British Empire forces began a retreat. For several days Allied troops contained the German advance on the Thermopylae position, allowing ships to be prepared to evacuate the British force. The Germans reached Athens on 27 April and the southern shore on 30 April, capturing troops. The conquest of Greece was completed with the capture of Crete a month later and Greece was occupied by the military forces of Germany, Italy, and Bulgaria until late 1944.\n\nOn 6 April, Papagos ordered TSDM to launch an attack towards Elbasan, in conjunction with Yugolav forces. The attack began on 7 April and the 13th Division made some progress, but the Yugoslav army, attacked by the Germans, rapidly collapsed and the operation was cancelled. On 12 April, GHQ in Athens ordered the Greek forces on the Albanian front to retreat but the decision was too late. The Greek commanders knew that Italian pressure, the lack of motor transport and pack animals, the physical exhaustion of the Greek army, and the poor transport network of Epirus meant that any retreat was likely to end in disintegration. Advice to retreat before the start of the German attack had been rejected and they petitioned Pitsikas to surrender. Pitsikas forbade such talk, but notified Papagos and urged a solution that would secure \"the salvation and honour of our victorious Army\". The order to retreat, the disheartening news of the Yugoslav collapse, and the rapid German advance in Macedonia led to a breakdown of morale in the Greek troops, many of whom had been fighting without rest for five months and were forced to abandon hard-won ground. By 15 April, the divisions of II Army Corps, beginning with the 5th Division, began to disintegrate, with men and even entire units abandoning their positions.\n\nOn 16 April, Pitsikas reported to Papagos that signs of disintegration had also begun to appear among the divisions of I Corps and begged him to \"save the army from the Italians\" by allowing it to capitulate to the Germans, before the military situation collapsed completely. On the following day TSDM was renamed III Army Corps and placed under Pitsikas' command. The three corps commanders, along with the metropolitan bishop of Ioannina, Spyridon, pressured Pitsikas to unilaterally negotiate with the Germans. When he refused, the others decided to bypass him and selected Tsolakoglou, as the senior of the three generals, to carry out the task. Tsolakoglou delayed for a few days, sending his chief of staff to Athens to secure permission from Papagos. The chief of staff reported the chaos in Athens and urged his commander to take the initiative in a message that implied permission by Papagos, although this was not in fact the case. On 20 April, Tsolakoglou contacted Sepp Dietrich, the commander of the nearest German unit, the Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler (LSSAH) brigade, to offer surrender. The protocol of surrender was signed by Tsolakoglou and Dietrich at 18:00 on the same day. Presented with the fait accompli an hour later, Pitsikas resigned his command.\n\nThoroughly outclassed by the far larger and more modern Italian \"Regia Marina\", the Royal Hellenic Navy (RHN) was unable to attempt a direct naval confrontation. Its role was rather limited to patrol and convoy escort duties, a particularly important task given the general inadequacy of the Greek transport network on land; apart from large quantities of matériel, mobilized men and over were moved by sea during the war. The RHN carried out limited operations against Italian shipping in the Strait of Otranto with submarines (losing one vessel), sinking at least of transport and merchant shipping, but lack of maintenance facilities made it impossible to continue the effort. However, the Greek submarine force was too small to be able to seriously hinder the supply lines between Italy and Albania; between 28 October 1940 and 30 April 1941 Italian ships made 3,305 voyages across the Otranto straits, carrying 487,089 military personnel (including 22 field divisions) and 584,392 tons of supplies while losing overall only seven merchant ships and one escort ship. Destroyers carried out bold but fruitless night raids on 14 November 1940, 15 December and 4 January 1941.\n\nThe British fought the Battle of the Strait of Otranto on 12 November acting as a decoy force and the \"Regia Marina\" had half of its capital ships put out of action by the British Royal Navy (RN) during the Battle of Taranto but Italian cruisers and destroyers continued to escort convoys between Italy and Albania. On 28 November, an Italian squadron bombarded Corfu and on 18 December and 4 March, Italian task forces shelled Greek coastal positions in Albania. From January 1941, the main task of the RHN was to escort the convoys of Operation Excess to and from Alexandria, in co-operation with the RN. As the convoys transporting Lustre Force began in early March, the Italian Fleet sortied against them and the British were forewarned by \"Ultra\" decrypts. The Mediterranean Fleet intercepted the Italians at the Battle of Cape Matapan on 28 March and sank three cruisers and two destroyers, the greatest Italian naval defeat at sea of the war.\n\nThe poor infrastructure in Albania air bases hindered communications and movements between the Italian flying units. Only two airfields – Tirana and Valona – had Macadam runways so Autumn and Winter weather made operations more difficult. There was also the usual lack of co-operation with Italian Navy and Army. Two days after the start of the war, on 30 October, there was the first air battle. Some Henschel Hs126s of 3/2 Flight of 3 Observation \"Mira\" took off to locate Italian Army columns. But they were intercepted and attacked by Fiat CR.42s of 393 \"Squadriglia\". A first Henschel was hit and crashed, killing its observer, Pilot Officer Evanghelos Giannaris, the first Greek aviator to die in the war. A second Hs 126 was downed over Mount Smolikas, killing Pilot Officer Lazaros Papamichail and Sergeant Constantine Yemenetzis.\n\nOn 2 November, a squadron of 15 Italian CANT Z.1007 bombers, with Fiat CR.42 fighter escorts headed towards Thessaloniki and was intercepted by Greek PZL P.24 fighters of the 22nd Squadron. Second Lieutenant Marinos Mitralexis shot down one bomber and being out of ammunition, aimed the nose of his PZL P. 24 at the tail of a bomber, smashed the rudder and sent the bomber out of control. The news of Mitralexis' feat quickly spread throughout Greece and boosted morale. On 2 December, the 21st Pursuit Squadron re-equipped with 14 ex-RAF Gladiators.\n\nUltra decrypts of orders to the \"Regia Aeronautica\" and nightly reports from in Italy to \"Comando Aeronautico Albania della Regia Aeronautica\" in Tirana, disclosed bombing targets for the next day and were sent to RAF HQ in Greece, to assist in fighter interception. From mid-November to the end of December, the Blenheim and Wellington bombers from Egypt flew but almost failed, due to a lack of all-weather airfields and the season, when flying was possible for about per month. The bombing effort was concentrated on Durazzo and Valona but some close support operations were carried out and the fighters near Athens helped to reduce the number of Italian raids. By the end of 1940, the Gladiator pilots had claimed shot down for the loss of six, which established a measure of air superiority over the Pindus mountains. In January 1941, 11 Squadron and 112 Squadron were sent to Greece despite being at half strength. 33 Squadron, 113 Squadron (Blenheims) and 208 Squadron (Lysanders and Hurricanes) moved in March.\n\nThe British fighters were able to prevent most Italian air operations after mid-February, when the Greek army made a maximum effort to capture Valona. The RAF managed fifty sorties on Gladiators and Hurricanes intercepted a raid by fifty Italian aircraft on 28 February, the RAF claiming for the loss of one. When the Greek advance was slowed by more bad weather and Italian reinforcements, the RAF returned to attacks on airfields and ports. On the eve of the German invasion in April, the RAF had claimed aircraft confirmed and for a loss of four pilots and ten aircraft. RAF Greece had been increased to nine squadrons and two Wellington detachments of about of which only serviceable, in support of about and Yugoslav aircraft. RAF losses in the Greek campaign were killed, missing or prisoner and the air, and or abandoned during the evacuation.\n\nThe war was greeted with great enthusiasm by the Greek population, in Athens crowds filled the streets with patriotic fervour, as newspapers hurried to publish their newest editions to stir up the people further. The popular story that Metaxas had defiantly told Grazzi \"\"ochi!\"\" (\"no!\") on the night of 28 October 1940 made the previously unpopular prime minister into a national hero. Georgios Vlachos in an editorial in his newspaper \"Kathimerini\" wrote: \"Today there is no Greek who does not add his voice to the thunderous OCHI. OCHI, we will not hand over Greece to Italy. OCHI, Italian ruffians will not set foot on our land. OCHI, the barbarians will not desecrate our Parthenon\".\n\nMen in Greece rushed to volunteer for the war effort, cramming into the back of trams to get to the recruiting offices. Morale amongst the troops was as high as it could get with a universal feeling that Greece must fight, with few entertaining the idea of failure. This enthusiasm was not shared by some of the political leadership, there was a sense that Greece would lose the war but needed to fight nonetheless, Metaxas stated in a letter to Winston Churchill that \"The war we confront today is thus solely a war of honour\" and that \"The outcome of the world war will not be decided in the Balkans.\"\n\nThe popularity of Metaxas' regime would also receive a boost, with Metaxas becoming a national hero overnight, with even many left-wing and liberal Greeks who opposed Metaxas showing admiration and support for him, flocking to the cause.\n\nSoon, with the first victories at the front, Greek artists started to write and sing patriotic and festive songs. The reputation of Sofia Vembo skyrocketed when her performance of patriotic and satirical songs became a major inspiration for the fighting soldiers as well as the people at large for whom she quickly became a folk heroine. Another satirical popular song named \"Koroido Mussolini\" (Mussolini fool) was written by Nikos Gounaris in the rhythm of \"Reginella Campagnola\", a popular Italian song of the era.\n\nThe announcement of the Italian attack was greeted with favour but not much enthusiasm, by the Italian public. The situation changed as the Italian attack devolved into a stalemate in early November, especially after the British Taranto raid and the start of the Greek counter-offensive. In private conversations, Italians soon took to calling the war in Albania \"a second and worse Caporetto\". The regime's popularity slumped further with the introduction of strict rationing in food, oil and fats in early December. Despite imposing a price freeze in July, prices rose and the state distribution network of staple foods and heating oil broke down. Coupled with the dismissal of Badoglio and the British advance in North Africa in Operation Compass, it produced \"the regime's most serious crisis since the murder of Giacomo Matteotti in 1924\" (MacGregor Knox). In a move designed to bolster the Fascist Party's flagging standing, in mid-January 1941 Mussolini ordered the all senior \"gerarchi\" and officials under 45 years, to go to the Albanian front (much to their displeasure). According to Dino Grandi at least, this move caused much resentment against Mussolini among the Party leadership that simmered underground and resulted in his dismissal in July 1943.\n\nOn the other hand, the Greek historian Zacharias Tsirpanlis observes that while post-war Italian accounts confirm the view that \"due to the Greek success Italian public opinion slowly turned against the Fascist regime, marking the beginning of the end for Mussolini\", this did not yet materialize in any form of active resistance, including in the front itself. While a cynicism towards the Fascist regime and its symbols and leaders had set in, incidents of insubordination remained isolated. Indeed, according to the eyewitness account of Air Force chief Francesco Pricolo, when Mussolini made an unannounced visit to the front on 2 March 1941, the \"Duce\" was himself surprised by the enthusiasm with which he was greeted, having expected open hostility from the soldiers.\n\nIn an effort to win Albanian support for Italian rule, Ciano and the Fascist regime encouraged Albanian irredentism in the directions of Kosovo and Chameria. Despite Jacomoni's assurances of Albanian support in view of the promised \"liberation\" of Chameria, Albanian enthusiasm for the war was distinctly lacking. The few Albanian units raised to fight alongside the Italian Army mostly \"either deserted or fled in droves\". Albanian agents recruited before the war, are reported to have operated behind Greek lines and engaged in acts of sabotage but these were few in number. Support for the Greeks, although of limited nature, came primarily from the local Greek populations who warmly welcomed the arrival of the Greek forces. Despite official Greek proclamations that they were fighting for the liberation of Albania, Greek claims on Northern Epirus were well-known. Albanian suspicions were reinforced, when a new municipal council of eleven Greeks and four Albanians was appointed at Korçë, and when the military governor of Gjirokastër prohibited the celebration of the Albanian independence day on 28 November (his counterpart in Korçë allowed it to go ahead and was reprimanded). The Greek authorities even ignored offers of Albanian expatriates to enlist as volunteers against Italy. The Greek occupation regime followed the regulations of international law and the Albanian civil administration was left intact and continued to operate, including law courts. No atrocities were committed and the safes of the state bank were discovered unopened after the Greeks withdrew.\n\nHitler blamed Mussolini's \"Greek fiasco\" for his failed campaign in Russia. \"But for the difficulties created for us by the Italians and their idiotic campaign in Greece\", he commented in mid-February 1945, \"I should have attacked Russia a few weeks earlier,\" he later said. Hitler noted that, the \"pointless campaign in Greece\", Germany was not notified in advance of the impending attack, which \"compelled us, contrary to all our plans, to intervene in the Balkans, and that in its turn led to a catastrophic delay in the launching of our attack on Russia. We were compelled to expend some of our best divisions there. And as a net result we were then forced to occupy vast territories in which, but for this stupid show, the presence of our troops would have been quite unnecessary\". \"We have no luck with the Latin races\", he complained afterwards. Mussolini took advantage of Hitler's preoccupation with Spain and France \"to set in motion his disastrous campaign against Greece\". Andreas Hillgruber has accused Hitler of trying to deflect blame for his country's defeat from himself to his ally, Italy.\n\nIan Kershaw wrote that the five-week delay in launching Operation Barbarossa, caused by the unusually wet weather in May 1941, was not decisive. For Kershaw, the reasons for the ultimate failure of Barbarossa lay in the arrogance of the German war goals, in particular the planning flaws and resource limitations that caused problems for the operation from the start. He adds that the German invasion into Greece in spring 1941 did not cause significant damage to tanks and other vehicles needed for Barbarossa, the equipment diverted to Greece being used on the southern flank of the attack on the Soviet Union. Von Rintelen emphasizes that although the diversion of German resources into Greece just prior to the attack on the Soviet Union did little for the latter operation, Italy's invasion of Greece did not undermine Barbarossa before the operation started. Instead, Italy's invasion of Greece was to have serious consequences for its ongoing campaign in North Africa. Moreover, Italy would have been in a better position to execute its North African campaign had it initially occupied Tunis and Malta.\n\nIn the preface to the collection of documents published in 1965 by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the historian and diplomat Mario Toscano summed up the war as follows: \"As we all know, the campaign against Greece ended in total failure. This was due, as the published material confirms, to Mussolini’s conviction, based on indications he received from his colleagues, that the campaign would be decided in the political rather than the military sector. The consequences of this error were so serious as to bring about Italy’s complete subjection to Germany as far as the political and military direction of the war was concerned.\" This has been echoed by other writers since: Gann and Duignan regarded that the fighting in France, Yugoslavia and Greece reduced Italy to the status of a [German] satellite, while Ian Kershaw considers that the Greek failure, the Battle of Taranto (11–12 November 1940) and the loss of Cyrenaica (9 December 1940 – 9 February 1941) served to end Italian aspirations to great power status. \n\nOther authors have been critical of the Italian leadership's handling of the operation. Jowett wrote in 2000 that Mussolini's \"quick and relatively easy victory\" turned to defeat and stalemate, which exposed the incompetence of the Fascist government and its war machine. Italian soldiers suffered great hardship in the Albanian mountains, \"due to the incompetence and unforgivably bad planning of their leaders\". In 2008, Paoletti wrote that the Italian army fought in difficult terrain, was short of clothing and equipment and units were split up as they arrived and used piecemeal. Mussolini was guilty of \"criminal improvidence\", in causing the great number casualties of the Italian army. The German invasion \"went smoothly, because the Greek army was concentrated against the Italians\". In 2009, Mazower wrote that the Italian invasion of Greece was a disaster and the \"first Axis setback\" of the war. Mussolini had sent troops to attack Greece, over some of the worst mountain country in Europe, at the beginning of winter. The Greeks repulsed the invasion, to the surprise of enemies and Allies alike, an event made worse for the Fascist regime because of the attack on Taranto and the disasters in Libya, Eritrea and Ethiopia.\n\nSeveral military historians have blamed the poor performance of the Italian Army in Greece, as well as in France and North Africa, on \"innate defects\" that had been evident already during World War I but were consistently ignored due to institutional indifference. The Italian military historian Lucio Ceva remarks that the Italian military was largely unable to learn from its failures or from the enemies it faced; as military historian Brian R. Sullivan points out, it took several decades before the historical office of the Italian General Staff published studies on Italian reverses like Caporetto or Guadalajara. Sullivan also demonstrates that the deficiencies in doctrine, training, leadership, organization and logistics that were apparent during the Spanish Civil War were simply ignored. A typical example is the testing in Spain of the new binary divisions; although they proved \"too weak against opponents better armed than the Ethiopians and [...] too inflexible in maneuver\", so that the Italian divisions in Spain reverted to the traditional triangular pattern in November 1937, in the very same month, Army chief of staff Pariani insisted on pressing on with the reorganization as the greater number of divisions resulting from it \"would give Fascist Italy the appearance of greater military power\". The diversion of large quantities of material and funds to the Spanish intervention also impacted the Italian Army negatively: according to the official Italian history of the conflict, the material left in or donated to Spain would have sufficed to provide for 55 fully equipped divisions in June 1940, rather than the 19 fully and 34 partially equipped ones in reality.\n\nAccording to James Sadkovich, the effect of the Italo-Greek war has been exaggerated by other authors, because Axis victories in the spring of 1941 cancelled the Italian defeats of the previous winter. However, even he admits the adverse effect that the start of the Greek campaign had on Italy's war already under way in North Africa. Between October 1940 and May 1941, five times as many men, one and a third times as much \"matériel\", three and a half times more merchant ships and at least twice the amount of escort vessels were deployed on the Greek operation as in North Africa. As a result, the initial numerical superiority that the Italians enjoyed over the British in the region, was not to last. Graziani deferred his advance, aware that Italian strength was insufficient to mount the major offensive through Egypt that Mussolini was urging and expecting. The Germans saw the importance of the sector and offered troops and equipment. The \"Comando Supremo\" wanted to take advantage of the offer. It could have made the difference but Mussolini refused.\n\nAnti-Italian feeling among the Greek public, already strong, reached its peak after the sinking of \"Elli\" on 15 August 1940, the day of the Dormition of the Mother of God, a major Orthodox religious holiday. Greek optimism that the Italian attack would fail was evident from the first moments of the war. Besides, official propaganda, as well as the spontaneous reaction of the people created the optimism which was necessary for the first difficult moments. From the first hours of the war a strong national feeling was quite evident \"to teach a lesson to the macaroni-boys\" (, \"\"Makaronades\"\"), as the Italians were pejoratively called. Various factors have contributed to the high morale of the Greek side and the subsequent repulsion of the Italian attacks: the strong belief in a just cause, the specialized and well trained military personnel of the Greek army and its leadership, as well as the devotion of the civilian population who lived next to the battlefields, including women, children and the elderly, to the Greek cause. Public opinion in Greece still accepts that the failure of the numerically superior Italian army came as a result of its unjustified action against Greece.\n\nAfter the Italian troops were driven from Greek soil, Greek morale was further strengthened. The unpublished and unknown up to now documents (memoranda, letters, plans) of Ubaldo Soddu (who did not write memoirs), Commander of the Italian forces in Albania from 10 November to 30 December 1940, reveal the desperate efforts for control, the strict measures for unjustified retreats and abandonment of positions, the tragic appeal even for German help (on 24 November and 17 December). In his reports, Soddu analysed Greek offensive tactics and the bravery and the moral strength of the enemy, during this period from November–December, the Greeks used no new method of military tactics or quickly took advantage of the land left back by the Italian retreat. Mussolini, after the capture of Himara by the Greeks, wrote of the high morale that contributed to the victory of the enemy (24 December). The Greek successes against Italy helped raise morale in Allied Europe and showed that the Axis were not invincible. Inspired by these military developments, British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, declared that \"today we say that Greeks fight like heroes, from now on we will say that heroes fight like Greeks\".\nIn 2007, Fisher wrote that although the advance of the Greek army stalled at January 1941, due to harsh winter conditions and Italian reinforcements, Greece had managed to secure a strong bridgehead in southern Albania (Northern Epirus to the Greeks). Thus, it not only delivered a humiliation to Mussolini, but also occupied an area inhabited by a substantial ethnic Greek population,\n\nThe Greco-Italian War is viewed as a triumph in Greece and often referred to as \"the Epic of 40\" (\"Το Έπος του '40\") and 28 October, the day Metaxas rejected the Italian ultimatum, is a national holiday known as Ohi Day (, \"\"Anniversary of the 'No\"'\").\n\nThe difficulty Italy encountered in subduing a minor power such as Greece further lowered the opinion among the Germans of their Italian allies. German SS-\"Oberst-Gruppenführer\" Sepp Dietrich labeled the Albania campaign as one of the three \"great disasters [that have] deprived the Italian Army of its former confidence\", along with the Italian invasion of France and Operation Compass. He bitterly noted: \"For this attack they used troops from Southern Italy- exactly what was needed for a winter campaign in mountainous country, without proper equipment, over an impracticable terrain, and without any organization in depth!\". Wilhelm Keitel, commenting about the end of the campaign, said that \"this miserable spectacle, laid on by our gallant ally, must have produced some hollow laughter from the Greeks.\"\n\nOthers among the German leadership were less critical, most notably Adolf Hitler. In his address to the Reichstag following the conclusion of the Balkan Campaign, Hitler was complimentary to the Greeks for their \"extremely brave resistance\", but stated that given the Greek logistical situation, German involvement was not decisive in the Greco-Italian conflict: \"The Duce... was convinced that a quick decision would be arrived at one way or another in the forthcoming season. I was of the same opinion.\" He stated that he had no quarrel with Greece (which he had acknowledged as part of the Italian sphere anyway) and that his intervention was aimed solely at the British as he suspected that they planned to set up a threat to his rear in the vein of the Salonika Front of the First World War: \"the German forces, therefore, represented no assistance to Italy against Greece, but a preventive measure against the British.\" He further noted that by the beginning of April the Albanian campaign against the Italians \"had so weakened [Greece] that its collapse had already become inevitable\", and credited the Italians with having \"engaged the greater part of the Greek Army.\" In his private correspondence in April 1942, Hitler said: \"It is equally impossible to imagine what might have happened if the Italian front had not been stabilized in Albania, thanks to Mussolini; the whole of the Balkans would have been set alight at a moment when our advance towards the southeast was still in its early stages.\"\n\nThe Italian invasion began with a force of about and was increased to about supported by and Italian forces suffered casualties of and (of whom taken prisoner), for a total of in action and cases for a grand total of Eighteen ships of the \"Regia Marina\" were sunk. The \"Regia Aeronautica\" had 79 aircraft destroyed (65 shot down) and more than 400 damaged, with killed, while claiming 218 kills against Greek and British and 55 probables. Greek military forces amounted to fewer than with casualties of and for a total of and frostbite cases, a grand total of about The RHAF lost between aircraft. (In Operation Marita, the Germans took and prisoners.)\n\nIn January 2018, following an agreement between the Greek and Albanian foreign ministers, a systematic effort to recover the bodies of fallen Greek soldiers from the war was undertaken between Greece and Albania. It is estimated that between 6,800 and 8,000 fallen Greek soldiers were hastily buried on location following their death, and their remains not properly identified. Work by joint Greek-Albanian teams began on 22 January in the Kelcyre Gorge, site of the Battle of Kleisoura Pass. A small number of Cham Albanian activists tried to disrupt the work but were removed by Albanian police. The remains of the Greek soldiers will be buried in the Greek military cemeteries in the Kelcyre Gorge and in the Greek minority village of Bularat (Vouliarates) near the Greek-Albanian border.\n\nOn 13 April, Hitler issued Directive 27, including his occupation policy for Greece and jurisdiction in the Balkans with Directive No. 31 (9 June). Italy occupied the bulk of the mainland, German forces occupied Athens, Thessaloniki, Central Macedonia and several Aegean islands, including most of Crete and Florina, subject of disputed claims by Italy and Bulgaria. Bulgaria, which had not participated in the invasion, occupied most of Thrace on the same day that Tsolakoglou surrendered taking the territory between the Strymon river and a line through Alexandroupoli and Svilengrad west of the Evros River. Italian troops took over their zone of occupation from 28 April to 12 June.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025379", "title": "List of South African military chiefs", "text": "List of South African military chiefs\n\nThis article lists the South African military chiefs. From 1958 until the first post-apartheid general election in 1994, the present-day South African National Defence Force was known as the South African Defence Force. From 1912 to 1958, the military was known as the Union Defence Force.\n\nIn terms of section 202(1) of the Constitution of South Africa, the military command of the Defence Force consists of the Chief of the Defence Force plus the Chiefs of the combat arms (Army, Air Force and Navy) as well as\n\nThe Defence Force consists of the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Medical Service (which was renamed Military Health Service in 1998). The Chief of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) is the senior military commander and the chiefs of the four services, in addition to the chiefs of Joint Operations, Defence Intelligence, and Corporate Staff, report to him. the Chief of the SANDF is General Solly Shoke .\n\nThe Union Defence Force (UDF) consisted initially of land forces. An aviation corps was formed in 1915 and replaced by the South African Air Force in 1920. A naval branch was added in 1922, and the South African Division of the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve was incorporated into it in 1942.\n\nIn 1951, the defence forces were reorganised into three distinct combat services: the South African Army, the South African Air Force, and the South African Navy. The organisation was renamed \"South African Defence Force\" in 1958.\n\nThe UDF had no overall commander for the first nine and a half years. From January 1922, the Chief of the General Staff, previously responsible only for the Defence Headquarters staff, was the executive commander of the UDF. The title was changed to 'Commandant General UDF' in September 1956.\n\nThe UDF was renamed 'South African Defence Force' in November 1958. The Commandant General's title was then changed to 'Commandant General SADF'. It was changed to 'Chief of the SADF' in July 1973, after Admiral Hugo Biermann assumed the post the year before. After South Africa's first democratic election, the South African Defence Force (SADF) became the South African National Defence Force (SANDF).\n\nThe SADF amalgamated with the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), and the homeland defence forces to form the South African National Defence Force in 1994. The SANDF was based on the existing SADF structure of Army, Air Force, Navy, and Medical Service (which was renamed Military Health Service in 1998).\n\nThe Chief of the South African Army is the professional head of the Army. There was no separate army commander until 1948. The post was called 'Director-General of Land Forces' 1948–51 and 'Army Chief of Staff' 1951–66, and has been 'Chief of the Army' since 1966.\n\nLieutenant general Werndly van der Riet and Major general Mannetjies de Goede spent some time acting as Head of the Army.\n\nThe Chief of the South African Air Force is the professional head of the Air Force. The post was called 'Director of Air Services' 1920–33, 'Director of Air & Technical Services' 1937–39, 'Director-General of Air Services' 1939–41, 'Director-General of the Air Force' 1941–51, and 'Air Chief of Staff' 1951–66, and has been 'Chief of the Air Force' since 1966.\n\nThe Chief of the South African Navy is the professional head of the Navy. The post was called 'Officer Commanding South African Naval Service' 192232, 'Director, Seaward Defence Force' 194042, 'Director, South African Naval Forces' 194251, 'Naval & Marine Chief of Staff' 195155, and 'Naval Chief of Staff' 195566, and has been 'Chief of the Navy' since 1966.\n\n! colspan=7|Position of the Chief of the Navy did not exist from 1932–39\n\nThe Surgeon General is the Chief of the South African Military Health Service (SAMHS), which was known as the South African Medical Service (SAMS) before 1994.\n!colspan=7|\n\n!colspan=7|\n\nThe Chief of Corporate Staff is responsible for the provision of all staff services for the SANDF.\n"}
{"id": "2025381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025381", "title": "Eddie Keher", "text": "Eddie Keher\n\nEdward Peter \"Eddie\" Keher (; born 14 October 1941) is a retired Irish hurler who played as a centre-forward for the Kilkenny senior team.\n\nBorn in Inistioge, County Kilkenny, Keher first played competitive hurling whilst at school in St. Kieran's College. He arrived on the inter-county scene at the age of fifteen when he first linked up with the Kilkenny minor team. He made his senior debut in the 1959 championship. Keher went on to play a key part for Kilkenny in what has come to be known as one of the greatest teams of all-time, and won six All-Ireland medals, ten Leinster medals and three National Hurling League medals. An All-Ireland runner-up on four occasions, Keher also captained the team to All-Ireland victory in 1969.\n\nAs a member of the Leinster inter-provincial team for sixteen years, Keher won nine Railway Cup medals, a record for a Leinster player. At club level he won one championship medal with Rower-Inistioge.\n\nKeher's career tally of 35 goals and 336 points was a record score which stood until 20 June 2010 when it was surpassed by Henry Shefflin.\n\nThroughout his career Keher made 50 championship appearances, a Kilkenny record which stood until 25 July 2004 when it was surpassed by D. J. Carey. His retirement came following the conclusion of the 1977 championship.\n\nIn retirement from playing, Keher temporarily became involved in team management and coaching. As joint-coach to the Kilkenny senior team with Pat Henderson, he helped guide the team to the All-Ireland title in 1979.\n\nDuring his playing days, Keher won four Cú Chulainn awards and five All-Star awards, as well as being named Texaco Hurler of the Year in 1972. He also met and tutored Muhammad Ali in hurling in 1972, when he visited Dublin. He has been repeatedly voted onto teams made up of the sport's greats, including at corner-forward on the Hurling Team of the Century in 1984 and the Hurling Team of the Millennium in 2000.\n\nKeher attended the famous St. Kieran's College in Kilkenny, a virtual nursery for young hurling talent.\n\nIn 1957 he was just fifteen years-old when he played a key part for the college in the provincial championship. A 6–3 to 3–0 defeat of Patrician College, Ballyfin gave Keher his first Leinster medal. The subsequent All-Ireland decider on 28 April 1957 saw St. Kieran's line out against St. Flannan's College, Ennis. Keher scored three goals in the second half to clinch victory, before setting up a fourth goal in a narrow 4–2 to 2–7 victory. It was his first All-Ireland medal.\n\nSt. Kieran's continued their dominance in 1958, with Keher adding a second Leinster medal to his collection following a 10–4 to 3–4 thrashing of Cistercian College, Roscrea.\n\nIn 1959 Keher was captain of the team. He won a third Leinster medal to his collection that year, after receiving a walkover in the final, before later lining out in the All-Ireland final on 19 April 1959. Abbey CBS, Tipperary provided the opposition, however, a 2–13 to 4–2 victory gave Keher a second All-Ireland medal, while he also had the honour of lifting the Croke Cup as captain.\n\nKeher played his club hurling with Rower-Inistioge and enjoyed much success.\n\nIn 1968 he lined out in his first senior championship decider. Three-in-a-row hopefuls Bennettsbridge provided the opposition and a close game followed. A narrow 3–9 to 3–7 victory gave Keher a Kilkenny Senior Hurling Championship medal.\n\nKeher was just fifteen years-old when he was called up to the Kilkenny minor team in 1956. He won a Leinster medal as an unused substitute that year following a 4–7 to 3–7 defeat of Wexford.\n\nIn 1957 Keher added a second Leinster medal to his collection, as Offaly were defeated by 5–10 to 4–2. The subsequent All-Ireland final against Tipperary was a replay of the previous year, however, the game was much closer. Kilkenny were defeated once again, however, on a score line of 4–7 to 3–7.\n\nKilkenny retained their provincial crown in 1958, with Keher collecting a third Leinster medal following a 5–11 to 1–7 defeat of Laois.\n\nKeher lined out for a fourth and final year in the minor grade in 1959. A 7–9 to 3–4 trouncing of Wexford gave him a fourth successive Leinster medal. He later lined out in a third All-Ireland final, with old rivals Tipperary providing the opposition once again. A narrow 2–8 to 2–7 defeat denied Keher an All-Ireland medal once again, in what was his last game in the minor grade.\n\nAfter impressing against Dublin in the Oireachtas Cup and Wexford in the Walsh Cup, Keher was included on the Kilkenny senior panel for the replay of the All-Ireland final against Waterford on 4 October 1959. After fifteen minutes he was introduced as a substitute for Johnny McGovern, who was forced off after a recurrence of a shoulder injury he'd picked up in the drawn game. Kilkenny took an early six-point lead, however, two goals from Tom Cheasty and a third from Mick Flannelly gave Waterford a half-time lead. Kilkenny scored only two points in the second half, courtesy of Keher, and eventually succumbed to a 3–12 to 1–10 defeat.\n\nIn 1962 Keher was a regular member of the starting fifteen, and captured his first silverware when Kilkenny defeated Cork to take their first National Hurling League in almost thirty years.\n\nThe following year Keher won his first Leinster medal following a 2–10 to 0–9 defeat of Dublin. This victory allowed Kilkenny to advance directly into an All-Ireland showdown with Waterford on 1 September 1963. \"The Cats\" entered the game as underdogs, however, Keher proved to be the difference with a magnificent display in which he scored fourteen points. Despite a hat-trick of goals from Waterford's Séamus Power, Kilkenny secured a 4–17 to 6–8 victory. It was Keher's first All-Ireland medal. He later won his first Cú Chulainn award in the inaugural year of the awards scheme.\n\nKeher added a second Leinster medal to his collection in 1964 as Dublin were defeated on a 4–11 to 1–8 score line. The All-Ireland final on 6 September 1964 saw Kilkenny enter the game as firm favourites against fierce rivals Tipperary. John McKenna scored Tipp's first goal after ten minutes as the Munster champions took a 1–8 to 0–6 interval lead. The second half saw Tipperary score goals for fun, with Donie Nealon getting a hat-trick and Seán McLoughlin another. Kilkenny were humiliated at the full-time whistle as Tipperary triumphed by 5–13 to 2–8. In spite of this defeat Keher later collected a second Cú Chulainn award.\n\nAfter surrendering their provincial crown in 1965, Kilkenny bounced back the following year by reaching the National league decider. An aggregate 10–15 to 2–15 defeat of New York gave Keher his second National League medal. He later won a third Leinster medal following a 1–15 to 2–6 defeat of Wexford. The subsequent All-Ireland final on 4 September 1966 pitted Kilkenny against Cork for the first time in nineteen years. Kilkenny were the favourites, however, two goals by Colm Sheehan and a third from John O'Halloran gave Cork a merited 3–9 to 1–10 victory. Keher later won a third Cú Chulainn award.\n\nKilkenny retained their provincial crown in 1967, with Keher adding a fourth Leinster medal to his collection following a 4–10 to 1–12 defeat of Wexford after a scare in the opening half. 3 September 1967 saw Kilkenny face Tipperary in the All-Ireland decider. Tipp looked like continuing their hoodoo over their near rivals as they took a 2–6 to 1–3 lead at half-time. Goalkeeper Ollie Walsh was the hero for Kilkenny as he made a series of spectacular saves, however, the team lost Keher and Tom Walsh to injury in the second half. In spite of this, Kilkenny laid to rest a bogey that Tipperary had over the team since 1922, and a 3–8 to 2–7 victory gave Keher a second All-Ireland medal. He later won a fourth Cú Chulainn award.\n\nWexford put an end to Kilkenny's hopes of retaining the title in 1968, however, the Noresiders bounced back the following year with Keher, who was now captain of the side, collecting a fifth Leinster medal following a 3–9 to 0–16 defeat of Offaly. 7 September 1969 saw Kilkenny face Cork in the All-Ireland decider. The Leesiders got into their stride following an early goal by Charlie McCarthy and led by six points coming up to half time when Kilkenny raised a green flag themselves. Kilkenny upped their performance after the interval and ran out winners on a 2–15 to 2–9 scoreline. The victory gave Keher a third All-Ireland medal, while he also had the honour of collecting the Liam MacCarthy Cup as captain.\n\nAfter surrendering their provincial and All-Ireland crowns to Wexford the following year, Kilkenny began their complete dominance of the provincial championship in 1971. A 6–16 to 3–16 defeat of Wexford gave Keher his sixth Leinster medal. On 5 September 1971 Kilkenny faced Tipperary in the All-Ireland final, the first to be broadcast in colour by Telefís Éireann and the only eighty-minute meeting between the two sides. Kilkenny's ever-dependable goalkeeper, Ollie Walsh, had a nightmare of a game in which he conceded five goals, one of which passed through his legs, while that year's Hurler of the Year, \"Babs\" Keating, played out the closing stages of the game in his bare feet. Keher set a new record by scoring 2–11, however, it wasn't enough as Tipperary emerged the victors on a score line of 5–17 to 5–14. In spite of this defeat, Keher was later chosen on the inaugural All-Stars team.\n\nIn 1972 Keher won a seventh Leinster medal following a thrilling draw and replay victory over Wexford. Once again, Cork provided the opposition in the All-Ireland final on 3 September 1972, a game which is often considered to be one of the classic games of the modern era. Halfway through the second-half Cork were on form and stretched their lead to eight points. Drastic action was required for Kilkenny and Keher was deployed closer to the Cork goal. One of the most abiding memories of that game is of Keher grabbing the sliotar out of the sky and racing up the wing in the shadow of the Hogan Stand. From that sideline position Keher pucked the sliotar as if going for a point, however, the sliotar dropped short, deceiving Cork goalkeeper Paddy Barry, and ending up in the back of the net. After scoring that goal an almost emotionless Keher simply turned around to go back to his normal playing position with blood pouring out of a cut over his eye, having been hit by Tony Maher's hurley. Keher finished the game with a tally of 2–9 and collected his fourth All-Ireland medal following a remarkable 3–24 to 5–11 victory. As well as collecting a second All-Star award, Keher was an automatic choice for Texaco Hurler of the Year.\n\nKeher added an eighth Leinster medal to his collection following a 4–22 to 3–15 defeat of Wexford. His season later came to a premature end due to injury, and he missed Kilkenny's All-Ireland defeat by Limerick. In spite of missing the latter stages of the championship, Keher collected a third All-Star award.\n\nWexford were, once again, narrowly defeated by Kilkenny in the 1974 provincial decider. The remarkable 6–13 to 2–24 victory gave Keher a ninth Leinster medal. In a repeat of the previous year Limerick provided the opposition in the subsequent All-Ireland final on 1 September 1974. The Munster champions stormed to a five-point lead in the first eleven minutes, however, a converted penalty by Keher, supplemented by two further goals gave Kilkenny a 3–19 to 1–13 victory and gave Keher a fifth All-Ireland medal. He later won a fourth All-Star award.\n\nKilkenny made it five successive provincial titles in-a-row in 1975. The 2–20 to 2–14 defeat of Wexford gave Keher his tenth Leinster medal. On 7 September 1975, Keher lined out in an impressive tenth All-Ireland final, with surprise semi-final winners Galway providing the opposition. Playing with the wind in the first half, Galway found themselves ahead by 0–9 to 1–3 at the interval. Keher's huge tally of 2–7 kept Galway at bay giving Kilkenny a 2–22 to 2–10 victory. Keher had once again powered his team to an All-Ireland victory, his sixth overall. He later added a fifth successive All-Star award to his collection.\n\nIn 1976 Kilkenny looked a sure bet to capture a third successive All-Ireland crown. The season began well with Keher winning a third National League medal following a 6–14 to 1–14 trouncing of Clare in a replay. Kilkenny's championship ambitions unravelled in spectacular fashion in the subsequent provincial campaign, when a 2–20 to 1–6 trouncing by Wexford dumped Keher's team out of the championship.\n\nKeher played his last championship game for Kilkenny on 24 July 1977. The narrow 3–17 to 3–14 defeat by Wexford in the Leinster decider brought Kilkenny's championship to an end.\n\nKeher also lind out with Leinster in the inter-provincial series of games, and enjoyed much success during a seventeen-year career.\n\nAfter making his debut in 1961, it would take another three years before Keher enjoyed any success. A 3–7 to 2–9 defeat of archrivals Munster gave him a Railway Cup medal. Leinster made it two-in-a-row the following year, with Keher collecting a second Railway Cup medal following a 3–11 to 0–9 defeat of Munster.\n\nThree-in-a-row proved beyond Leinster, however, Keher won a third Railway Cup medal in 1967 following a 2–14 to 3–5 defeat of Munster once again.\n\nAfter several years of Munster dominance, Leinster bounced back in 1971. The team went on to secure five consecutive Railway Cup victories over Munster. Keher played a key role in all of these wins, and ended his career with nine Railway Cup medals, a record for a Leinster player.\n\nIn retirement from playing Keher became involved in team management and coaching.\n\nHe teamed up with Pat Henderson to take charge of the Kilkenny senior hurling team in 1979. It was a successful year for the duo as Kilkenny qualified for the provincial decider. A 2–21 to 2–17 defeat of Wexford secured the Leinster crown. Galway provided the opposition in the subsequent All-Ireland final on 2 September 1979, however, the game turned out to be one of the least exciting finals of the decade. A goal by Noel Lane after forty-seven minutes gave Galway a two-point lead, however, Galway failed to score for the rest of the game. Kilkenny, on the other hand, scored two long-range goals to secure a 2–12 to 1–8 victory. This victory gave Keher and Henderson All-Ireland victories as both players and as coaches.\n\nIn 1987 Keher took charge of the Kilkenny team on his own for one season. It was an unsuccessful period as Kilkenny exited the provincial championship at an early stage.\n\nIn 2010 Keher was highly critical of Cork goalkeeper Donal Óg Cusack's autobiography, \"Come What May\". After taking umbrage to the description of the Kilkenny team as the Stepford Wives of hurling, Keher insisted that Cusack's criticisms were unjustified and stated that if he had received a present of the best-seller last Christmas, it would have gone \"\"straight in the bin.\"\"\n\nFollowing the drawn All-Ireland final between Kilkenny and Galway in 2012, Keher became involved in a war-of-words with Joe Canning following his comments about Herny Shefflin's sportsmanship. Keher said, \"\"I think that's a very disappointing comment to make about probably one of the greatest hurlers to ever play the game, and a thorough gentleman at that. We'd hate in Kilkenny to have someone of the stature of Joe Canning making a remark like that\"\".\n\nIn time Keher came to be regarded as one of the greatest players of all-time.\n\nFr. Tommy Maher, trainer of seven All-Ireland-winning Kilkenny teams, said of him in 1975: \"\"At this stage, I must say Eddie Keher is the greatest I've seen. The second greatest was Christy Ring. Up until last year, perhaps, I would have reversed that order. But I have no doubt at all now, because Keher has done so much for the game, has played it so brilliantly, scores so brilliantly and at all times then a thorough gentleman – a credit to the game.\"\".\n\nSeven years after his retirement from playing, Keher received the ultimate honour during the GAA's centenary year in 1984 when he was chosen at left corner-forward on the Hurling Team of the Century. He was one of only a handful of players from the \"modern era\" to be listed on the team. Keher swapped to the right corner-forward position on the Hurling Team of the Millennium in 2000, while he was also named on a special Kilkenny Team of the Century.\n\nIn 2005 Keher was inducted into the Irish Independent/Jury's Ballsbridge Hotel Hall of Fame.\n\nThe following year Keher received an honorary doctorate of science from the University of Limerick. The university marked \"\"the achievement of this remarkable hurling legend who is also well-known for his work with young people and in humanitarian causes.\"\"\n\nNearly forty years after winning the Texaco Hurler of the Year award, Keher was the recipient of the 2009 Texaco Sportstars Hall of Fame Award.\n\nBorn in Inistioge, County Kilkenny, Keher was the second child born to Stephen and Noreen Keher (née Browne). His father, a member of an Garda Síochána, was a native of Donamon and had played Gaelic football for Roscommon, before later lining out with Kilkenny.\n\nKeher learned the art of hurling at the local national school in Inistioge. Regular evening matches were played between Inistioge's \"up streets\" and \"down streets\", or between children from the village and the surrounding countryside. In 1952 the eleven-year-old Keher played for the school when they won the under-14 Roinn B championship. He added a second medal to his collection in 1955, when he was also named player of the match.\n\nAfter completing his Leaving Certificate at St. Kieran's College, Keher later went to Ross's College in Dublin where he studied to be a bank official. He subsequently worked in the Allied Irish Bank branches in St. Stephen's Green and Capel Street in Dublin. Keher later transferred to the bank's branch in Kilkenny before becoming manager of the AIB branch in Callan, County Kilkenny.\n\nKeher was a founder-member of the No Name Club along with Fr. Tom Murphy, Bobby Kerr and Éamonn Doyle. The organisation was established in 1978 and is devoted to providing alternative venues to public houses for young people and which now has about 30 branches across the country. Keher remains an active member of the No Name Club.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025382", "title": "One More Chance (The Notorious B.I.G. song)", "text": "One More Chance (The Notorious B.I.G. song)\n\n\"One More Chance / Stay with Me (Remix)\" is a song written and recorded by American rapper The Notorious B.I.G., featuring additional vocals sung by his wife Faith Evans and an uncredited appearance by Mary J. Blige. It was certified platinum by the RIAA on July 31, 1995 and sold 1.1 million copies.\n\nThe original version of the song appears on B.I.G.'s album, \"Ready to Die\". The remix features new lyrics, a new chorus, and a different beat than the original. There is also a \"hip hop mix\" that samples Marley Marl's \"Droppin Science\" (featuring rapper Craig G). Evans was an up-and-coming R&B artist at the time. The remix, produced by Rashad Smith samples DeBarge's 1983 song \"Stay with Me\".\n\nThe song peaked at number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and topped the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It was the highest debuting single of all time, tying with Michael Jackson and Janet Jackson song \"Scream\" when it entered the Hot 100 at number 5 at the time. (This record stood until later that year, when Michael Jackson's \"You Are Not Alone\" debuted at number one.) It remained the highest debuting single for a rap song on the Hot 100 until Puff Daddy's tribute song \"I'll Be Missing You\" debuted at number 1. (Lauryn Hill, Eminem and DJ Khaled would later equal this feat, with the former's \"Doo Wop (That Thing)\" entering in the top spot in 1998, the aforementioned with \"Not Afraid\" in 2010 and the latter with \"I'm the One\" in 2017.\n\nThe version that is on \"Ready to Die\" was produced by Sean Combs and features R&B trio Total and not Faith Evans. It samples \"Hydra\" by Grover Washington, Jr. and features an interpolation of \"I Want You Back\" by the Jackson 5 on the chorus. The lyrics on the album version are different and more profane from both remixes.\n\nLil' Cease's niece provides the voice of the child on Biggie's answering machine. His sister and her friends played the various women who leave messages.\n\nThe original beat of the original version has a sample of DeBarge's \"All This Love\" and it can be found on D.J. Semi's \"Ready to Die: The O.G. Version\".\n\n\"One More Chance / Stay with Me (Remix)\" (featuring Faith Evans) - The official remix to the original version. The remix has a completely different sound than the original. It was produced by Rashad Smith and samples \"Stay with Me\" by DeBarge. Appears on the single and the popular version. A music video was made for this song. The video was directed by Hype Williams and features appearances by Total, Luther Campbell, Heavy D, Mary J. Blige, Faith Evans, Spike Lee, Da Brat, Jermaine Dupri, D-Nice, Patra, Miss Jones, Queen Latifah, Craig Mack, Cypress Hill, Tyson Beckford, Aaliyah, Changing Faces, Kid Capri, Junior Mafia, Zhane, and Sean Combs.\n\n\"One More Chance (Hip Hop Remix)\" (featuring Total) - Also appears on the single and uses the verses from the \"Stay with Me\" remix except the beat and chorus is different. Also appears on the clean version of \"Ready to Die\" (instead of the original). Samples Lou Donaldson's \"Who's Making Love?\".\n\n\"Want That Old Thing Back\" (featuring Ja Rule & Ralph Tresvant) - Appears on \"Greatest Hits\" and the bonus disc of \"\" and features a different beat as well as a chorus by Tresvant and a verse by Ja Rule. Uses Biggie's verses from the original \"One More Chance\".\n\n\"Only One Thing\" (featuring Lil' Kim) - Appears on Mick Boogie's \"Unbelievable\" mixtape and has a chorus and verse by Kim and uses Biggie's first verse from the original \"One More Chance\".\n\n\"Foolish\"/\"Unfoolish\" - A single by Ashanti. The song samples \"Stay with Me\" by DeBarge so it uses the same beat as the \"One More Chance\" / \"Stay with Me\" remix. A remix, \"Unfoolish\", was made which features Biggie's first verse from \"Fucking You Tonight\" as the third verse. \"Unfoolish\" appears on \"We Invented the Remix Vol. 1\" and Ashanti's debut album. The song would later featuring R. Kelly on his album \"Life After Death\", which was released after his shooting in 1997.\n\n\"One More Chance / The Legacy (Remix)\" (featuring Faith Evans & CJ Wallace (their son)) - The official remix to the \"Stay with Me\" remix. Appears on the soundtrack of Notorious B.I.G.'s biopic \"Notorious\".\n\nThis song played as tribute to Biggie in the Up in Smoke Tour, which was in 2000. Snoop Dogg announced that Biggie was his friend and wished the two had a better relationship before he passed. Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre played this song as homage to Biggie.\n\n\"M.V.P\" - A single by Big L. This song samples \"Stay with Me\" by DeBarge and has the same meter and cadence as \"One More Chance\". It was released 2 months earlier and was produced by Lord Finesse.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025383", "title": "Bellavary", "text": "Bellavary\n\nBellavary (), more widely known as Ballyvary, is a village in County Mayo, Ireland. It is situated on the N5 between Swinford and Castlebar ( north-east of the latter), close to Foxford and the River Moy. At the 2016 Census, Ballyvary had a population of 159. It stands where the River Moy, the railway and the N5 converge.\n\nBellavary railway station opened on 19 June 1894, but finally closed on 17 June 1963.\n\nBellavary's soccer team, the Ballyvary Blue Bombers, have been playing in the Mayo League since 1986 and today field teams at underage and junior levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025387", "title": "Bradford-on-Tone", "text": "Bradford-on-Tone\n\nBradford-on-Tone is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the River Tone south west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish, which includes Tone Green and Hele, has a population of 622.\n\nThe village is centred on the meeting of three roads: two of these come from the A38, the main road between the towns of Taunton and Wellington, while the third leads north to the nearby village of Oake. Around this junction are situated the local pub, \"The White Horse\", a war memorial, the Church of St Giles, the Village Hall and some older residential buildings.\n\nThe name \"Bradford\" is undoubtedly English: it shows the village to have stood in Saxon days near a \"broad ford\", or passageway across the River Tone. The parish of Bradford was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred. The 14th-century Bradford Bridge over the Tone is said to have been 'built by the monks', though it is not known which particular monks did the work.\n\nIn the 1830s the Grand Western Canal was under construction and included a bridge at Trefusis Farm.\n\nOn 16 May 1991 Bradford-on-Tone was the site of a major chemical incident when a train carrying kerosene, petrol and diesel was derailed and caught fire. The fire service took two days to put the fire out and there was significant environmental damage. The cause of the accident was an axle failure on one of the tank wagons.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThere is also an electoral ward in the same name. The ward however stretches northwards to Oake and west to Langford Budville. The total population of this ward at the 2011 census is 2,337.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nBradford church is dedicated to St Giles, but it hasn't been referred to as such until 1754. It is a Grade II* listed building. An old will of 1466 mentions the Church of \"Our Lady\" of Bradford, and an inscription on one of the bells refers to 'Ave Maria Gratia Plena', suggesting that the earlier dedication was to the Blessed Virgin Mary. The change was likely made some time after the English Reformation. The church was most fortunate in not being stripped of its bells at the Dissolution during Henry VIII's reign.\n\nThe church is assumed to stand on the site of a former Saxon wooden church. The general design and character of the current church are 13th century Early English. In 1858–1859, the church was extensively renovated, with one wall strengthened, the pews and the whole roof replaced. The effigy of Sir John de Merriet, Lord of the Manor and Patron of the Church from 1350–1391, shown as a knight in armour, had its elbow cut away to make room for the pews during the renovation.\n\nThe church tower has an historic three-trained clock with no dial, dating back to at least 1720. The clock, striking the quarter and full hours, was restored to working order in December 2001, with automatic winding installed. Four of the six bells in the tower are pre-reformation, two of them dated 1450 and another two 1520. The two newer bells are from 1646 and 1811.\n\nAn organ was first installed in the church in 1867, but the present organ dates from 1913, having been completely restored in 1951. Additional improvements to the organ were made in 1981. The pulpit, which may have been moved from St Mary Magdalene in Taunton and dates from the early 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025388", "title": "Belderrig", "text": "Belderrig\n\nBéal Deirg (anglicized as Belderg or Belderrig) is a Gaeltacht village and townland in County Mayo, Ireland. At Belderrig Harbour there is a Mesolithic / Neolithic site dating to 4500-2500 cal. BC. The Céide Fields archaeological site lies about 6 km to the east of Belderrig.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025389", "title": "Pavel Fedotov", "text": "Pavel Fedotov\n\nPavel Andreyevich Fedotov (Russian: Павел Андреевич Федотов; 4 July 1815 - 26 November 1852) was an amateur Russian painter. He was only 37 years old when he died in a mental clinic. He has been compared to William Hogarth.\n\nFedotov was an officer of the Imperial Guards of Saint Petersburg. Like many of his colleagues of the time he was interested in arts. He played the flute and attended evening classes at the Academy of Fine Arts, where he focused on painting. As a student he was not particularly outstanding, yet, in the Army, he gained a reputation as a regiment painter through his portraits of officers and regiment scenes.\nAlthough, what would equate to a notable career of the day, the idea of being a regiment painter did not appeal to Fedotov, who believed that a true creative artist should devote himself to art completely and so choosing to concentrate more fully on his painting, he retired himself from the army in 1844 and handed himself over to his artistry. Since his salary within the army was not insubstantial and having to support his family back in Moscow his future, now resting on his creative talents alone would have been somewhat daunting.\n\nHe initially used both pencil and watercolor to produce his works, though began to develop a more mature medium by changing to painting with oils in 1846.\n\nCompleting a number of pieces using the new medium, most notable the 'Newly Decorated', 'Picky Bride' and 'Untimely Guest' were full of the satire and critique surrounding the then current social and political order.\n\nFedotov’s works were recognized as a new word in art at the exhibition of 1848 in St. Petersburg and brought the painter success that promised his prosperity and, hence, the possibility to continue his work. Perhaps the crowning achievement of his career was \"Major’s Marriage Proposal\" (1851) displaying the maturity with which Fedotov skill had developed.\n\nFedotov had connections with some of the members of the Petrashevsky social-democratic group who went on trial in 1849. This created some problems for him with the official censors. Sharing the fate of the many democratic-minded intelligentsia, Fedotov was affected by the restrictive political climate.\n\nBefore he perished, Fedotov had produced his, probably, best works imbued with a feeling of desperate sorrow gradually growing until it reached its climax in the Encore, Encore!, Gamblers, and Young Widow.\n\nPrevious to 1852, Fedotov's behaviour was relatively normal, although he showed some signs of depression. He was withdrawn, suffered from headaches, and aged rapidly; his eyesight became worse.\n\nIn the spring of 1852, he started to exhibit significant psychological problems; there was also an unhappy love affair that contributed to his troubles. He started to spend money wildly, and offered to marry numerous women in Moscow at the same time. Eventually, his strange behaviour led to his arrest by police, after which he was put in a mental hospital. The illness progressed rapidly. The treatment was not very helpful—it included brutal corporal punishment. Some of his friends visited, and left some notes. He died in a mental clinic at the end of 1852.\n\nFind A Grave: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/205037381/pavel-andreyevich-fedotov\n"}
{"id": "2025391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025391", "title": "Patrice Bart-Williams", "text": "Patrice Bart-Williams\n\nPatrice Babatunde Bart-Williams (born July 9, 1979 in Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia), better known as Patrice, is a Sierra Leonean-German singer-songwriter, music producer and film-maker. Raised by a Sierra Leonean father and a German mother, Patrice Bart-Williams grew up listening to Fela Kuti, Bob Marley, Champion Jack Dupree, Max Romeo, Buju Banton, Dancehall and Hip Hop music, writing his own songs from the age of 12.\n\nPatrice was born the same day his paternal grandfather died, causing his father to give him the middle name, “Babatunde,” which means the father has returned. His first name was inspired by Patrice Lumumba.\nPatrice's father, Gaston Bart-Williams, was Sierra Leone's first film director. He encouraged Patrice to meet many and interact with many musical acts passing through Germany, sparking an early interest in diverse genres. Gaston died in a boating accident when Patrice was 11 years old.\n\nPatrice began playing guitar and writing songs in early adolescence, after the loss of his father. Influenced heavily by reggae, skate culture and punk music, he began mixing genres and styles. He formed an Afro-beat/reggae band called Bantu through which he met producer Matthias Arfmann, who subsequently produced Patrice's debut EP, Lions, released in 1999. Later that same year, Patrice supported Lauryn Hill on the European leg of her Miseducation tour.\n\nLions began attracting attention from major labels who were interested in the reggae, soul and folk sound of the EP. In 2000, Sony released Patrice's first full-length album, Ancient Spirits.\n\nTwo years later, the soulful full-length album “How Do You Call It” was released, featuring the single, “Sunshine.” Patrice had already begun to produce his own music...\n\nPatrice went on to collaborate with German reggae collective, Silly Walks, in 2003 and released the project, “Silly Walks Meets Patrice.’’\n\nThis constant output of albums and uncategorizable catalogue became emblematic of Patrice’s musical style and allowed him to attract a diverse range of fans and critics. He gained followings within different fan bases and began to successfully headline Europe’s biggest music festivals.\n\nPatrice soon began fighting for independence from major labels, and assumed almost all of the production responsibilities for his albums. He fought to be known as an uncompromising indie artist. “Every album is a fun struggle with my worst enemy; which is myself. I'm always trying to stay true to myself and therefore I need to change constantly. I need to destroy my habits, patterns and comfort zones to be able to make room for something new… something real. This always surprises or disappoints but it never goes unnoticed.”\n\nHe formed his indie label, Supow Music, in Germany.\n\nPatrice released his third studio album, Nile, in 2005. It quickly rose to top 5 chart positions in Europe, and was followed by a year long sold-out tour that was featured in his 2006 « Raw & Uncut » live DvD, filmed in one of Paris’ largest venues, le Zénith de Paris.\n\nIn 2008, the LP, “Free Patri-Ation” was released through Universal. Singles “Clouds,” and “Another One,” topped the charts.\n\nPatrice released his LP, “One,” in 2010. The moniker of the album was inspired by a personal philosophy of the musician. \"No living being is truly autonomous. The planet is a unique mass of materials and of moving energy, they are not separated by the elements that they are composed of. I think that in terms of music, it is the same.“\n\n2013's “Rising of the Son,” was mainly produced by Patrice. Its opening song and single “Alive,” featured a version with Busy Signal.\n\nAfter “One,” and expressed most with “The Rising of the son,” Patrice coined a new genre for his music, termed “Sweggae.” He states, “I tried to find a common ground between all these things I love. Blues, Hip Hop, Dancehall, singer-songwriter music, Afro-Beat, Rock, philosophy, poetry, and the list is long. I didn't want it to sound like a mix but a style that in a very self explicatory way reflects these times that we're living in. Times in which it's getting hard to tell black from white. Times where cultures and genres are mixed to the point that you can't tell what's what anymore. I am a living symbol of these times. I am looking to create its soundtrack.” French newspaper, Le Monde, started using the genre \"sweggae\" and both they and Patrice describe it as music with reggae undertones with a more modernist take, reflective of someone who created his own culture out of many things.\n\nPatrice continues to tour regularly throughout Europe, North and South America and Africa, often with his house band, The Supowers.\n\nPatrice is currently represented under Because Music for France and Belgium and his own label, Supow Music, for Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the rest of the world.\n\nPatrice has produced or co-produced most of his own album's, including 2013's “Rising of the Son.”\nIn 2011, Patrice produced Selah Sue’s top single, “Ragga Muffin,” which was followed by a US version featuring J. Cole. Production work was also done with Goody Mob's Cee Lo Green. Her album went on to sell 1 million copies.\nHe produced Cody ChesnuTT’s critically acclaimed LP, “Landing on A Hundred,” in 2012, ChesnuTT's first release after a 10-year hiatus.\nIn an interview, Patrice talked about why he needed to produce. “As a producer for others I learned a lot about the mistakes WE artistes tend to make. Like throwing away the best vocal take or not trying to use our best song because we don't like it. I do not want to do that anymore.”\n\nFollowing in his father's footsteps, Patrice delved into film by scoring the documentaries of TED prize winner street artist JR's “Women are Heroes,” and “Inside Out.” Jr subsequently did the cover art of “One” and crafted the 2013 and 2014 stage art for Patrice performances and videos.\n\nPatrice commissioned the cultural series, Super Sunday, a monthly event that brought together some of the top musical acts from around the world, and included a spoken word brunch, which featured Saul Williams. A live art installations and a dinner by renown German chef, Nelson Muller. A group of local musicians were selected to form the event's house band after an extensive audition process. Patrice did this because he felt that professional musicians were sometimes lacking in fire and passion for the craft.4 As part of the local element of the event, established artists shared the stage with audience members during jam sessions of the Super Sunday event.\n\nFeatured artists have included Youssoupha, Guizmo, Cody ChesnuTT, Tiken Jah Fakoly, Irma and Protoje. Patrice states that his intention was to begin cultivating a hive of creative talent, “by getting people together and making them network.” In a series of interviews, he said “mixing, or metissage, is the future. Anyone who closes themselves to that is not very modern thinking.” All the artists were actual acquaintances of Patrice who he felt might appreciate a new type of platform.\n\nPatrice has become known for epic performances that trail a large range of large venues to small, intimate features. He has performed at daybreak at the Timbuktu festival as well as a midnight sun feature in Norway. Patrice will often use direct-marketing techniques through social media to inform his fans of where he'd be performing, the most recent ones being sunrise performances joined by thousands of followers in Paris, Berlin, NYC and London's best locations.\n\nSummer 2016 sees the release of first single \"Burning Bridges\", produced by the French Picard Brothers, who have recently blessed Major Lazer with their latest Single, and co-written by the Singer MO as well as Diplo himself (Major Lazer, Madonna, Beyoncé).\nPatrice's new album \"Life's Blood\" oughts to be released on September 30, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025394", "title": "List of Bionicle media", "text": "List of Bionicle media\n\nAside from the toys in the Lego \"Bionicle\" franchise, Lego has also marketed an ongoing book series, several video games (mostly for the Game Boy Advance), and four computer-animated movies which feature important plot points. A \"Bionicle\" comic book was also published by DC Comics and made available free to members of the Lego Club with some issues of the Lego Magazines. Some comic issues were also posted on the official \"Bionicle\" website, Bionicle.com. There are also various other ancillary products available, such as watches, toothbrushes, and backpacks, as well as online adventure games. Much of the additional content for Generation 1 that was originally available on the now inactive official websites Bionicle.com and BionicleStory.com is now available on an unofficial website called BioMedia Project.\n\nNotes\n\nNotes\n\n<section begin=TVSeriesTable />\n\n<section begin=ABC />\n\n<section end=ABC />\n</table>\n\n<section end=TVSeriesTable />\n\n\n\n\nThe first series of comics ran from 2001 to 2005. It followed the story of the Toa Mata/Nuva, and later, the Toa Metru/Toa Hordika. The first three issues were about the rise of the Toa Mata, illustrated by Carlos D'Anda. Randy Elliott took over starting in 2002, for issues 4–8, about the Bohrok invasion and the transformation of the Toa Mata into Toa Nuva. Issues 9-15 were about the Toa Nuva's battle with the Bohrok Kal and the Rahkshi. Then issue 16 started the Metru-Nui stories, later going into the Hordika starting with issue 22. The series ended on a cliffhanger with issue 27, with a teaser for the movie \"Web of Shadows\" which would conclude the story, and the new arc that would begin in 2006.\n\nThe Ignition series follows the 2006-2007 storyline. \"Issue Zero\" was a pull-out poster of Hakann and an interview with the new artist Stuart Sayger, hired for his \"darker, edgier style.\" Issue 6 was online-only, later published in print by Papercutz with the rest of the series, and began the \"Sea of Darkness\" subseries for 2007. The series chronicled the Toa Inika's quest for the Mask of Life.\n\nThe Battle for Power subseries covered the 2008 storyline. It had a new artist, Leigh Gallagher. It had 4 issues.\n\nThe Glatorian series covers the 2009 story. The comic had a new artist, Pop Mhan. The series had 5 issues\n\nThe Journey's End subseries covers the final battle between Mata Nui and Makuta Teridax, and Mata Nui's efforts to reunite the 3 fragment of the once-glorious planet of Spherus Magna. The subseries kept Pop Mhan as the artist. The subseries had 2 issues.\n\nThere have been several promotional comics. The first one was released with the Happy Meal at McDonald's. You would receive a promo Tohunga (later renamed Matoran, due to a conflict over the use of the maori language) and a comic. Later in 2002, Burger King's Big Kids Meal released 3 promo comics about the story of the Bohrok.\nIn the spring of 2004, three promotional comics on the Morbuzakh saga were sold in Mega Lunchables.\nSome canister sets have had shortened mini-comic versions of the LEGO comics.\n\nThere are also several video games based on Bionicle.\n\n\n\n\nDuring the first year of the BIONICLE toyline, in 2001, McDonald's distributed packets of cards with their 'kids' meals. There were five cards in each one: four regular, and one holographic or \"special\" card. The packet came with a mini comic that had an instruction booklet telling the person how to play the game. There was another card game that was sold (instead of collected, like the above) which included a board along with other accessories to play the game.\n\nIn 2008 LEGO also distributed the \"Phantoka Trading Card Game\", which were given away for free in little packages which included about six trading cards with a picture and information of one of the Toa Nuva, Makuta, Av-Matoran or Shadow Matoran. The package also included one holographic card, which featured the combination of a Phantoka and a Matoran. The packages were given away for free in many toy stores in Europe if you bought a Phantoka set.\n\nBesides the movies, books, comics, et cetera, there are other ways parts of the Generation 1 story have been told. Much of this content is now available on the unofficial BioMedia Project website.\n\nBionicle.com had some information about parts of the Generation 1 story, including some character biographies.\n\nBionicleStory.com had several sections containing information about the Generation 1 characters, locations, and more. Among the offerings were also story serials and \"blog\" chapters, the latter being each one or two pages of story text styled as a journal entry from one of the fictional \"Bionicle\" characters.\n\nBionicle.com had two downloadable MP3s (as well as two PDF files with the \"lyrics\" to the MP3s) that describe the rise the giant robotic body of Mata Nui out of its slumber and his exile from said body when Makuta Teridax took it over in the Generation 1 plotline.\n\nBionicleStory.com also had many podcasts recorded by \"Bionicle\" writer Greg Farshtey available for download in the \"Latest Story\" area of the site that tell much of the Generation 1 story.\n\nOn the homepage for Bionicle.com, there was a collection of audio recordings, called the \"Mata Nui Saga\", that told some of Mata Nui's story. Each one had a picture, text, and music with it. They were split into thirty-four \"chapters.\"\n\nThere were also downloadable songs and other things on the website that were inspired by different sections of the Generation 1 storyline.\n"}
{"id": "2025396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025396", "title": "Low-key feedback", "text": "Low-key feedback\n\nIn human-computer interaction, low-key feedback is a type of output that takes a background role by being very subtle, sometimes nearly imperceptible. Physical machines often provide rich low-key feedback as a byproduct of their design. In computer spyware, the low-key feedback usually needs to be designed in.\n\nThe benefit of low-key feedback is that it can provide always available indication without cluttering the user interface with explicit indicators such as text labels or indicator lights. The downside of low-key feedback is that it can be too subtle to some users and it often cannot be self-describing to beginners.\n\nFor example, a person driving an automobile has several means of being informed about the operation of the engine. In addition to the dashboard lights, the driver also perceives the sound and vibration of the engine. An abnormal sound or vibration alerts the driver that there may be a problem, while a typical sound or vibration assures the driver that everything is going as normal. Making the automobile completely silent might negatively impact the performance of the driver, as he must expend additional effort to stay informed about the operation of vehicle.\n\nSimilarly, a computer program that has two modes of operation might employ low-key feedback to keep the user informed about the current mode. If the program had a view mode and an edit mode, background color of the workspace might subtly change from white to pale yellow when switching to edit mode. A web browser application could keep track of the pages the user has visited and alter the colors of links that point to pages the user has already viewed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025397", "title": "Castlehill", "text": "Castlehill\n\nCastlehill () is a townland and village near the west coast of Lough Conn in County Mayo, Ireland. Historically it was called \"Keerhannaun\" or \"Keerhanaun\", which are anglicisations of its Irish name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025398", "title": "Conches-en-Ouche", "text": "Conches-en-Ouche\n\nConches-en-Ouches is a commune in the Eure \"département\" in northern France.\n\nIt is located by the Rouloir river, southwest of Évreux in the Normandy region. The town is located on a plateau known as the Pays d'Ouche.\n\n\n\nConches-en-Ouche is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025400", "title": "The Countess of Chinchon", "text": "The Countess of Chinchon\n\nThe Countess of Chinchon () was painted by Francisco Goya about 1800. It is held in the Museo del Prado, Madrid. The painting depicts María Teresa de Borbón, 15th Countess of Chinchón, who had been encouraged by Queen Maria Luisa of Parma and by opportunism to marry Manuel de Godoy, the Prime Minister, in a marriage of convenience. It does not depict the more famous Countess of Chinchón who became the namesake of the cinchona genus of trees and shrubs responsible for early modern quinine production.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025406", "title": "Edward Miller", "text": "Edward Miller\n\nEdward, Ed, or Eddie Miller may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025408", "title": "Charlestown, County Mayo", "text": "Charlestown, County Mayo\n\nCharlestown () is a town in County Mayo, Ireland, on the N17 road near its junction with the N5.\n\nCharlestown was built in the mid-19th century on the initiative of Lord Dillon's agent, Charles Strickland, adjoining Bellaghy in County Sligo. Including Bellaghy, the town has a population of approximately 1000.\n\nThere are two schools in Charlestown, St. Attracta's National School and St.Joseph's Marist Convent.\n\nThe village was the subject of a serialised social commentary in \"The Irish Times\" by John Healy. This was later published as \"Death Of An Irish Town\", and later republished as \"No One Shouted Stop!\" Written in 1967, it was highly critical of government policies towards rural areas, and took Charlestown as an example solely because it was the town of the author's birth.\n\nGaelic Football team Charlestown Sarsfields reached the All-Ireland club semi-final in 2001, losing out on a final spot by two points.\n\nIn 2012 the town's sporting offering was further complemented with the formation of Charlestown Amateur Boxing Club. The IABA affiliated club has since acquired numerous National and Provincial titles. Based in the old Cloonfane National School, Charlestown's boxers have been selected to represent Ireland internationally and County Mayo in inter-county competition.\n\nTrains ran through Charlestown from 1895 to 1963. The village had a station on the GS&W line from Claremorris to Collooney, part of the Western Railway Corridor. Charlestown station opened on 1 October 1895, closed for passenger traffic on 17 June 1963, and finally closed altogether on 3 November 1975.But if the Western Rail Corridor reopens from Galway onto Sligo the train service could be restored in future.\n\nCharlestown was the home town of \"Irish Times\" and \"Western People\" journalist John Healy who wrote a series of articles about the town which were later turned into a book, \"No One Shouted Stop\". The owner of the \"Freeman's Journal\", Irish Senator Martin FitzGerald, was born on Main Street, Charlestown. Michael O'Doherty, Archbishop of Manila, was born in Charlestown.\n\nCharlestown is also the hometown of Michael Ryan, Executive Director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme which is tasked with the international containment and treatment of COVID-19.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025409", "title": "Bristol (solitaire)", "text": "Bristol (solitaire)\n\nBristol is a Patience game using a deck of 52 playing cards. It has an unusual feature of building regardless of suit on both the foundations and on the tableau; it is also one of the easiest to win.\n\nEight piles (or fans) of three cards each are dealt onto the tableau. Any king that is not on the bottom of its pile is placed underneath. Then three cards are placed under these piles. These form the bases for the three reserve piles.\n\nWhenever an ace becomes available, it becomes a foundation, on which it can be built up regardless of suit up to a King. The same is done on the three other aces.\n\nThe top card of each pile on the tableau and the top card of each reserve pile is available to be built on the foundations and around the tableau. Like the foundations, the piles on the tableau are built down regardless of suit. Only one card can be moved at a time and when a pile becomes empty, it is never filled.\n\nCards in the stock are dealt onto the reserve three at a time, one for each pile. In effect, gaps on the reserve are filled during the deal; therefore, when a reserve pile becomes empty, it is not filled until the next batch of three cards is dealt.\n\nThe game is won when all cards end up in the foundations. Considering that all building is done regardless of suit, the chance of achieving this is very high.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025411", "title": "Garrett Hardin", "text": "Garrett Hardin\n\nGarrett James Hardin (April 21, 1915 – September 14, 2003) was an American ecologist and proponent of eugenics who warned of the dangers of human overpopulation. He is most famous for his exposition of the tragedy of the commons, in a 1968 paper of the same title in \"Science\", which called attention to \"the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment\". He is also known for Hardin's First Law of Human Ecology: \"We can never do merely one thing. Any intrusion into nature has numerous effects, many of which are unpredictable.\" He is listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a white nationalist, whose publications were \"frank in their racism and quasi-fascist ethnonationalism\".\n\nHardin received a B.S. in zoology from the University of Chicago in 1936 and a PhD in microbiology from Stanford University in 1941 where his dissertation research addressed symbiosis among microorganisms. Moving to the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1946, he served there as Professor of Human Ecology from 1963 until his (nominal) retirement in 1978. He was among the first members of the Society for General Systems Research.\n\nA major focus of his career, and one to which he returned repeatedly, was the issue of human overpopulation. This led to writings on controversial subjects such as advocating abortion rights, which earned him criticism from the political right, and advocating strict limits to all immigration, which earned him criticism from the political left. In his essays, he also tackled subjects such as conservation and creationism.\n\nIn 1968, Hardin applied his conceptual model developed in his essay \"The tragedy of the commons\" to human population growth, the use of the Earth's natural resources, and the welfare state. His essay cited an 1833 pamphlet by the English economist William Forster Lloyd which included an example of herders sharing a common parcel of land, which would lead to overgrazing.\n\nHardin blamed the welfare state for allowing the tragedy of the commons; where the state provides for children and supports over-breeding as a fundamental human right, Malthusian catastrophe is inevitable. Hardin stated in his analysis of the tragedy of the commons that \"Freedom in a commons brings ruin to all.\" Environmental historians Joachim Radkau, Alfred Thomas Grove and Oliver Rackham criticized Hardin \"as an American with no notion at all how Commons actually work\".\n\nIn addition, Hardin's pessimistic outlook was subsequently contradicted by Elinor Ostrom's later work on success of co-operative structures like the management of common land, for which she shared the 2009 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Oliver E. Williamson. In contrast to Hardin, they stated neither commons or \"Allmende\" in the generic nor classical meaning are bound to fail; to the contrary \"the wealth of the commons\" has gained renewed interest in the scientific community. Hardin's work was also criticized as historically inaccurate in failing to account for the demographic transition, and for failing to distinguish between common property and open access resources.\n\nDespite the criticisms, the theory has nonetheless been influential.\n\nIn 1993, Garrett Hardin published \"Living Within Limits: Ecology, Economics, and Population Taboos\", which he described at the time as a summation of all his previous works. The book won the 1993 Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science. In the book, he argues that the natural sciences are grounded in the concept of limits (such as the speed of light), while social sciences, such as economics, are grounded in concepts that have no limits (such as the widespread \"infinite-Earth\" economic models). He notes that most of the more notable scientific (as opposed to political) debates concerning ecological economics are between natural scientists, such as Paul R. Ehrlich, and economists, such as Julian Simon, one of Ehrlich's most well known and vocal detractors. A strong theme throughout the book is that economics, as a discipline, can be as much about mythology and ideology as it is about real science.\n\nHardin goes on to label those who reflexively argue for growth as \"growthmaniacs\", and argues against the institutional faith in \"exponential growth\" on a finite planet. Typical of Hardin's writing style, he illustrates exponential growth by way of a Biblical metaphor. Using compound interest, or \"usury\", he starts from the infamous \"thirty pieces of silver\" and, using five percent compounded interest, finds that after around 2,000 years, \"every man, woman, and child would be entitled to only (!) 160,000 earth-masses of gold\". As a consequence, he argues that any economy based on long-term compound interest must eventually fail due to the physical and mathematical impossibility of long-term exponential growth on a finite planet. Hardin writes, \"At this late date millions of people believe in the fertility of money with an ardor seldom accorded to traditional religious doctrines\". He argues that, contrary to some socially-motivated claims, population growth is also exponential growth, therefore even a little would be disastrous anywhere in the world, and that even the richest nations are not immune.\n\nHardin, who suffered from a heart disorder and the aftermath of childhood poliomyelitis, and his wife, Jane, who suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, were members of End-of-Life Choices, formerly known as the Hemlock Society.\n\nBelieving in individuals' choice of when to die, they committed suicide in their Santa Barbara home in September 2003, shortly after their 62nd wedding anniversary. He was 88 and she was 81.\n\nHardin caused controversy for his support of anti-immigrant causes during his lifetime and possible connections to the white nationalist movement. The Southern Poverty Law Center noted that Hardin served on the board of the Federation for American Immigration Reform and Social Contract Press and co-founded the anti-immigration Californians for Population Stabilization and The Environmental Fund, which according to the SPLC \"served to lobby Congress for nativist and isolationist policies\".\n\nIn 1994, he was one of 52 signatories on \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\", an editorial written by Linda Gottfredson and published in the \"Wall Street Journal\", which declared the consensus of the signing scholars on issues related to race and intelligence following the publication of the book \"The Bell Curve\".\n\nHardin's last book \"The Ostrich Factor: Our Population Myopia\" (1999), a warning about the threat of overpopulation to the Earth's sustainable economic future, called for coercive constraints on \"unqualified reproductive rights\" and argued that affirmative action is a form of racism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025413", "title": "Cregganbaun", "text": "Cregganbaun\n\nCregganbaun () is a village in County Mayo, Ireland.\n\nIn 2007 there were reports of a proposal by a company called Mayo's Gold to open a niche tourism gold mine in Cregganbaun, and an interpretative visitor centre in Louisburgh. This re-ignited a 20 years controversy when several mining companies attempted to open commercial quantity gold mines on the side of Croagh Patrick and in the Cregganbaun/Doolough region. The principal idea was to develop a national tourism product around a show mine, producing a small amount of gold and not a commercial mining venture.\n\nCregganbaun National School is now disused and local children travel to modern schools at Killeen or Louisburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025417", "title": "Miroslav Ivanov (writer)", "text": "Miroslav Ivanov (writer)\n\nMiroslav Ivanov (1929 in Jozefov nad Metují – 1999 in Prague) was a popular Czech nonfiction writer. \n\nHis father was executed during Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia. Ivanov studied history and Czech language at the Charles University in Prague. He then worked at the university for seven years. In 1960 he started work as a journalist and then began to publish books. He concentrated on the medieval and modern history of Czech people and published 37 works (1.5 million copies printed). He was also known outside Czechoslovakia. \n\nIn his books he used a very systemic approach of fact gathering and employed modern scientific verification technology: for example he was the first one to test \"Rukopis královédvorský a zelenohorský\" (fake collection of ancient writings) using modern forgery detection methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025420", "title": "Kate Burridge", "text": "Kate Burridge\n\nKathryn \"Kate\" Burridge, FAHA, is a prominent Australian linguist specialising in the Germanic languages. Burridge currently occupies the Chair of Linguistics in the School of Languages, Literatures, Cultures and Linguistics at Monash University.\n\nBurridge's work has mainly focused on Pennsylvania German-speaking communities in Canada, grammatical change in Germanic languages, the nature of euphemism and dysphemism, linguistic taboo, and on English grammatical structure in general. She is currently co-editor of the \"Australian Journal of Linguistics\".\n\nBurridge is a regular presenter of language segments on ABC Radio. She appeared weekly as a panellist on ABC TV's \"Can We Help?\", and has also appeared on \"The Einstein Factor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025421", "title": "Xiong Foxi", "text": "Xiong Foxi\n\nXiong Foxi (; 1900 − 26 October 1965) was an American-educated Chinese playwright famous for his experimental drama in the Ding County, Hebei Province (1932–37). His ambition was creating the peasants' drama of educative value. One of the plays, \"Sleeping on Brushwood and Tasting Gall\" (Woxin changdan) popularized the topic of \"national humiliation\" through the image of Goujian, the Yue king of the Spring and Autumn period. He was the first President of the Shanghai Theatre Academy.\n\nPaul A. Cohen, Speaking to history: the story of King Goujian in twentieth-century China. 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2025424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025424", "title": "Dudley Roe", "text": "Dudley Roe\n\nDudley George Roe (March 23, 1881 – January 4, 1970), a Democrat, was a U.S. Congressman who represented the Maryland's 1st congressional district from 1945 to 1947.\n\nRoe was born in Sudlersville, Maryland, and attended the public schools. He graduated from Washington College of Chestertown, Maryland, in 1903 and from the law department of the University of Maryland, Baltimore in 1905, where he was admitted to the bar in 1905 and commenced practice. He served in the Maryland House of Delegates from 1907 to 1909, and as a member of the Maryland Senate from 1923 to 1935 and from 1939 to 1943, serving as Democratic floor leader from 1939 to 1943. He was also a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1928.\n\nRoe was elected as a Democrat to the Seventy-ninth Congress, serving from January 3, 1945 to January 3, 1947. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1946 to the Eightieth Congress. After Congress, Roe worked as a farmer, banker, and grain dealer in Sudlersville. He served as director and later president of Sudlersville Bank of Maryland, until he resigned in 1967. He continued as chairman of the board of directors of the bank until his death in Chestertown. He is interred in Sudlersville Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "2025427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025427", "title": "Valley, Anglesey", "text": "Valley, Anglesey\n\nValley is a village, community, and former electoral ward near Holyhead on the west coast of Anglesey, North Wales. The population during the 2001 census was 2,413, decreasing to 2,361 at the 2011 census.\n\nIn Welsh it is referred to as either Y Dyffryn (meaning The Valley) or [Y] Fali (pronounced as Valley). Recent research, prompted by local opposition to the name of Y Fali, suggested that Valley may be a corruption of the Irish \"Bally\" (settlement), or \"Baile\" as it is spelled in Irish.\n\nAn alternative history for the name is that it developed when the Stanley Embankment (known by locals as 'The Cob') was built in the 1820s. A depression, or valley, was dug to yield rubble for building the Cob, and the nearby cluster of dwellings became known as Valley by the labourers. Prior to the development of this name, the area was known such names as Glan Môr Tŷ Coch and Glan Môr Castell Llyfaint, according to accounts from the time .\n\nPrior to the 2012 Anglesey electoral boundary changes Valley was an electoral ward to the Isle of Anglesey County Council. It is now part of the larger Llifôn ward, together with Llanfaelog and Llanfair-yn-Neubwll.\n\nThe community includes the village of Llanynghenedl and part of Four Mile Bridge.\n\nRAF Valley is a nearby Royal Air Force station concerned with the training of fast jet pilots. The runways are also used by Anglesey Airport who make commercial flights to Cardiff (and previously the Isle of Man). Valley railway station is on the North Wales Coast Line and its signal box is Grade II listed.\n\nValley has a football club, the senior team, CPD Y Fali, play in the Anglesey league.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025433", "title": "Burrowbridge", "text": "Burrowbridge\n\nBurrowbridge is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the River Parrett and A361 road in the Somerset West and Taunton district, on the edge of the Somerset Levels. It is located south east of Bridgwater, and has a population of 508.\n\nThe name probably comes from the Old English \"buruh\" (fortified hill) and brycg (bridge).\n\nIn the village is Burrow Mump, an ancient earthwork now owned by the National Trust, presented by Major A.C. Barrett in 1946 as a war memorial. Burrow Mump is also known as St Michael's Borough or Tutteyate. It is a natural hill of Triassic sandstone capped by Keuper marl. Excavations showed evidence of a 12th-century masonry building on the top of the hill. The first recorded writing mentioning this site is from William of Worcestre about 1480 when he referred to it as Myghell-borough. A medieval church dedicated to St Michael from at least the mid 15th century formed a sanctuary for royalist troops in 1645. The ruins visible today are from the 18th century.\n\nThe historic area of the Isle of Athelney is located towards the western part of the village.\n\nPrior to 1826, the bridge over the River Parrett, just below the junction with the River Tone, consisted of three arches, each only a little wider than the barges which used the river. They restricted the flow of water in times of flood, and made navigation difficult. The bridge was highlighted in a report made by William Armstrong in 1824, as a factor which would prevent the River Tone Navigation competing with the new Bridgwater and Taunton Canal, then being built. An Act of Parliament was obtained in 1824 by the Turnpike Commissioners, authorising the construction of a new bridge and the removal of the old. A design for a 70-foot (21 m) single-span bridge in cast iron was dropped because of the cost of cast iron at the time, and instead a stone bridge was built and completed in 1826. It is the longest single span masonry road bridge in the county, and was the last toll bridge in Somerset, before being 'freed' in 1946. Just below the bridge there was a shoal of rocks and stones, which was also mentioned in Armstrong's report, but no action was taken to remove it. Except on spring tides, Burrowbridge was the normal upper limit for barges riding the incoming tide. Above here, horses were used to pull the boats, either towards Langport or along the River Tone towards Taunton.\n\nThere are four active pumping stations within the parish: all are now electric, with diesel backup. One more is redundant: the Aller Moor station near the bridge is now incorporated into a private house. The original mid 19th century machinery is listed and preserved in situ. A few miles west is the preserved very early Westonzoyland Pumping Station Museum, which is in steam on regular occasions.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects six MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025436", "title": "Hollymount", "text": "Hollymount\n\nHollymount () is a village on the R331 regional road in County Mayo, Ireland. It lies midway between the towns of Ballinrobe and Claremorris in the plains of south Mayo. It has a post office, a mini-mart, a community centre (Cois Abhainn), a small fuel/petrol station, and various public houses. It also has a Gaelic Athletic Association pitch and health clinic. It has a population of approximately 60 residents.\n\nIt was named after the nearby Hollymount Estate, although the village lies within the townland of Kilush.\n\nRoman Catholic records for Hollymount commenced in 1857. Surviving Church of Ireland records commenced in 1845 and civil records commenced in 1864. Gravestone inscriptions go back to the early 18th century.\n\nHollymount railway station opened on 1 November 1892; it closed for passenger traffic on 1 June 1930; and it finally closed altogether on 1 January 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025438", "title": "Climate ensemble", "text": "Climate ensemble\n\nA climate ensemble involves slightly different models of the climate system. There are at least five different types, to be described below. For the equivalent in numerical weather prediction, see ensemble forecasting.\n\nThe aim of running an ensemble is usually in order to be able to deal with uncertainties in the system. An ultimate aim may be to produce policy relevant information such as a probability distribution function of different outcomes. This is proving to be very difficult due to a number of problems. These include:\n\n\nMulti-model ensembles (MMEs) are widely used in IPCC assessments, and a comprehensive collection of climate models can be accessed in the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project. Members of a multi-model ensemble are developed by different organisations involved in climate change research and can differ substantially in their software design and programming approach, their handling of spatial discretisation and exact formulation of physical, chemical and biological processes. The benefits of using a multi-model ensemble are seen in \"the consistently better performance of the multi-model when considering all aspects of the predictions\" .\n\nPerturbed physics ensembles (PPEs) form the main scientific focus of the ClimatePrediction project. Modern climate models do a good job of simulating many large-scale features of present-day climate. However, these models contain large numbers of adjustable parameters which are known, individually, to have a significant impact on simulated climate. While many of these are well constrained by observations, there are many which are subject to considerable uncertainty. We do not know the extent to which different choices of parameter-settings or schemes may provide equally realistic simulations of 20th century climate but different forecast for the 21st century. The most thorough way to investigate this uncertainty is to run a massive ensemble experiment in which each relevant parameter combination is investigated. A more general approach is coined \"perturbed parameter ensemble\" (also abbreviated as PPE), as apart from physical parameters other parameters, relating to the carbon cycle, atmospheric chemistry, land use etc. can be perturbed.\n\nInitial condition ensembles involve the same model in terms of the same atmospheric physics parameters and forcings, but run from variety of different starting states. Because the climate system is chaotic, tiny changes in things such as temperatures, winds, and humidity in one place can lead to very different paths for the system as a whole. We can work around this by setting off several runs started with slightly different starting conditions, and then look at the evolution of the group as a whole. This is similar to what they do in weather forecasting.\n\nHaving an initial condition ensemble can help to identify natural variability in the system and deal with it.\n\nA model can be subjected to different forcings. These may correspond with different scenarios such as those described in the Special Report on Emissions Scenarios and more recently in the Representative Concentration Pathway.\n\nA grand ensemble is an ensemble of ensembles. There has to be at least two nested ensembles. This is best illustrated in the diagram opposite.\n\nWeather forecasting uses initial condition ensembles.\n\nClimate ensembles were used to project future changes in the occurrence of selected pests of crops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025447", "title": "Cheddon Fitzpaine", "text": "Cheddon Fitzpaine\n\nCheddon Fitzpaine is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the Quantock Hills north of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village is situated near the Bristol and Exeter Railway, the Bridgwater and Taunton Canal, and the River Tone and has a population of 1,929.\n\nFlint and pottery uncovered during archaeological excavations demonstrate late Neolithic to early Bronze-Age and Romano-British settlement sites near Maidenbrook and Nerrols. The name of the village was \"\"Cedenon\"\" probably meaning \"\"wood valley\"\" in 897. After the Norman Conquest it was granted to Roger Arundel and was then passed down through his family. The parish of Cheddon Fitzpaine was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred. In the 16th century the manor was bought by Thomas More of Taunton Priory.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nGadds Valley is an area of open grassland and woodland, which has been designated as a local nature reserve.\n\nPyrland Hall was built as a country house around 1760 for Sir William Yea and later became a boys preparatory school.\n\nThe nearby Hestercombe House and Gardens includes gardens designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens. Its restoration to Gertrude Jekyll's original plans (1904–07) have made it \"one of the best Jekyll-Lutyens gardens open to the public on a regular basis\", visited by approximately 70,000 people per year. The estate is Grade I listed on the English Heritage Register of Parks and Gardens of Special Historic Interest in England. The site also includes a 0.08 hectare biological Site of Special Scientific Interest as it is used as a roost site by Lesser Horseshoe Bats and has been designated as a Special Area of Conservation (SAC). The house was used as the headquarters of the British 8th Corps in the Second World War, and has been owned by Somerset County Council since 1951. It is used as an administrative centre and is the current base for the Somerset Fire and Rescue Service control room.\n\nThe Anglican parish Church of St Mary has a 13th-century tower and 15th century nave. The Old Rectory near the church was built around 1861, possibly by Edward Jeboult and later turned into 3 dwellings.\n"}
{"id": "2025452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025452", "title": "David Jenkins Ward", "text": "David Jenkins Ward\n\nDavid Jenkins Ward (September 17, 1871 – February 18, 1961), a Democrat, was a U.S. Congressman.\n\nWard was born in Salisbury, Maryland, and attended the public schools. He served as a farmer, lumberjack, merchant, and in the real estate business. Ward served as a member of the Maryland House of Delegates from 1915 to 1917, and as chair of the Democratic state central committee of Wicomico County from 1918 to 1926. He served as a member of the Maryland Senate from 1926 to 1934 and 1938 to 1939.\n\nWard was elected in a special election to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of T. Alan Goldsborough, and represented the 1st Congressional district of Maryland from June 8, 1939 to January 3, 1945. He was an unsuccessful candidate for renomination in 1944. He died in Salisbury, and is interred in Parsons Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "2025457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025457", "title": "David Ward", "text": "David Ward\n\nDavid Ward may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025461", "title": "Keel, County Mayo", "text": "Keel, County Mayo\n\nKeel () is a village on Achill Island in County Mayo, Ireland.\n\nKeel is located on the R319 regional road. Bus Éireann route 440 (Dooagh-Westport-Ireland West Airport Knock passes through Keel once a day in each direction on weekdays. \"Expressway\" route 52 provides an evening journey each way to/from Westport and Galway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025471", "title": "Kilkelly", "text": "Kilkelly\n\nKilkelly () is a village in Kilmovee parish County Mayo, Ireland. It is just south of Ireland West Airport Knock on the N17, a national primary road running between Galway and Sligo.\n\nKilkelly is a small village, notable due to the song \"Kilkelly, Ireland\", written by American songwriter Peter Jones. In the late 1970s or early 1980s, Jones discovered a collection of century-old letters sent to his Irish emigrant ancestor in America from that ancestor's father in Kilkelly. Jones wrote a ballad based on the contents of those letters, conveying the experience of his own family as well as others who were separated permanently by emigration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025476", "title": "Kilmaine", "text": "Kilmaine\n\nKilmaine or Kilmain () is a barony and village in County Mayo, Ireland.\n\n\"Kilmaine\", derived from the Irish language 'Cill Mheán', means The Middle Church – 'Cill' is the word used in the Irish language for a church, and 'meán' is the Irish word for middle. The village is located on the N84 road between Shrule and Ballinrobe. The hinterland is entirely rural, made up of farms and scattered houses. The nearest town is Ballinrobe, and the closest city is Galway, roughly 40 kilometers (24 miles) away.\n\nThe village of Kilmaine had a population of 147 at the 2016 Census. The village has a post office, a petrol station, two shops four pubs, a church, school, a Garda (police) station. It also has a Gaelic Athletic Association pitch.\n\nThe village lies on the N84 road that links Galway to Castlebar (Irish: \"Caisleán an Bharraigh)\" . A bus service that runs four days a week between Galway and Ballina passes through Kilmaine and also travels through Castlebar.\n\nThe local Gaelic Athletic Association club, Kilmaine GAA, was founded on 9 March 1937. The first competitive game ever played by a Kilmaine team was against Castlegar (Claremorris), in Curran's field. A local boxing club sometimes runs in the community centre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025477", "title": "Beer in Brazil", "text": "Beer in Brazil\n\nBrazil is the world's third largest beer market with total volume at 139 million hectoliters, and per capita consumption 61 liters in 2016.\n\nThe tradition of brewing in Brazil dates back to German immigration in the early nineteenth century. The first breweries date from the 1830s, the brand Bohemia is claimed to be the first Brazilian beer, with production starting in 1853 in the city of Petrópolis, Rio de Janeiro and is the oldest Brazilian beer which is still under production (now owned by Anheuser–Busch InBev). Naturally, many breweries appeared and disappeared in that period like Ritter from Rio Grande do Sul and Imperial \"Fábrica de Cerveja Nacional\" from Rio de Janeiro. Two important brands, Antarctica and Brahma, started production in the 1880s.\n\nBrazil is the world's third largest beer market, behind China and the US, with beer volumes in 2015 pegged at 139 million hectoliters. Per capita consumption has declined, dropping from 67 liters in 2012 to around 61 liters in 2016. Despite the weak performance in recent years, outlooks expect per head consumption to increase slightly out to 2021. The on-trade channel accounted for 60% of sales in 2016. As is the case with the market's overall volumes, and per capita consumption, on-trade sales have been adversely impacted by an unfavorable economic situation.\n\nStandard Lager beers are the most popular in Brazil (98% of the market share), with only a limited choice of beers from other categories.\n\nThe majority of the market belongs to AmBev, the owner of the \"Brahma\", \"Antarctica\", \"Bohemia\" and \"Skol\" brands. Brazil's largest brewer was formed in 1999 from the merger of the two biggest brands, Brahma and Antarctica. In 2004, Ambev merged with Belgium's Interbrew (Stella Artois, Becks, Staropramen and many others) to form the world's largest brewer, now known as InBev. After the merger, Grupo Schincariol became the largest Brazilian-owned brewery in the country. In 2011, the company became a subsidiary of Japanese beverage company Kirin Brewery Company, and subsequently changed its name to Brasil Kirin. In 2017 Kirin sold this business to Heineken NV for a transaction value of US$1.1 billion.\n\nIn 2002, Molson Coors bought Brazil's second largest brewery Kaiser. In 2006, the Mexican FEMSA Cerveza acquired 68% of Kaiser Brewery from Molson Coors. Molson Coors still holds 15% of Kaiser brewery shares, and Heineken holds the remaining 17%. In 2006, FEMSA Cerveza released the Mexican brand Sol in the Brazilian market to compete to the biggest Inbev brands with poor results. In 2010, Heineken bought all FEMSA's brewery including the Brazilian unit.\n\nCompany market share in 2009:\nAmbev (Inbev) (70%),\nGrupo Schincariol (11,6%), \nPetrópolis brewery (9,8%),\nHeineken (6,9%),\nothers (1,73%).\n\nBrand market share in 2005:\nSkol (32,6%),\nBrahma (20,4%),\nAntarctica (13,6%),\nNova Schin (10,2%),\nKaiser (8,9%).\n\nThere are a number of microbreweries in Brazil, the emergence of which are a relatively recent phenomenon. Some of the better renowned microbreweries include;\n\nCuritiba and Blumenau are cities with several breweries:\nCuritiba: WayBeer, BodeBrown, Wensky Beer, Klein Bier, GaudenBier, Cervejas Pagan, Bierhoff, Morada and Asgard.\nBlumenau: Eisenbahn (Schincariol brand), Bierland and some soft American lager breweries.\n\nBelo Horizonte is also becoming a major microbrewering pole in the country, with several recognized brands such as Backer, Wals and many others.\n\nOver the past decade Brazilian drinkers are enjoying more imported beer. Leading supply destinations include but are not limited to: Mexico, The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, and Uruguay. These imports are a lot more expensive than locally brewed beers. However, there are a growing number of bars and beer shops dedicating themselves to selling a large range of craft and imported beer.\n\nSome international brands are actually produced in Brazil, such as Stella Artois and Heineken, but all are dedicated to the premium market with very small market share.\n\nBeer is the most competitive sector of the alcoholic drinks market in Brazil, and the big global beer companies like InBev and FEMSA compete strongly for market share.\n\nIn the Brazilian Carnival period there is an explosion in beer consumption. In these 4 days, 400 million liters (or around 4% of the yearly production) are consumed. In November with the approach of summer, the manufacture and investment in marketing triples. International tourists find that domestic and local beers are much less expensive than imported brands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025485", "title": "Kiltimagh", "text": "Kiltimagh\n\nKiltimagh () is a town in County Mayo in Ireland. As of the 2016 census, the town had a population of 1,069 people. Although there in no river going through the town, three rivers flow around the town: the Glore River, Yellow River and Pollagh River. The town center sits at the crest of a hill surrounding The High Fort (Mooney's Fort/Lios Ard) in Fortlands and built out linearly on the main road from there.\n\nThe town's name, in the Irish language, was originally \"Coillte Maghach\" (the woods of Maghach), based on a reputed association with a chieftain of the Fir Bolg named Maghach. Over the years this then became what it is today, Kiltimagh ().\n\nKiltimagh is part of the barony of Gallen.\n\nSlieve Carn(Irish: \"Sliabh Cairn\") is a hill which stands at 262m just outside the town. The hill is mentioned in the Statistical Survey Of Mayo (1802) as having coal, and there is also evidence in places of iron deposits.\n\nA cliff that runs through the hill that has been measured to be 100 meters deep by local farmers. A tributary of the Pollagh River starts at the top of the hill as drainage from the bog and runs through the cliff, leaving three waterfalls.\n\nKiltimagh railway station opened on 1 October 1895, and finally closed on 17 June 1963. The station currently operates as the Kiltimagh Museum and sculpture park, with displays of local history and culture. It has been proposed to reopen the station as part of the Western Railway Corridor.\n\nAmong the sporting teams based in Kiltimagh, Kiltimagh GAA (in Irish \"CLG Coillte Mach\") is a Gaelic football club located in Kiltimagh who play at Gilmartin Park.\n\nKiltimagh Knock United FC play in the Mayo Super League and have their home ground is CMS Park in Cloonlee.\n\nMayo Volleyball Club were Volleyball Ireland's Division Two champions in 2017, and play their home games at Saint Louis Community School.\n\nKiltimagh Handball Club is a handball club in the town. Kiltimagh Giants Basketball Club is a local basketball club which was established in 2002.\n\nLocal festivals include the annual Kiltimagh Choral Festival (held in February), the week-long Saint Patrick's Festival and parade (held in March), and \"Féile Oíche Shamhna Coillte Mach\" (a Halloween festival which includes a 'spooky walk' at the sculpture park in Kiltimagh).\n\nOther events include the Coillte Home Come Festival, which was restarted in 2016, and is based on an earlier 1960s festival. Its aim is to bring back Kiltimagh's diaspora on an annual basis and includes a fair at the festival field, entertainment at the Big Red Barn and other activities in the main street. Race2Glory is a multi-activity adventure race (running, cycling and a river run) which is held during the Coillte Come Home Festival.\n\nThere are two local Catholic primary schools, Saint Aidan's National School in Thomas Street and Craggagh National School is 4 km outside the town on the R324 road. The local secondary school is Saint Louis Community School, formerly a Catholic convent school and secondary school.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" suggests that the word \"culchie\", a mildly derogatory term for a country person or one not from Dublin city, may be an \"alteration of Kiltimagh, Irish Coillte Mach (older Mághach), the name of a country town in Co. Mayo\". Other sources suggest that \"culchie\" is derived from the Irish word \"coillte\", the Irish word for \"woods\" or \"forests\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025488", "title": "Formula Mazda", "text": "Formula Mazda\n\nFormula Mazda is a class of relatively affordable open wheel formula racing.\n\nFormula Mazda has its own class in SCCA club racing, and there is a North American professional series called the Indy Pro 2000 Championship (formerly the Pro Mazda Championship) that is part of IndyCar's Road to Indy ladder system. The cars are very popular; seeing a field of 40 or more cars at a race is quite common. Many drivers aspiring to the top classes of racing use the pro series to hone and demonstrate their talent. In 2006, the 2004 Formula Mazda champion, Michael McDowell, drove in the American Champ Car series, and Scott Speed, won in Formula Mazda in 2002.\n\nIn terms of both cost and performance, Formula Mazda lies between Formula Ford and Formula Atlantic, that is, close to a Formula Three and a Formula Renault 2.0. A full season in the professional Star Mazda series costs around US$200,000 – US$300,000 in 2005.\n\nThe series originally grew out of five chassis built by Hayashi in Japan for the Jim Russell Racing Drivers School in California, USA. Unfortunately these cars arrived with defects in the engine bays and gear boxes installed incorrectly. Twenty-five cars were built by Marc Bahner, Bahner Engineering, Calif., for the 1984 Long Beach Grand Prix, where the cars made their US debut. The majority of these cars were purchased by owner/operators. The original five chassis remained with the Russell School. The cars have a basic welded steel tube frame chassis, with in-board front shocks operated by upper rocker arms. A 180 hp carbureted Mazda rotary engine drives through a 5 speed H-pattern (H-gate) Hewland Mk 9 transaxle. Rear suspension is by two trailing links, an upper link and a lower a-arm. In the interest of creating close racing and limiting cost, the rules state that no modification is allowed until the rules expressly permit it—at one time even replacing the mirrors on the car was prohibited. The engines cannot be modified, and they are sealed to make it easy to detect cheating. The cars all use the same tires, springs, dampers, and adjustable anti-roll bars.\n\nIn September 2009, Moses Smith Racing, LLC. (MSR), headquartered at the time in Tempe, AZ, took over all support and manufacturing rights for the approximately 300 Formula Mazda rotary-powered race cars currently in use across North America, as well as the MSR sports racer, a full-bodied version of the FM. MSR has since moved to a new location at Motorsport Ranch (a country club style race track facility) in Cresson, TX. Moses Smith also owns and operates Texas Autosports, a full service Formula Mazda Racecar prep shop located at Motorsport Ranch in Cresson, TX. It is essentially the one-stop shop for Formula Mazda Racing. Moses Smith Racing, the manufacturer of the Formula Mazda, as well as Texas Autosports, both owned by Moses Smith are operating out of an 8000+ square foot facility at what is affectionately dubbed 'The Ranch'.\n\nIn 2004, a completely new car was introduced for the Pro series. It features a carbon fiber chassis, 6 speed sequential gearbox, and a sealed 250 hp fuel-injected Renesis engine very similar to the one in the Mazda RX-8. The MoTeC ECU uses input from the gearshift to enable upshifting while the driver holds the throttle wide open. The ECU also provides traction control which the driver can turn off from inside the car. The rules allow a choice among five different spring rates at each corner, and the new Öhlins dampers offer separate bump and rebound adjustments. The driver can adjust the front anti-roll bar from the cockpit.\n\nThe new car is substantially faster than the older car, usually lapping about 3 seconds faster per mile of track, but the original car remains legal for SCCA club racing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025490", "title": "UWF Tag Team Championship", "text": "UWF Tag Team Championship\n\nThe UWF Tag Team Championship was the tag team title in the Universal Wrestling Federation from 1986 until the promotion closed in 1987. It was formerly known as the Mid-South Tag Team Championship from 1979 until 1986 when Mid-South Wrestling became the UWF.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025491", "title": "Mayo, County Mayo", "text": "Mayo, County Mayo\n\nMayo or Mayo Abbey () is a village in County Mayo, Ireland. Although it bears the same name as the county, it is not the county seat, which is Castlebar. Mayo Abbey is a small historic village in south Mayo approximately 16 km to the south of Castlebar and 10 km north west of Claremorris.\n\nThe village was an important centre in the Gaelic and Anglo-Saxon Christian world in the seventh and eighth centuries. St. Colmán, Bishop of Lindisfarne, founded a monastery here for a group of Saxon monks, called the School of Mayo. Saint Gerald became its first abbot in 670. Danish raiders attacked the monastery in 783 and again in 805. Finally Turgesius completely destroyed it in 818 \nThe village was the centre of the diocese of Mayo from 1152. It was suppressed in the thirteenth century. Bishops were appointed, however, as late as\nthe sixteenth century. One of its bishops, Patrick O'Hely, who died in 1589, is numbered among the Irish martyr saints. The diocese was formally joined to Tuam by papal decree in 1631.\n\nThe BBC four-part documentary \"Amongst Women\" was filmed in Mayo Abbey using the Old Catholic Church, the graveyard and the post office/shop.\n\nMayo Gaels is the local Gaelic football team. They compete at all underage levels as well as senior and junior football.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025504", "title": "Shrule", "text": "Shrule\n\nShrule (, also anglicised to \"Shruel\", usage deprecated) is a village on the N84 road in County Mayo in Ireland. The county boundary between Mayo and County Galway follows the course of the Black River on the south side of the village.\n\nThe ruin of Shrule Castle, a fortification built by the Norman de Burgo family, dominates the view of the village as approached from the Galway side. The ruin is unsafe and closed to the public.\n\nConnacht in the 1570's was divided between English control and Irish clans and families. The two branches of the Burke family, the MacWillams of Mayo and the Clanricardes of Galway, held a lot of territory and influence. The two branches fought with each other and with neighbouring clans, leading to the Elizabethian Lord Deputy of Ireland Henry Sidney to appoint a new Lord President to the province, Edward Fitton, to regain control. After breaking out from a siege in Galway, he besieged Shrule Castle with the support of Richard Burke, Earl of Clanricarde.\n\nOn the 21st of June, the MacWilliam Burkes and their allies provoked a set-piece battle against the besieging forces. Fitton was dug in around the castle, and the MacWillams lined up their infantry and dismounted cavalry uphill from the defences. Fitton refused to budge from behind the siegeworks, so the enemy decided to attack. They pushed through the cannon and musket fire, hitting the besiegers with momentum. The besiegers broke and started to run for their camp a few miles away. The MacWilliam infantry followed closely to push their advantage, but this allowed Fitton and his cavalry to get behind them and attack the usually exposed rear. However, the MacWilliams held their shape in the face of this onslaught, until their own cavalry could pour in. A very tough fight broke out.\n\nFitton was badly injured in the face, and his troop's ammunition was beginning to give out. He was rescued when the MacWilliams disengaged and marched northwards from the field in formation. The battle was inconclusive, the Mac Williams caused more casualties but did not remain in place to benefit strategically. Fitton could later take Shrule castle and slaughter the defending garrison.\n\nThe castle afterwards passed into the possession of William Burke of the Clanricharde Burkes.\n\nOn 18 February 1642, during the Confederate War that followed the 1641 uprising, a number of English settlers, including a Dr. John Maxwell, the Protestant bishop of Killala, surrendered to Irish authorities at Castlebar, in the hope of saving their lives.\n\nAfter staying at Shrule Castle in the company of Miles Bourke, 2nd Viscount Mayo, Sheriff of County Mayo, for more than a week, the group was given an escort with orders to take them 14 miles toward the border of County Mayo and County Galway, where other forces would assume the escort duty and take them on to the Galway fort. After provisioning the Maxwell family with horses, Lord Mayo set out for Cong. Mayo handed over his prisoners at Shrule, on the border, as his authority only existed in County Mayo. Edmond Bourke, an Irish soldier who led the escort duty, and a cousin of Lord Mayo, then directed his men to begin killing their settler charges. Estimates of the dead ranged from less than 30 to as many as 65. Survivors were taken to Headford by monks from Ross Errilly. Though Mayo's son Theobald (later 3rd viscount Mayo) tried to save some prisoners, and had to be driven away, he was executed in 1653 by an English Cromwellian inquiry for complicity in the killings that was held after the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland. \nSaint Joseph's Church in Shrule is a Roman Catholic church in the Diocese of Galway, Kilmacduagh and Kilfenora.\n\nThe village has one primary school, and no second level school. Second level students usually attend Presentation College Headford which is seven kilometres away in Headford.\n\n\nThe Mortimer brothers Conor, Trevor and Kenneth have all appeared for the Mayo County Senior Football team. Conor Mortimer was named on the team of the year and was chosen as an All Star in 2006. Kenneth received All Stars in 1996 and 1997. Trevor was named as team captain for the 2009 and 2010 seasons. Christopher O'Dowd, a native of Shrule, was an original member of the Special Air Service British regiment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025509", "title": "Strade", "text": "Strade\n\nStraide (), or Strade, is a village in County Mayo, Ireland. It is located on the N58 national secondary road between Foxford and Castlebar. The name Strade is an anglicisation of the Irish words \"an tsráid\", meaning \"the street\".\n\nStraide Abbey has some interesting carved reliefs on its ruined walls.\n\nGeorge Moore (1727-1799), who founded the famous Moore Hall estate at Lough Carra, came from Ashbrook House near Strade.\n\nA museum in the village records the story of Michael Davitt who was born in Strade, and how he and Charles Stewart Parnell formed the Land League at the end of the nineteenth century to abolish landlordism in Ireland and enable tenant farmers to own the land on which they worked.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025511", "title": "Gladys Spellman", "text": "Gladys Spellman\n\nGladys Noon Spellman (March 1, 1918 – June 19, 1988) was a U.S. Congresswoman who represented the 5th congressional district of Maryland from January 3, 1975, to February 24, 1981. She was a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nSpellman was born Gladys Blossom Noon in New York City and attended Eastern and Roosevelt high schools in Washington, D.C. She graduated from George Washington University, Washington, D.C., and graduate school with the United States Department of Agriculture. Spellman became a teacher, and taught in Prince George's County, Maryland, schools. A consummate politician, Spellman was part of the wave of young, new suburban dwellers who moved to Prince George's County from Washington and elsewhere in the years after World War II, and that group remained her constituency throughout her political career.\n\nSpellman's years as a teacher and president of the PTA for Happy Acres Elementary School (renamed in 1991 the Gladys Noon Spellman Elementary School), as well as civic association activism as a young mother and housewife in Cheverly during the 1950s led to leadership positions in the reform movement that seized control of the county's government during the 1960s, ousting the old guard Democratic organization that had managed affairs in Prince George's for decades. Spellman was active in the fight for a home rule charter form of government for Prince George's, and in 1962, running on a reform slate, served as a member of the Prince George's County Board of Commissioners from 1962 to 1970. She served two years as chairman, effectively the head of the county's government. After the establishment of the County Council, Spellman served as councilwoman at large from 1971 to 1974. She was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in 1967 and was awarded the highest honor that could be bestowed by county officials nationwide when she became the first woman elected president of the National Association of Counties in 1972.\n\nSpellman easily won the Democratic primary nomination in September 1974 for Maryland's fifth congressional seat, and went on to defeat the Republican, John B. Burcham, Jr., in the general election. While in Congress, she served on the Committee on Banking, Currency and Housing, the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, and the Committee on Post Office and Civil Service (including serving as chairperson of the Subcommittee on Compensation and Employee Benefits). Almost 40 percent of the work force in her district was employed by the federal government – the highest percentage of any congressional district in the nation.\n\nIn 1977, Spellman favored legislation to establish a bank to make loans to cooperatives owned by consumers as well as legislation to extend the federal revenue-sharing program. She also voted for the 1975 proposal authorizing $7 billion to loan guarantees for the financially troubled New York City. Spellman also resisted placing restrictions on hiring or promotion of federal employees and opposed Jimmy Carter's plan to reform the civil service system in 1978.\n\nIn 1979, the Supersisters trading card set was produced and distributed; one of the cards featured Spellman's name and picture.\n\nOn October 31, 1980, Spellman was judging a Halloween costume contest at the Laurel Mall when she collapsed after suffering an incapacitating heart attack. She was re-elected to Congress with 80% of the vote against a little-known Republican opponent on November 4, 1980, but it soon became clear that she would be comatose for the remaining years of her life.\n\nIn the first weeks of the 97th Congress, the House passed a resolution providing for Spellman's pay as if she had been seated, and for her Congressional office to be supported as if a member of Congress had died or resigned. When it became clear she was permanently incapacitated and unlikely to recover, the House passed an act declaring the 5th District seat vacant. As a result, Spellman's pay and administrative support was scheduled to be terminated upon the election of someone to her seat. It is the only time that medical reasons have resulted in the House of Representatives declaring a seat vacant. Thirty-two candidates from both parties entered the race, including her husband, Reuben. He was defeated for the Democratic nomination by Steny Hoyer, who won the special election on May 19 against the Republican nominee, Bowie mayor Audrey Scott. Hoyer has continued to be re-elected since then, and eventually became House Majority Leader.\n\nIn 1985, Spellman was an inductee to the Maryland Women's Hall of Fame, part of its inaugural class. The Baltimore–Washington Parkway, a scenic north–south highway in Maryland, is dedicated to Spellman, as is Gladys Noon Spellman Elementary School, located in Cheverly, Maryland.\n\nSpellman never regained consciousness and died in a Maryland nursing home on June 19, 1988, after nearly 8 years in a coma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025512", "title": "Cara Mia", "text": "Cara Mia\n\n\"Cara Mia\" is a popular song published in 1954 that became a UK number 1 and US number 10 hit and Gold record for English singer David Whitfield in 1954 and a #4 hit for the American rock group Jay and the Americans in 1965. Jay & The Americans' version went into the charts in the Netherlands when it was re-released in 1980. The title means \"my beloved\" in Italian. \n\nThe English singer David Whitfield first recorded the song with the Mantovani Orchestra in 1954. This recording made the charts in the United States, and in the UK it was the first record to spend ten consecutive weeks at No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart. Whitfield's version was one of the biggest selling British records in the pre-rock days. It sold more than three and a half million copies worldwide and was a Top 10 hit in America.\n\nAuthorship of the song was credited to Tulio Trapani (the nom de plume of the song's co-writer and arranger Mantovani) and Lee Lange (Bunny Lewis, Whitfield's producer).\n\n"}
{"id": "2025517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025517", "title": "Electoral division of Sanderson", "text": "Electoral division of Sanderson\n\nSanderson is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was first created in 1974, and derives its name from the name initially given to the area in 1879, before its division into suburbs. Sanderson is an urban electorate, covering 5.51 km² and taking in the Darwin suburbs of Anula, Marrara, Wulagi and part of Malak. There were 5,546 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2016.\n\nSanderson is a bellwether seat that has only tended to change hands at times of major political change in the Territory. It was initially won by the Country Liberal Party's Liz Andrew in 1974, when the CLP won all but two seats in the Assembly (both of which went to independents). However, Andrew was defeated by the Labor Party's June D'Rozario when the ALP swept into the Assembly in 1977, taking several seats. D'Rozario held the seat until 1983, she was swept by the CLP's Daryl Manzie amid the massive CLP landslide of that year. Manzie was a popular incumbent, and held the seat relatively easily until his retirement in 2001.\n\nSanderson then reverted to the ALP in 2001, when Len Kiely was swept into office amid Labor's sweep of north Darwin. The seat was targeted by the CLP at the 2005 election as one they hoped to win back, but Kiely had little difficulty winning a second term amidst a massive territory-wide swing to the ALP. He was defeated in 2008 by Peter Styles, who became only the second opposition MP in the seat's history. Styles retained the seat in 2012 amid the CLP victory of that year, despite a small swing to the ALP. In the 2016 election, Styles was heavily defeated by Labor's Kate Worden on a swing of over 13 percent amid the CLP's collapse in Darwin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025518", "title": "Electoral division of Millner", "text": "Electoral division of Millner\n\nMillner was an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. One of the Legislative Assembly's original electorates, it was first contested at the first election in 1974. It was named after the suburb of Millner, which in turn was named for James Millner, a doctor and early Australian explorer of the Northern Territory who drowned on the \"SS Gothenburg\" tragedy. It was abolished in 2008 and replaced with the new electorate of Fong Lim. Millner was an urban electorate, and at its abolition covered 22.74 km², taking in the suburbs of Millner, Coconut Grove, Ludmilla and part of Rapid Creek. There were 4434 people enrolled in the electorate as of June 2005.\n\nMillner was generally a Labor Party-held electorate, though it saw more members than almost anywhere else in the Territory. It was initially won by the Country Liberal Party in 1974, when they dominated the first Assembly, but emerged as an important seat for the ALP after 1977, when Jon Isaacs and Terry Smith held the seat, both of whom served stints as Opposition Leader. Ken Parish briefly held the seat after Smith's retirement, but was defeated by the CLP's Phil Mitchell in 1994, in a result tarred by claims of push-polling over native title issues.\n\nMitchell held the seat for two terms, but was defeated in the closest and most crucial battle of the 2001 election by ALP challenger Matthew Bonson. Despite a massive and unexpected Labor wave that swept through Darwin—particularly the more diverse and Labor-friendly northern portion—the result in Millner was not known for several days. Due to the close general result, Millner would have the effect of deciding whether there would be a hung parliament, with independents holding the balance of power, or whether the ALP would win government for the first time in Northern Territory history. In the end, Bonson won a very narrow victory, allowing Labor to sweep northern Darwin and form government by one seat. He was easily re-elected with a much larger majority four years later.\n\nMillner was abolished in the electoral distribution that preceded the 2008 election. While Millner itself was shifted to the neighbouring seat of Johnston, the remainder of Millner's territory was merged with more conservative-leaning territory near Palmerston to form the new seat of Fong Lim. Bonson contested Fong Lim in the 2008 election, as it was still on paper a comfortably safe Labor seat. However, he was defeated by former federal MP Dave Tollner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025519", "title": "Electoral division of Nhulunbuy", "text": "Electoral division of Nhulunbuy\n\nNhulunbuy is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was first created in 1974, and is named after the remote town of the same name. Nhulunbuy is a rural electorate on the Territory's northeast coast, covering 113,600 km² and taking in the towns of Nhulunbuy, Galiwinku, Yirrkala and Gapuwiyak. There were 5,895 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2016.\n\nNhulunbuy has traditionally been a safe seat for the Labor Party, which held the seat without a break from 1980 to 2016. Labor's dominance in the seat is mostly on the strength of strong support among indigenous voters; more than 50% of the electorate's population being indigenous. The only exception to the ALP's dominance was Milton Ballantyne, who won the seat for the Country Liberal Party in 1974 when the ALP won no seats in the Assembly. Ballantyne managed to hold on despite a strong swing to the ALP in 1977, before being easily beaten by the ALP's Dan Leo in 1980. Leo retired in 1990 and handed the seat to Syd Stirling, who went on to become deputy leader of Territory Labor, and as such became Deputy Chief Minister under Clare Martin from 2001 to 2008. Stirling stood down in 2008 and was succeeded by Lynne Walker, who became deputy opposition leader in 2015.\n\nWith Labor being an unbackable favourite to win the 2016 Territory election, Walker appeared well on her way to becoming Deputy Chief Minister. Even without Labor being heavily favoured to win government, there was virtually no hint that Walker was in any danger in her own seat, which she held with a seemingly insurmountable 13.7 percent majority. However, in a shock result, even as Labor swept to a landslide victory, Walker was defeated by independent and indigenous activist Yingiya Mark Guyula by just eight votes, making the seat Labor's only loss in the election.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025521", "title": "Electoral division of Barkly", "text": "Electoral division of Barkly\n\nBarkly is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was first created in 1974, and is named after the Barkly Tableland area, which occupies much of the electorate. Barkly is a rural electorate, covering 448,576 km² and taking in the towns of Tennant Creek, Borroloola, Ali Curung, Warrego, Tara Aboriginal Community and Alpururulam. There were 5,137 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2012.\n\nBarkly was created along with the creation of the Assembly in 1974 as a conservative-leaning marginal seat centred on the town of Tennant Creek. It was won at that election by Country Liberal Party candidate Ian Tuxworth, who later became a high-profile Cabinet minister and served as Chief Minister from 1984 to 1986. Tuxworth was comfortably re-elected as a CLP member in 1977, 1980 and 1983, but faced an extremely close race in 1987 after he quit the CLP in order to head the rival conservative NT Nationals party. He won a narrow victory over Labor Party candidate Maggie Hickey, but saw the win overturned by the Court of Disputed Returns upon a legal challenge from Hickey before again winning the resulting by-election. A redistribution ahead of the 1990 election made Barkly a notionally Labor seat, and Tuxworth mounted an ultimately unsuccessful bid for Goyder instead. Hickey was comfortably elected in Tuxworth's absence, and went on to serve as Opposition Leader from 1996 to 1999, before retiring due to ill health in 2001. Labor candidate Elliot McAdam was comfortably elected at the 2001 election before going on to serve as a minister in the Martin and Henderson Labor governments. He retired at the 2008 election, in which Labor's Gerry McCarthy was elected as his successor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025525", "title": "Estadio Banorte", "text": "Estadio Banorte\n\nEstadio Banorte is a stadium with a capacity of 21,000 seats. Is home of the team Dorados de Sinaloa. The stadium was inaugurated on August 9, 2003 in a match played between Dorados de Sinaloa and Cobras de Ciudad Juárez. The final score was Dorados 4-2 Cobras. The first goal scored in this stage was the work of Hector Giménez. The building has a capacity for 20,108 fans, the same that is constructed in 2003 in record time of just three months.\n\n2007 CONCACAF U20 Tournament, Primera División A, Primera División, Concerts\n\n"}
{"id": "2025527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025527", "title": "The Little Sister", "text": "The Little Sister\n\nThe Little Sister is a 1949 novel by Raymond Chandler, his fifth featuring the private investigator Philip Marlowe. The story is set in Los Angeles in the late 1940s. The novel centres on the younger sister of a Hollywood starlet and has several scenes involving the film industry. It was partly inspired by Chandler's experience working as a screenwriter in Hollywood and his low opinion of the industry and most of the people in it. The book was first published in the UK in June 1949 and was released in the United States three months later.\n\nMousy Orfamay Quest from Manhattan, Kansas asks Philip Marlowe to search for her older brother Orrin, who had recently come out to work in nearby Bay City (a fictional town modelled on Santa Monica). Marlowe starts with Orrin's last known address, a seedy apartment building. The superintendent there has passed out in a drunken stupor and when awoken tries to call a Dr. Lagardie before passing out again. Marlowe then finds a man who claims to be a retired optometrist living in Orrin's old room. As Marlowe leaves the building, he finds the superintendent is dead, having been stabbed in the neck with an ice pick. Marlowe phones the Bay City police to report the murder, but doesn't leave his name.\n\nWhen Marlowe returns to his office, he gets a call from an anonymous man who offers him an easy $100 to hold something. As he enters the man's room at the Van Nuys Hotel, a blonde emerges from the bathroom with a towel covering her face. She strikes Marlowe with one of her high heels, knocking him out. When he comes to, he finds the \"retired optometrist\" dead, also with an ice pick in his neck, and the room in disarray from a search. Marlowe remembers that the optometrist wears a toupée and finds a camera shop claim check hidden there. When he notifies the Los Angeles police of the murder, they recognise the victim as a minor player in organised crime. \n\nBased on a tip from the hotel detective, Marlowe comes to realise that the woman in the hotel room was Mavis Weld, a rising movie star. He goes to her apartment, where he meets Dolores Gonzales, another minor star. He trades innuendos with Dolores and offers to help Weld, but she throws him out. After using the claim check to retrieve a set of photos of Weld and a reputed gangster named Steelgrave, Marlowe visits her agent and makes him understand that, far from trying to blackmail the star, he may be able to help her.\n\nThrough his investigations, Marlowe learns that the photos of Weld were taken by Orrin, Orfamay's missing brother. He also finds out that Orrin is now working with a shady doctor named Lagardie, who practices in Bay City. Marlowe confronts Lagardie, but as they talk Marlowe is knocked unconscious by a drugged cigarette. When he comes to, he finds Orrin trying to get into the room. Orrin has been shot and, with his last ounce of strength, tries to stab Marlowe with an ice pick. This confirms Marlowe's suspicion that Orrin committed the other murders.\n\nMarlowe knows that he must call the police, but first he tries to contact Orfamay to tell her of her brother’s death. She tells him that she had been following him, had found her brother and called the police after Marlowe left. Marlowe is now summoned to the station, where the police are rough with him, but he stands firm and, after an interview with the District attorney, is released to \"straighten things out\" himself. \n\nDolores Gonzales calls Marlowe to say he must come to Steelgrave's home in the Hollywood Hills immediately, hinting that Mavis Weld's life is in danger. When Marlowe arrives, he finds Mavis is indeed there, but Steelgrave has been killed with a gun of the same type that Mavis used to threaten Marlowe in the hotel room, and of the same calibre as the gun used to shoot Orrin. Weld confesses to Marlowe that she killed Steelgrave and is ready to turn herself in. Marlowe convinces her to leave the gangster's home and then calls the police to report finding yet another body.\n\nAlthough initially angry, the police are ultimately grateful to have the case resolved with an end to a known gangster on whom they had no evidence and so could not hold. When Mavis Weld's agent hires a society lawyer to defend her reputation, the police accept that they don't have a convincing case against anybody. Back in his office, Marlowe is visited by Orfamay one last time. He confronts her with the truth that her real motive was to get money from Mavis Weld, who is her sister, and that it was she who told Steelgrave where to find Orrin in exchange for $1000. He also accuses Orfamay of killing Steelgrave, in revenge for Steelgrave's having killed Orrin at Lagardie's office.\n\nRealising there is still one loose thread, Marlowe visits Dolores Gonzales at her apartment and she confesses to engineering the crimes. It was she who killed Steelgrave, her former lover, who had left her for Mavis, and then she had told Mavis that her sister Orfamay did it. At first Marlowe finds it hard to believe that someone who seems so casual about sex could be so passionate. Then he realises that he can't touch Dolores without destroying Mavis and her career and leaves, only to see Lagardie heading up to see her. Marlowe deduces that he was Dolores’ former husband, whom she had left for Steelgrave when they all lived in Cleveland before moving to California. Marlowe notifies the police, who are searching for Lagardie, but they arrive to find he has stabbed Dolores.\n\nChandler, along with Dashiell Hammett, defined the hardboiled school of detective fiction, popularised in pulp magazines such as \"Black Mask\". The hardboiled school abandoned the genteel characters and elaborate intrigues found in the murder mysteries of authors such as Agatha Christie and Dorothy L. Sayers. Instead, they moved \"murder out of the Venetian vase and into the alley\" and \"gave murder back to the kind of people that commit it for reasons, not just to provide a corpse; and with the means at hand, not with hand-wrought duelling pistols, curare, and tropical fish.\"\n\nOne thing that distinguished Chandler's hero Philip Marlowe even from his other hardboiled peers is that Marlowe often doesn't apprehend the criminal or explain every plot point at the end of the novel. Marlowe is a witness to events and, at most, is able to manipulate them in subtle ways to balance the scales of justice a bit. Nowhere is this more apparent than in \"The Little Sister\". Marlowe is always arriving too late to prevent a murder or catch the criminal. Even at the very end, when he has finally solved the complex riddle of the case, his last act is simply to notify the police too late and let events take their course.\n\n\"The Little Sister\" was the first novel Chandler wrote after working as a screenwriter for Paramount in Hollywood, and it reflects some of his experiences with and disdain for the film industry.\n\nAlthough Chandler's name and fiction are almost synonymous with Los Angeles, he spent most of his adolescence in England, and he retained a preference for manners and formality that he learned in the English public school system. This put him at odds with the informal atmosphere in Hollywood.\n\nFor example, Chandler took an instant dislike to Billy Wilder, his writing partner on \"Double Indemnity\". According to Wilder's recollection, \"[Chandler] was a very peculiar, a sort of rather acid man, like so many former alcoholics are... he didn't really like me ever.\"\n\nChandler was not the kind of person to directly confront someone. The partnership with Wilder seemed to be going well on the surface. Then one day Chandler did not show up for work, but instead delivered a typed list of complaints to Paramount officials, demanding that they be resolved before he would return to working on the script. John Houseman, one of Chandler's few Hollywood friends, remembers one item in particular:\n\n\"Mr Wilder was at no time to swish under Mr Chandler's nose or to point in his direction the thin, leather-handled malacca cane which Mr Wilder was in the habit of waving around while they worked.\"\n\nChandler used this experience in the novel. When Marlowe visits the office of Mavis Weld's agent (Chapter 18), he describes the agent in a manner reminiscent of his complaint against Wilder:\n\nHe walked away from me to a tall cylindrical jar in the corner. From this he took one of a number of short thin malacca canes. He began to walk up and down the carpet, swinging the cane deftly past his shoe.\n\nI sat down again and killed my cigarette and took a deep breath. \"It could only happen in Hollywood,\" I grunted.\n\nHe made a neat turn and glanced at me. \"I beg your pardon.\"\n\n\"That an apparently sane man could walk up and down inside the house with a Picadilly stroll and a monkey stick in his hand.\"\nAs in all of Chandler's novels, one of the major themes in \"The Little Sister\" is the love/hate relationship that Chandler had with Los Angeles and Hollywood. Much of the novel is devoted to mockery of the phoniness and self-importance of people in the film industry. And one of the most memorable passages in the book is a long soliloquy by Marlowe where he waxes philosophical about the emptiness and shallowness of Los Angeles and its residents. That section is punctuated by Marlowe saying to himself: \"You're not human tonight, Marlowe.\"\n\nAt the same time, one of the villains of the novel, the one \"who never looked less like Lady Macbeth,\" is not the film star of the Quest family, but the little sister, a mousy small town girl who ultimately cares more for a few dollars than for her siblings. The heroine, who is willing to sacrifice herself and whom Marlowe ultimately rescues, is the jaded Hollywood starlet, Mavis Weld.\n\nThis story was updated for the 1969 film \"Marlowe,\" starring James Garner as detective Philip Marlowe.\n\nThe novel was adapted for radio by Bill Morrison, directed by John Tydeman, and broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 5 December 1977, starring Ed Bishop as Marlowe.\n\nAnother adaptation by Stephen Wyatt, directed by Claire Grove, was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 15 October 2011, starring Toby Stephens as Marlowe.\n"}
{"id": "2025529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025529", "title": "Enoch Soames", "text": "Enoch Soames\n\n\"Enoch Soames\" is the title of a short story by the British writer Max Beerbohm. Enoch Soames is also the name of the main character.\n\nThe piece was originally published in the May 1916 edition of \"The Century Magazine\", and was later included in Beerbohm's anthology, \"Seven Men\" (1919). It is a comic tragedy, involving elements of both fantasy and science fiction; well known for its clever and humorous use of the concepts of time travel and pacts with the Devil.\n\nThe author uses a complex combination of fact and fiction to create a sense of realism. Although \"Mr. Soames\" is a fictional character, Beerbohm includes himself in the story, which he also narrates; and writes it as the reminiscences of a series of actual events which he witnessed and participated in as a younger man. The work also contains a written portrait of the real-life artist William Rothenstein, as well as countless references to contemporary-to-1897 events and places. In addition, Rothenstein actually drew the \"portrait\" of Soames which is mentioned in the text; although the work was probably created closer to the date of publication, than to the 1895-date given in the story. Beerbohm himself also drew a cartoon-sketch of Soames, and the two pictures are recognisably of the same \"person\".\n\nWriting as a narrator describing events from his own past, Beerbohm presents himself as a moderately successful young English essayist during the 1890s. He then relates the tragic history of an older colleague named Enoch Soames. The son of a bookseller from Preston, living off an inherited annuity, he is an utterly obscure, forgettable aspiring poet in the Decadent manner. Over the course of the story, he authors three unsuccessful books, of which Beerbohm provides parodies of his book of poems, \"Fungoids\". Soames’ appearance is described as “dim” and leaves little impression, except for his persistent habit of always wearing a particular grey waterproof cape and soft black hat.\n\nOn the afternoon of 3 June 1897, Soames and Beerbohm are having lunch in the Soho-based \"Restaurant du Vingtieme Siecle\". The self-obsessed Soames is deeply depressed, consumed with the belief that he is an unrecognised great author and, despite his complete failure so far, keenly curious about his \"certain\" posthumous fame. He therefore agrees to a contract offered by the Devil, who introduces himself from a neighbouring table. In exchange for the possession of his soul, Soames will be transported exactly 100 years forward in time to spend the rest of the afternoon in the British Museum Reading Room and discover what judgement posterity will make on himself and his works. After the allotted time has expired, Soames will be returned to their present date and location, but at the same time of evening as his departure from the future, and the Devil will then collect his payment.\n\nSoames then vanishes and reappears in the café at the designated hour, where Beerbohm has returned to meet him. Soames’ description of the world of the future is vague and nondescript; while there he had focused primarily on his own concerns. He tells Beerbohm that the only mention he could find of himself was in a single scholarly article, of which Soames produces a facsimile-copy. It is printed in English, but in a phonetic spelling and with modified pronunciation, both of which had apparently evolved during the intervening century. The article discusses a \"labud sattire\" written by one Max Beerbohm \"in wich e pautraid an immajnari karrakter kauld Enoch Soames — a thurd-rait poit hoo beleevz imself a grate jeneus an maix a bargin with th Devvl in auder ter no wot posterriti thinx ov im!\" (in which he portrayed an imaginary character called Enoch Soames—a third-rate poet who believes himself a great genius and makes a bargain with the Devil to know what posterity thinks of him). \n\nBeerbohm is shocked and denies that he would ever write such a thing. Before being taken to Hell, on the Devil’s return, Soames scornfully requests that Beerbohm at least try to make people believe that he, Soames, actually existed. Beerbohm’s narrative is that justification. He notes in particular that Soames mentioned that his presence in the reading room had caused a great stir, but \"I assure you that in no period could Soames be anything but dim. The fact that people are going to stare at him, and follow him around, and seem afraid of him, can be explained only on the hypothesis that they will somehow have been prepared for his ghostly visitation. They will have been awfully waiting to see whether he really would come. And when he does come, the effect will of course be – awful.\"\n\nThe Reading Room of the British Museum was in fact still in operation in June 1997, although it was closed later that year and its functions were transferred to the new British Library. This move had been intended to occur long before that time, but construction and completion of the new British national library building were repeatedly delayed. The \"old\" Reading Room was subsequently renovated; its original interior decoration was restored and it reopened in 2000, but the space is now used for different purposes and it no longer serves its former purpose as a research library.\n\nAn article written by Teller, \"A Memory of the Nineteen-Nineties\" (\"Being a faithful account of the events of the designated day, when the man who had disappeared was expected briefly to return\"), was published in the November 1997 issue of \"The Atlantic Monthly\". The piece claims to describe actual events, witnessed by Teller and a small group of other people; fans of Beerbohm's story, who had come to the Reading Room on the date specified, in time for \"Soames\"' afternoon \"visit\". According to this account, at 2:10 PM, on 3 June 1997, a person meeting Soames' description mysteriously appeared, and began searching through the catalogues and various biographical dictionaries. A few minutes later, he slipped out of sight of the watching crowd, and disappeared among the stacks.\n\nIn an October 2012 \"Esquire\" article, writer Chris Jones implied that Teller himself had staged this event, although the magician \"didn't confess his role. He never has.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025534", "title": "Swinburne baronets", "text": "Swinburne baronets\n\nThe Swinburne Baronetcy, of Capheaton in the County of Northumberland, was a title in the Baronetage of England. It was created on 26 September 1660 for John Swinburne in honour of the loyalty to Charles I of Swinburne's father and grandfather prior to and during the English Civil War. He demolished Capheaton Castle in 1668 and built a new house on the site. The sixth Baronet was Member of Parliament for Launceston in 1788-9 and High Sheriff of Northumberland in 1799. His grandson, the seventh Baronet, was High Sheriff in 1866 and Member of Parliament for Lichfield 1885–1892. His son, the eighth Baronet was High Sheriff in 1920. The title became extinct on the death of the tenth Baronet in 1967.\n\nThe Baronets were descended from the ancient Northumbrian family of Swinburne Castle which passed to the Heron family on the death of Sir Adam Swinburne. The junior line of Collerton came to Capheaton in 1264 and later in 1514 to Edlingham. , younger son of the sixth Baronet, was an Admiral in the Royal Navy. His eldest son was the poet Algernon Charles Swinburne.\n\nThe family seat is at Capheaton Hall, Northumberland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025538", "title": "Wanamaker Organ", "text": "Wanamaker Organ\n\nThe Wanamaker Grand Court Organ, in Philadelphia, is the largest fully functioning pipe organ in the world. The Wanamaker Organ is located within a spacious 7-story Grand Court at Macy's Center City (formerly Wanamaker's department store) and played twice a day Monday through Saturday. The organ is featured at several special concerts held throughout the year, including events featuring the Friends of the Wanamaker Organ Festival Chorus and Brass Ensemble.\n\nThe Wanamaker Organ is a concert organ of the American Symphonic school of design, which combines traditional organ tone with the sonic colors of the symphony orchestra. In its present configuration, the Wanamaker Organ has 28,750 pipes in 464 ranks. The organ console consists of six manuals with an array of stops and controls that command the organ. The organ's String Division forms the largest single organ chamber in the world. The instrument features eighty-eight ranks of string pipes built to Wanamaker specifications by the W.W. Kimball Company of Chicago. The organ is famed for its orchestra-like sound, coming from pipes that are voiced softer than usual, allowing an unusually rich build-up because of the massing of pipe-tone families. The organ was also built and enlarged as an \"art organ,\" using exquisite craftsmanship and lavish application of materials to create a luxury product. There is a minimum of borrowing and unification in its disciplined design. The Wanamaker Store maintained its own organ factory to ensure an ultra-high-grade result. The artistic obligation entailed by the creation of this instrument has always been honored, with two curators employed in its constant and scrupulous care (what leads to the state of one of the best maintained organ in the world).This dedication was enhanced when corporate parentage shifted from the Wanamaker family to Carter Hawley Hale Stores followed by Woodward & Lothrop, The May Department Stores Company, and Lord & Taylor. When the space was occupied by Macy's and with the founding of the Friends of the Wanamaker Organ with its input of outside capital, an aggressive restoration schedule developed and is still maintained. Current restoration efforts are a combination of Macy's expenditures and significant contributions by Friends of the Wanamaker Organ, a 501(c)3 non-profit dedicated to the instrument.\n\nThe Wanamaker Organ was originally built by the Los Angeles Art Organ Company, successors to the Murray M. Harris Organ Co., for the 1904 St. Louis World's Fair. It was designed to be the largest organ in the world, an imitation of a full-size orchestra with particularly complete resources of full organ tone including mixtures. In addition to its console, the organ was originally equipped with an automatic player that used punched rolls of paper, according to the \"Los Angeles Times\" of 1904. It was built to a specification by renowned organ theorist and architect George Ashdown Audsley. Wild cost overruns plagued the project, with the result that Harris was ousted from his own company. With capital from stockholder Eben Smith, it was reorganized as the Los Angeles Art Organ Company, and finished at a cost of $105,000 (equal to $ today), $40,000 over budget, equal to $ today. The Fair began (in late April 1904) before the organ was fully installed in its temporary home, Festival Hall. Although the organ's debut was scheduled for May 1, official fair organist and St. Louis local Charles Henry Galloway did not give his opening recital until June 9. The organ was still not entirely finished in September of that year, when Alexandre Guilmant, one of the most famous organists of the day, presented 40 very well-attended recitals on the organ.\n\nFollowing the Fair, the organ was intended for permanent installation by the Kansas City Convention Center. Indeed, the original console had a prominent \"K C\" on its music rack. This venture failed, bankrupting the L. A. Art Organ company after the Fair closed. There was a plan to exhibit the organ at Coney Island in New York City, but nothing came of this.\nThe organ languished in storage at the Handlan warehouse in St. Louis until 1909, when it was bought by John Wanamaker for his new department store at 13th and Market Streets in Center City, Philadelphia. It took thirteen freight cars to move it to its new home, and two years for installation. It was first played on June 22, 1911, at the exact moment when British King George V was crowned. It was also featured later that year when U.S. President William Howard Taft dedicated the store.\n\nDespite its then-unprecedented size (more than 10,000 pipes), it was judged inadequate to fill the seven-story Grand Court in which it was located, so Wanamaker's opened a private organ factory in the store attic, which was charged with enlarging the organ. The first project to enlarge the organ was the addition of 8,000 pipes between 1911 and 1917.\n\nWanamaker's sponsored many historic after-business-hours concerts on the Wanamaker Organ. The first, in 1919, featured Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra with organist Charles M. Courboin. Every sales counter and fixture was removed for the free after-hours event, which attracted an audience of 15,000 from across the United States. Subsequently more of these \"Musicians' Assemblies\" were held, as were private recitals. For these events Wanamaker's opened a Concert Bureau under Alexander Russell and brought to America master organists Marcel Dupré and Louis Vierne, Nadia Boulanger, Marco Enrico Bossi, Alfred Hollins, and several others. (This agency, which worked in partnership with Canadian Bernard R. LaBerge, evolved into the Karen McFarlane Concert Agency of the present day.) During his first recital on the organ, Dupré was so impressed with the instrument that he was inspired to improvise a musical depiction of the life of Jesus Christ. This was later published as his \"Symphonie-Passion\".\n\nFrom April 24, 1922 to 1928 the store had its own radio station, WOO, and music from the organ was a major feature of the broadcasts. \n\nIn 1924, a new project to enlarge the organ began. Marcel Dupré and Charles M. Courboin were among those asked by Rodman Wanamaker, John Wanamaker's son, to \"Work together to draw up a plan for the instrument. Use everything you have ever dreamed about.\" They were told there was no limit to the budget. This project resulted in, among other things, the celebrated String Division, which occupies the largest organ chamber ever constructed, 67 feet long, 26 feet deep, and 16 feet high (22 by 9 by 5 m). During this project, the organ's current console was constructed in Wanamaker's private in-house pipe-organ factory, with six manuals and several hundred controls. By 1930, when work on expanding the organ finally stopped, the organ had 28,482 pipes, and, if Rodman Wanamaker had not died in 1928, the organ would probably be even bigger.\n\nPlans were made for, among others, a Stentor division, a section of high-pressure diapasons and reeds. It was to be installed on the fifth floor, above the String Division, and would be playable from the sixth manual. However, it was never funded, and the sixth manual is now used to couple other divisions or play various solo voices from other divisions that are duplexed to this keyboard.\nRodman Wanamaker was not interested in mere size, however, but in artistic organ-building with finely crafted pipes and chests using the best materials and careful artistic consideration. The Wanamaker Organ console, built in the store organ shop by William Boone Fleming, is a work of art in its own right with heavy, durable construction, an ingenious layout of its pneumatic stop action and many unique features and conveniences. Wanamaker also had a collection of 60 rare stringed instruments, the Wanamaker Cappella, that were used in conjunction with the store organs in Philadelphia and New York, and went on tour. They were dispersed after his death.\n\nFollowing the sale of the store to The May Department Stores Company, in 1995, the Wanamaker's name was removed from the store (first as Wanamaker-Hecht's) in favor of Hecht's, but the organ and its concerts were retained. During the local renaming of the Hecht's stores to Strawbridge's, the historic Wanamaker Store briefly took the name of its longtime rival Strawbridge's. The May Company began a complete restoration of the organ in 1997, as part of the store's final May Co. conversion into a Lord & Taylor. At that time the store area was reduced to three floors and additional panes of glass were put around the Grand Court on floors four and five, greatly enhancing the reverberation of the room.\nThe Philadelphia Orchestra returned to the Grand Court on September 27, 2008 for the premiere performance of Joseph Jongen's \"Symphonie Concertante\" (1926) on the organ for which it was written. The ticketed event, featuring soloist Peter Richard Conte, also included the Bach/Stokowski arrangement of the Toccata and Fugue in D minor, Marcel Dupré's \"Cortege and Litany\" for Organ and Orchestra, and the world premiere of a \"Fanfare\" by Howard Shore, composer for \"The Lord of the Rings\" films. Shore visited the store in May 2008 to meet with Peter Richard Conte and hear the Wanamaker Organ. The Philadelphia Orchestra Concert was co-sponsored by the Friends of the Wanamaker Organ and was a benefit for that organization.\n\nIn 2019 the Wanamaker Organ facade, designed by Daniel Hudson Burnham, was restored and re-gilded in 22-karat gold to a color scheme close in sympathy to its original appearance but which fits in with its new surroundings. Evergreene Architectural Arts did the work. Grant Money from Macy's and several Philadelphia area charities funded this project, which was overseen by the Friends of the Wanamaker Organ.\n\nAlthough numerous famous organists have played special concerts on the organ, it has had only four chief organists in its history:\n\n\nFor about a decade beginning in 1919, Dr. Charles M. Courboin was the organist for a series of special evening concerts, including several collaborations with the Philadelphia Orchestra. Courboin also headed the Wanamaker Organ Shop in the late 1920s.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe pipes are laid out across five floors, with the sections situated as follows:\n\nThe 32′ Wood Open, 32′ Diaphone, and 32′ Metal Diapason pipes run the length of a little more than 2 stories, beginning on the second floor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025540", "title": "Estadio Víctor Manuel Reyna", "text": "Estadio Víctor Manuel Reyna\n\nThe Estadio Víctor Manuel Reyna is a football stadium located in Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas, México. This facility has a capacity of 29,001 seats and was built in 2003. This sport facility is used mostly for football matches and is currently the home stadium for Chiapas Fútbol Club. It also hosted shows as the final of La Academia Última Generación.\n\nThe capital city stadium was built in 1982 to accommodate 6000 spectators, however after 20 years officially became the venue for matches in the first division tournaments FMF . Later, the stadium was remodeled and expanded to have a capacity of 27,500 fans. The stadium was inaugurated in 1984 with the official match between Club America and the extinct Student team Chiapas. The current name stadium stood to honor Victor Manuel Reyna (1910-1973), professor of physical education in Tuxtla Gutierrez, where he created the first state leagues and municipal, that in the 50s. It is distinguished not only by investing much of their salary to equip street children to practice the sport, but also to convey to young broader social values. He is considered the father of football in Chiapas. Throughout its history, the stadium has hosted Zoque liguillas five First Division and tournaments at all levels of Mexican soccer. It has also presented friendly matches Mexico national football team against Ecuador over the selections and Canada. In 2011, the Zoque witnessed official games for ranking and tournament Copa Libertadores .\n\nIt has a system of computerized irrigation and drainage system that prevents puddles made even under heavy rainfall, characteristic of the city in the summer and fall. The grass varies by climate, therefore has three common varieties like grass, Sahara and 328, which are tolerant to heat and rain.\n\nTo improve conditions in professional players Jaguares de Chiapas, the gym is equipped with modern appliances like goo bike, glidex 600, adductor, abdominal crunch, vertical traction, extension arm, calf rotary, pulley, lat machine, glute, leg press, lower back, leg curl, leg extension and technogim Ce\n\nFor presentations, lectures and interviews, the stadium has a room with 40 seats, tables, local sound, projectors, screens, phones, and other devices to the media.\n\nThe stadium has three parking to accommodate 1,240 vehicles. Preferential parking has 150 drawers located between Causeway Boulevard and the Ethnic Fidel Velazquez. The South has 190 parking located between Causeway drawers Ethnic and Sport Unit. And the North has 900 parking drawers located in the Northern Bypass in circulation from west to east. In addition, the stadium has an exclusive parking inside for players and officials. The entrance is on the north parking lot 4 and access.\n\nCurrently the stadium has the capacity to accommodate 24,000 fans that can be placed in different areas. The zones are North Head (6.702 points), South Head (6.734 points), Preferred (7.733 points), Allocated Preferred (538 numbered seats) VIP Platea (1724 numbered seats), VIP Area (40 numbered seats) and Super Palco ( 37 numbered seats).\n\nIt is an area of 42 square meters, located under Plateas VIP area. Inside is a clinic, a rehabilitation ward physiotherapy, hydrotherapy baths and a full team of specialists who care for the health of the team's players representative.\n\nIt has all the requirements needed for the comfort of the players as custom lockers, hot tub, TVs and a pool area. It also has one dresses himself to the coaching staff, visiting team, referees, assistants and equipment basic forces.\n\nThe sports complex is linked to the areas of ISSTECH (Institute social security for workers in the state of Chiapas) and features: basketball courts, tennis courts, racquetball, Olympic swimming pool, baseball stadium, the stadium also has track and one of the country's best irrigation systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025542", "title": "Chipstable", "text": "Chipstable\n\nChipstable is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated beside Heydon Hill west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 309.\n\nThe parish includes Raddington and Waterrow.\n\nThe name Chipstable means \"\"Cippa's post\"\".\n\nThe manor was held by Muchelney Abbey from the Norman Conquest until the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and then passing to the Bluets of Greenham in Stawley. The parishes of Chipstable and Raddington were part of the Williton and Freemanners Hundred.\n\nThe village of Waterrow developed from hamlets called east and west Skirdle.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe parish lies between the Brendon Hills and the River Tone.\n\nHurstone Farm Woodlands in Waterrow is a woodland on the banks of the River Tone, which has been designated as a local nature reserve. The woodland, hedgerows and open grassland provide a habitat for dormice, otter and several bat species. Bryophyte species include black spleenwort.\n\nThe Church of England parish Church of St Michael in Raddington dates from the 13th and 14th centuries and has been designated as a grade I listed building.\n\nThe Church of All Saints in Chipstable village is more recent having been built in the 15th century. The tower and part of the nave remain from a previous building of about 1239.\nEngland cricketer Jos Buttler got married here in October 2017.\n\nBethel Chapel, was built as a Congregational church in 1890.\n\nWaterrow Church Hall was also built in Waterrow in 1908 for the people of Waterrow to save the journey uphill to Chipstable for services. Waterrow Church Hall now provides local church services for the inhabitants of Waterrow and beyond.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025557", "title": "Lawrence Hogan", "text": "Lawrence Hogan\n\nLawrence Joseph Hogan (September 30, 1928 – April 20, 2017) was an American politician who served as a Republican U.S. Congressman, representing the 5th congressional district of Maryland from January 3, 1969, to January 3, 1975. In 1974, he was the only Republican Representative to vote to recommend all three House articles of impeachment against President Richard Nixon.\n\nHogan did not run for re-election in 1974 and was unsuccessful that year in his candidacy for the Republican nomination for governor. He became county executive for Prince George's County, Maryland, in 1978 and served until 1982.\n\nBorn in Boston, on September 30, 1928, Hogan was raised in Washington, D.C. and attended Gonzaga College High School. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University in 1947, J.D. from Georgetown in 1954, and was admitted to the Bar in the same year. While a college student, he worked for the \"Washington Times-Herald\". He joined the FBI in 1948 and became a full-time agent while attending law school. He later was enrolled in graduate studies at San Francisco State College, 1956–1957, received a master's degree from American University in 1965, and continued studies at the University of Maryland, 1966–1967.\n\nHogan's private career included practicing law and public relations. His Larry Hogan Associates business was making $1 million a year before he sold it to enter politics.\n\nAfter losing the same race in 1966, Hogan won against incumbent Hervey Machen in 1968 to represent Maryland's 5th congressional district, and was easily re-elected in 1970 and 1972. Hogan was the only Republican on the House Judiciary Committee to vote for all three articles of impeachment against Richard Nixon when they were adopted in committee. Hogan famously said into the television cameras:\n\nHogan entered Maryland's 1974 gubernatorial race when polls showed him a strong challenger to incumbent Governor Marvin Mandel. Hogan's abandonment of Nixon, however, contributed to his loss in the Republican primary to Louise Gore, who in turn lost to Mandel. Political observers also attributed Hogan's loss to Gore's \"genteel, low-key nature\". Gladys Spellman was elected to take Hogan's former seat in Congress.\n\nAfter his 1974 defeat, Hogan and his wife Ilona opened the Hogan and Hogan law firm, with offices in Forestville, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. In 1976, Hogan was elected a Maryland National Republican Committeeman, and in January 1977 he began working as executive vice-president of the Associated Builders and Contractors trade association. When he left the position to re-enter politics, he was being paid between $70,000 and $100,000 a year.\n\nIn 1978, Hogan challenged incumbent Prince George's County Executive Win Kelly amid a 'tax revolt' and won the office with 60% of the vote. County voters passed a tax reform measure known as \"TRIM\" that same year.\n\nHogan challenged first-term Democratic Senator Paul Sarbanes in 1982 and lost heavily. Parris Glendening was elected as county executive in his place, and Hogan's political career was over.\n\nIn subsequent years, Hogan returned to practicing law. He also taught and wrote various books. His \"Legal Aspects of the Fire Service\" title is used at training academies across the country.\n\nHogan married Ilona Maria Modly in 1974 after his first marriage to Nora Maguire ended with divorce in 1972 after 27 years. Ilona was elected to the Board of County Commissioners in Frederick County after they moved there. Two of Hogan's six children are also politically involved in the state of Maryland. Patrick N. Hogan was formerly a Republican Delegate representing Maryland's District 3A. Hogan's eldest son, Larry Hogan, is the current Governor of Maryland, an office he has held since January 2015 after winning the 2014 election.\n\nHogan suffered a stroke and died on April 20, 2017. He was survived by his wife Ilona and six children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025562", "title": "Þorsteins saga Víkingssonar", "text": "Þorsteins saga Víkingssonar\n\nÞorsteins saga Víkingssonar or The Saga of Thorstein, Viking's Son is a legendary saga which takes place in the 7th century. It is about the father of Frithjof the Bold. It begins in Norway and Sweden (with locations such as Ulleråker), but continues into exotic places such as India. It is not one of the more famous sagas, but it is still considered to be an entertaining story. See Viking (Norse Mythology).\n\nIt is a prequel to \"Friðþjófs saga ins frœkna\", \"The Saga of Fridthjof the Bold\".\n\nIn Sweden, Viking sires nine sons by a second wife. Thorsten (Thorstein, or Thor's Stone) is the oldest son of Viking. Viking befriends his worthy foe Njorfe, King of Upplands, in Norway, who also has nine sons. The two groups of sons are highly competitive against each other. In a brutal ball game, they beat and maim each other, breaking each other's arms. A son of Viking, near death, slays a son of Njorfe.\n\nViking scolds this son and sends him to an island in Lake Vänern. Two more sons go with him, including Thorsten. Viking tells Thorsten to wait quietly on the island until the danger is over. Njorfe's sons want revenge. They use magic to conjure a frost that freezes the lake and travel across it to attack the three sons of Viking. Two of Viking's sons survive: Thorsten and Thorer. Two of Njorfe's sons survive, including his eldest son, Jokul, a sorcerer. Njorfe's sons use magic to discover that Thorsten and Thorer are alive.\n\nViking sends his two sons to the court of Halfdan for safety. Jokul invades Sogn, kills the king, banishes the heir Beli, and places a curse on the king's daughter Ingeborg, causing her to take the shape of a hideous troll. Jokul stirs a tempest which shipwrecks Thorsten twice. Ingeborg (as a troll, under the name Skellinefja) rescues Thorsten and asks him to promise to marry her. With her help, Thorsten returns Beli to the throne of Sogn, and the curse leaves Ingeborg. Thorsten unites with Ingeborg. Fridthiof is their son.\n\nThorsten, Beli, and Angantyr retrieve Viking's stolen magic ship \"Ellida\". Thorsten fights Sote, a ghost pirate in barow mound, to get the magic ring (forged by Voland). Thorsten, Beli, and Angantyr conquer the Orkney Islands.\n\nThorsten and his son Frithiof inherit the magic sword Angurvadel and the magic ship \"Ellida\" from Viking. Descendants of Thorstein appear in \"Friðþjófs saga ins frœkna\", and in the Starkad section of \"Gautreks saga\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025564", "title": "Cross, County Mayo", "text": "Cross, County Mayo\n\nCross () is a village in the south of County Mayo, Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025566", "title": "Estadio Hidalgo", "text": "Estadio Hidalgo\n\nThe Estadio Hidalgo is a football stadium named after Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla. It is located in Pachuca in the Mexican state of Hidalgo, also named in honor of Miguel Hidalgo.\n\nThis sport facility is one of Mexico's mid-sized soccer stadiums, with a capacity of 27,512. It opened in January 1993, but recently was refurbished and modernized. It is located in the city of Pachuca, formerly a large mining site. This building is used mostly for soccer games and is the home of C.F. Pachuca.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025571", "title": "Daniel Gillies", "text": "Daniel Gillies\n\nDaniel Gillies is a Canadian-born actor. He is known for his role as Elijah Mikaelson on the television series \"The Vampire Diaries\" and its spin-off \"The Originals\", as well as Dr. Joel Goran on the Canadian series \"Saving Hope\", a medical-themed show with a mystical, paranormal twist. He wrote and directed the 2012 film, \"Broken Kingdom\".\n\nGillies was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada to New Zealand parents. When he was five, his parents decided to return to their native New Zealand, and moved to Invercargill and then to Hamilton. Though born into a family of strong medical background (his father is a pediatrician, his mother a nurse, and his great-great-great-grandfather was the renowned ENT/plastic surgery pioneer Sir Harold Gillies), he became interested in acting because he said it was \"the only thing I was ever any good at\".\n\nFrustrated with the lack of opportunities in New Zealand, he moved to Sydney, Australia for six weeks in 2001 before going to Canada for two months, where he worked as a waiter and dishwasher until deciding to move to Los Angeles, USA.\n\nGillies began his career starring in several Auckland Theatre Company productions, before landing a two season lead role in the television drama \"Street Legal.\" After deciding that his acting options in his native New Zealand were limited, Gillies explored his options in Sydney and Canada. Gillies then moved to Los Angeles and was soon cast in the movies \"Bride and Prejudice\" and \"Spider-Man 2\".\n\nSince 2002, Gillies has worked in Canadian and American film and television – at times simultaneously. Before landing lead roles in television series, Gillies landed guests spots on television shows such as \"Masters of Horror\", \"NCIS\", and \"True Blood\". In 2010, he was cast on the hit The CW drama \"The Vampire Diaries\" as Elijah Mikaelson. In 2013, CW created a successful spin-off of \"The Originals.\" chronicling the lives of the first (aka \"the Original\") vampires. Gillies' once recurring part as Elijah from The Vampire Diaries became a lead part in \"The Originals.\" A potential nightmare existed for CW since Gillies was already under contract to play Dr. Joel Goran in the supernatural series, \"Saving Hope.\" Saving Hope initially aired in the US on NBC, but the series was not renewed although it continued to run in Canada. He continued both shows. In 2012, Gillies wrote, directed and starred with wife Rachael Leigh Cook in \"Broken Kingdom\".\n\nGillies married American actress Rachael Leigh Cook on 8 August 2004. Together, they have a daughter, Charlotte born in September 2013, and a son, Theodore born in April 2015. In an interview in 2017, he revealed he took medical steps to prevent a third child being brought into the family citing concerns about his age and energy levels, \"...no, that's the answer. I want to be able to give these two my love and my attention and my care. I would like to stop now.\" On 13 June 2019, both Cook and Gillies announced on Instagram that they mutually decided to separate and they also said that they wanted it to be as discreet as possible for the sake of their kids.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025573", "title": "Estadio Tamaulipas", "text": "Estadio Tamaulipas\n\nThe Estadio Tamaulipas is a football stadium in the southern portion of the Mexican state of Tamaulipas, serving as the home of Tampico Madero F.C.. It sits across two municipalities, Tampico and Ciudad Madero, and has a capacity of 19,667. The center line of the stadium sits on the municipal boundary.\n\nConstruction of the Estadio Tamaulipas began on January 3, 1965, with a groundbreaking ceremony led by Governor Praxedis Balboa. The stadium was designed by Manuel Ortega Barroueta, who was responsible for a number of other stadiums around the country in the late 1960s, including the Estadio León and the original Estadio Corona in Torreón. The first match in the stadium was held on April 3, 1966, between AS Monaco FC and a combined team of players from Tampico and Madero, which at the time had separate squads; Monaco won 2-1, with Francis Blanc scoring the first goal in the Estadio Tamaulipas.\n\nIn 1978, two additional levels of suites were constructed to bring the stadium to four levels of suites. In 2008, the Estadio Tamaulipas received the largest renovation in its history, Among the additions was a seating area for disabled fans, though its small size has been criticized as insufficient for playoff matches. In 2016, for safety and security purposes, capacity was reduced to 19,415 as part of a renovation that improved locker rooms and suites.\n\nThe pitch was flooded by storms in November 2016.\n\nA potential replacement venue has been floated by Alejandro Irarragorri, president of Orlegi Deportes, one of the owners of Tampico Madero, who argued that the team's 85% average attendance rate, which leads the Ascenso MX, justified a new stadium.\n\nThe Mexico national football team played the Estadio Tamaulipas four times, though only twice against other national teams, meeting the Soviet Union national football team for a friendly on February 2, 1979 and the CIS national football team on March 11, 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025578", "title": "Til", "text": "Til\n\nTil or TIL may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025581", "title": "Just Good Friends", "text": "Just Good Friends\n\nJust Good Friends is a British sitcom written by John Sullivan. It starred Paul Nicholas and Jan Francis as former lovers Vincent Pinner and Penny Warrender, who meet in a pub five years after he jilted her at the altar.\n\nThree series and a 90-minute Christmas special were produced for the BBC by Ray Butt. In 2004, it came 43rd in \"Britain's Best Sitcom\".\n\nWriter John Sullivan had previously written two successful sitcoms for the BBC, \"Citizen Smith\" and \"Only Fools and Horses\". The lead roles in these series had all been male, and Sullivan felt he should base his new sitcom around a woman. His source of inspiration was a letter in a magazine read to him by his wife, written by a woman who had been jilted by her fiancé on the day of her wedding.\n\nAccording to a 2007 \"Comedy Connections\" documentary on \"Just Good Friends\", Sullivan was originally motivated to create the character by Cheryl Hall, the co-star of \"Citizen Smith\". Hall complained that Sullivan was incapable of writing comedy for women, always giving the best of his material to the male characters. Sullivan was stung by the remark because, in his words, \"she was absolutely right\", and deliberately set out to create a strong and funny female lead.\n\nJan Francis, who had played Lisa Colbert in \"Secret Army\", was cast as Penny, and established theatre actor Paul Nicholas was chosen to play Vincent, although this was his first major television role. Being a notable singer, Nicholas also performed the title theme song, written by John Sullivan and arranged by Ronnie Hazlehurst. For the end title music, Hazlehurst arranged the theme for flugelhorn.\n\nThe series follows the wavering relationship between two ex-lovers, Penny Warrender, a secretary for an advertising firm, and Vincent Pinner, an ex-ice cream salesman turned bookmaker who is the son of a wealthy scrap metal merchant. The couple (who first met in the summer of 1976 at a Rolling Stones concert in Hyde Park) split up following Vincent's decision to jilt Penny on their wedding day in June 1978, leaving her at the altar. In the pilot episode, five years since their intended wedding day, the pair meet again by chance in a pub while out on individual dates. The pair decide to forget the past and become friends, although the rekindling of their relationship is not welcomed by Penny's snobbish parents, particularly her mother, Daphne, played by Sylvia Kay.\n\nThe 1984 90-minute Christmas special is a prequel to the series showing how Penny and Vince first met, loved and how Penny was jilted and married Graham. The last episode of the second series was intended to be the final episode, with Penny leaving for a job in Paris.\n\nThe cast reunited in 1986 for a final seven episodes, in which Penny and Vince meet up in Paris two years after they split up. Penny is now divorced and Vince is married; the couple renew their relationship and Vince, now a successful businessman, gives up everything for a quick divorce to pay off his wife Gina so he can be with Penny. In the final episode, Vince is still recovering from his painful divorce when his father pays a visit. Vince is told that unless he calls the wedding off, a lucrative wine export contract cannot be signed: Gina's way of blackmailing the Pinners by hitting where it hurts. Similarly, Penny is told that unless she calls the wedding off, her father's new job may not happen and at work, she is offered a permanent basing in Paris, all because Gina Marshall (Vince's ex) is too important a client to turn down. Eventually, she accepts the new posting but uses it to her advantage by returning to Paris and marrying Vince at the town hall.\n\n\n\nThe first two series had been released in a joint boxset in the UK under the Universal Playback label. However, these were edited due to music clearance rights. The third series was not released. In 2008, Cinema Club bought the rights to the series and were to re-release series one and two in June 2009, with series three to follow. These were later cancelled.\n\nDVD company Eureka bought the rights to the series and released the complete collection on 25 October 2010 \"containing all three series including the 1984 Christmas Special\". Unfortunately copyright clearance could not be obtained for all the music included in the Christmas Special, and as Eureka \"could not isolate and remove the music alone\" they \"had to replace that portion of the programme's soundtrack and feature the dialogue in subtitles\" feeling this was \"a better option than cutting out the scene in its entirety\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2025585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025585", "title": "Rose Friedman", "text": "Rose Friedman\n\nRose Director Friedman (; born Rose Director (December, 1910 – 18 August 2009), was a free-market economist and co-founder of the Milton and Rose D. Friedman Foundation.\n\nRose Friedman attended Reed College and then transferred to the University of Chicago, where she received a Bachelor of Philosophy degree. After this she began to study for a doctorate in economics at the University of Chicago and completed all work necessary for the Ph.D. except for writing the dissertation. In her youth, she wrote articles with Dorothy Brady on consumption. She received an honorary LL.D. in December 1986 from Pepperdine University. She is believed to have been born the last week of December, 1910; however, the birth records have been lost. She was born in Staryi Chortoryisk, in Ukraine, to the Director family, prominent Jewish residents.\n\nShe was married to her frequent collaborator, Milton Friedman (1912–2006), who won the 1976 Nobel Prize in Economics. Her brother, Aaron Director (1901–2004), was a professor at the University of Chicago Law School and one of the founders of the economic analysis of law.\n\nWith Milton, she co-wrote two books on economics and public policy, \"Free to Choose\" and \"Tyranny of the Status Quo\", and their memoirs \"Milton and Rose D. Friedman, Two Lucky People\", which appeared in 1998. Together they founded EdChoice (formerly the Milton and Rose D. Friedman Foundation), with the aim of promoting the use of school vouchers and freedom of choice in education. She also co-produced the PBS television series, \"Free to Choose\", and assisted her husband in writing his 1962 political philosophy book \"Capitalism and Freedom\".\n\nWhen Milton received his Medal of Freedom in 1988, President Ronald Reagan said jokingly in his speech that Rose was known for being the only person to ever have won an argument against Milton. The Friedmans had two children, Janet and David.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025590", "title": "Pro hac vice", "text": "Pro hac vice\n\nPro hac vice (), Latin: \"for this occasion\" or \"for this event\" (literally, \"for this turn\"), is a legal term usually referring to a practice in common law jurisdictions, whereby a lawyer who has not been admitted to practice in a certain jurisdiction is allowed to participate in a particular case in that jurisdiction. Although \"pro hac vice\" admission is available in every American jurisdiction, civil law jurisdictions generally have much stricter rules for multi-jurisdictional practice.\n\nThe origins of the doctrine of admission \"pro hac vice\" have been traced as far back as the year 1629 in the English Court of Common Pleas. The doctrine appeared in America as early as the year 1735 in the New York trial of John Peter Zenger for libel, when the Philadelphia attorney Andrew Hamilton was permitted to appear on Zenger's behalf. By 1876, the custom had become \"general and uniform\" in the United States.\n\nThe right to appear is not guaranteed, and 50-state surveys have shown that \"most jurisdictions intend for pro hac vice admission to be used on a sparing and occasional basis.\" Generally, the attorney who requests authorization to practice in a jurisdiction within which he or she is not licensed must specifically request permission from the court to be able to appear as an attorney of record. Depending on the local rules and procedures, this may be accomplished with a motion to appear , in which an attorney who is licensed in the jurisdiction requests that the non‐licensed attorney be admitted to practice in a particular case. In most jurisdictions, an attorney appearing \"pro hac vice\" must continue to associate with a locally licensed attorney (referred to as \"local counsel\"), though the degree to which the local counsel is required or expected to participate in the matter varies widely; some courts may require local counsel to sign documents and appear in court, while others may grant the \"pro hac vice\" counsel more independence.\n\nIn addition to the motion, the out-of-jurisdiction attorney is typically required to provide the court with a statement from his local bar association indicating that he is a member in good standing and also pay a small fee to the court or its local bar association. For example, there is a $25 annual fee in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York charges a $200 fee to file a motion for admission \"pro hac vice\". \n\nIn maritime law, a demise charterer is considered the owner \"pro hac vice\" for limited liability purposes, whereas time or voyage charterers are not.\n\nThe expression is also used in the Catholic Church when a titular diocese becomes the title of an archbishop rather than of a bishop. Similarly, when a Cardinal-Deacon is promoted to Cardinal-Priest he usually retains his titular deaconry. This deaconry is then said to be elevated \"pro hac vice\" to the rank of a titular church. When referring to a titular diocese or titular deaconry which once was elevated \"pro hac vice\" but by now has reverted to its original rank the term \"pro illa vice\" is used in church documents.\n\nAlthough neither William Jennings Bryan nor Clarence Darrow was licensed to practice law in Tennessee, both were permitted to appear in the Scopes Trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025591", "title": "Hispaniolan pine forests", "text": "Hispaniolan pine forests\n\nThe Hispaniolan pine forests are a subtropical coniferous forest ecoregion found on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, which is shared by Haiti and the Dominican Republic. The ecoregion covers , or about 15% of the island. It lies at elevations greater than in the mountains of Hispaniola, extending from the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic and into the Massif du Nord of Haiti. It is surrounded at lower elevations by the Hispaniolan moist forests and Hispaniolan dry forests ecoregions, which cover the remainder of the island. Annual rainfall is .\n\nThe natural vegetation of the region consists primarily of stands of pino criollo (\"Pinus occidentalis\"). Pines are mixed with other conifers, including sabina (\"Juniperus gracilior\") and \"Podocarpus aristulatus\" (syn. \"P. buchii\"). Below , pine forests are found on lateritic soils and are interspersed with areas of wet montane forest. Important broad-leaved species are \"Garrya fadyenii\" and \"Vaccinium cubense\" near Constanza and the Sierra de Bahoruco, \"Rapanea ferruginea\" near Jarabacoa and San José de las Matas, and \"Buddleja domingensis\" along the Cordillera Central. Plants of montane steppe () include cara de hombre (\"Lyonia\" spp.), abey (\"Cojoba arborea\"), yaya fina (\"Oxandra lanceolata\"), pajón (\"Danthonia domingensis\"), \"Verbena officinalis\" var. \"officinalis\", and \"Weinmannia pinnata\".\n\nMore than half of the ecoregion's area has been lost to clearing for agriculture, pasture, or plantations of exotic trees. The Haitian portion of the ecoregion is more deforested than the Dominican portion.\n"}
{"id": "2025592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025592", "title": "The Incredible Shrinking Dickies", "text": "The Incredible Shrinking Dickies\n\nThe Incredible Shrinking Dickies is the debut studio album by the California punk band The Dickies. It peaked at #18 on the UK album charts. The album included the group's notable cover of Black Sabbath's \"Paranoid\", which reached No. 45 in the UK charts in July 1979. It was pressed on four different colors of vinyl (blue, yellow, orange, black) and was produced by John Hewlett, who in the late 1960s was a member of the UK garagepunk quartet John's Children.\n\n\n\n\nProduction:\n"}
{"id": "2025593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025593", "title": "Otto Weddigen", "text": "Otto Weddigen\n\nOtto Eduard Weddigen (15 September 1882 – 18 March 1915) was a German U-boat commander during World War I.\n\nHe was born in Herford, in the Prussian Province of Westphalia and started his military career in the \"Kaiserliche Marine\" in 1901. In 1910 he was given command of one of the first German submarines, .\nIn the Action of 22 September 1914, while patrolling in the region of the southern North Sea known to the British as the \"Broad Fourteens\", \"U-9\" intercepted the three warships of the Seventh Cruiser Squadron. Weddigen fired off all six of his torpedoes, reloaded while submerged, and in less than an hour sank the three British armoured cruisers HMS \"Aboukir\", HMS \"Hogue\" and HMS \"Cressy\". Sixty two officers and 1,397 men were killed, only 837 survived. Weddigen was awarded the Iron Cross, second and first class.\n\nAfter sinking HMS \"Hawke\" and some merchant ships, Weddigen received Prussia's highest military order, the Pour le Mérite.\nHe also received the highest military honours of the other kingdoms of the German Empire: The Knight's Cross of the Military Order of Max Joseph of the Bavaria (making him one of only six non-Bavarians to receive this), the Knight's Cross of Saxony's Military Order of St. Henry and the Knight's Cross of Württemberg's Military Merit Order.\n\nWeddigen died while commanding the submarine . On 18 March 1915 \"U-29\" was rammed by the British battleship HMS \"Dreadnought\" in the Pentland Firth. U-29 had broken the surface immediately ahead of \"Dreadnought\" after firing a torpedo at HMS \"Neptune\" and \"Dreadnought\" cut the submarine in two after a short chase. There were no survivors from the submarine.\n\nDuring the inter-war period, the resurgent Wehrmacht named a newly built barracks in Herford as Otto-Weddigen-Kaserne (renamed Harewood Barracks) in his honour due to the linkage with Weddigen's birthplace. Although the Wehrmacht unit housed inside the barracks was not naval - it was Panzer Abwehr Abteilung 6, an Army anti-tank unit - the occupants of the barracks nevertheless signified the naval connection to Weddigen by placing two large anchors at the base of a large National Socialist Reichsadler at the entrance to the barracks. Ironically, ever since 1945 the barracks has been occupied by British Army soldiers from the Royal Corps of Signals. The barracks is scheduled to close with the eventual withdrawal of all remaining British Forces in Germany in 2020.\n"}
{"id": "2025595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025595", "title": "Sir John Swinburne, 7th Baronet", "text": "Sir John Swinburne, 7th Baronet\n\nSir John Swinburne, 7th Baronet (1831 – 15 July 1914) was a British Baronet and Liberal politician.\n\nThe third son of Edward Swinburne and his wife Anna Antonia Sutton, a granddaughter of Sir Richard Sutton, 1st Baronet, he succeeded his grandfather Sir John Edward Swinburne, 6th Baronet in 1860.\n\nSwinburne was High Sheriff of Northumberland in 1866 and the Member of Parliament for Lichfield, Staffordshire, between 1885 and 1892. In the 1895 general election he stood as the parliamentary candidate for the Liberal Party in Newbury, but was not elected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025596", "title": "Ber Sarai", "text": "Ber Sarai\n\nBer Sarai is a small neighbourhood located between Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and IIT Delhi in the South West district of Delhi, India. The farmlands of Ber Sarai village were acquired by the government at meagre costs, without adequate compensation or \"muavaza\" (मुआवज़ा) to the villagers. \n\nThe nearest road is an undivided and wide link between the Outer Ring Road and other areas of outer Delhi, such as Vasant Kunj. As this road forms a conduit, it sees heavy vehicular traffic in both directions. Ber Sarai is approximately 25 minutes by car from the Indira Gandhi International Airport.\n\nThe neighbourhood comprises two distinct sections: Ber Sarai Village and Ber Sarai Delhi Development Authority (DDA) Flats. The village shares a wall with the hostels of IIT Delhi and is, at present, a dense collection of houses mixed with shops. The Ber Sarai has a market, which is famous for both new and second-hand books. The nearest metro station is R.K. Puram metro station (on Magenta Line).\n\nThe Ber Sarai neighbourhood is included within the \"Outer Delhi\" electoral constituency of Delhi. This constituency has been the battleground of two candidates over the years: Ramesh Kumar of the Congress (I), who replaced his brother Sajjan Kumar (a senior leader of congress party and ex Member of Parliament) and Sher Singh Dagar Ex MLA of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Naresh Yadav of the Aam Aadmi Party is the current MLA of this area.\n"}
{"id": "2025605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025605", "title": "Tweedmouth", "text": "Tweedmouth\n\nTweedmouth is part of the town of Berwick-upon-Tweed in Northumberland, England. It is located on the south bank of the River Tweed and is connected to Berwick town centre, on the north bank, by two road bridges and a railway bridge. Tweedmouth has historically always been part of England, in contrast to the walled town of Berwick which came under Scottish control for several periods in the Middle Ages. The local nickname for people from Tweedmouth is \"\"Twempies\".\"\n\nTweedmouth is part of Berwick-upon-Tweed Town Council, which also includes neighbouring Spittal. It is in the parliamentary constituency of Berwick-upon-Tweed. The unitary authority for the area is Northumberland County Council. It was historically part of Islandshire, which was an exclave of County Durham, before becoming a hundred of Northumberland in 1844.\n\nIn an annual ceremony dating back to 1292, Tweedmouth schools elect a \"Salmon Queen\" to mark the start of \"Salmon Week\", a traditional celebration which dates to medieval times. The event is a reminder that Tweedmouth has a long history of salmon fishing on the river. There is a procession from Berwick town hall across the Old Bridge to Tweedmouth where the incoming \"Salmon Queen\" is crowned. \n\nThe parish church of St Bartholomew and St Boisil dates to the late 18th century. It stands on the site of an earlier church built in 1145, which was in turn on the site of an earlier 7th century church. The church's weather-vane is in the form of a salmon.\n\nThe most obvious historic landmark is the 15-arched Old Bridge, built of local sandstone in 1610. The bridge was built by order of James VI and I, and formed part of the Great North Road between London and Edinburgh. The Old Bridge still carries traffic across the River Tweed. The Royal Tweed Bridge and Royal Border Railway Bridge also span the river at Tweedmouth, the latter being opened by Queen Victoria in 1850.\n\nThe Tweed Dock officially opened in October 1876, replacing the older port on the north bank of the river which had become inadequate. Following improvement works in 1993 vessels with a maximum beam of 16 metres are now able to enter the dock. Due to its geographical location the port primarily handles cargoes linked to the agricultural industry, with fertilisers, malting barley, feed barley and oilseed rape the principal commodities.\n\nBerwick Rangers football club plays at Shielfield Park in Tweedmouth. The stadium also hosts motorcycle speedway, in the form of Berwick Bandits. The neighbouring ground of Old Shielfield Park is home to Tweedmouth Rangers F.C., who play in the East of Scotland Football League. \"The Swan Leisure Centre\" is a multi-purpose leisure facility with a swimming pool, gym, sports hall and all-weather outdoor pitch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025607", "title": "Australian Aboriginal cricket team in England in 1868", "text": "Australian Aboriginal cricket team in England in 1868\n\nIn 1868, a cricket team composed of Aboriginal Australians toured England between May and October of that year, thus becoming the first organised group of Australian sportspeople to travel overseas. It would be another ten years before an Australian cricket team classed as representative would leave the country.\n\nThe concept of an Aboriginal cricket team can be traced to cattle stations in the Western District of Victoria, where, in the mid-1860s, European pastoralists introduced Aboriginal station hands to the sport. An Aboriginal XI was created with the assistance of Tom Wills—captain of the Victoria cricket team and founder of Australian rules football—who acted as the side's captain-coach in the lead-up to and during an 1866–67 tour of Victoria and New South Wales. Several members of this team joined what would become the Aboriginal XI that toured England under the captaincy of Englishman Charles Lawrence.\n\nInternational sporting contact was rare in this era. Previously, only three cricket teams had travelled abroad, all English: to the United States and Canada in 1859, and to Australia in 1861–62 and 1863–64.\n\nIn the Western District of Victoria from the early 1860s onwards, cricket matches took place on cattle stations between Aborigines and European settlers. Many Aborigines were employed as stockmen by local station owners. The Aborigines were admired for their athletic skills, and in early 1866, a series of matches were staged with the intention of selecting the strongest possible Aboriginal XI.\n\nThe resulting team was initially coached by local pastoralist William Hayman. Coaching duties were later turned over to Tom Wills, captain of the Victoria cricket team and founder of Australian rules football, who spoke to the team in an Aboriginal language he learnt as a child growing up in the Western District among the Djab Wurrung people. Wills' decision to join and help the team has been a source of intrigue, given that only five years earlier, he survived a massacre in Queensland in which his father and 18 other settlers were murdered by local Aborigines. \"It was always a matter of wonder how Tom could be friendly with the blacks, considering that they murdered his father\", recalled one sportswriter.\n\nOn Boxing Day 1866, in front of over 10,000 spectators, Wills captained the team against the Melbourne Cricket Club at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. \"Bell's Life in Victoria\" reported: \"Seldom has a match created more excitement in Melbourne than the one under notice, and never within our recollection has a match given rise to so much feeling on behalf of the spectators.\" \"The veteran Wills never captained an eleven who so thoroughly possessed the sympathies of the spectators,\" wrote a Melbourne correspondent for \"The Sydney Mail\". \"A dark skin suddenly became a passport to the good graces of Victorians.\" Although they lost to the MCC, the Aborigines were commended for their performance, and showed marked improvement on a subsequent tour of country Victoria.\n\nAn entrepreneur, Captain Gurnett, persuaded the team to travel to Sydney to begin a planned tour of the colonies and England. However, after their arrival in Sydney in February 1867, Gurnett embezzled some of the funds raised to finance the enterprise, leaving the team stranded. The team was looked after by Charles Lawrence at his Manly Hotel, he organized a number of games completing a tour of New South Wales before returning to Victoria in May. Four players succumbed to the effects of illness: Sugar and Watty died on tour while Jellico and Paddy died shortly afterward.\n\nIn 1867 Charles Lawrence was contracted to Captain/Coach Australia's 'First Eleven' that toured England in 1868. Lawrence played for Surrey, 1855 the all Ireland X1, 1862 the all England X1,1863 he was contracted to be the first professional cricket coach in New South Wales, he first saw the indigenous team under the instructions of Tom Wills who played a match at the Albert Ground Sydney. On this occasion there was some contract disagreement between the failed sponsor Gurnett and Tom Wills, the players were left in Sydney. Charles Lawrence was instructed to look after the aboriginal players. At this time Charles was a publican and billeted the players in his hotel in Manly until he could arrange some cricket matches to raise money to return the players to the western district of Victoria. In 1867 he trained the players for two months at \"Lake Wallace\" in Edenhope in the Western District before selecting the below side to tour England in 1868.\nThe tour was financed by Sydney Lawyer George Graham along with his cousin George Smith (ex-mayor of Sydney)and William Hayman they all travelled to England for the tour.\n\nDuring June, King Cole died from tuberculosis and was buried in Tower Hamlets in London. Sundown and Jim Crow went home in August due to ill-health.\n\nThe team arrived in London on 13 May 1868 and were met with a degree of fascination - that being the period of the evolutionary controversies following publication of Charles Darwin's \"The Origin of Species\" in 1859. Reaction was mixed. \"The Times\" described the tourists as, \"a travestie upon cricketing at Lord's\", and, \"the conquered natives of a convict colony.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" said of Australia that, \"nothing of interest comes from there except gold nuggets and black cricketers.\"\n\nThe first match was played at The Oval on 25 May in London and attracted 20,000 spectators. Presumably many of these spectators attended out of curiosity to see members of a strange-looking race perform athletically rather than merely to savour a cricket contest. \"The Times\" reported: \"Their hair and beards are long and wiry, their skins vary in shades of blackness, and most of them have broadly expanded nostrils. Having been brought up in the bush to agricultural pursuits under European settlers, they are perfectly civilised and are quite familiar with the English language.\"\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" wrote: It is highly interesting and curious, to see mixed in a friendly game on the most historically Saxon part of our island, representatives of two races so far removed from each other as the modern Englishman and the Aboriginal Australian. Although several of them are native bushmen, and all are as black as night, these Indian fellows are to all intents and purposes, clothed and in their right minds.\n\nAltogether, the Aborigines played 47 matches throughout England over a period of six months, winning 14, losing 14 and drawing 19; a good result that surprised many at the time. Their skills were said to range from individuals who were exceptional athletes down to two or three other team members who hardly contributed at all. The outstanding player was Johnny Mullagh. He scored 1,698 runs and took 245 wickets. An admired English fast bowler of the time, George Tarrant, bowled to Mullagh during a lunch interval and later said, \"I have never bowled to a better batsman.\"\n\nIn addition to playing cricket, the Aborigines frequently put on an exhibition of boomerang and spear throwing at the conclusion of a match. Dick-a-Dick would also hold a narrow parrying shield and invite people to throw cricket balls at him, which he warded off with the shield. The Aborigines were narrowly beaten in a cricket-ball-throwing competition by an emerging English all-rounder of star quality, 20-year-old W. G. Grace, who threw 118 yards.\n\nThe team arrived back in Sydney in February 1869. They played a match against a military team the following month, then split up. Twopenny later moved to New South Wales and played for the colony against Victoria in 1870. Cuzens died of dysentery the following year. Mullagh was employed as a professional with the Melbourne Cricket Club and represented Victoria against the touring English team in 1879, when he top scored in the second innings.\n\nThe Central Board for Aborigines ruled in 1869 that it would be illegal to remove any Aborigine from the colony of Victoria without the approval of the government minister. This effectively curtailed the involvement of Aborigines in the game.\n\nIn May 1988 a team of Aboriginal players, captained by John McGuire, toured England to mark the Australian Bicentenary, retracing the steps of the original tour.\n\n\nIn 2002, Charles Lawrence's Great Great Grandson Ian Friend, historians and cricketers, including Test great Ian Chappell, successfully campaigned to have the Aboriginal XI recognised in the Sport Australia Hall of Fame Ian Friend and Jack Kennedy (decedent of Johnny Cuzens) both proudly accepted the award on behalf of the team. Also that year, a documentary film about the team titled \"A Fine Body of Gentlemen\" was broadcast by the ABC.\n\nAustralia sent men's and women's Aboriginal teams to England in June 2018, to mark the 150th anniversary of the tour.\n\nA play about the cricketers called \"Black Cockatoo\", written by Geoffrey Atherden and employing an all-Aboriginal cast, was staged at the 2020 Sydney Festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025612", "title": "Pilegesh", "text": "Pilegesh\n\nPilegesh () is a Hebrew term for a concubine with similar social and legal standing to a recognized wife.\n\nThe term \"pilegesh\" appears to be an Indo-European loanword related to \"pallakis\", meaning concubine.\n\nIn Modern Hebrew, \"pilegesh\" is often used as the equivalent of English \"mistress\"—i.e. the female partner in extramarital relations even when these relations have no legal recognition.\n\nSeveral biblical figures had concubines when they were not able to create natural children with their wives. The most famous example of this was with Abraham and Sarah. Sarah gave her maidservant Hagar to Abraham while maintaining ownership of both maidservant and offspring. Their union produced Ishmael. Hagar gained the status of full wife in regards to Abraham, but nonetheless Sarah retained the status of main wife. \nThis type of \"pilegesh\" is recorded in Jewish sources as being a singular case. All later cases of \"pilegesh \" recognized the \"pilegesh\" and guaranteed similar rights in the house as the legitimate wife.\n\nSince having children in Judaism was considered a great blessing, legitimate wives often gave their maids to their husbands so they could have children with them when those women themselves were childless, as in the cases of Leah and Zilpah and Rachel and Bilhah. The concubine commanded the same respect and inviolability as the wife, and it was regarded as the deepest dishonor for the man to whom she belonged if hands were laid upon her. Even in the exceptional case of Sarah and Hagar, Abraham would have been obligated to treat Hagar as a full wife and she would have been treated as an equal by Abraham. Sarah's rights would have been regarding the technical legal status of being considered the inheritor and since the other wife and offspring would have been hers by ownership she became the legal albeit not biological mother of Ishmael.\n\nAccording to the Babylonian Talmud (Sanhedrin 21a), the difference between a \"pilegesh\" and a full wife was that the latter received a marriage contract (\"ketubah\") and her marriage (\"nissu'in\") was preceded by a formal betrothal (\"kiddushin\"), which was not the case with the former. According to Rabbi Judah, however, the \"pilegesh\" should also receive a marriage contract, but without including a clause specifying a divorce settlement.\n\nCertain Jewish thinkers, such as Maimonides, believed that concubines are strictly reserved for kings, and thus that a commoner may not have a concubine; indeed, such thinkers argued that commoners may not engage in any type of sexual relations outside of a marriage. Maimonides was not the first Jewish thinker to criticise concubinage; for example, it is severely condemned in Leviticus Rabbah. Other Jewish thinkers, such as Nachmanides, Samuel ben Uri Shraga Phoebus, and Jacob Emden, strongly object to the idea that concubines should be forbidden.\n\nAny offspring created as a result of a union between a \"pilegesh\" and a man were on equal legal footing with children of the man and his wife. \n\nAccording to Rabbi Mnachem Risikoff, the institution of \"pilegesh\" is an alternative to formal marriage which does not have the same requirements for a \"get\" upon the dissolution of the relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025621", "title": "Yoshiko Yamaguchi", "text": "Yoshiko Yamaguchi\n\nEarly in her career, the Manchukuo Film Association concealed her Japanese origin and she went by the Chinese name Li Xianglan, rendered in Japanese as Ri Kōran. This allowed her to represent China in Japanese propaganda movies. After the war, she appeared in Japanese movies under her real name, Yamaguchi Yoshiko, as well as in several English language movies under the stage name, Shirley Yamaguchi.\n\nShe was elected as a member of the Japanese parliament in the 1970s and served for 18 years. After retiring from politics, she served as vice president of the Asian Women's Fund.\n\nShe was born on 12 February 1920 to Japanese parents, and , who were then settlers in Fushun, Manchuria, Republic of China. She was born in a coal mining residential area in Dengta, Liaoyang.\n\nFumio Yamaguchi was an employee of the South Manchuria Railway. From an early age, Yoshiko was exposed to Mandarin Chinese. Fumio Yamaguchi had some influential Chinese acquaintances, among whom were Li Jichun () and Pan Yugui (). By Chinese custom for those who became sworn brothers, they also became Yoshiko's \"godfathers\" (also known as \"nominal fathers\") and gave her two Chinese names, Li Xianglan (Li Hsiang-lan) and Pan Shuhua (). (\"Shu\" in Shuhua and \"Yoshi\" in Yoshiko are written with the same Chinese character). Yoshiko later used the former name as a stage name and assumed the latter name while she was staying with the Pan family in Beijing.\n\nAs a youth Yoshiko suffered a bout of tuberculosis. In order to strengthen her breathing, the doctor recommended voice lessons. Her father initially insisted on traditional Japanese music, but Yoshiko preferred Western music and thus received her initial classical vocal education from an Italian dramatic soprano (Madame Podresov, married into White Russian nobility). She later received schooling in Beijing, polishing her Mandarin, accommodated by the Pan family. She was a coloratura soprano.\n\nYoshiko made her debut as an actress and singer in the 1938 film \"Honeymoon Express\" (蜜月快車), by Manchuria Film Production. She was billed as Li Hsiang-lan, pronounced Ri Kōran in Japanese. The adoption of a Chinese stage name was prompted by the film company's economic and political motives—a Manchurian girl who had command over both the Japanese and Chinese languages was sought after. From this she rose to be a star and \"Japan-Manchuria Goodwill Ambassadress\" (日滿親善大使). The head of the Manchukuo film industry, General Masahiko Amakasu decided she was the star he was looking for: a beautiful actress fluent in both Mandarin and Japanese who could pass as Chinese and who had an excellent singing voice. \n\nThe Chinese actors who appeared in the Manchuria Film Productions films were never informed that she was Japanese, but they suspected she was at least half Japanese as she always ate her meals with the Japanese actors instead of with the Chinese actors, was given white rice to eat instead of the sorghum given to the Chinese and was paid ten times more than the Chinese actors were. Though in her subsequent films she was almost exclusively billed as Li Xianglan, she appeared in a few as \"Yamaguchi Yoshiko.\" \n\nMany of her films bore some degree of promotion of the Japanese national policy (in particular pertaining to the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere ideology) and can be termed \"National Policy Films\" (). While promoting Manchurian interests in Tokyo, Yoshiko would meet Kenichiro Matsuoka, future television executive and son of Japanese diplomat Yōsuke Matsuoka, whom she would write in her biography \"\"Ri Kōran: My Half Life\"\", to be her first love. Although she had hopes of marriage, he was still a student at Tokyo Imperial University and not interested in settling down at the time. They would meet again after the war, at which time Kenichiro attempted to rekindle the relationship, but by then, Yamaguchi was already involved with the architect Isamu Noguchi. \n\nThe 1940 film \"China Nights\" (支那の夜), also known as \"Shanghai Nights\" (), by Manchuria Film Productions, is especially controversial. It is unclear whether it was a \"National Policy Film\" as it portrays Japanese soldiers in both positive and negative lights. In this film, Li Xianglan played a young woman of extreme anti-Japanese sentiment who falls in love with a Japanese man. A key turning point in the film has the young Chinese woman being slapped by the Japanese man, but instead of hatred, she reacts with gratitude. The film was met with great aversion among the Chinese audience as they believed that the Chinese female character was a sketch of debasement and inferiority. 23,000 Chinese people paid to see the film in 1943. But after the war, one of her classic songs, \"Suzhou Serenade\" (蘇州夜曲), was banned in China and continues to be. A few years later when confronted by angry Chinese reporters in Shanghai, Yoshiko apologized and cited as pretext her inexperienced youth at the time of filmmaking, choosing not to reveal her Japanese identity. Though her Japanese nationality was never divulged in the Chinese media until after the Sino-Japanese War, it was brought to light by the Japanese press when she performed in Japan under her assumed Chinese name and as the Japan-Manchuria Goodwill Ambassadress. Oddly enough, when she visited Japan during this period, she was criticized for being too Chinese in dress and in language. \n\nIn 1943, Yoshiko appeared in the film \"Eternity\". The film was shot in Shanghai commemorating the centennial of the Opium War. A few top Chinese stars in Shanghai also appeared in the film and consequently endured the repercussions of controversy. Though the film, anti-British in nature, was a collaboration between Chinese and Japanese film companies, its anti-colonization undertone might also be interpreted as a satire of the Japanese expansion in east Asia. Despite all this, the film was a hit and Yoshiko became a national sensation. Her film theme songs with jazz/pop-like arrangements such as \"Candy-Peddling Song\" () and \"Quitting (Opium) Song\" () elevated her status to among the top singers in all Chinese-speaking regions in Asia overnight. Many songs recorded by Yoshiko during her Shanghai period became classics in Chinese popular music history. Other noteworthy hits include \"Evening Primrose / Fragrance of the Night\" (夜來香), \"Ocean Bird\" (海燕), \"If Only\" (恨不相逢未嫁時), and \"Second Dream\" (第二夢). By the 1940s, she had become one of the Seven great singing stars.\n\nAt the end of World War II she was arrested by the Chinese government for treason and collaboration with the Japanese. After her childhood Russian friend helped locate Yamaguchi's Japanese birth certificate, she was cleared of all charges and possibly the death penalty, since she was not a Chinese national after all. Before long in 1946, she resettled in Japan and launched a new acting career there under the name Yoshiko Yamaguchi, working with directors such as Akira Kurosawa. Several of her post-war films cast her in parts that dealt either directly or indirectly with her wartime persona as a bilingual and bicultural performer. For example in 1949, Shin-Toho studios produced \"Repatriation\" (歸國「ダモイ」), an omnibus film which told four stories about the struggles of Japanese trying to return to Japan from the Soviet Union after having been taken prisoner following the defeat. The following year, Yamaguchi starred with actor Ryō Ikebe in \"Escape at Dawn\" (曉の脫走) produced by Toho and based on the novel \"Shunpuden\" (春婦傳). In the book, her character was a prostitute in a military brothel, but for this film her character was rewritten as a frontline entertainer who falls into a tragic affair with a deserter (Ikebe). In 1952, Yamaguchi appeared in \"Woman of Shanghai\" (上海の女) in which she reprised her pre-war persona as a Japanese woman passing for Chinese, who becomes caught between the two cultures.\n\nIn the 1950s, she established her acting career as Shirley Yamaguchi in Hollywood and on Broadway (in the short-lived musical \"Shangri-La\") in the US. She married Japanese-American sculptor Isamu Noguchi in 1951. Yamaguchi was Japanese, but as someone who had grown up in China, she felt torn between two identities and later wrote she felt attracted to Noguchi as someone else who was torn between two identities. They divorced in 1956. She revived the Li Hsiang-lan name and appeared in several Chinese language films made in Hong Kong. Some of her 1950s Chinese films were destroyed in a studio fire and have not been seen since their initial releases. Her Mandarin hit songs from this period include \"Three Years\" (三年), \"Plum Blossom\" (梅花), \"Childhood Times\" (小時候), \"Only You\" (只有你), and \"Heart Song\" (心曲 – a cover of \"Eternally\").\n\nShe returned to Japan and after retiring from the world of film in 1958, she appeared as a hostess and anchorwoman on TV talk shows. As a result of her marriage to the Japanese diplomat Hiroshi Ōtaka, she lived for a while in Burma (modern Myanmar). They remained married until his death in 2001.\n\nIn 1969, she became the host of \"The Three O'Clock You\" (Sanji no anata) TV show on Fuji Television, reporting on the Israeli-Palestinian dispute as well as the Vietnam War. In the 1970s, Yamaguchi became very active in pro-Palestinian causes in Japan and personally favoring the Palestine Liberation Organization. In 1974, she was elected to the House of Councillors (the upper House of the Japanese parliament) as a member of the Liberal Democratic Party, where she served for 18 years (three terms). She co-authored the book \"Ri Kōran, Watashi no Hansei\" (Half My Life as Ri Kōran). She served as a Vice-President of the Asian Women's Fund. As part of the 1993 fall honors list, she was decorated with the Gold and Silver Star of the Order of the Sacred Treasure, Second Class.\n\nYamaguchi was considered by many Chinese in the post-World War II period to be a Japanese spy and thus a traitor to the Chinese people. This misconception was caused in part by Yamaguchi passing herself off as Chinese throughout the 1930s and 1940s. Her Japanese identity not being officially revealed until her post-war persecution nearly led to her execution as a Chinese traitor. She had always expressed her guilt for taking part in Japanese propaganda films in the early days of her acting career. Because of this, she did not visit China for about 20 years after the war, since she felt that the Chinese had not forgiven her. During the Cultural Revolution, Jiang Qing particularly refused to acknowledge that Yamaguchi had been a big star in the Shanghai era in the 1930s and 1940s, and thus Yamaguchi's material was also denounced as capitalist and against Maoism. Despite her controversial past, Li Xianglan influenced future singers who covered her evergreen hits (such as Teresa Teng, Fei Yu-Ching and Winnie Wei 韋秀嫻). Jacky Cheung recorded a cover of Kōji Tamaki's \"行かないで\" (\"Ikanaide\") and renamed it \"Lei Hoeng Laan.\" (The original version does not have any references to Li Xianglan and nor does the remake. The Chinese title instead refers to the unknowable quality and identity of the singer's lover.) In January 1991, a musical about her life was released in Tokyo, which generated controversy because its negative portrayal of Manchukuo upset many Japanese conservatives.\n\nYamaguchi was one of the first prominent Japanese citizens to acknowledge the history of Japanese brutality during the wartime occupation. She later campaigned for greater public awareness of that history and advocated paying reparations to so-called comfort women, Korean women who were forced into sex slavery by the Japanese military during the war.\n\nA recording of a 1950 concert performance in Sacramento, California was uncovered by a professor from the University of Chicago in 2012. The concert included six songs and was performed before an audience of Japanese Americans, many of whom had likely been interned during World War II. Speaking in 2012 about the concert, Yamaguchi said: \"I sang with hope that I could offer consolation to the Japanese-Americans, as I heard that they had gone through hardships during the war.\" She died at the age of 94 in Tokyo on September 7, 2014 exactly ten years after one of her fellow Seven great singing stars Gong Qiuxia.\n\nShe was credited as Shirley Yamaguchi in the Hollywood movies \"Japanese War Bride\" (1952) and \"House of Bamboo\" (1955). She was once nicknamed \"The Judy Garland of Japan\".\n\nOther names used as movie actress:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025622", "title": "CAL Cargo Air Lines", "text": "CAL Cargo Air Lines\n\nCAL Cargo Airlines Ltd. () is an all cargo airline with its corporate headquarters in the Airport City development of Ben Gurion International Airport, Israel. \n\nThe airline operates daily scheduled cargo flights and charter services carrying nonstandard goods and general cargo internationally. Its main base is Ben Gurion Airport, serving Tel Aviv, and it has a hub at Liège Airport (Belgium). The airline carries approximately 100,000 tons of cargo annually including all categories of nonstandard cargo: temperature controlled pharmaceutical and healthcare products, live animals, dangerous goods, oversize and overweight cargo, fresh perishable products and valuable goods including fine art.\n\nCAL was established in June 1976, starting charter operations in November of that year. Originally, the airline leased aircraft from El Al as required; however, on 1 December 1999, it began operating scheduled services using its own aircraft following receipt of Israeli government licences issued in early 1999.\n\nIn 1997, CAL purchased LACHS cargo terminal in Belgium (Liege Airport Cargo Handling Services), which is still fully owned and operated by CAL, and caters to CAL's specialty in nonstandard cargo. In 2010, CAL was purchased privately by Offer Gilboa and expanded its flight operations to include daily flights to and from JFK/TLV.\n\nIn 2019, the airline made news headlines for buying a Boeing 747 on eBay for around US $3 million.\n\nCAL Cargo Air Lines operates freight services to the following scheduled destinations (as of November 2019). Additionally, CAL Cargo Air Lines supplements its own services across the North Atlantic with ACE Belgium Freighters.\n\nThe CAL Cargo Air Lines fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of February 2020):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025624", "title": "Estadio Olímpico Universitario", "text": "Estadio Olímpico Universitario\n\nEstadio Olímpico Universitario is a multi-purpose stadium located in Ciudad Universitaria, Mexico City. It was built in 1952 and at that time was the largest stadium in Mexico. This stadium has a capacity of 72,000. The first major event held in the stadium was the 1955 Pan American Games. During the 1950s and the 1960s this stadium was used mostly for college American football matches between the largest Mexican public universities at the time: UNAM and IPN. From the late 1950s it was used for football matches, some American football matches and athletics. American architect Frank Lloyd Wright called it \"the most important building in the modern America\".\n\nThe Olímpico Universitario hosted the 1968 Summer Olympics; for the event the seating capacity was increased from 70,000 to 83,700 spectators (without substantially modifying the original structure) to cover the IOC requirements for an Olympic stadium. It was the location of the track and field competitions, equestrian events, certain association football matches, the arrival of the marathon and the opening and closing ceremonies. This was the Olympics in which Tommie Smith and John Carlos protested against the treatment of African Americans in the United States by performing a black power salute during the medal ceremony for the 200 metres. The stadium also hosted the track and field events at the 1975 Pan American Games.\n\nThe stadium hosted four games of the 1986 FIFA World Cup, but the final match was played in the bigger Estadio Azteca in Mexico City.\n\nThe Tartan track was the first All-weather running track to be used in the Olympics. Such a track is now a requirement.\n\nNow it is the home stadium of Club Universidad Nacional and American football team Pumas Dorados de la UNAM.\n\nDuring the final matches of the Mexican football league between Club América and UNAM Pumas in 1985 the authorities of the UNAM Pumas allowed more spectators into Estadio Olímpico Universitario than the capacity allowed for the building. During the attempt of the fans to get to the pitch in one of the access tunnels (the tunnel number 29) a number of people got stuck and ended with the death of 11 people and several others injured.\n\nThis sport facility is part of the Ciudad Universitaria (\"University City\"), the main campus of the UNAM.\n\nIt is the work of architects Augusto Pérez, Raúl Salinas and Jorge Bravo Moro. The \"Estadio Universitario, original name, was built specifically for the former practice of football.\nOn the east side of University Olympic Stadium, is a mural by Diego Rivera, called \"The University, the Mexican family, peace and youth sports. In the construction of the relief in natural colored stones shows the university shield, with the condor and the eagle on a cactus. Under their wings outstretched, Rivera placed three figures representing the family: the father and the mother giving the dove of peace to his son. At the extremes are two gigantic figures that correspond to some athletes, male and female, who light the torch of Olympic flame. A huge feathered serpent, the symbolic image of the pre-Hispanic god Quetzalcoatl, complements the composition at the bottom.\n\nDiego Rivera had planned to cover the entire outside of the stadium with designs similar to this, but the artist's death prevented him.\n\nThe asymmetric shape of the stands of the stadium-side with the more developed west-emphasizes the final composition of the joint project of the University City, which finished off its axis and principal, the stands closest to the Avenida Insurgentes, emphasizes the sense league stadium to the rest of the set.\n\nMuch like the Olympic cauldron on top of the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum peristyle, the upper deck on one sideline is topped by an Olympic cauldron that was installed for the Olympic Games. The other sideline is topped by a press box.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025629", "title": "GWF North American Heavyweight Championship", "text": "GWF North American Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe GWF North American Heavyweight Championship was the major title in the Global Wrestling Federation in Texas. The title existed from 1991 until 1994, when GWF closed. The title was featured on the promotion's show that aired nationally on ESPN.\n\nThe GWF North American Heavyweight Championship Tournament was a twenty-four man tournament for the inaugural GWF North American Heavyweight Championship held on August 9 and August 10, 1991. The Patriot defeated Al Perez in the final to win the tournament.\n"}
{"id": "2025632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025632", "title": "Superalloy", "text": "Superalloy\n\nA superalloy, or high-performance alloy, is an alloy with the ability to operate at a high fraction of its melting point. Several key characteristics of a superalloy are excellent mechanical strength, resistance to thermal creep deformation, good surface stability, and resistance to corrosion or oxidation.\n\nThe crystal structure is typically face-centered cubic (FCC) austenitic. Examples of such alloys are Hastelloy, Inconel, Waspaloy, Rene alloys, Incoloy, MP98T, TMS alloys, and CMSX single crystal alloys.\n\nSuperalloy development has relied heavily on both chemical and process innovations. Superalloys develop high temperature strength through solid solution strengthening and precipitation strengthening from secondary phase precipitates such as gamma prime and carbides. Oxidation or corrosion resistance is provided by elements such as aluminium and chromium. Superalloys are often cast as a single crystal—while grain boundaries may provide strength at low temperatures, they decrease creep resistance.\n\nThe primary application for such alloys is in aerospace and marine turbine engines. Creep is typically the lifetime-limiting factor in gas turbine blades.\n\nBecause these alloys are intended for high temperature applications (i.e. holding their shape at temperatures near their melting point) their creep and oxidation resistance are of primary importance. Nickel (Ni) based superalloys have emerged as the material of choice for these applications because of their unique γ' precipitates. The properties of these Ni based superalloys can be tailored to a certain extent through the addition of many other elements, both common and exotic, including not only metals, but also metalloids and nonmetals; chromium, iron, cobalt, molybdenum, tungsten, tantalum, aluminium, titanium, zirconium, niobium, rhenium, yttrium, vanadium, carbon, boron or hafnium are some examples of the alloying additions used. Each of these additions has been chosen to serve a particular purpose in optimizing the properties for high temperature application.\n\nCreep resistance is dependent, in part, on slowing the speed of dislocation motion within a crystal structure. In modern Ni based superalloys, the γ’-Ni(Al,Ti) phase present acts as a barrier to dislocation motion. For this reason, this γ’ intermetallic phase, when present in high volume fractions, drastically increases the strength of these alloys due to its ordered nature and high coherency with the γ matrix. The chemical additions of aluminum and titanium promote the creation of the γ’ phase. The γ’ phase size can be precisely controlled by careful precipitation strengthening heat treatments. Many superalloys are produced using a two-phase heat treatment that creates a dispersion of cuboidal γ’ particles known as the primary phase, with a fine dispersion between these known as secondary γ’. In order to improve the oxidation resistance of these alloys, Al, Cr, B, and Y are added. The Al and Cr form oxide layers that passivate the surface and protect the superalloy from further oxidation while B and Y are used to improve the adhesion of this oxide scale to the substrate. Cr, Fe, Co, Mo and Re all preferentially partition to the γ matrix while Al, Ti, Nb, Ta, and V preferentially partition to the γ’ precipitates and solid solution strengthen the matrix and precipitates respectively. In addition to solid solution strengthening, if grain boundaries are present, certain elements are chosen for grain boundary strengthening. B and Zr tend to segregate to the grain boundaries which reduces the grain boundary energy and results in better grain boundary cohesion and ductility. Another form of grain boundary strengthening is achieved through the addition of C and a carbide former, such as Cr, Mo, W, Nb, Ta, Ti, or Hf, which drives precipitation of carbides at grain boundaries and thereby reduces grain boundary sliding.\n\nWhile Ni-based superalloys are excellent high temperature materials and have proven very useful, Co-based superalloys potentially possess superior hot corrosion, oxidation, and wear resistance as compared to Ni-based superalloys. For this reason, efforts have also been put into developing Co-based superalloys over the past several years. Despite that, traditional Co-based superalloys have not found widespread usage because they have a lower strength at high temperature than Ni-based superalloys. The main reason for this is that—until recently—they appeared to lack the γ’ precipitation strengthening that is so important in the high temperature strength of Ni-based superalloys. A 2006 report on metastable γ’-Co(Al,W) intermetallic compound with the L1 structure suggests Co based alloys as alternative to traditional Ni based superalloys. However this class of alloys was reported in a PhD thesis by C. S. Lee in 1971. The two-phase microstructure consists of cuboidal γ’ precipitates embedded in a continuous γ matrix and is therefore morphologically identical to the microstructure observed in Ni based superalloys. Like in the Ni-based system, there is a high degree of coherency between the two phases which is one of the main factors resulting in the superior strength at high temperatures. This provides a pathway for the development of a new class of load-bearing Co-based superalloys for application in severe environments. In these alloys, W is the crucial addition for forming the γ’ intermetallic compound; this makes them much denser (>9.6 g/cm compared to Ni-based superalloys. Recently a new class of γ - γ’ cobalt based superalloys have been developed that are W-free and have much lower density comparable to nickel based superalloys. In addition to the fact that many of the properties of these new Co-based superalloys could be better than those of the more traditional Ni-based ones, Co also has a higher melting temperature than Ni. Therefore, if the high temperature strength could be improved, the development of novel Co based superalloys could allow for an increase in jet engine operation temperature resulting in an increased efficiency.\n\nAdding new elements is usually good because of solid solution strengthening, but engineers need to be careful about which phases precipitate. Precipitates can be classified as geometrically close-packed (GCP), topologically close-packed (TCP), or carbides. GCP phases are usually good for mechanical properties, but TCP phases are often deleterious. Because TCP phases are not truly close packed, they have few slip systems and are very brittle. They are additionally bad because they \"scavenge\" elements away from GCP phases. Many elements that are good for forming γ' or have great solid solution strengthening may precipitate TCPs. Engineers need to find the balance that promotes GCPs while avoiding TCPs.\n\nAn area of the alloy with TCP phase formation will be weak because \n\n\nThe main GCP phase is γ'. Almost all superalloys are Ni-based because of this phase. γ' is an ordered L1 (pronounced L-one-two), which means it has a certain atom on the face of the unit cell, and a certain atom on the corners of the unit cell. For Ni-based superalloys, that usually means Ni on the faces and Ti or Al on the corners.\n\nAnother \"good\" GCP phase is γ<nowiki>\"</nowiki>. It is also coherent with γ, but it dissolves at high temperatures.\n\nThe United States became interested in gas turbine development around 1905. From 1910-1915, austenitic ( γ phase) stainless steels were developed for the high temperatures in gas turbines. By 1929, 80Ni-20Cr alloy was the norm, with small additions of Ti an Al. Although early metallurgists did not know it yet, they were forming small γ' precipitates in Ni-based superalloys. These alloys quickly surpassed Fe- and Co-based superalloys, which were strengthened by carbides and solid solution strengthening.\n\nAlthough Cr was great for protecting the alloys from oxidation and corrosion up to 700 °C, metallurgists began decreasing Cr in favor of Al, which had oxidation resistance (but not corrosion resistance!) at much higher temperatures. The lack of Cr caused issues with hot corrosion, so coatings needed to be developed.\n\nAround 1950, vacuum melting became commercialized, which allowed metallurgists to create higher purity alloys with more precise composition. \n\nIn the 60s and 70s, metallurgists changed focus from alloy chemistry to alloy processing. Directional solidification was developed to allow columnar or even single-crystal turbine blades. Oxide dispersion strengthening could obtain very fine grains and superplasticity.\n\n\n\nHistorically, Co-based superalloys have depended on carbide precipitation and solid solution strengthening for mechanical properties. While these strengthening mechanisms are inferior to gamma prime (γ') precipitation strengthening, cobalt has a higher melting point than currently ubiquitous nickel-based superalloys and has superior hot corrosion resistance and thermal fatigue. As a result, carbide-strengthened Co-based superalloys are used in lower stress, higher temperature applications such as stationary vanes in gas turbines.\n\nHowever, recent research has shown that cobalt \"can\" exhibit the γ' phase. Actually, the first reported existence of γ' occurred in a 1971 PhD dissertation, but was never published. The γ/γ' microstructure was rediscovered and first published in 2006 by Sato et al. That γ' phase was Co(Al, W). It was furthermore found that Mo, Ti, Nb, V, and Ta partition to the γ' phase, while Fe, Mn, and Cr partition to the matrix γ.\n\nThe next family of Co-based superalloys was discovered in 2015 by Makineni et al. This family has a similar γ/γ' microstructure, but is tungsten-free and has a γ' phase of Co(Al,Mo,Nb). Since tungsten is a very heavy element, the elimination of tungsten makes Co-based alloys increasingly viable in turbines for aircraft, where low density is especially important.\n\nThe most recently discovered family of superalloys was computationally predicted in a high throughput study by Nyshadham et al. in 2017, and demonstrated in the lab by Reyes Tirado et al. in 2018. This γ' phase is again tungsten free and has the composition Co(Nb,V) and Co(Ta,V).\n\n\nThe use of steels in superalloy applications is of interest because certain steel alloys have showed creep and oxidation resistance similar to that of Ni-based superalloys, while being far less expensive to produce.\n\nGamma (γ): Like the phases found in Ni-based superalloys, Fe-based alloys feature a matrix phase of austenite iron (FCC). Alloying elements that are commonly found in these stainless steel alloys include: Al, B, C, Co, Cr, Mo, Ni, Nb, Si, Ti, W, and Y. While Al is introduced for its oxidation benefits, Al additions must be kept at low weight fractions (wt.%) because Al stabilizes a ferritic (BCC) primary phase matrix, which is an undesirable phase in superalloy microstructures, as it is inferior to the high temperature strength exhibited by an austenitic (FCC) primary phase matrix.\n\nGamma-prime (γ’): This phase is introduced as precipitates to strengthen the alloy. Like in Ni-based alloys, γ’-Ni3Al precipitates can be introduced with the proper balance of Al, Ni, Nb, and Ti additions.\n\nTwo major types of austenitic stainless steels exist and are characterized by the oxide layer that forms at the surface of the steel: chromia-forming or alumina-forming stainless steel. Chromia-forming stainless steel is the most common type of stainless steel produced. However, chromia-forming steels do not exhibit high creep resistance at high operating temperatures, especially in environments with water vapor, when compared to Ni-based superalloys. Exposure to water vapor at high operating temperatures can result in an increase in internal oxidation in chromia-forming alloys and rapid formation of volatile Cr (oxy)hydroxides, both of which can reduce the durability and lifetime of the alloy.\n\nAlumina-forming austenitic stainless steels feature a single-phase matrix of austenite iron (FCC) with an alumina oxide at the surface of the steel. Alumina is more thermodynamically stable in oxygen than chromia. More commonly, however, precipitate phases are introduced to increase strength and creep resistance. In alumina-forming steels, NiAl precipitates are introduced to act as Al reservoirs to maintain the protective alumina layer. In addition, Nb and Cr additions help form and stabilize alumina by increasing precipitate volume fractions of NiAl.\n\nResearch endeavors for the development of alumina-forming, Fe-base superalloys have shown at least 5 grades of alumina-forming austenitic (AFA) alloys, with different operating temperatures at oxidation in air + 10% water vapor:\nOperating temperatures with oxidation in air and no water vapor are expected to be higher. In addition, an AFA superalloy grade was shown to exhibit a creep strength approaching that of the nickel-based alloy UNS N06617.\n\nIn pure NiAl phase atoms of aluminium are placed at the vertices of the cubic cell and form the sublattice A. Atoms of nickel are located at centers of the faces and form the sublattice B. The phase is not strictly stoichiometric. There may exist an excess of vacancies in one of the sublattices, which leads to deviations from stoichiometry. Sublattices A and B of the γ'-phase can solute a considerable proportion of other elements. The alloying elements are dissolved in the γ-phase as well. The γ'-phase hardens the alloy through an unusual mechanism called the yield strength anomaly. Dislocations dissociate in the γ'-phase, leading to the formation of an anti-phase boundary. At elevated temperature, the free energy associated with the anti-phase boundary (APB) is considerably reduced if it lies on a particular plane, which by coincidence is not a permitted slip plane. One set of partial dislocations bounding the APB cross-slips so that the APB lies on the low-energy plane, and, since this low-energy plane is not a permitted slip plane, the dissociated dislocation is now effectively locked. By this mechanism, the yield strength of γ'-phase NiAl actually \"increases\" with temperature up to about 1000 °C, giving superalloys their currently unrivaled high-temperature strength.\n\nInitial material selection for blade applications in gas turbine engines included alloys like the Nimonic series alloys in the 1940s. The early Nimonic series incorporated γ' Ni(Al,Ti) precipitates in a γ matrix, as well as various metal-carbon carbides (e.g. CrC) at the grain boundaries for additional grain boundary strength. Turbine blade components were forged until vacuum induction casting technologies were introduced in the 1950s. This process significantly improved cleanliness, reduced defects, and increased the strength and temperature capability of the material.\n\nModern superalloys were developed in the 1980s. The first generation superalloys incorporated increased aluminium, titanium, tantalum, and niobium content in order to increase the γ' volume fraction in these alloys. Examples of first generation superalloys include: PWA1480, René N4 and SRR99. Additionally, the volume fraction of the γ' precipitates increased to about 50–70% with the advent of single crystal, or monocrystal, solidification techniques (see Bridgman technique) for superalloys that enable grain boundaries to be entirely eliminated from a casting. Because the material contained no grain boundaries, carbides were unnecessary as grain boundary strengthers and were thus eliminated.\n\nThe second and third generation superalloys introduced about 3 and 6 weight per cent Rhenium, for increased temperature capability. Re is a slow diffuser and typically partitions to the γ matrix, decreasing the rate of diffusion (and thereby high temperature creep) and improving high temperature performance and increasing service temperatures by 30 °C and 60 °C in second and third generation superalloys, respectively. Re has also been shown to promote the formation of rafts of the γ' phase (as opposed to cuboidal precipitates). The presence of rafts can decrease creep rate in the power-law regime (controlled by dislocation climb), but can also potentially increase the creep rate if the dominant mechanism is particle shearing. Furthermore, Re tends to promote the formation of brittle TCP phases, which has led to the strategy of reducing Co, W, Mo, and particularly Cr. Younger generations of Ni-based superalloys have significantly reduced Cr content for this reason, however with the reduction in Cr comes a reduction in oxidation resistance. Advanced coating techniques are now used to offset the loss of oxidation resistance accompanying the decreased Cr contents. Examples of second generation superalloys include PWA1484, CMSX-4 and René N5. Third generation alloys include CMSX-10, and René N6. Fourth, Fifth, and even Sixth generation superalloys have been developed which incorporate ruthenium additions, making them more expensive still than the prior generation's Re-containing alloys. The effect of Ru on the promotion of TCP phases is not well-determined. Early reports determined that Ru decreased the supersaturation of Re in the matrix and thereby diminished the susceptibility to TCP phase formation. More recent studies have noted the opposite effect. Chen, et al., found that in two alloys differing significantly only in Ru content (USTB-F3 and USTB-F6) that the addition of Ru increased both the partitioning ratio as well as the supersaturation in the γ matrix of Cr and Re, and thereby promoted the formation of TCP phases.\n\nThe current trend is to avoid very expensive and very heavy elements. An example is Eglin steel, a budget material with compromised temperature range and chemical resistance. It does not contain rhenium or ruthenium and its nickel content is limited. To reduce fabrication costs, it was chemically designed to melt in a ladle (though with improved properties in a vacuum crucible). Also, conventional welding and casting is possible before heat-treatment. The original purpose was to produce high-performance, inexpensive bomb casings, but the material has proven widely applicable to structural applications, including armor.\n\nSingle-crystal superalloys (SX or SC superalloys) are formed as a single crystal using a modified version of the directional solidification technique, so there are no grain boundaries in the material. The mechanical properties of most other alloys depend on the presence of grain boundaries, but at high temperatures, they would participate in creep and must be replaced by other mechanisms. In many such alloys, islands of an ordered intermetallic phase sit in a matrix of disordered phase, all with the same crystalline lattice. This approximates the dislocation-pinning behavior of grain boundaries, without introducing any amorphous solid into the structure.\n\nSingle crystal (SX) superalloys have wide application in the high-pressure turbine section of aero and industrial gas turbine engines due to the unique combination of properties and performance. Since introduction of single crystal casting technology, SX alloy development has focused on increased temperature capability, and major improvements in alloy performance have been associated with the introduction of new alloying elements, including rhenium (Re) and ruthenium (Ru).\n\nWith increasing turbine entry temperature, it is important to gain a fundamental understanding of the physical phenomena occurring during creep deformation of single crystal superalloys under such extreme condition (i.e. high temperature and high stress). The creep deformation behavior of superalloy single crystal is strongly temperature, stress, orientation and alloy dependent. For a single-crystal superalloy, there are 3 different modes of creep deformation under regimes of different temperature and stress: Rafting, Tertiary and Primary. At low temperature (~750 °C), SX alloys exhibits mostly primary creep behavior. Matan et al. concluded that the extent of primary creep deformation depends strongly on the angle between the tensile axis and the <001>/<011> symmetry boundary. At temperature above 850 °C, tertiary creep dominates and promotes strain softening behavior. When temperature exceeds 1000 °C, the rafting effect is prevalent where cubic particles transform into flat shapes under tensile stress The rafts would also form perpendicular to the tensile axis, since γ phase was transported out of the vertical channels and into the horizontal ones. After conducting unaxial creep deformation of <001> orientated CMSX-4 single crystal superalloy at 1105 °C and 100 MPa, Reed et al. has established that rafting is beneficial to creep life since it delays evolution of creep strain. In addition, rafting would occur quickly and suppress the accumulation of creep strain until a critical strain is reached.\n\nFor superalloys operating at high temperatures and exposed to corrosive environments, the oxidation behavior is of paramount concern. Oxidation involves chemical reactions of the alloying elements with oxygen to form new oxide phases, generally at the surface of the metal. If unmitigated, oxidation can degrade the alloy over time in a variety of ways, including:\n\nThe primary strategy used to limit these deleterious processes is called selective oxidation. Simply, the alloy is designed such that the ratio of alloying elements promotes formation of a specific oxide phase that can then act as a barrier to further oxidation. Most commonly, aluminum and chromium are used in this role, because they form relatively thin and continuous oxide layers of alumina (Al2O3) and chromia (Cr2O3), respectively. Furthermore, they possess low oxygen diffusivities, effectively halting further oxidation beneath this layer. In the ideal case, oxidation proceeds through 2 stages. First, transient oxidation involves the conversion of various elements, especially the majority elements (e.g. nickel or cobalt). Transient oxidation proceeds until the selective oxidation of the sacrificial element forms a complete barrier layer.\n\nThe protective effect of selective oxidation can be undermined by numerous mechanisms. The continuity of the thin sacrificial oxide layer can be compromised by mechanical disruption due to stress or may be disrupted as a result of the kinetics of oxidation (e.g. if diffusion of oxygen is too fast). If the layer is not continuous, its effectiveness as a diffusion barrier to oxygen is significantly reduced. The stability of the oxide layer is also strongly influenced by the presence of other minority elements. For example, the addition of boron, silicon, and yttrium to superalloys promotes oxide layer adhesion, reducing spalling and maintaining the integrity of the protective oxide layer.\n\nOxidation is only the most basic form of chemical degradation superalloys may experience. More complex corrosion processes are common when operating environments include salts and sulfur compounds, or under chemical conditions that change dramatically over time. These issues and those of basic oxidation are often also addressed through thin coatings.\n\nThe historical developments in superalloy processing have brought about considerable increases in superalloy operating temperatures. Superalloys were originally iron based and cold wrought prior to the 1940s. In the 1940s investment casting of cobalt base alloys significantly raised operating temperatures. The development of vacuum melting in the 1950s allowed for very fine control of the chemical composition of superalloys and reduction in contamination and in turn led to a revolution in processing techniques such as directional solidification of alloys and single crystal superalloys.\n\nThere are many forms of superalloy present within a gas turbine engine, and processing methods vary widely depending on the necessary properties of each specific part.\n\nCasting and forging are traditional metallurgical processing techniques that can be used to generate both polycrystalline and monocrystalline products. Polycrystalline casts tend to have higher fracture resistance, while monocrystalline casts have higher creep resistance.\n\nJet turbine engines employ both poly and mono crystalline components to take advantage of their individual strengths. The disks of the high-pressure turbine, which are near the central hub of the engine are polycrystalline. The turbine blades, which extend radially into the engine housing, experience a much greater centripetal force, necessitating creep resistance. As a result, turbine blades are typically monocrystalline or polycrystalline with a preferred crystal orientation.\n\nInvestment casting is a metallurgical processing technique in which a wax form is fabricated and used as a template for a ceramic mold. Briefly, a ceramic mold is poured around the wax form, the wax form is melted out of the ceramic mold, and molten metal is poured into the void left by the wax. This leads to a metal form in the same shape as the original wax form. Investment casting leads to a polycrystalline final product, as nucleation and growth of crystal grains occurs at numerous locations throughout the solid matrix. Generally, the polycrystalline product has no preferred grain orientation.\n\nDirectional solidification uses a thermal gradient to promote nucleation of metal grains on a low temperature surface, as well as to promote their growth along the temperature gradient. This leads to grains elongated along the temperature gradient, and significantly greater creep resistance parallel to the long grain direction. In polycrystalline turbine blades, directional solidification is used to orient the grains parallel to the centripetal force. It is also known as dendritic solidification.\n\nSingle crystal growth starts with a seed crystal which is used to template growth of a larger crystal. The overall process is lengthy, and additional processing via machining is necessary after the single crystal is grown.\n\nPowder metallurgy is a class of modern processing techniques in which metals are first converted into a powder form, and then formed into the desired shape by heating below the melting point. This is in contrast to casting, which occurs with molten metal. Superalloy manufacturing often employs powder metallurgy because of its material efficiency - typically much less waste metal must be machined away from the final product—and its ability to facilitate mechanical alloying. Mechanical alloying is a process by which reinforcing particles are incorporated into the superalloy matrix material by repeated fracture and welding.\n\nSintering and hot isostatic pressing are processing techniques used to densify materials from a loosely packed \"green body\" into a solid object with physically merged grains. Sintering occurs below the melting point, and causes adjacent particles to merge at their boundaries, leading to a strong bond between them. In hot isostatic pressing, a sintered material is placed in a pressure vessel and compressed from all directions (isostatically) in an inert atmosphere to affect densification.\n\nSelective laser melting (also known as \"powder bed fusion\") is an additive manufacturing procedure used to create intricately detailed forms from a CAD file. In CAD, a shape is designed and then converted into slices. These slices are sent to a laser writer to print the final product. In brief, a bed of metal powder is prepared, and the first slice of the CAD design is formed in the powder bed by a high energy laser sintering the particles together. After this first slice is generated, the powder bed moves downwards, and a new batch of metal powder is rolled over the top of the slice. The second layer is then sintered with the laser, and the process is repeated until all the slices in the CAD file have been processed. Due to the nature of many additive manufacturing processes, porosity can be present in products made by selective laser melting. Many products will often undergo a heat treatment or hot isostatic pressing procedure to densify the product and reduce porosity which can result in cracking.\n\nIn modern gas turbine, the turbine entry temperature (~1750K) has exceeded the incipient melting temperature of superalloys (~1600K), with the help of surface engineering. Under such extreme working condition, the qualification of coating becomes vital.\n\nHistorically, three \"generations\" of coatings have been developed: diffusion coatings, overlay coatings and thermal barrier coatings. Diffusion coatings, mainly constituted with aluminide or platinum-aluminide, is still the most common form of surface protection. To further enhance resistance to corrosion and oxidation, MCrAlX-based overlay coatings (M=Ni or Co, X=Y, Hf, Si) are deposited to surface of superalloys. Compared to diffusion coatings, overlay coatings are less dependent on the composition of the substrate, but also more expensive, since they must be carried out by air or vacuum plasma spraying (APS/VPS) or else electron beam physical vapour deposition (EB-PVD). Thermal barrier coatings provide by far the best enhancement in working temperature and coating life. It is estimated that modern TBC of thickness 300 μm, if used in conjunction with a hollow component and cooling air, has the potential to lower metal surface temperatures by a few hundred degrees.\n\nThermal barrier coatings (TBCs) are used extensively on the surface of superalloy in both commercial and military gas turbine engines to increase component life and engine performance. A coating of about 1-200 µm can reduce the temperature at the superalloy surface by up to 200K. TBCs are really a system of coatings consisting of a bond coat, a thermally grown oxide (TGO), and a thermally insulating ceramic top coat. In most applications, the bond coat is either a MCrAlY (where M=Ni or NiCo) or a Pt modified aluminide coating. A dense bond coat is required to provide protection of the superalloy substrate from oxidation and hot corrosion attack and to form an adherent, slow growing TGO on its surface. The TGO is formed by oxidation of the aluminum that is contained in the bond coat. The current (first generation) thermal insulation layer is composed of 7wt % yttria-stabilized zirconia (7YSZ) with a typical thickness of 100–300 µm. Yttria stabilized zirconia is used due to its low thermal conductivity (2.6W/mK for fully dense material), relatively high coefficient of thermal expansion, and good high temperature stability. The electron beam directed vapor deposition (EB-DVD) process used to apply the TBC to turbine airfoils produces a columnar microstructure with several levels of porosity. The porosity between the columns is critical to providing strain tolerance (via a very low in-plane modulus), as it would otherwise spall on thermal cycling due to thermal expansion mismatch with the superalloy substrate. The porosity within the columns reduces the thermal conductivity of the coating.\n\nThe bond coat adheres the thermal barrier coating to the superalloy substrate. Additionally, the bond coat provides oxidation protection and functions as a diffusion barrier against the motion of substrate atoms towards the environment.\nThere are five major types of bond coats, the aluminides, the platinum-aluminides, MCrAlY, cobalt-cermets, and nickel-chromium.\nFor the aluminide bond coatings, the final composition and structure of the coating depends on the composition of the substrate. Aluminides also lack ductility below 750 °C, and exhibit a limited by thermomechanical fatigue strength. The Pt-aluminides are very similar to the aluminide bond coats except for a layer of Pt (5—10 μm) deposited on the blade. The Pt is believed to aid in oxide adhesion and contributes to hot corrosion. The cost of Pt plating is justified by the increased blade life span. The MCrAlY is the latest generation of bond coat and does not strongly interact with the substrate. Normally applied by plasma spraying, MCrAlY coatings are secondary aluminum oxide formers. This means that the coatings form an outer layer of chromium oxide (chromia), and a secondary aluminum oxide (alumina) layer underneath. These oxide formations occur at high temperatures in the range of those that superalloys usually encounter. The chromia provides oxidation and hot-corrosion resistance. The alumina controls oxidation mechanisms by limiting oxide growth by self-passivating. The yttrium enhances the oxide adherence to the substrate, and limits the growth of grain boundaries (which can lead to flaking of the coating). Investigation indicates that addition of rhenium and tantalum increases oxidation resistance. Cobalt-cermet based coatings consisting of materials such as tungsten carbide/cobalt can be used due to excellent resistance to abrasion, corrosion, erosion, and heat. These cermet coatings perform well in situations where temperature and oxidation damage are significant concerns, such as boilers. One of the unique advantages of cobalt cermet coatings is a minimal loss of coating mass over time, due to the strength of carbides within the mixture. Overall, cermet coatings are useful in situations where mechanical demands are equal to chemical demands for superalloys. Nickel-chromium coatings are used most frequently in boilers fed by fossil fuels, electric furnaces, and waste incineration furnaces, where the danger of oxidizing agents and corrosive compounds in the vapor must be dealt with. The specific method of spray-coating depends on the composition of the coatings. Nickel-chromium coatings that also contain iron or aluminum perform much better (in terms of corrosion resistance) when they are sprayed and laser glazed, while pure nickel-chromium coatings perform better when thermally sprayed exclusively.\n\nSuperalloy products that are subjected to high working temperatures and corrosive atmosphere (such as high-pressure turbine region of jet engines) are coated with various kinds of coating. Several kinds of coating process are applied: pack cementation process, gas phase coating (both are a type of chemical vapor deposition (CVD)), thermal spraying, and physical vapor deposition. In most cases, after the coating process near-surface regions of parts are enriched with aluminium, the matrix of the coating being nickel aluminide.\n\nPack cementation is a widely used chemical vapor deposition technique which consists of immersing the components to be coated in a metal powder mixture and ammonium halide activators and sealing them in a retort. The entire apparatus is placed inside a furnace and heated in a protective atmosphere to a lower than normal temperature for diffusion to take place, due to the halide salts chemical reaction which causes an eutectic bond between the two metals. The new surface alloy that is formed due to thermal diffused ion migration has a metallurgical bond to the surface substrate and a true intermetallic layer found in the gamma layer of the new surface alloys.\n\nThe traditional pack consists of four components:\n\nSubstrate or parts- Ferrous and non-ferrous\nPowdered alloy- (Ti and/or Al, Si and/or Zn, B and/ or Cr)\nHalide salt activator- Ammonium halide salts\nRelatively inert filler powder (Al2O3, SiO2, or SiC)\nTemperatures below (750 °C)\nThis process includes but is not limited to:\n\nAluminizing\nChromizing\nSiliconizing\nSherardizing\nBoronizing\nTitaniumizing\n\nPack Cementation has had a revival in the last 10 years as it is being combined with other chemical processes to lower the temperatures of metal combinations even further and give intermetallic properties to different alloy combinations for surface treatments.\n\nThermal spraying is a process of applying coatings by heating a feedstock of precursor material and spraying it on a surface. Different specific techniques are used depending on desired particle size, coat thickness, spray speed, desired area, etc. The coatings applied by thermal spraying of any kind, however, rely on adhesion to the surface. As a result, the surface of the superalloy must be cleaned and prepared, usually polished, before application of the thermal coating.\n\nOf the various thermal spray methods, one of the more ideal and commonly used techniques for coating superalloys is plasma spraying. This is due to the versatility of usable coatings, and the high-temperature performance of plasma-sprayed coatings. Plasma spraying can accommodate a very wide range of materials, much more so than other techniques. As long as the difference between melting and decomposition temperatures is greater than 300 Kelvin, a material can be melted and applied as a coating via plasma spraying.\n\nThis process is carried out at higher temperatures, about 1080 °C. The coating material is usually loaded onto special trays without physical contact with the parts to be coated. The coating mixture contains active coating material and activator, but usually does not contain thermal ballast. As in the pack cementation process, the gaseous aluminium chloride (or fluoride) is transferred to the surface of the part. However, in this case the diffusion is outwards. This kind of coating also requires diffusion heat treatment.\n\nFailure of thermal barrier coating usually manifests as delamination, which arises from the temperature gradient during thermal cycling between ambient temperature and working conditions coupled with the difference in thermal expansion coefficient of the substrate and coating. It is rare for the coating to fail completely – some pieces of it remain intact, and significant scatter is observed in the time to failure if testing is repeated under identical conditions. There are various degradation mechanisms for thermal barrier coating, and some or all of these must operate before failure finally occurs: \nAdditionally, TBC life is very dependent upon the combination of materials (substrate, bond coat, ceramic) and processes (EB-PVD, plasma spraying) used.\n\nNickel-based superalloys are used in load-bearing structures to the highest homologous temperature of any common alloy system (Tm = 0.9, or 90% of their melting point). Among the most demanding applications for a structural material are those in the hot sections of turbine engines. The preeminence of superalloys is reflected in the fact that they currently comprise over 50% of the weight of advanced aircraft engines. The widespread use of superalloys in turbine engines coupled with the fact that the thermodynamic efficiency of turbine engines is increased with increasing turbine inlet temperatures has, in part, provided the motivation for increasing the maximum-use temperature of superalloys. In fact, during the past 30 years turbine airfoil temperature capability has increased on average by about 4 °F (2.2 °C) per year. Two major factors which have made this increase possible are\n\nAbout 60% of the use-temperature increases have occurred due to advanced cooling concepts; 40% have resulted from material improvements. State-of-the-art turbine blade surface temperatures are near ; the most severe combinations of stress and temperature corresponds to an average bulk metal temperature approaching .\n\nAlthough Nickel-based superalloys retain significant strength to temperatures near , they tend to be susceptible to environmental attack because of the presence of reactive alloying elements (which provide their high-temperature strength). Surface attack includes oxidation, hot corrosion, and thermal fatigue. In the most demanding applications, such as turbine blade and vanes, superalloys are often coated to improve environmental resistance.\n\nIn general, high temperature materials are needed for energy conversion and energy production applications. Maximum energy conversion efficiency is desired in these energy applications, which can be achieved by increasing operating temperatures, as described by the Carnot cycle. Because Carnot efficiency is limited by the temperature difference between the hot and cold reservoirs, higher operating temperatures result in higher energy conversion efficiencies. Operating temperatures are limited by the performance of today’s superalloys, and currently, most applications operate at around 1000C-1400 C. Energy applications and their superalloy components include:\nAlumina-forming stainless steels can be processed via melting and ladle casting, similar to the production of more common steels. Compared to vacuum casting processes, ladle casting is much less expensive. In addition, alumina-forming stainless steel has been shown to be weldable and has potential for use in high performance automotive applications, such as for high temperature exhaust piping and in heat capture and reuse.\n\nThe availability of superalloys during past decades has led to a steady increase in turbine entry temperatures, and the trend is expected to continue. Sandia National Laboratories is studying a new method for making superalloys, known as radiolysis. It introduces an entirely new area of research into creating alloys and superalloys through nanoparticle synthesis. This process holds promise as a universal method of nanoparticle formation. By developing an understanding of the basic material science behind these nanoparticle formations, there is speculation that it might be possible to expand research into other aspects of superalloys.\n\nThere may be considerable disadvantages in making alloys by this method. About half of the use of superalloys is in applications where the service temperature is close to the melting temperature of the alloy. It is common therefore to use single crystals. The above method produces polycrystalline alloys, which suffer from an unacceptable level of creep.\n\nFuture paradigms in alloy development are expected to focus on weight reduction and improving oxidation and corrosion resistance while maintaining the strength of the alloy. Furthermore, with the increasing demand for turbine blades for power generation, another focus of alloy design is to reduce the cost of superalloys.\n\nThere has been ongoing research and development of new stainless steel alloys because of the lower costs in producing such alloys, as well as the need for an austenitic stainless steel with high-temperature corrosion resistance in environments with water vapor. Research is focusing on increasing high-temperature tensile strength, toughness, and creep resistance to compete with Ni-based superalloys.\n\nA new class of alumina-forming austenitic stainless steel is actively being developed for use in high-temperature applications by Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Initial research showed similar creep and corrosion resistance at 800C to that of other austenitic alloys, including Ni-based superalloys.\n\nDevelopment of AFA superalloys with a 35 wt.% Ni-base have shown potential for use in operating temperatures upwards to 1,100 °C.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2025652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025652", "title": "Pinus occidentalis", "text": "Pinus occidentalis\n\nPinus occidentalis, or Hispaniolan pine, is a pine endemic to the island of Hispaniola, where it is the predominant species in the Hispaniolan pine forests of Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Hispaniolan pines are found mixed with broadleaf trees from , and occur in pure stands above up to the summit of Pico Duarte, the highest point on the island. They are sometimes found in the lowland Hispaniolan moist forests ecoregion, in areas where poor acidic laterite soils predominate.\n\nIt is a medium-sized tree, growing to tall with an open crown. The leaves are dark green, needle-like, in fascicles of 3, 4, 5, long and thick. The cones are long, glossy brown, with a small prickle on each scale pointing forward; they mature in about 18 months and open to release the seeds, which are long with a wing.\n\nSymbiotic relationships with ectomycorrhizal fungi enable Hispaniolan pines to grow on shallow, infertile soils.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025654", "title": "Kitty Forman", "text": "Kitty Forman\n\nKatherine Forman (née Sigurdson) is a fictional character on the Fox Network's \"That '70s Show\", portrayed by comic actress Debra Jo Rupp. A nurse, she has taken breaks from her career when it was economically practical, to nurture her family.\n\nNurturing but enabling, she has a very recognizable laugh whenever she is nervous about anything (which is often), a fondness for square dancing, and an even greater fondness for liquor of almost all kinds (wine, kahlua, bourbon, mai tais, margaritas, etc.) She puts her family first and tries to smooth over the many conflicts within her household, although her efforts often fail. She is also an unofficial foster mother to the entire group.\n\nKitty is Eric and Laurie Forman's mother and the wife of Red Forman: a cheerful, sunny, sweet-natured typical housewife with a much happier, gentler personality as opposed to that displayed by her ill-tempered, wisecracking husband, Red. She almost always treats those around her sweetly and kindly and shows far more respect for the teenagers than Red does. She cooks a great deal and often uses food to encourage and cheer people up.\n\nShe has occasionally been provoked into using profanity strong enough to be censored out, albeit otherwise she seldom raises her voice to other people. She smoked frequently for a period of time before deciding to quit the habit, although when stressed she has been shown to relapse, even taking a cigarette from one of the teenagers when desperate, due to an unexpected visit from her mother-in-law, who treats her shabbily. When she went into menopause in Season 5, she gets temperamental behavior and mood swings which causes her to become very mad and agitated.\n\nKitty's parents generally generate stress for both Kitty and Red, particularly her rather cold, unaffectionate, hypercritical mother, Bea (played by Betty White). Kitty's genial but rather hapless father, Burt (played by Tom Poston), evokes more affection. Burt makes a terrible financial investment in an ostrich farm (located next to a coyote farm) which costs the Sigurdsons their home, leaving them dependent on the Formans. He collapses outside the house and dies soon afterward, the only occasion on which Bea shows emotion, albeit privately until Kitty finds her.\n\nUnlike Red, Kitty enjoys having young people around her house. In regards to her children, she clearly favors Eric. She sees Laurie's true colors (unlike Red, who favors Laurie and browbeats Eric) and once said she loves her daughter \"because I have to\". She sometimes tries to get through to Laurie, almost always without success.\n\nUpon learning Eric has lost his virginity (episode \"The Parents Find Out\") she stays in bed, depressed and angry at Donna, only leaving bed when Eric reminds her that he needs Kitty to protect him from Red. For a time, she is sad that her children are growing up and expresses a desire for another baby, episode \"Baby Fever\", a feeling her husband does not share.\n\nKitty resolves her sadness over not being able to have another child when Red reminded her of grandchildren. When Eric and Donna announce that they are moving to Madison at the end of season five, Kitty suffers a nervous breakdown, exacerbated by Red's support of the plan. Later, when Eric plans to go to Africa in season seven, Kitty tries to sabotage his efforts by withholding food and information on immunizations. After he leaves at the start of season eight, Kitty briefly tries marijuana.\nKitty is fond of Hyde, whom they take in after his mother abandons him, leaving him nowhere to go. In the episode \"Kitty's Birthday (Is That Today!?)\", Hyde is the only one who remembers her birthday, and in the episode \"Jackie Bags Hyde\", Kitty is the one who helps Hyde realize he likes Jackie. Kitty treats Hyde as a second son even after he moves out of the Forman basement. In the series finale, she referred to him as \"my second son\". \nKitty treats Eric's other friends Kelso, Fez and Jackie as her own children as well; she looks out for them and helps them out on numerous occasions throughout the series. For example, she taught the prenatal class Kelso and Brooke take before Betsy's birth, she attempts to teach Jackie how to bake on two occasions, and she behaves as a mother to Fez, who hasn't seen his real parents since emigrating to the United States.\n\nBeing a nurse and a maternal figure, she is the one who treats the teenagers whenever they get physically injured (which happens quite often), especially Kelso. Kitty plays an active role in all the group's private lives; for example, she is the one who orchestrated the talk between Jackie and her mother Pam (played by Brooke Shields) in season six. Kitty seems to dislike anyone who questions her values, telling Jackie to \"shut your dirty little mouth\" when she references Kitty's frequent drinking; and when Kelso asks if she'd ever smoked, she stares at him and Red makes him leave.\n\nDespite being a motherly figure to all of the teens, Kelso and Fez seem to have some sexual attraction towards her. Fez admits this to Charlie Richardson after he sees Kitty naked accidentally, asking what she looked like and saying, \"And I'm only asking this because I find Miss Kitty attractive in a sexual way.\" Also, after Kelso has a break up with Hyde's sister, Angie, he tells Eric, \"I need a hug from your mom.\" Eric concludes his conversation with Hyde, leaving to \"go pull Kelso off my mother\". Also, Hyde, before his (technically not legal) adoption made him Kitty's son, demonstrated some attraction to Kitty, such as when she was teaching him dancing, he greatly enjoyed placing his hand in the small of her back, almost sexually. As part of the plot of that episode, Bob sees them and assumes they are having an affair.\n\nIn season eight, with Eric gone, she seemingly replaces him with Fez. Fez begins dating a friend of hers (who is a cougar) and when she finds out, she snaps and demands he break it off, to which he replies, \"You can't tell me what to do. You're not my mother.\" Kitty takes great offense to this and storms off and makes herself a blender full of alcohol. Donna and Jackie help Fez realize that Kitty has been the closest thing he has to a mother and she thinks of Fez as her own son. Fez makes up with Kitty afterward.\n"}
