{"id": "1875386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875386", "title": "List of Silent Hill series characters", "text": "List of Silent Hill series characters\n\nThe survival horror video games series Silent Hill features a large cast of characters. The games' player characters are \"everymen\", in contrast to action-oriented survival horror video game series featuring combat-trained player characters, such as \"Resident Evil\". The games are set in the series' eponymous fictional American town.\n\nCharacters went through several different conceptual phases prior to settling on their final designs seen in the games they first appeared in. The physical appearances of characters in \"Silent Hill 3\" were created using actors as models.\n\nThe characters of \"Silent Hill\" and \"Silent Hill 2\" were designed by character designer Takayoshi Sato. Team Silent, a production group within Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo, oversaw the process. Team Silent designed the character Maria to have physical flaws and did not base her on any particular model. The developers toned down her character design after being unhappy with it and the technical problems her low neckline caused. To better capture her facial movements, Sato Takayoshi would practice her expressions in front of a mirror at work and drew her facial expressions instead of using motion capture. Maria and Mary share the same facial structure, polygon count and voice actor; only the muscle structure differs. Takayoshi designed Angela to appear older than her intended age of sixteen or seventeen and the developers chosen an older voice actor for her. Fifty to sixty Japanese and American voice actors auditioned for \"Silent Hill 2\", with five ultimately chosen: Guy Cihi, Donna Burke, David Schaufele, Jakey Breckenridge, and Monica Horgan. Motion capture of the voice actors was used to model their characters' action.\nThe design of \"Silent Hill 3\"s characters passed through different stages. The game's development team initially saw Heather as \"innocent\", something that was reflected by original sketches of her, but they found this motif to be too \"nice\", so the game's supervising illustrator, character designer Shingo Yuri, sought another source of inspiration, modelling Heather after French actresses Sophie Marceau and Charlotte Gainsbourg, with Vanessa Paradis having served as a model for concept art of the protagonist. The character's leg-revealing outfit and slightly curly hair had been the subject of debate among Yuri and two young female members of the development team: while Yuri firstly envisioned her wearing jeans, these members dissented on the addition of this element because they believed that Heather should discreetly be instilled sex appeal—a property which they insisted should be possessed by her—by having her legs divulged as they considered that exposure of them would bestow femininity and prettiness on Heather; he was ultimately convinced by the females that their own proposal should be followed. Trusting these members' sense of fashion, Yuri also accepted their judgement on the character's hairstyle, which was that curly hair would be more suitable for a young girl. Heather's hair was \"more natural\" and \"less elaborate\" in earlier design stages, according to him. The character's name was taken from Heather Morris, who provided Heather's voice and motion capture. The name \"Helen\" was firstly planned to be used for the character, but was later discarded as it was considered to be old-fashioned.\n\nThe design of priestess Claudia Wolf was the most difficult of the game's character designs for the development team. Her creation was based on the concept of making her look strange but conventional and evoke to the player a feeling of being endangered. Desiring to show her evil side, the development team initially imagined her with a shaved head and tattoos all over her body, though this idea was finally rejected as the team deemed that giving her this physical appearance was a very obvious way of achieving this goal. Other dropped ideas included portraying her as a \"holy woman\" as well as dressed in a long robe that trailed along the ground. After seeing a fashion magazine cover depicting a human face without eyebrows and believing that the pictured person's feelings were unrecognizable due to this trait, the team opted to integrate lack of eyebrows in Claudia to impart her the same perceived property of having feelings unable to be defined by other people, also esteeming this feature to trigger a subtle and solicitous emotion to the player. Hollywood actress Julianne Moore had been used as a model for concept art of the character. Claudia's name originates from Italian actress Claudia Cardinale, having substituted the original \"Christie\" because the latter was viewed as too \"cute\".\n\n\"Silent Hill 3\"s male characters were delineated by the development team as possessing flaws and complexes in order to appear as realistic humans, an example being character Douglas Cartland's combing of his hair to his head's back part to conceal his baldness. In early design stages, the image of a quotidian middle-aged detective was attributed to him. A priest from the film \"The Fifth Element\" was the basis for the generation of Douglas; actors such as Ian Holm and Giancarlo Giannini were models for some of the character's concept art. The name of Douglas was taken from actor Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. and according to one of the game's creators, this name was selected because it \"just seemed to suit him\", with the character not being connected to his namesake. The foundation of character Vincent's design was the idea of a character of a hypocritic nature which is disguised by their \"nice\" clothes and neat appearance, as the game's animator wished the hierocracy of Vincent to be manifested through the way he acts. An incorporation of hints aiming at unveiling Vincent's nature occurred, though, according to Yuri: the character constantly laughs \"like he is hiding something nasty\" and during his speech, \"one of his eyes is not looking at the observer.\" Yuri underlined that the latter hint is subtle.\n\nNote: Some characters may or may not appear in \"Silent Hill 2\" or \"Silent Hill 3\", depending on their fate in the previous games.\n is the player character of \"Silent Hill\". A widower and ordinary non-fiction writer, he alongside his late wife, Jodie, found and adopted an abandoned baby girl on a roadside, whom Jodie named Cheryl, seven years before the events of the game. At the beginning of the game, Harry is driving to Silent Hill with Cheryl for a vacation when he gets involved in a crash to avoid hitting a girl, Alessa. Knocked unconscious, he wakes up to find Cheryl missing, so he decides to explore the seemingly abandoned town to find his daughter, alongside a cop, Cybil Bennett. Throughout the game, Harry learns that the town's cult, the Order, wants to birth their God through Alessa, but she split her soul during the initiation ritual, one half of which was reincarnated into Cheryl. As both Alessa and Cheryl have been captured by the Order, they fuse to become an angelic being called the Incubator, whom the player may fight against instead of its evil aspect, the demon Incubus, depending on the game progression. If Harry fights the Incubator, the game ends with a dying Harry inside his car, implying that the events of the game are simply a near-death experience, or him grieving over the loss of his daughter in the Otherworld. If he fights the Incubus, the Incubator then presents a baby reincarnated from Alessa and Cheryl to Harry, who then escapes from Silent Hill either alone or with Cybil.\n\nHarry makes a cameo in \"Silent Hill 3\", which stars Heather, Harry's adopted daughter and Alessa's reincarnation, as the main protagonist. Heather returns home after experiencing strange events at a mall only to find that the Order has Harry brutally killed by having his heart taken out. The Order also leaves a message for Heather to come to Silent Hill. In anger over her father's death, Heather goes to Silent Hill and discovers her heritage.\n\nHarry is also the protagonist of the reimagining \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\", which starts similarly to the original game. However, it is revealed late to the game that Harry had died a long time ago, and his \"travel\" through Silent Hill is actually inside his daughter Cheryl's head, who broke down after her parents divorced and Harry subsequently died in a car crash. While Cheryl idolizes her father as her knight in shining armor, the multiple endings reveal that Harry as potentally an alcoholic, coward, or womanizer, which are probably the reasons why his wife divorced him.\n\nIn the games, Harry is voiced by Michael Guinn in the original game and by Kirk Thornton in \"Shattered Memories\".\n\nIn the films, Harry's role is divided among two characters: Rose and Christopher da Silva. Both are still-living married couple who adopted Sharon (the film's counterpart of Cheryl) from an orphanage, whereas in the games, Harry and Jodie adopted Cheryl from a roadside, and Harry is a widower, his wife already passing away. In \"Silent Hill\", Harry's role is played by the female Rose, who explores Silent Hill in search for Sharon. Both of them are still stranded in Silent Hill at the end of the film, unable to meet with Christopher. In \"\", the plot is retconned with Sharon managing to enter the real world with the Seal of Metatron, though Rose is still in Silent Hill. Christopher then takes the role of Harry by moving with Sharon to Portland, Maine and taking the alias of \"Harry Mason\". Christopher's abduction by the Order prompts Sharon (now named Heather) to go to Silent Hill. At the end, Christopher decides to enter Silent Hill to search for Rose. He is portrayed by Sean Bean.\n\n is the adopted daughter of Harry Mason and his late wife, Jodie. She is actually the untainted half of Alessa Gillespie's soul, which split during Alessa's ritualistic immolation by the Order to birth the God. The soul was reincarnated into a baby, whom the Masons found and adopted on a roadside. Seven years afterward, Cheryl and her father drive to Silent Hill for a vacation only to crash when Harry attempts to avoid hitting a girl walking on the road. Cheryl is seen running away from Harry down an alley as is never seen again. She was likely abducted by the Order to wait for her to rejoin Alessa. As Harry arrives at \"Nowhere\" in the Otherworld, he finds Dahlia already fusing Cheryl with Alessa, becoming an angelic being called the Incubator. If Harry faces the Incubator's evil side, the Incubus, Cheryl's spirit thanks Harry for his hospitality before reincarnating along with Alessa to a baby girl, whom Harry adopts and gives the name \"Heather\". While Cheryl does not appear in \"Silent Hill 3\", her (and Alessa's) reincarnation, Heather, is the main protagonist, and in the normal ending, Heather decides to Douglas Cartland that she prefers to be called \"Cheryl\".\n\nIn \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\", Cheryl, Heather, and Alessa are all reimagined as \"Cheryl Heather Mason\", the biological daughter of Harry and Dahlia Mason. She very much idolizes her father and refuses to accept her father's death by car crash even as an adult, making delusions that he becomes stranded in Silent Hill. She hates her mother, blaming her for divorcing Harry, though she later reconciles with her at the end of the game after she has fully accepted Harry's demise. In the film \"Silent Hill\", Cheryl, renamed Sharon da Silva, is adopted by the da Silvas at an orphanage near Silent Hill. She becomes abducted by the Order and is almost immolated herself, but is rescued by her mother and her own dark self, the latter massacring the entire Order. Sharon then merges with her original and dark selves. The sequel, \"Silent Hill: Revelation\" retcons this by making Alessa's dark self still roaming free, while Sharon, now known as Heather, searches for her father in Silent Hill.\n\n is the late wife of Harry and the adopted mother of Cheryl, being the one who gave her her name. She was Harry's high school sweetheart, and their marriage is described as a \"nine-year honeymoon\". Jodie contracted an illness that made her unable to have children, and she died when Cheryl was three year old and four years before the start of the game. Jodie's persona is combined with that of Dahlia to become Dahlia Mason, the ex-wife of Harry and mother of Cheryl in \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\".\n\n is the leader of the Order of Silent Hill. She is the main antagonist of both \"Silent Hill\" and \"Silent Hill: Origins\". Dahlia is the mother of Alessa, whom she abused and wanted to birth the God, due to having vast supernatural powers connected to Silent Hill. At some point, she also taught the teachings of the Order to the children of the Wish House orphanage, located near Silent Hill; one of the children was Walter Sullivan, who eventually gained the powers of Valtiel and becoming a serial killer in Ashfield. In \"Silent Hill: Origins\", as part of the birthing ritual, Dahlia immolates Alessa by burning their house, which Travis Grady sees and stops by taking Alessa away from the house. Dahlia and her associate, Kaufmann, almost manages to birth the God, but the Flauros splits Alessa's soul, one half of which reincarnates into a baby girl the Mason couple adopted as \"Cheryl\". In \"Silent Hill\", Dahlia first appears to Harry as a friendly bystander, but later reveals her true persona as the one who orders the abduction of Cheryl. She manages to fuse Cheryl with Alessa, becoming the Incubator. The Incubator's evils are then expelled by Kaufmann as the Incubus, who incinerates Dahlia before being defeated by Harry. In \"Silent Hill 4: The Room\", it's revealed that Dahlia took part in Walter Sullivan's brainwashing, leading him to believe that the 21 Sacraments are the only way to see his \"mother\".\n\nDahlia and Harry's wife, Jodie are merged to become Dahlia Mason, Harry's ex-wife and Cheryl's mother, in \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\". She divorced Harry years before the events of the game, earning her the hatred of her daughter. Dahlia later reconciles with Cheryl after the latter accepts Harry's demise. Dahlia also appears in the film adaptation of \"Silent Hill\", where she is a much more sympathetic character who is tricked to hand over Alessa to her sister, Christabella, as part of the Order's ritual. Dahlia survives the mass killings of the Order by Alessa, due to her being a loving mother. In \"Silent Hill: Revelation\", Dahlia appears in a minor role when she gives cryptic warnings to Heather, her daughter's reincarnation, about Silent Hill.\n\nDahlia is voiced by Liz Mamorsky in the original game, Laurence Bouvard in \"Origins\", and by Laura Bailey in \"Shattered Memories\".\n\n is the central character of \"Silent Hill\", \"Silent Hill 3\", and \"Silent Hill: Origins\", and by far the character with the most importance in the series. The daughter of Dahlia Gillespie, she was born with vast supernatural powers, which allowed Dahlia to use her to birth the God of the Order. In her childhood, she was best friends with Claudia Wolf, the only person who ever understood her. Alessa was immolated by Dahlia as part of the ritual, but was rescued by Travis. Through the Flauros, the God's birth was delayed with Alessa's soul being split, one half of which went into Cheryl Mason. Alessa is kept alive by Kaufmann with Lisa's help to someday be reunited with Cheryl, eternally suffering with incurable wounds and projecting her nightmares onto the town in the form of the Otherworld. In \"Silent Hill\", a projection of Alessa makes Harry crash his car, leaving him unconscious long enough for Cheryl to recombine with Alessa. Harry eventually finds out about his daughter's connection with Alessa, and later battles the Incubus, the God that was born of Alessa's womb. The Incubator then gives Harry a reincarnated baby of Cheryl and Alessa before dying of her powers and was buried in the raining inferno. In \"Silent Hill 3\", Cheryl and Alessa's reincarnation, Heather, is lured by Claudia to Silent Hill so she could once again birth the God. Eventually however, the plan is aborted and Claudia births the incomplete God herself. Alessa also appears in \"Silent Hill 4\" on a medallion titled as Saint Alessa.\n\nIn the film \"Silent Hill\", as in the games, Alessa was immolated; however, it was her aunt, Christabella, who led the proceeding after having tricked her mother. She is then split into three: her pure self, who is reincarnated into a baby that the da Silvas adopted as Sharon; her dark self; and her original body, kept alive in the basement of the local hospital. Alessa's dark self merges herself into Rose so she can then conduct a mass killing of the fanatical cult led by Christabella, who believed Alessa to be \"sin incarnate\" due to her being born out of wedlock. Afterwards, the three selves merge into one, recombining in Sharon's body. The sequel retcons this by having Alessa's dark self still roaming free and confronting Heather in Silent Hill, who manages to later combine with her.\n\nAlessa is voiced by Sandra Wane in the original game and Jennifer Woodward in \"Origins\".\n\n is a cop from the neighboring town of Brahms, Maine, whom Harry meets at a cafe before his travel through Silent Hill. She follows Harry and later helps him to search for his daughter, Cheryl, becoming separated by him several times. She is later found to have been possessed by a parasite, and Harry has the option to help or kill her. This affects the game endings; if Cybil is rescued, she would escape Silent Hill alongside Harry. Her final fate, however, is uncertain; her only mention in the canonical games in the series is in \"Silent Hill: Homecoming\", when James Wheeler recounts to Alex Shepherd and Elle Holloway that he had once considered to take up a police job at Brahms after its previous occupant, Cybil, disappeared in Silent Hill. In \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\", Cybil is reimagined, again appearing as a cop whom Harry encounters in Silent Hill. In the film \"Silent Hill\", Cybil helps Rose to search for her daughter, Sharon, but gets captured by the Order, who immolates her alive.\n\nCybil is voiced by Susan Papa in the original game and by Kirsten Potter in \"Shattered Memories\". In the 2006 film adaptation, she is portrayed by Laurie Holden.\n\n is the director of Alchemilla Hospital. He is part of the Order and Dahlia's helper in her plans to have her daughter, Alessa birth the God. After Alessa's immolation, Kaufmann commits Alessa to the Alchemilla Hospital and forces Lisa Garland, whom he is in a relationship and bribes with drugs, to keep Alessa living. In \"Silent Hill\", Kaufmann has grown disillusioned with the plans to birth the God and defies Dahlia by throwing the Aglaophotis to the fused form of Alessa and Cheryl, the Incubator, expelling its evil form, the demon Incubus. After Harry manages to defeat the Incubus, he is allowed to leave by Alessa through a portal; Kaufmann also follows him, but he is stopped by Lisa's spirit who drags him down through a chasm, presumably to his death. Kaufmann reappears in the reimagining \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\" as a psychiatrist who periodically performs psychological questionnaires and tests on the player during a therapy session: at the end of the game, it is revealed that his patient is Cheryl Heather Mason, who is in denial over her father's death and seems reluctant to accept it, a fact which frequently tests his patience.\n\nMichael is voiced by Jarion Monroe in the original game, John Chancer in \"Origins\", and by Michael McConnohie in \"Shattered Memories\".\n\n is a young nurse working at Alchemilla Hospital. In \"Silent Hill: Origins\", Lisa, who is addicted to a certain form of drug called PTV, is bribed by hospital director Michael Kaufmann with the drugs in exchange for her part to care for Alessa. Lisa is fazed by how Alessa's wounds never seem to heal and she soon becomes involved with the Order. Lisa dies in the seven years that transpired in \"Silent Hill: Origins\" and \"Silent Hill\", possibly due to overdose of the PTV, but she comes back as a manifestation in \"Silent Hill\". Unaware of her true state, Lisa helps Harry around Silent Hill and gives him information about the Order. However, she eventually realizes that she is no different from the other manifestations; by the time Harry braces himself to meet her, she disappears. In the ending where Kaufmann is saved by Harry, Lisa's spirit stops Kaufmann of his track and drags him back to the chasm to his death. Lisa has a brief appearance in \"Silent Hill: Shattered Memories\", where Harry saves her from a crash only for her to succumb to her injuries later: in one of the game's endings, it is implied that she is his mistress. Lisa also appears in the film adaptation, \"Silent Hill\", though she is unnamed and only credited as \"Red Nurse\". During her daily care for Alessa, she becomes curious about the restriction not to see her and peeks; due to this, Alessa reacts violently and burns her eyes, though she later regrets having done so.\n\nLisa is voiced by Thessaly Lerner in the original game and Jennifer Woodward in \"Origins\".\n\n\nThe is the deity the Order worships and the foremost antagonist of the series. It has served as the final boss of Origins, 1, and 3 as well as cameos in 4, Shattered Memories, and Downpour. The God has four forms: the default form is a woman in a red dress in the comics and games, while as The Incubus that resembles the demon Samael. The Incubator is the version of how it is seen by Alessa, The Demon in , and Claudia Wolf's version in Silent Hill 3. also implies that god's original name was Kwekwaxawe (Raven) as Silent Hill was originally called the nest of the raven.\n\n is the primary player character of \"Silent Hill 2\". After receiving a letter from his deceased wife Mary, James comes to the misty town of Silent Hill to find her. James knew Mary's illness would eventually kill her, and often read medical textbooks, searching for something to help her. The knowledge of her terminal illness caused her to become angry and hurt her loved ones, particularly James, and it pained him to visit her in the hospital. She had been suffering for three years, and died the week preceding the game's events.\n\nIn his search, he eventually meets Maria, who strongly resembles her except for more provocative clothes and behavior, and allows her to accompany him. Over the course of the game, he repeatedly witnesses her death at the hands of the monster Pyramid Head, while the letter from Mary gradually fades, suggesting that he only imagined it. Near the conclusion of the game, he watches a videotape that shows him smothering his wife, and realizes that he killed Mary. Returning to see Maria killed again by two Pyramid Heads, he concludes that he needed the monster to punish him for Mary's murder. The Pyramid Heads commit suicide after pursuing him for a while, and James meets either Mary or Maria on the hotel rooftop, depending on which of the six possible endings the player has triggered based on his or her actions throughout the game; all endings are presented as equally valid. Maria or Mary transforms into a monster, and James kills her. In \"Leave\", James has one last meeting with Mary, reads her full letter and leaves the town with Laura, while \"In Water\" sees James commit suicide by driving his car into the lake; in \"Rebirth\", James plans to revive Mary using occult objects collected throughout the game. In \"Maria\", after Mary's defeat, James dismisses her as a hallucination and then leaves the town with the inexplicably resurrected Maria, who starts coughing. The other two are \"joke\" endings available on replay games: in \"Dog\", James discovers that, beyond a normally locked door, a Shiba Inu has apparently been controlling all the events of the game from a vision mixer, and the second is a continuation of the UFO ending of the first game, in which James is abducted by aliens with the help of Harry Mason.\n\nSubsequent installments in the series have made references to James. If the player has saved data from \"Silent Hill 2\",\n\"Silent Hill 3\"s protagonist can investigate a clogged toilet in the Otherworld, and the player can prompt her to remove the blockage—much like the optional decision in \"Silent Hill 2\". Additionally James makes cameo appearances in the joke endings of \"Silent Hill 3\", \"\", (voiced by Tomm Hulett) and \"\".\n\nPortrayed by Guy Cihi in the original version and by Troy Baker in the game's 2011 remastering.\n\n is a sexualized manifestation of Mary based on an exotic dancer. She was created in James' mind subsequent to his duress after killing his wife. She first appears in \"Born from a Wish\", a sub-scenario prior to the events in the main game which appeared in the expanded versions of \"Silent Hill 2\". In it, Maria awakens in Heaven's Night club, wondering if she should continue to live and fight, or to let herself be killed by the monsters, and decides to search for someone alive. Her search takes her to a mansion, where she hears the voice of Ernest Baldwin from behind a locked door. She eventually learns about the death of his young daughter, and Ernest tasks her with obtaining an item in a nearby apartment, unable to retrieve it himself. After completing her task, she discovers his plan to resurrect his daughter, and he warns her about James. Opening the door, she finds no one in the room. At the conclusion of the scenario, Maria contemplates suicide, but ultimately tosses the gun away, resolving instead to find James.\n\nJames first meets her in Rosewater Park, his first suspect for the \"special place\" Mary claims to be in. Maria accompanies James after this point, seeking protection from the monsters in Silent Hill, and after reaching the bowling alley she leads James on an attempt to find Laura ending in Brookhaven Hospital. Maria is killed by Pyramid Head before she can escape the hospital. She reappears again, inexplicably alive and with no memories of her apparent death, in the Labyrinth in a jail cell, seductively beckoning James to rescue her. Before he can reach her, however, she is killed again. She appears a third time in the Lakeview Hotel, where she is killed by two Pyramid Heads promptly after James finds her.\n\nIn the \"Leave\", \"In Water\" and \"Rebirth\" endings, James confronts Maria a final time, dressed as Mary and trying to get James to take her. James conclusively rejects her, and she transforms into the final boss with intent on killing him but is instead killed for good by James. In the \"Maria\" ending, Maria returns alive again after James has killed Mary and James decides to leave Silent Hill with her. As they leave she begins visibly coughing, a hint that she has the same disease Mary had and that the events of the game may repeat themselves.\n\nMaria is portrayed by Monica Taylor Horgan.\n\n is drawn to the town after taking a life. She is a disturbed, unstable teenage girl who is ostensibly on a search for her mother. It is strongly implied in the game that Angela was abused and raped by her father, with her mother turning a blind eye. Backstory material provided by Konami states that Angela had run away from home prior to the game's events, and after being brought back kills her father, leading to her being drawn to Silent Hill.\n\nJames first meets Angela in a cemetery, where she warns him that there's \"something wrong\" with Silent Hill. She is next seen in the apartment complex area with a blood-covered knife, contemplating suicide. James takes the knife from her at her request, and she flees in panic after he initially tries to take it out of her hand. In a later area, James fights a monstrous version of Angela's father who is about to attack the girl. After the creature's defeat, Angela acts with disdain and general hatred toward men, and accuses James of abandoning Mary for another woman. She is last seen on a burning staircase in the Lakeview Hotel. Angela, now in a state of delusion, mistakes James for her mother. After realizing her error, she asks for her knife back, not before wishing James had left her to die in the labyrinth. She believes that she deserved what her father did to her, and hints at suicide. When James refuses to return her knife, Angela walks into the flames of a burning staircase and is not seen again. As she does so she claims that these burning surroundings are how she always sees the town - one more suggestion that each person drawn affects their surroundings in their own way. If it was purely perceptual, James would not be able to see the flames, only Angela.\nAngela is voiced in the game by Donna Burke. Her appearance in the game and the choice of Burke's portrayer were made by Team Silent with the intention of making her appear unnaturally aged.\n\n is the late wife of James Sunderland. The player first sees Mary in a photograph James has with him and spends much of the game searching for her. In the game, she is said to have died from a mysterious illness three years ago. James goes to Silent Hill, where the couple shared many memories, after receiving a letter from Mary that says she is waiting for him there. Over the course of the game, James is haunted by memories of his wife, including Maria, who strongly resembles her, seems to have some of her memories at times, and repeatedly dies. James is eventually forced to remember that Mary died recently and that he killed her, suffocating her with a pillow after she was released from the hospital. In her last days alive, she believed she had become physically repulsive, acting \"self-centered and difficult, even abusive towards James\". Mary does not appear in person until the end of the game: in the \"Leave\" and \"In Water\" endings she is shown forgiving James for killing her after the final boss fight, while in the \"Maria\" ending she fights James as the final boss (instead of Maria) in revenge for her murder. James is quick to dismiss the latter scenario as being a hallucination. Mary also made a cameo in in her monster form and in a joke ending of and .\n\nMary was portrayed by Monica Taylor Horgan, who also portrayed Maria. The producers acknowledged that Mary and Maria were designed to be almost completely identical.\n\n is the third murderous character in Silent Hill during the game. He is an obese young man with an apparent connection to the character Laura. His dialogue during the game reveals that he had suffered verbal abuse for much of his life prior to his arrival in Silent Hill, and his arrival was preceded by him finally snapping, killing a dog, shooting a football player and going on the run from the police. Backstory material provided by Konami describes Eddie as being usually calm but with \"another side that he cannot control when angered\" and listing his former occupation as being a gas station attendant. Eddie also wears a baseball cap, small shorts, and a white and teal striped shirt, clothes that one would see a child wearing.\n\nJames first meets Eddie in an apartment complex vomiting into a toilet and aggressively denying any involvement with the death of a man stuffed in a refrigerator in the same apartment. If the player returns to the apartment after the cutscene, they can investigate further, finding posters of football players with apparently meaningless graffiti and bumper stickers on the walls. One bumper sticker clearly says \"Illusions The Water Margin.\" He is next seen talking to Laura in a bowling alley, ignoring insults and comments from Laura and James while doubting that his then-unspecified crimes will be forgiven. His final appearances are in the prison/labyrinth area, where he confesses to killing the man in the apartment and another victim on the grounds that they were mocking him, and apparently has no moral issues with killing. By the end of the level he is dangerously unstable and threatening to kill anyone whom he perceives as mocking him, leading to a fight to the death with James after a poorly received comment from the latter. In the final cutscene before his death Eddie concludes correctly that James too was a murderer, telling him that they were both \"called\" to Silent Hill as they're \"not like other people\". The final encounter with Eddie takes place in a large meat freezer, a counterpoint to the burning staircase on which Angela stands during her final meeting with James.\n\n is an eight-year-old girl wandering the town. She is apparently the only \"innocent\" human character in the town, in contrast to James, Angela and Eddie, and consequently does not see any monsters or serious abnormalities in the town. This has two consequences in the game: firstly, Laura can apparently move around the town safe from supernatural danger, and secondly Laura occasionally places James in danger due to the fact that she isn't aware of the supernatural threats he faces.\n\nLaura is an orphan who befriended Mary during her last year alive, having been a patient at the same hospital as her, and like James appears to be searching for Mary in the town as well (unaware of her death). She acts rudely towards James and Eddie, the two characters she encounters, motivated with the former by a belief that he did not really love Mary.\n\nJames first encounters Laura in the apartment complex, where she kicks a key out of his reach and stomps on his hand. He confronts her in frustration after the level is cleared, where her connection with Mary is revealed, but she runs away before James can get more out of her. She is next seen at the bowling alley with Eddie, and after she leaves James pursues her at Maria's request. He finally finds her at the hospital, where James accuses her of lying when she details her connection to Mary. Laura then asks him to pick up a (nonexistent) letter from Mary inside a hospital room. When James enters it, she slams the door behind him, locking James in with several dangerous monsters. Laura is seen again at the Lakeview Hotel with a letter confirming her friendship to Mary, and she becomes furious with James when he tells her he has discovered he killed Mary. In the \"Leave\" ending, James leaves Silent Hill with Laura, possibly intending to carry out Mary's wishes to adopt the girl. Her fate however, is unknown in the other endings.\n\nEarly promotional articles incorrectly named the character as \"Lauren.\"\n\nPyramid Head, also known as , \"Red Pyramid\", or \"Bogeyman\", and in Japan, stalks James, representing his wish to be punished for Mary's death. He is the main antagonist of Silent Hill 2. Masahiro Ito, the designer of \"Silent Hill 2\"s monsters, created Pyramid Head because he wanted \"a monster with a hidden face\". Known for his large triangular head, Pyramid Head lacks a voice, and his appearance stems from the \"distorted memory of the executioners\" and the town's past as a place of execution, according to Takayoshi Sato, the character designer for \"Silent Hill 2\". Positively received in \"Silent Hill 2\" for his role as an element of James' psyche, he has been cited by reviewers as an iconic villain of the series and part of \"Silent Hill 2\"s appeal.\n\nSince \"Silent Hill 2\" Pyramid Head has become an icon in horror video games and has made other appearances in other \"Silent Hill\" games and media. Pyramid Head has appeared in other games in the main series, \"\" as the \"Bogeyman\", \"\" as cameo in a painting and a joke ending in \"\" and in the 2006 film \"Silent Hill\" as \"Red Pyramid\" as well as its sequel \"\". In spin-off games he has appeared in \"\", \"\" and . He has also made an appearance outside of the \"Silent Hill\" series as a player character in the Nintendo DS video game \"New International Track & Field\" and \"Konami Krazy Racers\" alongside Robbie the Rabbit.\n\n is a character from the \"Born from a Wish\" scenario of Silent Hill 2.\n\n (voiced by Donna Burke and Laura Bailey) is a priestess of the town's cult and a primary antagonist of Silent Hill 3. It is said during the game that she was abused as a child. She used to be a friend of Alessa in their childhood. Claudia is attempting to carry on where Dahlia Gillespie failed in \"Silent Hill\" and use Alessa Gillespie (through her reincarnation as Heather) to birth \"the god\". Contrary to Dahlia, her intention in resurrecting the god is to \"save\" mankind, though she believes she is a sinner and will not be saved. She speaks in riddles and is always barefoot. At the end of the game, she tries to give birth to the deity herself and dies.\n\nIn the film series, portrayed by Carrie-Anne Moss, Claudia's role is much like in the video game. In \"\", using her son to get Heather into Silent Hill, Claudia is revealed to have been tainted by darkness and became the demonic Missionary. In the end, after her monstrous form is revealed to her followers, Claudia is killed by Pyramid Head.\n\n is the abusive father of Claudia Wolf and a former member of the Order. He was condemned to a mental hospital for his insane and abusive behavior and stripped of his rank. However, in his heart, he still held the teachings of the Order close with fanatical devotion, and even died because of it. He is voiced by Matt Lagan in the original version, but the actor who portrayed Leonard in the HD Collection is unknown.\n\nLeonard Wolf also appears in the 2012 film Silent Hill: Revelation. He is portrayed by Malcolm McDowell.\n\n (voiced by Richard Grosse and Kirk Thornton in the HD collection) is a private investigator hired by Claudia Wolf to locate Heather. When this results in the death of Heather's adoptive father, Harry, he feels guilty and accompanies Heather into Silent Hill as an ally. In the \"Normal\" ending, which is the only ending available on the first play-through of the game, Heather and Douglas survive. If the player gets the \"Possessed\" ending, Heather kills Douglas, implying she herself has been \"possessed\".\n\nDouglas is mentioned in one of The Order's books in \"Silent Hill Homecoming\", which states Douglas successfully exposed the Silent Hill cult to the authorities after the events of \"Silent Hill 3\".\n\nHe is portrayed by Martin Donovan in the film series.\n\n (voiced by Clifford Rippel and Yuri Lowenthal in the HD Collection) is a priest of the cult. Vincent is less dogmatic than Claudia and opposes her actions. Vincent appears to be on Heather's side during the game. With his finances, he built the church where the final battle is staged in and is killed by Claudia when Heather enters.\n\nHe is portrayed by actor Kit Harington in the film series.\n\n is an angel in the religion followed by the cult. A saintly being who attends to and watches over the religion's chief deity, he has the duties of safeguarding the mother until she gives birth to the deity, in order to ensure the protection and restoration of the latter to the world, and resurrecting the mother if she dies. He is a guide to the Otherworld, as he appears before Heather whenever the environment changes.\n\nValtiel also makes an appearance in Book of Memories and a cameo in the Silent Hill: Revelation movie.\n\n (voiced by Eric Bossick) is the player character of \"Silent Hill 4: The Room\". A reclusive and shy man, he prefers not to show his emotions. He resides in Room 302 of South Ashfield Heights for two years, although he only has a passing familiarity with some of his neighbors, including his next-door neighbor Eileen Galvin and superintendent Frank Sunderland, with him not knowing most other neighbors; thus not many realize that he has not come out of his room for days. Henry is apparently a photographer, as he keeps a photo album and scrapbook containing photos and articles, including several he took in Silent Hill. After five days of being trapped in his room, Henry finds a tunnel in his bathroom that leads to several locations to which he ventures in hopes of finding a way out. Helped later on by Eileen, Henry finds out about serial killer Walter Sullivan's \"21 Sacraments\" ritual, which involves the killing of 21 victims to wake his \"mother\", in fact Room 302 itself; Henry himself is the last, 21st intended victim. Depending on the progression of the game, including the state of his apartment and the damage taken by Eileen, Henry could end up successfully getting killed by Walter, surviving but grieving over Eileen's death, or surviving and greeting Eileen later in the St. Jerome's Hospital with a bouquet of flowers.\n\n is a character of \"Silent Hill 4: The Room\". The next-door neighbor of Henry Townshend, she resides in Room 303 of the South Ashfield Heights apartment. Despite Henry having lived next to her for two years, the two only share a little bit of familiarity with each other, although Eileen is the first to notice that Henry has not come out from his room for five days. While she can be glimpsed several times in the first part of the game, including by peeping her activities from Room 302, she becomes more important in the later part of the game, where she is attacked by Walter in the Otherworld as the 20th victim of the 21 Sacraments ritual, which leaves her almost dead and rushed to St. Jerome's Hospital. Eileen decides to accompany Henry on his journey throughout Walter's Otherworlds, intent on helping the younger version of Walter, who had helped her when the adult Walter attacked her, leaving her physical body in the hospital. Depending on how much damage Eileen sustains and the possession she experiences, Eileen either falls prey to Walter's deadly trap before the final battle, which results in Eileen dying in the real world, or survives and wakes up in the real world, where she is greeted by Henry giving flowers to her, suggesting that their relationship has strengthened since their previous meeting with each other.\n\n is the main antagonist of \"Silent Hill 4: The Room\". Abandoned by his parents at birth at Room 302 of South Ashfield Heights, he was taken in by Frank Sunderland, who kept his umbilical cord while sending him to St. Jerome's Hospital and eventually the Wish House orphanage, located near Silent Hill. Abused and taught the Order's teachings by Dahlia Gillespie, Walter became convinced that Room 302 at South Ashfield Heights is his mother. George Rosten, a priest of the Valtiel sect, let Valtiel go inside Walter's subconscious, which allowed him to perform the 21 Sacraments ritual by killing 21 victims with the intent of awaking his \"mother\". He managed to kill the first ten victims whose hearts he carved out, becoming a prolific serial killer in Ashfield, but was later captured, with his suicide-in-prison apparently following soon after. In reality, Walter had committed suicide as the 11th victim of the ritual, became a ghost and moved his corpse into Room 302, then planned to continue his killings beyond the grave. Walter killed four more victims before Henry Townshend moved in as the new occupant of Room 302. As part of his plan, he creates various Otherworlds to trap and kill his victims, including Henry and his neighbor, Eileen, whom he targets as the final and penultimate victims, respectively. Though he manages to kill four (or five if Eileen dies in the final battle) more victims, his plan is put to end after his defeat by Henry in all endings of the game except the \"21 Sacraments\" ending, which shows him managing to kill both Henry and Eileen, thus awaking his \"mother\".\n\n (voiced by Lisa Ortiz) is a flirtatious Spanish-American woman whom Henry meets in the subway station. Convinced that she is in a dream, she asks Henry to help her out, promising a \"special favor\" for him. As the two get separated, Cynthia eventually finds an exit, but is attacked by Walter as the 16th victim of the 21 Sacraments ritual, leaving her badly beaten by the time Henry reaches her, who calms her as she dies from her wounds. Later in the game, Cynthia reappears as a vengeful ghost, now having long black hair similar to an onryō, haunting the station that Henry and Eileen visit.\n\n is a journalist who investigates the Order of Silent Hill. He was the previous occupant of Room 302, whom Henry takes over after his death. Joseph's research about the Order eventually led him to write an exposé about the Wish House orphanage, which he tried to link with the murders of serial killer Walter Sullivan. However, he mysteriously became trapped in his own room one day, and as he attempted to get out, he encountered the Otherworlds created by Walter, which include the ghosts of the victims murdered by him. The player controls Joseph for a brief beginning portion of the game before he gets killed by the ghost of Jimmy Stone, becoming the 15th victim of the 21 Sacraments ritual, at which point the story shifts to two years later. Henry and Eileen encounter Joseph's ghost in Room 302 of the past, located at the bottom of the Spiral Staircase between the Otherworlds, where he tells them to kill Walter by following the Crimson Tome if they wish for the ritual to end.\n\n is the superintendent of South Ashfield Heights, where Henry Townshend and Eileen Galvin reside. He is also the father of \"Silent Hill 2\" protagonist, James Sunderland, whom Frank describes as having \"disappeared\" in Silent Hill with his wife, Mary. Frank once gave Henry a photo of the Toluca Lake, and is later revealed to have taken in Walter Sullivan when he was abandoned in Room 302 by his parents. He gave up Walter for adoption in the Wish House Orphanage near Silent Hill, but kept Walter's umbilical cord. While Frank survives the events of the game in most endings, the \"21 Sacraments\" ending has the radio announcing his death at his room, among others.\n\n is a mentally unbalanced man who is fascinated with the Order of Silent Hill. He was friends with Bobby Randolph and Sein Martin, both also fascinated with the Order as well as being two of the initial ten victims of the 21 Sacraments ritual conducted by Walter. When Henry enters the area near Wish House orphanage from Room 302, he meets Jasper who offers him clues about the orphanage and the Order, being a fan of them. Henry later watches as Jasper gets killed by Walter, who immolates him alive as the 17th victim, while Jasper himself, as if appreciative of the event, carves 17/21 in his chest. Jasper later reappears as a burned ghost who haunts the orphanage.\n\n is a middle-aged guardian of Wish House orphanage employed by the Order of Silent Hill. While he is not a part of the Order, he relished the idea of abusing and punishing the orphans, often torturing them at the Water Prison regardless if they actually broke the rules or not. Walter implies that Andrew killed his childhood friend, Bob, during his tortures, as well as forcing him to drink water with leeches in it. Henry meets Andrew trapped inside the Water Prison. Though he manages to free him, Andrew is later found drowned as the 18th victim of the 21 Sacraments ritual, with his ghost later resurfacing when Henry and Eileen visit the prison for the second time.\n\n is a violent and sadistic resident of Room 207 of South Ashfield Heights. Having a short temper, he once punished a fellow resident, Mike, by ripping his clothes and beating him, which young Walter misunderstood as his having literally skinned Mike alive. Henry meets Richard in the Building World, the latter initially mistaking him as a manifestation by pointing a revolver at Henry. Richard is later found by Henry as having strapped to a chair and electrocuted to death as the 19th victim of the 21 Sacraments, despite Henry's attempt to free him. His ghost later haunts the Otherworld version of Room 207.\n\n is the player character of \"Silent Hill: Origins\". An ordinary truck driver with a traumatic childhood, he is an orphan whose mother went insane and tried to kill both herself and Travis once, while his father committed suicide not long after his wife was committed to a sanatorium. Fifteen years after his father's suicide, Travis is taking a shortcut through Silent Hill when he almost hits a projection of Alessa crossing down the road. Worried, he explores the surrounding and manages to rescue Alessa from her immolation by her mother, Dahlia, before passing out. After waking up, Travis continues through Silent Hill and is guided by Alessa to delve into his past while also simultaneously help her stop the birthing of the God, ultimately forcing him to confront the guilt he feels over his parents' fates. In the good ending, Travis is able to split Alessa's soul into two, giving birth to her untainted half who is adopted by the Mason couple as \"Cheryl\", then taking his leave to continue his delivery. In the bad ending, Travis is captured and injected with the PTV by the Order as scenes imply him to be a serial killer and the murderer of his father. Travis appears in a brief part at the start of \"Silent Hill: Homecoming\". Now a much older man, he drives Alex back to Shepherd's Glen from a sanatorium, though Alex's memories distort it to be from the army. Like Laura in \"Silent Hill 2\", he seems nonchalant about the fact that the town is superimposed by the Fog World, suggesting that he sees it as the Real World.\n\nIn the film \"Silent Hill: Revelation\", Travis (portrayed by Peter Outerbridge) appears in a cameo at the end of the film, when he agrees to take Sharon and Vincent from Silent Hill to \"as far away as he can\".\n\nHelen Grady is the mother of Travis. During Travis' childhood, Helen went insane, claiming that she heard voices from the mirror that her \"demon child\" had to be killed. She then tried to gas him and herself, but was stopped and committed to the Cedar Grove Sanatorium. Helen would turn violent when she learned that Travis would come along with his father to visit her, so Richard Grady told Travis that Helen had died, though Richard wrote her letters until his suicide. Helen had died of an unknown cause by the time \"Silent Hill: Origins\" starts and her remains are discovered by Travis in the sanatorium.\n\nRichard Grady is the father of Travis and the husband of Helen. Richard separated Helen from her son when she tried to kill him by sending her to a sanatorium. Upon seeing that Helen would violently beg to be reunited with Travis, Richard claimed to Travis that Helen had died to spare him from seeing Helen's descent of madness, but he continued to write her letters. Unable to see his family fractured anymore, Richard committed suicide fifteen years before the events of \"Silent Hill: Origins\", his body being taken only three days later due to the young Travis being unsure if his father had really died.\n\n is a monster similar to Pyramid Head and a manifestation of Travis's guilt which later appears in \"Book of Memories\" as a boss. The Bad ending implies that it is actually a split personality of Travis.\n\n is the protagonist of \"Silent Hill: Homecoming\". The eldest son of Adam and Lillian Shepherd, Alex is a part of one of the founding families of his hometown, Shepherd's Glen. He had a close relationship with his younger brother, Joshua, who was always favored over him by their parents. A week after the 150th anniversary of Shepherd's Glen, Alex abruptly left the town, seemingly to become a soldier, and returns home at the start of the game to find both his father and brother absent, while his mother is catatonic and eventually gets kidnapped by the revived Order of Silent Hill. Helped by his childhood friend, Elle Holloway, and a local cop and family friend, James Wheeler, Alex ventures to Silent Hill in order to find the disappeared residents, including his family. As Alex regains his true memories, it is revealed that he was never a soldier in the first place; he was in fact sent to a mental institution after he went insane following his accidental murder of Joshua during a boat ride. By killing Joshua, Alex inadvertently broke the pact of the Order, as he was the one intended by his parents as the sacrifice. Coming to terms with the fact, Alex then battles the Amnion, a manifestation of Joshua. Depending on the game endings, Alex can end up surviving and returning to Shepherd's Glen with Elle, drowned by his father, changed into the Bogeyman, or sent back into the mental institution.\n\n is the younger brother of Alex Shepherd. He, alongside his father Adam, had disappeared by the time Alex returns to Shepherd's Glen, motivating Alex to search for them in Silent Hill. Alex notes that throughout his life, his parents had always favored Joshua over him; Joshua even managed to inherit their family's ring, which could not be shown to anyone else, even Alex. As Alex regains his true memories, it is then revealed that the reason of his parents' withdrawal of him is because they had to choose one of their two sons as a sacrifice for the Order of Silent Hill; they chose Alex, so they deliberately ignored him so as to not get too much attached and then having to lose him later. However, Alex accidentally killed Joshua after the latter proudly showed their family ring in a boat ride. Not wanting to lose their remaining son, Adam and Lillian were forced to present Joshua's body as sacrifice, breaking the pact of the Order. After defeating the Amnion, Alex finds Joshua's corpse inside the monster's body.\n\n is the childhood friend of Alex Shepherd and a part of the Holloway family, one of the four founding families of Shepherd's Glen. The eldest daughter of town judge, Margaret, Elle, like Alex, has the pressure to live up to her family name, though she never shows it to anyone. At one point, Elle and Alex were very close like siblings although some materials impilie to have romantic feelings, but she became disappointed when Alex abruptly left Shepherd's Glen a week after the 150th anniversary of the town. In the meantime, Elle began to put up posters for the missing residents of Shepherd's Glen, one of whom is her younger sister, Nora; she is unaware that Nora was actually presented by their mother as sacrifice for the pact of the Order. When Alex returns to the town, Elle helps him in investigating the disappearances of the town residents, in the process learning that her mother is reviving the Order of Silent Hill and attempting to execute her because she rejects becoming a part of it. In the \"Good\" ending, Elle manages to escape Silent Hill with Alex back to their hometown.\n\n is a deputy police officer who works at Shepherd's Glen Police Station. He had known Alex for sometime as he once worked with Alex's father, Adam. As the residents of Shepherd's Glen begin to disappear one by one, Wheeler boards up the station, believing that some supernatural force is behind the disappearances. He assists Alex and Elle in their attempt to reach Silent Hill, but becomes kidnapped, alongside Elle, by the Order, although he leaves behind his walkie-talkie to communicate with Alex. Though Alex manages to reach him, Wheeler is abducted once again by Asphyxia. He is later found dying with knives impaled around his body; the player has a choice whether to save him by using their medical kit or not. If the player saves him, Wheeler goes with Elle to escape the Order's lair, presumably surviving the ordeal afterwards.\n\n is one of the main antagonists of \"Silent Hill: Homecoming\". She is the judge of Shepherd's Glen and a member of the Holloway family, one of the four founding families of the town. She has two daughters, Elle and Nora, the latter of whom she put up as sacrifice for the pact of the Order of Silent Hill. Initially appearing as a demure and caring woman, Judge Holloway is actually a cruel and sadistic person who sought to always uphold the pact, not even feeling remorse in sacrificing her daughter, unlike the three other families. She became resentful of Alex when he broke the pact by killing Joshua as this means Shepherd's Glen is no longer safe, so she decides to revive the Order of Silent Hill by recruiting Curtis Ackers and several others, while kidnapping and executing those who refuse to subject to her. Margaret is even determined to kill her remaining daughter when the latter refuses to join her. At the Order's lair, she attempts to kill Alex with a drill after drugging him, though Alex manages to retaliate and force the drill through her jaw, gruesomely killing her.\n\n is one of the main antagonists of \"Silent Hill: Homecoming\", alongside Judge Holloway. A lone repairman working at the Salvage Yard, Curtis meets Alex shortly after his return to Shepherd's Glen to exchange weapon with him while complaining about the oddness that recently occurs in the town. It becomes clear later on that Curtis has joined the revived Order of Silent Hill under Margaret Holloway as he assists the kidnapping of Alex's mother, Lillian. He is later sent by Holloway to execute the latter's daughter, Elle, but before he does so, he gets killed during a confrontation with Alex in the Order's lair.\n\n and are the parents of Alex and Joshua Shepherd as well as members of the Shepherd family, one of the four founding families of Shepherd's Glen. Both of them had favored Joshua over Alex all their life, giving the former preferential treatment while treating the later as if he were a second-class addition to the family. It is later revealed that due to them being a part of the founding families, they had to fulfill the pact of the Order by sacrificing one of their sons; they chose Alex, so they distanced themselves from him in fear that their attachment to him would make his sacrifice harder for them. However, when Alex accidentally killed Joshua during a boat ride, their parents were forced to present Joshua's body as sacrifice as they did not want lose their remaining son, thus the pact was broken. By the time Alex returns to Shepherd's Glen, Adam has been abducted by the revived Order, while Lillian is in a catatonic state until she gets kidnapped as well. The two are confined in traps at Silent Hill, where they apologize to Alex for their treatment of him when the latter meets them; Adam even anonymously confesses to Alex in the Order's church that he had always loved both his sons, regardless of his attitude to them. Both are killed, Adam's by being torn in half horizontally, while Lillian's death depends on Alex's choice: she may either gets ripped in half vertically, or gets shot by Alex as an act of mercy.\n\n is the mayor of Shepherd's Glen and a member of the Bartlett family, one of the four founding families of the town. Being an upholder of the pact, Sam had to present his son, Joey, as sacrifice for the pact of the Order by burying him alive; this act greatly impacted him emotionally that he is often seen digging up old graves, likely to cope with his situation. When the Otherworld begins to cover Shepherd's Glen, Sam is killed by a manifestation of Joey, the Sepulcher.\n\n is the local doctor of Shepherd's Glen and a member of the Fitch family, one of the four founding families of the town. He is regarded as a local hero due to his brave actions to help a school bus full of elementary school students that got lodged under a bridge when the Toluca River became flooded, in particular saving the-then young Alex Shepherd from being trapped by the crumpled vehicle. He had daughter, Scarlet, whom he had to sacrifice for the pact of the Order by mutilating her, sending him into insanity and self-mutilation. When Shepherd's Glen is fully submerged by the effects of Silent Hill, Martin is killed by a manifestation of his daughter, who bites off his head.\n\n is a Cuban-American graduate of Midwich High School who works at The Balkan club. The only major character who did not have a counterpart in the original \"Silent Hill\", Michelle claims that she used to go to school with Cheryl Heather Mason during a meeting with Cheryl's father, Harry. Later on, she appears and disappears to Harry several times while helping him as he goes through Silent Hill in search of Cheryl, herself already in a heated argument with her boyfriend, John. On the last time she appears to Harry, Michelle tells Harry to visit the Lighthouse through the lake while stating that he may not like the answers he finds, implying that she already knows about who or where he actually is. Depending on the player's choice throughout the game, Michelle may appear in one of the three possible outfits and persona, as well as one of the two personalities. She also appears in one of the game endings, \"Sleaze and Sirens\", where she participates in a homemade sex tape with Harry and Lisa Garland.\n\n is the main protagonist and player character of \"Silent Hill: Downpour\". Raised in an orphanage, Murphy respects nuns and is stated to have a criminal behavior, though he eventually stopped and married his long-time friend, Carol, who bore him a son, Charlie, who was particularly close to his father. However, Charlie was abducted and subsequently killed by child rapist and the Pendleton's neighbor, Patrick Napier. Soon after, Carol divorced Murphy, who was consumed in grief that he allowed himself to be arrested and sent to Ryall State Prison so he could kill Napier personally with a deal with George Sewell, which involved him beating Sewell's fellow officer, Frank Coleridge. During a prisoner transfer to Wayside Maximum Security Prison, the prison bus crashes, though Murphy survives and stumbles upon Silent Hill.\n\nThere, Murphy is haunted by manifestations due to his guilt in Napier and Coleridge's deaths, as well as being chased by Anne Marie Cunningham, Frank's daughter who blames him for her father's death. As he comes to accept his guilt by defeating the Bogeyman, he attempts to escape by boat, but is stopped at the last minute by Anne, who shoots him. Confronting the Wheelman at a memory of the Ryall State Prison, Murphy then transforms into the Bogeyman, whom the player controls whether to kill or spare Anne, or being killed by her, depending on the progression. If the Bogeyman spares Anne, Murphy is then released and thanked by Anne, who learns that her father's killer was in fact Sewell. If it kills Anne, Murphy will then be sent to prison while being looked over by the Wheelman in the \"Full Circle\" ending or executed for his killings of Napier and Frank in the \"Execution\" ending. In the event that Anne kills the Bogeyman, Murphy takes the role of Sewell while his own role is taken by Anne as the game plays on the beginning cutscene. The \"Surprise!\" ending instead shows Murphy stumbling over a surprise party for himself, attended by various past Silent Hill characters, including the Pyramid Head.\n\n is one the main antagonists of \"Silent Hill: Downpour\" and the main protagonist of the comic \"Anne's Story\", which retells the story of \"Downpour\" from Anne's perspective. A corrections officer at Wayside Maximum Security Prison, Anne oversees the inmate transfer from Ryall State Prison, which includes Murphy Pendleton, whom she suspects is the one who had brutally beaten her father, Frank Coleridge, into a vegetative state that lasts until his death. When the prison bus crashes, Anne survives and tracks Murphy, who also survives the crash. She meets Murphy several times and attempts to arrest him, though he manages to escape in all attempts. Like Murphy, Anne herself experiences the manifestations of Silent Hill, which make her even more determined to kill Murphy. Manifestations of a younger Anne also appears to Murphy, which reflect Anne's blame towards Murphy. When she finally shoots Murphy as the latter is about to escape with a boat, the two are sent to a memory of Ryall State Prison, where she reveals to Murphy her connection to Frank as well as her desire to kill him. Murphy then transforms into the Bogeyman whom the player has a choice in killing or sparing Anne, or even getting killed by her, depending on the game progression. If the Bogeyman spares Anne, she will learn that the one who murdered Frank was George Sewell. She releases and thanks Murphy afterwards, while also turning her attention to Sewell in the \"Truth and Justice\" ending. In the scenario that Anne kills the Bogeyman, the game ends on \"Reversal\" ending, which switches Murphy's role to Anne and Sewell's role to Murphy at the cutscene played in the beginning of the game.\n\n is the young son of Murphy Pendleton and his ex-wife Carol. Charlie had a strong relationship with his father; the two often played kites together and shared an interest in cars. Before the events of \"Silent Hill: Downpour\", Charlie was kidnapped by the Pendleton's pedophile next-door neighbor, Patrick Napier, who molested and threw Charlie in a lake, where he drowned. In grief over his son's death, Murphy was motivated to avenge Charlie's death by making himself arrested and then kill his neighbor by his hands. Memories of Charlie manifest during Murphy's travel throughout Silent Hill, including an apparition of himself that the Bogeyman kills in front of Murphy. He also congratulates Murphy after the latter kills the Bogeyman, stating that he never blames him for his death.\n\n is a mysterious postmaster who works in Silent Hill. He has been working as a postmaster for over a century as he appears in the comic \"Past Life\", which is set in the 19th century; it is implied that he was drawn to Silent Hill after a self-defense kill and having to undergo his torment over and over. Unlike many other people who stumble over Silent Hill, Howard seems to know a great deal about the mechanism of the town, whether mundane or not. When Murphy Pendleton arrives in Silent Hill in \"Silent Hill: Downpour\", he meets Howard several times, who gives cryptic conversation and clues about the town before abruptly disappearing. Howard also plays a major role in \"Silent Hill: Book of Memories\" as he is the one who gives the player character the titular book in the first place, as well as serving as the in-game shopkeeper.\n\nJohn P. Sater is a former tour guide of the Devil's Pit, a once-popular tourist attraction in Silent Hill. JP was responsible for the death of eight children during a collapse of an underground tram transporting tourists, as he was intoxicated at that time. Defamed and losing his job, JP blamed himself for the accident and became suicidal. He is already contemplating suicide by the time Murphy arrives in the town; regardless whether Murphy choose to console or taunt him, he jumped onto a chasm to his death. Before his suicide, however, he implies that he knows Murphy and the latter's guilt over his past sins.\n\n is a corrections officer at the Ryall State Prison, where Murphy Pendleton was incarcerated. He is also the father of Anne Marie Cunningham, who holds him in high regard and is determined to follow in his footsteps by becoming a corrections officer. A wise and honorable man, Frank treated all of his colleagues and inmates with respect. He also sincerely believed that everyone can change, as he worked hard to make Murphy receive a parole, believing the latter to be a good man in heart. Frank, however, did not trust his fellow officer George Sewell, as he knew that the latter was corrupt and treacherous with anyone who made deals with him. After the murder of Patrick Napier, Frank confronted Murphy and Sewell, in which the latter ordered the former to kill Frank. Regardless of the occurrence, Frank was beaten into a vegetative state until his death. Throughout \"Silent Hill: Downpour\", Frank appears in the form of the Wheelman to both Murphy and Anne, the latter believing that Murphy is her father's killer and thus determined to get revenge on him. Depending on the endings, the murderer of Frank can be that of Murphy, or Sewell, who beat Frank anyway when Murphy was unable to do so.\n\nBobby Ricks is a DJ of a local radio station WLMN FM, located in the Centennial Building in Silent Hill. He has been trapped in Silent Hill for a long time, but due to lacking courage to get out of the town, he sits back at the station to broadcast radio transmissions throughout the town, dedicating them towards several people, including Murphy Pendleton. When Murphy arrives at the station, Bobby tells him that he was afraid to explore Silent Hill as he knows that it \"has rules to follow\" as well as the existence of a boat in the marine. He mysteriously disappears after receiving a transmission dedicated to himself, followed by an attack by a pack of Screamers.\n\n is a child molester and registered sex offender. A former neighbor of Murphy Pendleton, he abducted, molested, and subsequently killed Murphy's son, Charlie, by throwing him in a lake and left him to drown. After a similar murder of an eight-year-old boy named Daniel Stephens, Napier was arrested and jailed-without-parole at Ryall State Prison, where he was put under protective custody. Murphy, who wanted to avenge Charlie's death, deliberately made himself get arrested and thrown to prison, where he struck a deal with officer Sewell so he could attack and kill Napier personally. Murphy, however, still has guilt well after Napier's death, even when he tried to convince himself that Napier deserved it. Depending on the game endings, the dream of Napier's murder by Murphy that Murphy experienced at the start of the game can be true or only an imagination, as Sewell was the one who murdered him when Murphy was unable to go through the proceeding.\n\nA nun appears at the St. Maria's Monastery, inviting Murphy Pendleton to show him the body of the Bogeyman, which changes its likeness to both Murphy and Patrick Napier. Despite Murphy's objection, the nun states that Murphy is the person's only family, all while consoling him, thus, it is implied that she is a manifestation wanting to help Murphy face his guilt over Napier's death.\n\n is the main antagonist of Downpour a corrections officer at Ryall State Prison, alongside Frank Coleridge. Corrupt and manipulative, Sewell made a deal with Murphy Pendleton in the latter's plan to kill Patrick Napier personally if the latter agreed to an unknown favor. This turns out to be killing Frank, who was the only one knowing Sewell's true nature. Frank was beaten into a vegetative state until his death, and Sewell put the blame on Murphy. Depending on the endings, Sewell may be the one who finished off Napier and beat Frank, both because Murphy was unable to do so. In the \"Truth and Justice\" ending, upon finding out the truth about Anne Comic.\n\nSanchez is Murphy Pendleton's fellow inmate at Ryall State Prison. He participates in the prison transfer alongside Murphy, where he attracts Anne's attention that unwittingly results in the prison bus crash. Murphy finds that he had survived the crash when he meets him at the Devil's Pit dinner, threatening what appears to be a woman. This woman turns out to be a Screamer, who proceeds to brutally kill Sanchez in front of Murphy.\n\nThe is one of the antagonists of \"Silent Hill: Downpour\". Appearing as a towering humanoid wearing heavy raincoat, gas mask, and wielding a hammer, it torments both Murphy Pendleton and Anne Marie Cunningham because of their guilt over their son and father's deaths, respectively. There is also a poem that is supposedly capable of warding off the Bogeyman, although Murphy fails to recite it before the Bogeyman kills a manifestation of his son, Charlie. When Murphy confronts and finally defeats the Bogeyman, the latter switches its face to both Patrick Napier and Murphy himself. At the end of the game, upon shooting Murphy, Anne sees him transforming into the Bogeyman, who, depending on the player's choice, may kill Anne or spare her, which affects the game endings.\n\nCritics enjoyed the level of realistic detail given to the characters of \"Silent Hill 2\" and Konami's ability to transition between CG and in-game scenes. Game Revolution liked that James was an everyman character instead of a highly trained professional. GameZone praised James' sympathetic character, and found the voice acting improved, though not flawless, as compared to \"Silent Hill 2\"s predecessor. Another reviewer considered the voice acting and script superior to the survival horror video game series \"Resident Evil\", while GameSpot criticized the script for hampering the voice acting. IGN's Emma Boyes praised the relationship between James and Mary, listing it as one of \"The Greatest Video Game Couples\".\n\nThe character of Heather received both praise and criticism by reviewers of the game. GameSpot's Scott Osborne found her \"interesting\" and liked the fact that although she seems to be an average girl in his opinion, she remains non-intimidated upon witnessing sights considered by him frightening, stating that \"even Rambo would run like hell from that.\" Chris Hudak of Game Revolution regarded her as \"believable\" and \"more likeable\" than the protagonists of the two previous games in the series, because he esteemed her as having \"some attitude\", \"vulnerability\", and \"snarky teenaged wit\".\n\nThe character of Claudia has received praise for her role as a villain. \"Complex\" ranked her eleventh in their \"Bad Girls Club: The 25 Most Diabolical Video Game She-Villains\", while Cheat Code Central listed her as one of the best video games villains.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875391", "title": "Jebel Ali", "text": "Jebel Ali\n\nJebel Ali () is a port town south-west of Dubai. The Jebal Ali Port is located there. Al Maktoum International Airport has been constructed just outside the port area. Jebel Ali is connected to Dubai via the UAE Exchange (formerly Jebel Ali), Danube (formerly Jebel Ali Industrial) and Energy stations on the Dubai Metro. Among the infrastructure projects built to support the port and town is the world's largest desalination plant, the Jebel Ali Desalination Plant (Phase 2), providing an ample supply of fresh water.\n\nMany Arab historians argue that it was named after Ali ibn Abi Talib who was the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad while expanding the Islamic Caliphate had stood on one hill and looked towards the sea and perhaps supplicated as well although no such recorded proof has been found. \"Jebel\" means Mountain in Arabic.\n\nOn 23 September 1983, Gulf Air Flight 771 crashed in Jebel Ali killing all 112 people on board. The cause of the crash was a terrorist bomb that had been planted on board the aircraft by the Abu Nidal Organization.\n\nJebel Ali has become the port most frequently visited by ships of the United States Navy outside the United States. Due to the depth of the harbour and size of the port facilities, a and several ships of the accompanying battle group can be accommodated pierside. Due to the frequency of these port visits, semi-permanent shore-leave facilities (referred to by US Navy service personnel as \"The Sandbox\") have been erected adjacent to the carrier berth.\n\nIn 1985, the Jebel Ali Free Zone (JAFZA) was created: an industrial area surrounding the port. International companies that relocate there enjoy the special privileges of the free zone. These include exemption from corporate tax for 50 years, no personal income tax, no import or re-export duties, no restriction on currency, and easy labour recruitment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875393", "title": "Vanderbilt University Medical Center", "text": "Vanderbilt University Medical Center\n\nThe Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC) is a medical provider with multiple hospitals in Nashville, Tennessee, as well as clinics and facilities throughout Middle Tennessee. VUMC is an independent non-profit organization, but maintains academic affiliations with Vanderbilt University.\n\nIt comprises the following units:\n\n\nVUMC also has hospitals, clinics, physician practices and affiliates covering nine hospital systems and 48 hospital locations, serving an extensive patient base. In 2008, the Medical Center moved 23 clinics and administrative offices into the renovated 100 Oaks Mall in the Berry Hill section of Nashville, filling of space.\n\nVUMC is known for its highly acclaimed teaching hospital and its groundbreaking efforts in electronic medical records. Its health care providers see more than 1.6 million patients each year and its hospitals perform more than 35,000 surgical procedures and see 65,000 patients in its Emergency Room. The Medical Center employs 19,600 staff. Vanderbilt biomedical scientists in more than 100 laboratories conducted more than $616 million of federally and corporately sponsored research as of 2013.\n\nIn April 2016 Vanderbilt University and VUMC became separate organizations legally and financially. The two organizations cooperate, and VUMC clinicians continue to serve as faculty members at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and Vanderbilt University School of Nursing.\n\nVUMC was ranked as the best hospital in Tennessee in the 2014 annual ranking by \"U.S. News & World Report\". In the 2014 annual rankings by the magazine, the following VUMC specialty programs were nationally ranked: Cancer; Ear, Nose and Throat; Nephrology; Neurology and Neurosurgery; Pulmonology; and Urology. High performing specialty programs were: Cardiology and Heart Surgery; Diabetes and Endocrinology; Gastroenterology; Geriatrics; Gynecology; and Orthopaedics.\n\nVanderbilt University was named in \"Fortune\"'s \"100 Best Companies to Work For\" list for 2009. More than 80% of the university's employees work for the Medical Center. The other rankings VUMC has achieved include being listed in the 100 Top Hospitals by Truven Health Analytics; being listed as among the nation's 100 \"Most Wired\" hospitals by the American Hospital Association; and listed as one of the \"100 Great Hospitals in America\" by Becker's Hospital Review.\n\nVanderbilt is also the home of BioVU, one of the world's largest DNA databanks, which holds more than 170,000 samples and is used to discover new genetic predictors of disease and drug action by scientists worldwide.\n\nThe Center has also hosted an award since 2006, the Vanderbilt Prize in Biomedical Science, which honors \"women who have made significant contributions to the science of medicine\".\n\nAs of March 2014, the institution is being sued by the federal government in a whistle-blower case for a decade-long Medicare fraud scheme. In May 2015, a federal court ruled Vanderbilt University Medical Center was in violation of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act for laying off 200 employees without adequate notice and will have to pay out $400,000 pending an appeal. Finally, the university admitted one of its scientists fraudulently falsified six years of biomedical research in high-profile journals.\n\nThe Vanderbilt Children's Hospital has been in operation since the 1970s, but was housed in the main Vanderbilt hospital until 2004.\nMonroe J. Carell, Jr., former CEO of Central Parking Corporation, raised $79 million for the construction of a new stand-alone facility, including $20 million from his family's personal donations and additional money secured through fundraising efforts.\n\nVanderbilt faculty have won two Nobel Prizes in Physiology or Medicine. In 1971 Earl Sutherland, Jr., received the prize for his discovery of Cyclic AMP. Stanley Cohen received a Nobel in 1986, as he shared the award with Rita Levi-Montalcini of Italy for their discovery of epidermal growth factor, a hormone that can speed up certain biological processes.\nSome other important research firsts from Vanderbilt's history:\n\nVanderbilt operates the only Level 1 Trauma Center, the only Level 4 Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and the only Level 3 Burn Unit in its region. (Each of those levels represents the highest in its field.)\nThe LifeFlight helicopter ambulance service has eight helicopters, operated by Air Methods but staffed with Vanderbilt Flight Paramedics and Nurses, and an airplane transport and makes more than 2,800 flights a year. Vanderbilt also offers an organ transplantation center. Vanderbilt's first kidney transplant was in 1962; since then there have been more than 3,000 kidneys transplanted at Vanderbilt. VUMC has also had more than 2000 liver transplants and 600 heart and lung transplants. Among Vanderbilt's other transplant milestones were Tennessee's first pancreas transplant in 1985, the first successful heart-lung transplant in the state, in 1987, the first pediatric heart transplant in the state in 1987, and the first triple organ transplant of heart, lungs and liver in 2000. The Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center is one of 50 National Cancer Institute-designated cancer centers, and the only one in Tennessee that provides treatment for adult and pediatric cancers. The center is also a member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, a non-profit alliance of 21 centers focused on improving quality and efficiency of cancer care.\n\nVUMC ranks in the top 10 among the 126 medical schools in the United States in receipt of research funding from the National Institutes of Health \n\nBoth the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and the Vanderbilt University School of Nursing rank in the top 20 in the \"U.S. News & World Report\" rankings. The School of Medicine was founded in 1874.\n\nThe School of Nursing was founded in 1908. It became a part of the Medical Center in 1984. The School of Nursing phased out its undergraduate nursing degree in 1989, becoming exclusively a graduate school with a mission of educating advanced-level nurses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875405", "title": "Sandhog", "text": "Sandhog\n\nSandhog is the slang term given to urban miners, construction workers who work underground on a variety of excavation projects in New York City, and later other cities. Generally these projects involve tunneling, caisson excavation, road building, or some other type of underground construction or mining projects. The miners work with a variety of equipment from tunnel boring machines to explosives to remove material for the project they are building. The term is an American colloquialism.\n\nStarting with their first job in 1872, the Brooklyn Bridge, the \"hogs\" have built a large part of the New York City infrastructure including the subway tunnels and sewers, Water Tunnels No. 1 and No. 2 as well as the currently under construction Water Tunnel No. 3, the Lincoln, Holland, Queens-Midtown, and Brooklyn-Battery tunnels. In addition, they worked on the foundations for most of the bridges and many of the skyscrapers in the city. Many of these workers are Irish or Irish American and West Indian.\n\nSandhogging is often a tradition and is passed down through generations of families; since mining projects span decades, it is not uncommon for multi-generations of families to work together on the same job.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875406", "title": "John Riley Banister", "text": "John Riley Banister\n\nJohn Riley Banister (May 24, 1854 – 1918) was an American law officer, cowboy and Texas Ranger.\n\nBanister was born in Banister Hollow, a small settlement located in Camden County, Missouri, which was to become a local hub or center for surrounding communities. His parents were William Lawrence and Mary (Buchanan) Banister. According to biographical sources, all the Banisters were musicians and played fiddle, banjo, guitar and other instruments. They also sang long ballads and played Irish and Scottish jigs and reels.\n\nAround 1863 John's father, after being wounded twice while serving in the Confederate Army, did not return home and instead moved to Texas and married Mary Catherine Miller, a young woman of mixed Anglo-Saxon and Native American descent, with whom he had six other children. Whether or not William had formally ended his marriage with Buchanan prior to marrying Miller is a fact not noted in any historical record.\n\nWhat inspired Banister to leave Banister Hollow is not clear, although oral history suggests that it was in part due to his mother's unhappiness and abusive treatment from an uncle named Argiles Hicks. Further anecdotal evidence suggests that the wild, chaotic nature of the region was also an influence, as, according to Leona Bruce, mobs and guerillas were a constant threat. Furthermore, the attraction to the West, the land where Banister's father had gone before, may have been the strongest impetus. Banister, at age thirteen, along with his brother, Will (who was named after their father) decided to leave their home to seek out their father in Texas.\n\nNot having a map or any kind of predefined route, one Spring night in 1867 the two boys did not return home from hunting at the Niangua River. This timing was chosen because the boys understood that their leaving would not have been permitted by their family and their grandfather would have followed them and punish them had he had sufficient warning.\n\nThere is no historical or anecdotal record to suggest that the boys ever set foot in Banister Hollow again. Nor is there record to show how John and Will Banister traveled or what transpired during that time, although there is record of the boys asking other passing travelers at the earlier stages of their journey questions about how and where to cross the rivers, what kind of storms normally occurred in the Spring, how to plan a route and stay on track and where there might be danger from Native Americans. They traveled nearly six-hundred miles alone, armed with only a single rifle, a small amount of lead and powder, and a bag of Banister Hollow cornmeal. Four months after leaving Banister Hollow, the boys arrived in Fort Worth, Texas, a well-known town which was a source of supplies for settlements in the surrounding region.\n\nAfter arriving in Fort Worth, Banister and his brother, after inquiring after their father from many strangers, were befriended by a man named Colonel Rufus Winn, who was a Confederate veteran. Winn, who had two young children with his wife, Mary Elizabeth Vaughn, was touched by the boys' tale and was concerned for their safety. Not wanting them to join outlaws, Winn and his wife took them in. On the Rufus Winn ranch Banister assisted Winn with all manner of chores and duties, and within a short time became a vital family and community member.\n\nAfter driving cattle for the Rufus Winn Ranch near Menardville and later the Sam Golson ranch in Coleman and Mason counties, Banister joined the Texas Rangers in Austin, Texas for Frontier Battalion service, which involved escorting murderer John Wesley Hardin to Comanche for trial, and later the capture of outlaw Sam Bass.\n\nAfter leaving ranger service in 1881, John Banister moved to San Saba and returned to cattle driving until 1883, making drives to Kansas. In 1883 Banister married Mary Ellen Walker and settled on a ranch near Brownwood. After moving to Coleman to run a livery stable, the couple had six children. Mrs. Banister died in 1892, and Banister married Emma Daugherty on September 25, 1894, in Goldthwaite. Banister and Daugherty had five children.\n\nBetween 1889 and 1892, Banister accepted special assignments as a detective for the Santa Fe and other railroads. In 1892, he became a Treasury Agent assigned to help police the U.S.-Mexico border against cattle smugglers. After six years, he resigned and became inspector for the Texas Cattle Raisers Association (now the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association). He originated the field-inspection service for the association and was its first chief. Banister investigated cattle rustling for the association in Texas, New Mexico, Kansas, and Oklahoma until 1914, when he became sheriff of Coleman County.\n\nBanister's career is documented by a collection of his papers in the Southwest Collection of Texas Tech University. Documents detailing his investigations of cattle theft are particularly valuable in detailing the longtime efforts of the cattlemen's association in protecting livestock. Banister died of a stroke on August 1, 1918, in Coleman, and was buried in Santa Anna. His wife then took over his job and in so doing became the first female sheriff in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875407", "title": "Tinidazole", "text": "Tinidazole\n\nTinidazole is a drug used against protozoan infections. It is widely known throughout Europe and the developing world as a treatment for a variety of amoebic and parasitic infections. It was developed in 1972 and is a prominent member of the nitroimidazole antibiotic class.\n\nTinidazole is marketed by Mission Pharmacal under the brand name Tindamax, by Pfizer under the names Fasigyn and Simplotan, and in some Asian countries as Sporinex.\n\nA large body of clinical data exists to support use of tinidazole for infections from amoebae, giardia, and trichomonas, just like metronidazole. Tinidazole may be a therapeutic alternative in the setting of metronidazole intolerance. Tinidazole may also be used to treat a variety of other bacterial infections (e.g., as part of combination therapy for \"Helicobacter pylori\" eradication protocols).\n\nDrinking alcohol while taking tinidazole causes an unpleasant disulfiram-like reaction, which includes nausea, vomiting, headache, increased blood pressure, flushing, and shortness of breath.\n\nElimination half-life is 13.2 ± 1.4 hours. Plasma half-life is 12 to 14 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875408", "title": "Shlomi, Israel", "text": "Shlomi, Israel\n\nShlomi () is a town in the Northern District of Israel. In it had a population of .\n\nShlomi was founded as a development town in 1950 by Jewish immigrants from Tunisia and Morocco on the ruins of an Arab village of al-Bassa, which had been destroyed during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. It was named after a leader from the tribe of Asher, mentioned in the Bible (Num 34:27).\n\nShlomi is supported in the main by the UJIA (United Jewish Israel Appeal), and by the British Jewish youth group, AJ6.\n\nShlomi has been the target of Hezbollah Katyusha rocket attacks on 11 May 2005, Israel's Independence Day, and again on Israel's Independence Day in 2006.\n\nIt was again the target of rocket attacks on 12 July 2006, a diversion to facilitate the killing of three soldiers and kidnapping two others, which sparked the 2006 Lebanon War.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875409", "title": "Bunawan", "text": "Bunawan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBunawan was created on June 21, 1959, through \"Republic Act No. 2517\". The world's largest crocodile, Lolong, was captured in the town on September 2011.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Agusan del Sur.\n\nBunawan is politically subdivided into 10 barangays.\n\nIn the , Bunawan had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThere are three high schools in the municipality.\n\nBunawan has 1 college, the Agusan del Sur State College of Agriculture and Technology.\n\nIn early September 2011, local residents and veteran crocodile hunters caught a saltwater crocodile weighing in a local creek. The municipality planned to make the giant beast the centerpiece of an ecotourism park for species found in the marshlands.\n\nOn November 9, 2011, the National Geographic Team confirmed that Lolong was the world's biggest crocodile. The crocodile was transferred at the Bunawan Eco-Park and Research Center in Barangay Consuelo.\n\nVillagers had witnessed the crocodile attack and kill a water buffalo, and they suspected it also killed a fisherman who went missing that summer. Experts from an area crocodile farm were called in to capture the wild animal, which destroyed four traps before a stronger one caught it. A hundred villagers were needed to drag the crocodile to a truck before a crane was used to put it in a truck. From there it was taken to a special cage where it was expected to be held until the ecotourism park was built around it.\n\nThe crocodile was declared dead a few hours after flipping over in a pond with a bloated stomach on February 10, 2013. The crocodile, despite being responsible for many deadly attacks, was be mourned by residents of the town, as it was the only tourist attraction that kept the town from sulking in obscurity. Its remains is preserved to allow the municipality to keep its fame.\n\nSeveral other crocodiles roam the marshy areas on the outskirts of town, and villagers have been told to avoid the marshes at night.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875426", "title": "McClellan Air Force Base", "text": "McClellan Air Force Base\n\nMcClellan Air Force Base (1935–2001) is a former United States Air Force base located in the North Highlands area of Sacramento County, northeast of Sacramento, California. \n\nFor the vast majority of its operational lifetime, McClellan was a logistics and maintenance facility for a wide variety of military aircraft, equipment and supplies. The depot went through several name changes, finishing its life in 1995 as the Sacramento Air Logistics Center (SALC). The SALC reported to the Air Force Logistics Command (AFLC) and later the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC).\n\nIn 1986, the U.S. Air Force established the McClellan Aviation Museum on what was then McClellan Air Force Base. The museum was later chartered by the National Museum of the United States Air Force. \n\nThe United States Coast Guard previously operated Coast Guard Air Station Sacramento at McClellan AFB as a tenant activity, operating and maintaining several HC-130 Hercules aircraft. CGAS Sacramento continues to operate at McClellan following its closure as an Air Force Base and is the only remaining military aviation unit and installation on the airfield.\n\nIn 1993, the base was selected by the Pentagon for closure. At first, McClellan was scratched from a list of bases to be closed, but that decision was faced with allegations that the Clinton administration was playing politics. The base was eventually selected for closure, and there were plans to offset the expected loss of $1.5 billion, and 11,000 jobs, to the California economy. The plan relied on privatization and other investment to offset the economic and employment losses.\n\nIn 2005 the McClellan Aviation Museum changed its name to the Aerospace Museum of California. Various military aircraft sit on display inside one of the hangars, and many more are outside on the flightline. The museum has displays which highlight the mission of the base when it was active, as well as neighboring bases such as Beale AFB, Travis AFB and the since closed Mather AFB. The museum hosts educational programs to schools in the local area.\n\nIn 2015 the Sacramento Bee reported that McClellan Airfield had been designated as a Superfund site, because the Environmental Protection Agency has identified 326 waste areas on the base. Water wells closest to the base in the Rio Linda-Elverta district, have had the highest levels of hexavalent chromium, which is a known carcinogen. Water from six of 11 wells tested above the state’s maximum contaminant levels for chromium-6, which is 10 parts per billion. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875428", "title": "Martin Wattenberg (political scientist)", "text": "Martin Wattenberg (political scientist)\n\nMartin P. Wattenberg is a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine. He is an expert on American elections and party politics and is co-author of a popular undergraduate college text on American government, \"Government in America: People, Policy, and Politics\", published by Pearson Longman. He is also the author of \"Where Have All the Voters Gone: The Decline of American Political Parties\", \"Is Voting For Young People?\", \"The Rise of Candidate-Centered Politics\", and \"Obama: Year One\".\n\nWattenberg and his wife appear in Season 9 of the reality television show Flipping Out as the owners of a Newport Beach home which is undergoing a design renovation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875430", "title": "M. Cherif Bassiouni", "text": "M. Cherif Bassiouni\n\nMahmoud Cherif Bassiouni (9 December 1937 – 25 September 2017) was an Emeritus Professor of Law at DePaul University where he taught from 1964 to 2012. He served in numerous United Nations positions and served as the consultant to the US Department of State and Justice on many projects. He was a founding member of the International Human Rights Law Institute at DePaul University which was established in 1990. He served as president from 1990 to 1997 and then as president emeritus. Bassiouni is often referred to by the media as “the Godfather of International Criminal Law” and a “war crimes expert.” As such, he served on the Steering Committee for The Crimes Against Humanity Initiative, which was launched to study the need for a comprehensive convention on the prevention and punishment of crimes against humanity, and draft a proposed treaty. He spearheaded the drafting of the proposed convention, which as of 2014 is being debated at the International Law Commission.\n\nIn 2010, Bassiouni donated his personal papers to the DePaul University Special Collections and Archives, where his materials are open to researchers.\n\nCherif Bassiouni was admitted to the practice of law in Illinois, Washington, DC, the United States Supreme Court, and the Second, Fifth, Seventh, Ninth, and Eleventh Circuits and the United States Court of Military Appeals. He is also admitted to practice before the Egyptian Supreme Court. Bassiouni has handled many international cases on extradition and international cooperation in criminal matters, and coordinated major litigation involving multiple parties, including states, on matters involving international law.\n\nIn 1972, Cherif Bassiouni was one of the founders of the International Institute of Higher Studies in Criminal Sciences (ISISC) located in Siracusa, Italy, where he served as Dean from 1972-1989 and then as President to date. He also served as the Secretary General of the International Association of Penal Law (L’Association Internationale de Droit Penal), Paris, France, from 1974-1989 and as President for three five-year terms from 1989-2004 when he was elected Honorary President.\n\nCherif Bassiouni was a guest scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C. in 1972; Visiting Professor of Law, New York University Law School in 1971; Fulbright-Hays Professor of International Criminal Law, University of Freiburg, Germany in 1970; non-resident Professor of Criminal Law at University of Cairo from 1996-2006. He also lectured at various universities in the United States and abroad. He was a member of the Whitney R. Harris World Law Institute's International Council.\n\nTo date, Cherif Bassiouni has authored 27 books, edited 45 books, and authored 265 articles on International Criminal Law, Comparative Criminal Law, Human Rights, and U.S. Criminal Law that have been published in various law journals and books. Additionally, he has written 14 Monographs on such subjects as history, politics, and religion. Some of these publications have been cited by the International Court of Justice (ICJ), International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), the European Court of Human Rights, and the highest courts of: Australia, Canada, India, Israel, Trinidad and Tobago, South Africa (Supreme Court and Constitutional Court) and United Kingdom (House of Lords, Court of Appeals, High Court and Divisional Court of England & Wales, and Scottish High Court of the Judiciary), and New Zealand. In the United States, his works have been repeatedly cited by the United States Supreme Court, U.S. Circuit and District courts, as well as various State Supreme Courts. Several of his books and articles have been written in and translated into: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Persian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.\n\nSince 1975, Bassiouni has been appointed to the following United Nations positions: Chair and then member of the Commission of Inquiry for Libya (2011-2012); Independent Expert on Human Rights for Afghanistan (2004-2006); Independent Expert on the Rights to Restitution, Compensation, and Rehabilitation for Victims of Grave Violations of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (1998-2000); Chair, Drafting Committee of the Diplomatic Conference on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court (1998); Vice-Chair of the General Assembly's Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court (1996-1998); Vice-Chair of the General Assembly's Ad Hoc Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court (1995); Chair of the Commission of Experts Established Pursuant to Security Council 780 (1992) to Investigate Violations of International Humanitarian Law in the Former Yugoslavia (1993-1994) and the Commission's Special Rapporteur on Gathering and Analysis of the Facts (1992-1993); Consultant to the Sixth and Seventh United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention (1980 and 1985); Consultant to the Committee on Southern African of the Commission on Human Rights (1980-1981); Co-chair of the Independent Committee of Experts Drafting the Convention on the Prevention and Suppression of Torture (1978); and Honorary Vice-President at the Fifth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention (1975).\n\nHe also served as chair of the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry which was established in 2011.\n\nBassiouni held numerous appointments with the UN, such as Independent Expert for the Commission on Human Rights on the Situation of Human Rights in Afghanistan from 2004–2006, and Independent Expert for the Commission on Human Rights on The Rights to Restitution, Compensation and Rehabilitation for Victims of Grave Violations of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms from 1998–2000. He was also the Chairman of the Drafting Committee for the Diplomatic Conference on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court in 1998, and the Vice-Chairman of the General Assembly's Ad Hoc and Preparatory Committees on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court (ICC) in 1995 and from 1996–98. In 2010, he stated his belief that the ICC will fail. He was also a member, then the Chairman, of the Security Council's Commission to Investigate Violations of International Humanitarian Law in the Former Yugoslavia (1993), and the Commission's Special Rapporteur on Gathering and Analysis of the Facts from 1992–1993. He was Chairman of the Drafting Committee of the 1985 United Nations Treaty on Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power (1985), the Consultant to the Sixth and Seventh UN Congress on Crime Prevention from 1980–1985, Consultant to the Committee on Southern African Commission on Human Rights from 1980–1981 (as Consultant to the Committee on Southern African Commission on Human Rights, Professor Bassiouni prepared a Draft Statute for the Creation of an International Criminal Court to prosecute \"apartheid\"). Additionally, he served as the Co-chairman of the Committee of Experts to draft the convention on the Prevention and Suppression of Torture in 1977, and was the Honorary Vice-President to the Fifth Congress on Crime Prevention in 1975.\n\nIn addition to his many positions in the UN, Bassiouni served as the consultant to the US Department of State and Justice on projects relating to international traffic in drugs (1973) and international control of terrorism (1975 and 1978–79). He was also the consultant to the Department of State regarding the US hostages in Iran from 1979-1980.\n\nBassiouni holds the following law degrees: \"Baccalaureat Lettres\" LLB University of Cairo, 1955; JD Indiana University School of Law, 1964; LL.M. John Marshall Law School in International and Maritime Law, 1966; and S.J.D. George Washington University in International Criminal Law, 1973. Furthermore, he studied law at University of Burgundy, France, and at the University of Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nAmong the many distinctions and awards he has received are the nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize (1999); Wolfgang Friedmann Memorial Award of Columbia University (2012); Cook County Bar Association Lincoln Award (2012); Dominican University's Bradford O’Neill Medallion for Social Justice (2011); George Washington University Distinguished Alumni Scholar Award, Washington DC (2010-2011); Washington University School of Law, World Peace Through Law Award (2010); DePaul University Via Sapientiae Award (2009); Hague Prize for International Law (2007); Cesare Beccaria Justice Medal of the International Society for Social Defense (2007); The Medal of the Commission de Derechos Humanos del Estado de Mexico (2006); DePaul University St. Vincent DePaul Society's Humanitarian Award (2000); International Association of Penal Law- V.V. Pella, Champion of International Criminal Justice Award (1999); John Marshall Law School's Lifetime Achievement Award (1999); Defender of Democracy Award from Parliamentarians for Global Action (1998); United Nations Association's Adlai E. Stevenson Award (1993); The Special Award of the Council of Europe (1990); and The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe's Award (1984).\n\nIn 1999 Professor Bassiouni was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for his work in the field of international criminal justice and for his contribution to the creation of the International Criminal Court. He did not win as Médecins Sans Frontières received the award in 1999.\n\nIn 2007 he was awarded the Hague Award for International Law for his \"distinguished contribution in the field of international law\". He was awarded a colloquium in his honour: The Third Hague Prize Colloquium. This colloquium was organized by the T.M.C. Asser Instituut and the Hague Institute for the Internationalisation of Law. The winner of the Hague Prize is given the honour of selecting the fundamental principle of law on which the Hague Colloquium will be organized.\n\nHe has also received the \"Via Sapientiae\" Award (DePaul University) in 2009, the Beccaria Medal from the International Society for Social Defence in 2009, and the Silvia Sandano Award of the University of Rome in 2008.\n\nCherif spoken out in support of the Gaza Flotilla.\n\nHe also made an appearance in the PBS broadcast documentary \"\" (2002), produced by Unity Productions Foundation.\n\nIn addition to his many awards, Bassiouni holds a number of honorary degrees: Doctor of Law Honoris Causa, University of Salzburg (2013); Doctor of Law Honoris Causa, University of Tirana, Albania (2013); Doctor of Law Honoris Causa, University of Ghent, Belgium (2011); Doctor of Law Honoris Causa, Case Western Reserve University, United States (2010); Doctor of Humane Letters, Catholic Theological Union, Chicago, US (2009); Doctor of Law \"honoris causa,\" National University of Ireland, Galway (LLD) (2001); Doctor of Law \"honoris causa,\" Niagara University (LLD) (1997); Doctor of Law \"honoris causa\" (Docteur d'Etat en Droit), University of Pau and Pays de l'Adour, France (1988); and Doctor of Law \"honoris causa\" (Dottore in Giurisprudenza), University of Torino, Italy (1981).\n\nHe has received the following medals:\n\nHe received numerous academic and civic awards, including:\n\nBassiouni is the author of 38 and editor of 48 books, and the author of 255 articles on a wide range of legal issues, including International Criminal Law, Comparative Criminal Law, Human Rights, and US Criminal Law. One of his latest articles is a contribution to the book \"Constitutionalism, Human Rights and Islam after the Arab Spring\" edited by Rainer Grote and Tilmann Röder. His publications have been translated into Arabic, Chinese, English, Persian, French, Georgian, German, Hungarian, Italian, Russian and Spanish. Some of these publications have been cited by the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). They have also been cited by the United States Supreme Court, United States Appellate and Federal District Courts, as well as by various State Supreme Courts.\n\n\"Perspectives on Post-conflict Justice \" in the Lecture Series of the United Nations Audiovisual Library of International Law.\n\nWhile many felt that Bassiouni would become the first prosecutor of the ICTY, failure to secure the prosecutor position was blocked by the United Kingdom and has been attributed in part to a perception that he would \"move too quickly to charge Serb and possibly Croatian leaders with war crimes\". Many politicians feared that allowing Bassiouni to be a prosecutor of the ICTY would be a conflict of interest because many communities that were ethnically cleansed by Serb paramilitary forces were Bosnian Muslim villages, and because Bassiouni himself is a Muslim, born in the Middle East. One representative to the Security Council was reported saying that Bassiouni was \"a fanatic who had too much information\". In the initial vote count in the Security Council, Bassiouni was supported by seven countries, the United States being one of them, and was opposed by seven countries with one abstention.\n\nBassiouni sued the FBI (No. 04-3888), which heard oral arguments in 2005. The case centered around information collected and maintained by the FBI about Bassiouni; in March 2001, upon receiving documents as a result of a request protected by the Freedom of Information Act, Bassiouni attempted to amend the documents, which – according to Bassiouni – wrongfully linked him with Palestine liberation forces and other paramilitary organizations. In a letter to the United States Department of Justice in 2002, Bassiouni argued that information retained by the FBI violated subsection (e)(7) of the Privacy Act of 1974, which states: \"Each agency that maintains a system of records shall maintain no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.\" 5 U.S.C. § 552a(e)(7). The FBI denied Bassiouni's request to amend records in his name, and Bassiouni appealed the decision with the United States Department of Justice; however, the US DOJ affirmed the decision, stating that the records were exempt from the Privacy Act of 1974 pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552a(j)(2). Bassiouni appealed the DOJ's decision but the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals found in favor of the FBI.\n\nBassiouni was appointed head of the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (BICI), known locally as the Bassiouni Commission, at the time of its establishment, 29 June 2011, by the King of Bahrain. On 9 August 2011, Nabeel Rajab, head of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, criticized Bassiouni in an open letter for statements he (Bassiouni) made in an 8 August 2011 interview with Reuters. In the interview, Bassiouni praised the cooperation that the BICI has received from the Interior Ministry and states that there was never a policy of excessive use of force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875443", "title": "Don Davis (artist)", "text": "Don Davis (artist)\n\nDon Davis (Donald E. Davis, born October 21, 1952) is a space artist known for his portrayals of space-related subjects. His work is characterised by attention to detail and authentic portrayals based on what is known of the subject. Chesley Bonestell, considered by many to be one of the most accomplished practitioners of the space art genre, critiqued Davis' early paintings and encouraged him to pursue an artistic career.\n\nDavis worked for the U. S. Geological Survey's branch of Astrogeologic Studies during the Apollo Lunar expeditions and has since painted many images for NASA. The NASA art included portrayals of interiors of giant space colonies, based on the work of Gerard O'Neill. He was part of the team of space artists gathered to provide the visual effects for the PBS series \"\" by Carl Sagan. Later he painted the cover of Sagan's Pulitzer Prize–winning book \"The Dragons of Eden\". Other books by Carl Sagan including Don's work are \"Comet\" and \"Pale Blue Dot\".\n\nDavis has made numerous paintings of impact events for publications and for NASA. In the early 1980s he created planetary texture maps for use in Jet Propulsion Laboratory computer graphic simulations of the Voyager encounters with the outer planets. During the 1980s and early 1990s Davis created models and film animations as part of the visual effects production teams for the PBS shows \"Planet Earth\", \"Infinite Voyage\", \"Space Age\", and \"Life Beyond Earth\" with Timothy Ferris.\n\nHe painted and filmed in 35 mm an animation of the Galileo probe entry into Jupiter for NASA Ames. Numerous sequences for Discovery Channel science shows such as \"Savage Sun\" and \"Cosmic Safari\" were later created using computer graphic animation methods. Animations done in immersive hemispheric formats for planetarium type domed theaters now form the balance of his work.\n\nDavis received an Emmy for his work on \"Cosmos\", and the 2002 Klumpke-Roberts Award by the Astronomical Society of the Pacific for outstanding contributions to the public understanding and appreciation of astronomy. The asteroid 13330 Dondavis is named after him. In 2000 he was elected a Fellow in the International Association of Astronomical Artists.\n\nNote: The sources for the rest of the biographical information in this article are found at the first reference.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875455", "title": "IBM History Flow tool", "text": "IBM History Flow tool\n\nIBM's History Flow tool is a visualization tool for a time-sequence of snapshots of a document in various stages of its creation. The tool supports tracking contributions to the article by different users, and can identify which parts of a document have remained unchanged over the course of many full-document revisions. The tool was developed by Fernanda Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, Jonathan Feinberg, and Kushal Dave of IBM's Collaborative User Experience research group.\n\nIBM Research has done an analysis of Wikipedia usage and edits using a history flow tool. The tool is no longer available for download from the IBM Research website. However, a similar tool referencing it is available on GitHub. A similar application have been released.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875457", "title": "Lauren Hill", "text": "Lauren Hill\n\nLauren Hill (or similar) is the name of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875459", "title": "Rum Jungle, Northern Territory", "text": "Rum Jungle, Northern Territory\n\nRum Jungle is a locality in the Northern Territory of Australia located about 105 kilometres south of Darwin on the East Branch of the Finniss River. It is the site of a uranium deposit, found in 1949, which has been mined.\n\nThe area derives its name from an incident when a thief stole 750 ounces of gold from miners after getting them drunk with rum.\n\nGeorge Goyder noted an unidentified copper-like green ore in 1869 at \"Giants Reef\", which was later \"rediscovered\" and identified to be torbernite.\n\nIn 1949, John Michael \"Jack\" White discovered torbernite in old nearby copper shafts.\n\nIn 1952 the Australian Government funded the setting up of a mine and treatment plant to provide uranium oxide concentrate to the UK-US Combined Development Agency under a contract which ran from 1953 to 1962. Rum Jungle was then the largest construction in the Northern Territory. The Government, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, was responsible for the mine, although management of it was on a contract basis by Territory Enterprises Pty Limited, a subsidiary of the Rio Tinto Group. A town called Batchelor was built 8 km south of the mine to accommodate the mining personnel. The project was officially opened in September 1954.\n\nThe Rum Jungle mine closed in April 1971 and the 200 hectare site was abandoned. The Federal Government (which controlled the mine through its agency the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC), now known as Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO)) decided not to rehabilitate the mine site . The mining company Conzinc (now part of the Rio Tinto Group, which owns Energy Resources of Australia (ERA), operators of the Ranger Uranium Mine in Kakadu National Park) have consistently denied any responsibility for rehabilitation. This led to the mine becoming known as one of Australia's most polluted environments due to the oxidation of sulphides and the release of acid and metals into the East Branch of the Finniss River. The 1500 mm annual rainfall, along with the pyritic mineralisation in the area, created ideal conditions for such oxidation.\n\nAn initial attempt to clean up Rum Jungle was made in 1977, which led to the setting up of a working group to examine more comprehensive rehabilitation. A $16.2 million Commonwealth-funded program got under way in 1983 to remove heavy metals and neutralise the tailings.\n\nOne of the principal problems associated with rehabilitating the Rum Jungle Creek South (RJCS) open cut was that the area was converted to a lake after mining ceased, and as the only water body in the Darwin region not infested with crocodiles, the site quickly became very popular with locals and Darwin residents as a recreation reserve including activities such as swimming, canoeing and scuba diving. After mining, the area suffered elevated gamma radiation, alpha-radioactive dust, and significant radon daughter concentrations in air. These levels were so high that in the late 1980s it was decided that something had to be done . Radiation protection standards were being revised, so that the levels of pollution would now be officially recognised as unsafe for human health. As a result, a supplementary $1.8 million program to improve Rum Jungle Creek South waste dumps was undertaken in 1990.\n\nOne of the main environmental impacts of uranium mining is the creation of large volumes of radioactive mine waste (tailings) which are left behind on the site. The major radioactive component of these tailings is uranium-238, an isotope with a halflife of 4.46 billion years. In 2003, a government survey of the tailings piles at Rum Jungle found that capping which was supposed to help contain this radioactive waste for at least 100 years, had failed in less than 20 years.\n\nThe Territory and Federal Governments continue to argue over responsibility for funding rehabilitation on the polluted East Finniss River\n\nContamination of local groundwater has yet to be addressed.\nIn December 2001, Compass Resources lodged a Referral under the EPBC Act with Environment Australia (which is now DEH). That document referred to the proposed development of a large-scale mining project, the Browns Polymetallic Project, that would produce lead, cobalt, copper, nickel and silver over a project life of at least 15 years. As indicated in the 2001 Referral, Compass considered that the Browns Polymetallic Project was a ‘nuclear action’ under the EPBC Act, on the basis that the project could be considered to include rehabilitating a facility or area in which mining or milling of uranium ore has previously been undertaken.\n\nCompass suspended its work on the polymetallic proposal in 2002 when low metal prices caused the withdrawal of Compass’s financial partner (Doe Run).\n\nIn 2005, Compass lodged an application for a much smaller project focussing on cobalt, nickel and copper mining. Because this project, the Brown's Oxide Project is much smaller than the polymetallic project proposed previously, Compass is in a position to progress it on its own.\n\nThe Northern Territory Government has completed assessing this project and Ms Marion Scrymgour MLA, Minister for Natural Resources, Environment and Heritage in the Northern Territory Government has advised that she has concluded that the Browns Oxide Project as proposed in the Public Environmental Report and subsequent documents \"can be managed without unacceptable environmental impacts\"\n\nThe Hon. Kon Vatskalis MLA Minister for Mines and Energy announced this approval as \"good news\" during question time in the Northern Territory Parliament on 4 May 2006. To ensure the environment is managed properly, this approval and its recommendations is subject to final review by the Commonwealth Government under a bilateral agreement between the Northern Territory Government and the Commonwealth of Australia.\n\nPending final Commonwealth approval, the project is set to be in production by early 2007.\n\nWhile the project is located near the old Rum Jungle mine, the Browns Oxide Project is targeting copper cobalt and nickel—not uranium. Nonetheless, Compass acknowledges that at some future point it would be interested in mining uranium at the nearby Rum Jungle site (over which it holds a lease). Any proposal to mine uranium would require a totally new application and environmental assessment as a separate project.\n\nThe major uranium prospects of Brown's, Intermediate, White's, White's extension and Dyson's occur northwest of, but parallel to, the northeast trending Giant's Reef Fault. Ore deposits occur in Precambrian carbonaceous slate and graphitic schist of the Lower Proterozoic Brooks Creek Group. Structurally, the deposits are within a sheared anticline on the southern flank of a granite dome. Primary minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, bournonite, pyrite, and uraninite. Oxidized ores include azurite, malachite, pseudomalachite, iron oxides, torbernite, saleeite, and phosphuranylite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875476", "title": "St. Davids, Pennsylvania", "text": "St. Davids, Pennsylvania\n\nSt. Davids is a primarily residential neighborhood located in the eastern part of Wayne, Pennsylvania, United States. It is served by its own train station. St. Davids is home to the main campus of Eastern University, a four-year, liberal arts university affiliated with the American Baptist Churches USA.\n\nThe community, on the Pennsylvania Main Line, was named for St. Davids Church, an 18th-century church in the area that was in turn named for St. David, the patron saint of Wales (the country of origin of many of the area's first European settlers). The community's name is correctly spelled without an apostrophe.\n\nLocated near Interstate 476 (the \"Blue Route\") and Lancaster Avenue, St. Davids is about 15 miles from Philadelphia and has recently experienced a large growth spurt; however, it is still a quiet residential community which shares a ZIP code (19087) with the adjacent community of Wayne.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875480", "title": "Boris Said", "text": "Boris Said\n\nBoris Said III (born September 18, 1962) is an American professional race car driver. His father, Bob Said, was a Formula 1 race driver and US Olympic bobsled driver in 1968 and 1972. His NASCAR career began in 1995 as a \"road course ringer\" primarily due to his extensive road-racing experience. He last competed part-time in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, driving the No. 33 Chevrolet SS for Circle Sport – The Motorsports Group.\n\nSaid's early interest was in motorcycle racing. In 1985 while attending the Detroit Grand Prix as a spectator he met SCCA Champion, Bob Sharp.\n\nHe began racing with the SCCA in 1987. Said was named SCCA rookie of the year in 1988. In 1991 he began driving for Baer Racing, later to become Baer Brake Systems. Upon Baer's withdrawal from the series to focus on the manufacture of brakes in 1992, Said got another big ride driving in the IMSA series in 1993 driving a BMW M3. He won the 1997 and 1998 24 Hours of Daytona and 1998 12 Hours of Sebring in IMSA. He also became the first American to win the 24 Hours Nürburgring in 2005 driving a BMW Motorsport-entered BMW M3 GTR with co-drivers Pedro Lamy, Duncan Huisman and Andy Priaulx.\n\nSaid made his NASCAR debut in 1995 in the Craftsman Truck Series at Sears Point International Raceway, driving the No. 4 Ford F-150 for Irvan-Simo Racing. He started 25th and finished 24th out of a 26-truck field due to overheating problems. He made three starts the following year driving Irvan's No. 28 1-800-Collect Ford, his best finish was thirteenth, at I-70 Speedway.\n\nSaid moved to trucks full-time in 1997 in the No. 44 Federated Auto Parts Ford. While his amateur season did not yield any wins, he finished second at the Pronto Auto Parts 400K and finished sixteenth in the final standings. Said received notice from fans and drivers when he contacted championship contender Rich Bickle at the 1997 October Sonoma truck race. Bickle had blamed Said for causing him to lose a top five running, and made contact that cut down Said's tire. In reply an angry Said waited for Bickle to come back around and retaliated. Both drivers apologized the next day. Said was fined $15,000 and was suspended until he paid the fine.\n\nThe following year, he won his first career truck series race, at Sears Point, in addition to his first truck pole, at Heartland Park Topeka. He also made his Busch Series debut, at Watkins Glen International Raceway, starting on the pole but finishing 40th in the No. 12 Zippo Chevy owned by Jimmy Spencer.\n\nIn 1999, Said scaled back on his truck series schedule, running only six events. He won poles at Portland and Topeka for Irvan-Simo, as well as driving for Team Racing and Bobby Rahal. He made his Winston Cup debut, at Watkins Glen, qualifying on the outside pole and leading nine laps before his No. 14 Ford suffered engine problems. He also drove at Homestead-Miami Speedway, finishing 34th.\n\nIn 2000, he made what would be his final truck series start for five years, at Portland, finishing fifteenth. After a 30th-place run at California Speedway, he returned to the Cup Series, driving the No. 23 for Jimmy Spencer, and finished 42nd at Sears Point. He also attempted the Cup race at Watkins Glen, but failed to qualify due to a lack of owner's points. He saw limited action in 2001, finishing fourth in a Busch Series race at Watkins Glen in a Robbie Reiser-owned car, and drove a pair of races for Jasper Motorsports. He could have won the 2001 Global Crossing at the Glen. While running third on the final restart, Said tried to make a pass by Jeff Burton to try to take the lead from the dominant car of Jeff Gordon but got held up in traffic, causing him to slip back to 8th place, scoring his first top ten of his Cup series career.\n\nAfter running with Jasper again in 2002, Said served as a fill-in driver for Jerry Nadeau at MB2/MBV Motorsports. He won the pole for the Sears Point race in California. He stayed in the top ten all race. With pit strategies, it seemed like the win would come down to Said and fellow road ace Ron Fellows. However Said and Fellows forgot to pit when they were told to before a caution came out. Because they did not pit before the caution with 38 laps to go, Said and Fellows lost their shot at the win. Said restarted 26th and recovered for sixth place.\n\nSaid signed on to drive a limited schedule for the team in 2004, running the No. 36 Centrix Financial Chevrolet, and finished sixth once again at Sears Point. The team expanded to run more races for 2005, where his best finish in nine starts was a third at Watkins Glen. During that season, he returned to the truck series finishing 35th at Kentucky Speedway while filling for an injured Rick Crawford. He also ran two races in the Busch Series for Phoenix Racing, and had a fifth-place finish at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez in Mexico City.\nSaid joined Evernham Motorsports to help the team's road course program in 2006. He won the pole at Mexico City, and finished second, as well as driving the No. 4 Geico Dodge Charger for Biagi-DenBeste Racing at Lowe's Motor Speedway, starting 40th and finished 31st. In May 2006, Said and his crew chief Frank Stoddard and Mark Simo announced the creation of No Fear Racing, which used equipment from Roush Fenway Racing. They ran four Cup races starting with the Dodge/Save Mart 350 at Infineon Raceway. He won the pole at the Pepsi 400, his first Nextel Cup pole on an oval, in one of the biggest upsets in Daytona history. Following his pole win, he promised a pit reporter that if he either won the race, the race at Watkins Glen International or an NNS race within three years, that he would shave his head, come to the channel the next week and show everybody. He was leading the race with three laps to go and was passed by his friend Tony Stewart; after two more laps he finished fourth, his highest career NASCAR finish on an oval track. In a post-race interview Said emotionally said his performance in the Pepsi 400 was \"the highlight of my career\".\n\nAt Watkins Glen, Said had originally finished sixth but hours after the race was over he was moved from sixth place to 31st place by officials due to a scoring error. Years later, it was revealed that Said and fellow road course ringer Ron Fellows had been given a 30-second penalty each for having made illegal passes through the inner-loop on the final lap.\n\nSaid qualified and ran in the 2007 Daytona 500. Although he was not in the top 35 teams from the 2006 owner's points, Said posted the fastest qualifying time among non-locked teams and the sixth fastest qualifying time overall. Starting in 23rd position, Said dropped back to last place near the beginning of the race and had no hope of regaining enough speed to finish well. However, he got a good finish when he managed to avoid a massive crash at the finish and cross the line in 14th place, behind winner Kevin Harvick. Said finished ninth at Sonoma but failed to qualify at Daytona and Watkins Glen due to rain.\n\nSaid failed to qualify for the 2008 Daytona 500 but had a productive NNS series. Following an incident with Marcos Ambrose at Mexico City that wrecked his car, Said angrily wagged his finger at Ambrose when he passed by to lap him down. Said initially vowed payback against Ambrose but he ultimately moved forward. Said came back and finished 5th in Montreal that year. No Fear Racing closed after the 2008 season ended and it merged with Carter Racing. Said qualified the race at Infineon in the #08 Carter-Simo Racing machine.\n\nSaid drove the No. 26 for Latitude 43 Motorsports in 2010. He also announced a one-year deal to drive the No. 09 Zaxby's NNS Ford for RAB Racing in the Nationwide series Road Course events. He ran the first four races and Infineon. His crew chief, Frank Stoddard was livid with Tony Stewart for contact on the final lap of the Infineon race and confronted him in the garage, but Said did not take part in it and apologized for his team's behavior the next day. The cars used were former Roush Fenway Racing Fords and the team, which finished 22nd in 2009 and was sold to satisfy NASCAR's four cars per team rule, had exemptions for the first five races of 2010. By August 2010, Said stated that he did not expect to be back with Latitude 43. Said received a one-race deal from Team Red Bull at Watkins Glen to replace ill driver Brian Vickers and had a good run. In the ending laps he made contact with Stewart that took him out of contention to win. When interviewed Said said it was just a racing incident that was unavoidable.\n\nMeanwhile, Said had a successful NNS season. On August 29, 2010, Said led the rest of the race after Robby Gordon ran out of gas with three laps to go, and won his long desired first NASCAR Nationwide Series race, at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Montreal. His close friend, who he had raced with in F1 and NNS before, Italian driver Max Papis, passed him in the final turn to try to win, but a mistake by jumping over the curb too high cost him the win. Said passed Papis after the mistake and they raced to the finish. By the time they reached the line Said was a bumper ahead of Papis (The finish resembled the 2009 Montreal finish, where Australian driver Marcos Ambrose dominated, but made the same mistake Papis made, handing the win to Carl Edwards). Said publicly shaved his curly hair and received applause when he received TV attention for his victory.\n\nSaid drove for Phoenix Racing at the Sprint Cup Series road course events in 2011. During the 2011 Heluva Good! Sour Cream Dips at the Glen, Boris was involved in a heated incident with Greg Biffle. On the final lap of the race, Said was involved in a collision with Biffle's teammate David Ragan which ended with David Reutimann flipping over into the guardrails. Post-race, Said and Biffle had a garage confrontation in which Biffle reportedly took a swing at Said and then gestured profanely at him. Boris tried to attack Biffle physically only to be held back by crew members from Paul Menard's team, FAS Lane Racing, and Biffle's team.\n\nAfter the race, Said apologized for wrecking Ragan, but angrily retorted; I'm more upset with Greg Biffle, he is the most unprofessional little scaredy cat I've ever seen in my life, he won't even fight me like a man. So if someone texts me his address, I’ll go see him Wednesday at his house and show him what he really needs. He needs a friggin’ whooping, and I’m going to give it to him. He was flipping me off, giving the finger, totally unprofessional. Two laps down, I mean, he's a chump... I went over there to go talk to him and he wouldn't even let me get out of the car and he comes over and throws a few little baby punches, and when I get out, he runs away and hides behind some big guys. But he won't hide from me long, I'll find him. I won't settle it out on the track - it's not right to wreck cars - but he'll show up at a race with a black eye one of these days. I'll see him somewhere. The incident was investigated by NASCAR officials, but no penalties were given, with Biffle and Said later settling their dispute with a phone call. Said received a late call up from Turner Scott Motorsports to run the 2011 NAPA Auto Parts 200 Nationwide Series race in Montreal in the No. 30 Great Clips Chevrolet. In 2012, he teamed with FAS Lane Racing to contest the races at Infineon Raceway and Watkins Glen International.\n\nSaid ran the Sprint Cup Series road courses in 2012 for FAS Lane Racing. Said continued to run for the team in 2014, now renamed Go FAS Racing. For 2015, he ran the road courses for Go Green Racing in the No. 32 Ford Fusion. At Sonoma, he finished 26th.\n\nIn early March 2015 Said was picked to drive the No. 54 Monster Energy drink car in the Xfinity Series for Joe Gibbs Racing, substituting for an injured Kyle Busch. Said raced at Talladega, both Iowa races, Chicagoland, Mid-Ohio, Road America and Kentucky in the 2015 season. At Talladega during the Aaron's 312, Said ran as high as second but as the race got competitive during the final 25 laps, he finished 16th. At Iowa, Said brought home a top-24 finish. Because Busch returned earlier than expected, Said was not needed for the Chicagoland races and the next Iowa race. However Said was called on to replace Busch during the three road course events including the Zippo 200 as Busch withdrew from that race to continue his healing process of his leg. His best finish in the No. 54 was a fourth at Watkins Glen during the 2015 Zippo 200. Said did not enter the 2016 Toyota/Save Mart 350, missing the Sonoma race for the first time since 1999. However, Said did return to the No. 32 team at Watkins Glen in August for Go FAS Racing and he would finish 24th.\n\nWith Go FAS Racing hiring Matt DiBenedetto, Said was left out of the #32 ride for 2017. On June 20, 2017, Said announced that he would drive the No. 33 Chevrolet SS for Circle Sport – The Motorsports Group for Sonoma, replacing Jeffrey Earnhardt. It is the first team Said has driven for in the last 5 years other than GFR. He ran as high as 12th at Sonoma and finished 29th. Later that season, Said announced during the week of the Watkins Glen race that the 2017 I Love New York 355 at The Glen would be his final NASCAR race. He closed his NASCAR career with a 30th-place finish.\n\nSaid competed for the PTG Racing Group in the 2000 season driving a BMW M3 in the GT category, and managed to win at Laguna Seca.\n\nThe PTG Team finished third overall in the GT category that year.\n\nSaid was listed as a driver on the 2011 24 Hours of Le Mans LM GTE Am class entry of Robertson Racing.\n\nSaid was entered into round nine of the Australian V8 Supercar series, the L&H 500 at Phillip Island, Victoria, that took place on the weekend of 12–14 September 2008. He drove the No. 67 Supercheap Auto with Matt Neal. They finished the race in 19th.\n\nThis deal also included racing at the 2008 Supercheap Auto Bathurst 1000 at Mount Panorama Circuit near Bathurst, New South Wales. This took place from the 9th to the 12th of October, 2008 and was by far the largest event on the Australian touring car calendar. Said failed to finish the race after his teammate Matt Neal crashed the car.\n\nHe returned to the category to drive alongside Steve Owen in the 2011 Armor All Gold Coast 600 with Paul Morris Motorsport, finishing in 18th on Saturday and seventh on Sunday.\n\nSaid has competed in the X Games twice. He was invited as an \"at-large\" rally car entry for the X Games XIII at the Home Depot Center in Los Angeles, on August 5, 2007. Said was joined by American rally car racing legend John Buffum as his co-driver.\n\nSaid returned to the X Games at Austin in 2015, competing in the Stadium Super Trucks category. He finished fourth of five trucks in his heat race and was forced to contest the last-chance qualifier; he finished fourth in the LCQ and missed the final.\n\n Season still in progress<br>\n\n Ineligible for championship points\n\n"}
{"id": "1875511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875511", "title": "4th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "4th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 4th Mountain Division () was established in October 1940. It took part in the 1941 Balkans Campaign and then joined Army Group South in Operation Barbarossa after it was already underway. In 1942 it participated in the failed attempt to seize the Caucasus in Operation Edelweiss under Army Group A. Following the operation's failure, the division was pushed back into the Kuban bridgehead on the Crimean Peninsula, the western Ukraine, Hungary, and Slovakia, surrendering to the Soviet forces near Czech Olomouc when the war ended in May 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875516", "title": "Oenone Wood", "text": "Oenone Wood\n\nOenone Wood (born 24 September 1980 in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia) is a retired professional cyclist, who commenced her cycling career in 2001 at the age of 21. She was an Australian Institute of Sport scholarship holder.\n\nShe was a member of professional cycling Team Columbia Women (USA) and the Canberra Cycling Club, and formerly of the T-Mobile Professional Women's Cycling Team (GER). She lives in Merewether, a suburb of Newcastle.\n\nHer greatest success as a road cyclist has arguably been in Australian tours, including the Australian Criterium, Bay Series Criterium and the Geelong Tour, with some success overseas, particularly winning Stages of the Giro d'Italia Femminile (ITA) and the Points Classification for the Giro d'Italia Femminile in 2004 and 2005. In the 2004 Summer Olympics Women's Road race she was in the leading group with fellow Australian Sara Carrigan, and when Carrigan and Judith Arndt broke away in the final lap to win the gold and silver medals, Wood had to sprint for the bronze medal with Olga Slyusareva of Russia and Nicole Cooke of Great Britain, coming 4th overall in the race. She was the 2008 Australian Open Road champion (in the Elite Women's Road Race event).\n\nIn 2016, she was inducted into Cycling Australia Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875523", "title": "Raboteau massacre", "text": "Raboteau massacre\n\nThe Raboteau massacre was an incident on April 22, 1994, in which military and paramilitary forces attacked the neighborhood of Raboteau Gonaïves, Haiti, the citizens of which had been participating in pro-Jean-Bertrand Aristide demonstrations. At least six residents were killed, though most groups estimated the true casualties to be higher. \n\nIn 2000, a Haitian court tried fifty-nine people for alleged roles in the massacre, of whom 37, including former coup leader Raoul Cédras, were tried \"in absentia\". Sixteen of those tried in person were convicted, while all 37 of those tried \"in absentia\" were convicted and given sentences of life imprisonment. In May 2005, all sentences from the tribunal were overturned by the Supreme Court.\n\nRaboteau is a shanty town neighborhood by the sea in Gonaïves in north-west Haiti. Following the 1991 Haitian coup d'état against President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, residents held rallies in support of Aristide and opposing the \"de facto\" military dictatorship that replaced him.\n\nOn April 22, 1994, soldiers and paramilitary forces made a dawn raid on the neighborhood. They went house-to-house, beating and arresting residents, including children and the elderly, making some lie in open sewers. People who ran were shot. Soldiers also fired indiscriminately on citizens who were collecting firewood, and commandeered rowboats to attack fishing boats off-shore.\n\nThe military forbade families from collecting the bodies of the dead, making an exact count impossible. Journalists in Raboteau estimated that at least thirty people were killed, while later court proceedings stated that at least six people were known to have been killed. Human rights lawyers estimated that eight to fifteen people had been killed.\n\nIn 2000, fifty-nine people were put on trial for their alleged roles in the massacre, 37 of whom, including coup leader Raoul Cédras, former Chief of National Police Michel François, and paramilitary leaders Emmanuel Constant and Louis-Jodel Chamblain, were tried \"in absentia\". Prosecutors were aided in preparing the case by Mario Joseph and Brian Concannon of the Bureau des Avocats Internationaux. The trial lasted 6 weeks and ended on November 9, 2000. The jury found 16 of the 22 defendants in custody guilty of participation in the massacre, acquitting six. Twelve of those found guilty were sentenced to life imprisonment, while the other four were given four- to nine-year sentences. The 37 defendants who were tried \"in absentia\" were all convicted and given life sentences of hard labor.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" described the trial as a \"landmark\" case for Haiti, \"a step in bringing to justice an elite tier of military and paramilitary officers and their cohorts for human rights abuses\". The trial was the subject of a 2003 documentary, \"Pote Mak Sonje: The Raboteau Trial\".\n\nBy 2005, one of the sixteen imprisoned defendants had died, while the remaining fifteen had reportedly escaped from prison, some in a mass jailbreak in Gonaives in which a bulldozer was driven through the walls of a prison On May 3, 2005, the Supreme Court overturned the sentences, ruling that \"the Criminal Tribunal of Gonaïves, having been established with the assistance of a jury, was not competent to rule the case\". The reversal was condemned by Amnesty International, which called it \"a huge step backwards\".\n\nEmmanuel “Toto” Constant fled Haiti on foot into the Dominican Republic from which he was able to fly to the United States.\n\nHe was eventually jailed by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. As reported by David Grann, in his article in the Atlantic Monthly “Giving ‘The Devil’ His due...” Constant worked with the CIA, by his own admission and that of U.S government sources. In 1996, Secretary of State Warren Christopher submitted an affidavit to the immigration court, advocating Constant's deportation. Secretary Christopher noted the extensive and credible accusations of human rights violations by Constant, and reasoned that a failure to deport Constant would give the appearance that the U.S. government supported Constant's activities. The judge agreed and issued a deportation order, but it has not been executed. Following the order, Constant filed suit against Janet Reno claiming that the CIA had \"collaborated\" with him. Constant was eventually freed from U.S. custody with a gag order.\n\nIn 2006, Constant was ordered by a New York state court to pay $19 million in civil damages to three women who had been raped and tortured by the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haïti. The case was brought by the Center for Justice & Accountability and the Center for Constitutional Rights.\n\nIn 2008, Constant was convicted of six felony counts related to mortgage fraud and sentenced to 12–37 years in prison. He is currently incarcerated in a maximum security prison in New York.\n\nCarl Dorelien, was a colonel in the Haitian military during the 1991–1994 coup, in charge of discipline and personnel matters. Following the restoration of Haiti’s democracy, Dorelien fled to the United States. In 2003, he was deported to Haiti because of his human rights record, and was taken into custody for his \"absentia\" conviction. He chose not to exercise his right to a new trial. One year after his return President Aristide was once again ousted in a coup in 2004 and Dorelien escaped prison. He has not been returned to prison as of May 2008.\n\nThe Center for Justice and Accountability filed a suit against Dorelien just before his deportation. The suit was brought under the Alien Tort Statute seeking civil damages for the deaths of plaintiff Marie Jean’s husband, who was killed in the Raboteau Massacre, and the arbitrary detainment and torture of labor leader Lexiuste Cajuste. On February 23, 2007, Dorelien was found civilly liable in U.S. Federal Court for torture and extrajudicial killing. He was ordered to pay $4.3 million in civil damages.\n\nIn 1997, Dorelien won $3 million in the Florida Lottery. His winnings were garnished and placed into escrow. In August 2006, on C.J.A.’s movement, the state court of Florida ruled the Haitian civil judgment against Dorelien was enforceable in the U.S.\n\nThe assets seized from Col. Dorelien were distributed to the Raboteau victims on May 16, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875542", "title": "The Three-Arched Bridge", "text": "The Three-Arched Bridge\n\nThe Three Arched Bridge (\"Ura Me Tri Harqe\") is a 1978 novel by Ismail Kadare. The story concerns a very old Albanian legend written in verses, the \"Legjenda e Rozafes\". The book differs greatly from the original legend as the legend calls for a castle that is being built, not a bridge.\n\nThe book describes the construction of an important bridge on the Via Egnatia in Albanian territory from 1377–1378, shortly before the occupation by the Ottoman Empire began.\nTold by a Catholic monk, Gjon (a name used by Northern Albanians who were mostly catholic prior to Turkish invasions), the story of the bridge, as seen by Gjon is filled with prissy, unhappy bureaucrats, who take the events at face value without ever trying to understand the larger forces at work. Both the river Ujana e Keqe and the bridge itself are major characters in the book, and they undergo significant transformations.\n\nOne of the startling events of the book is when a \"volunteer\" is immured inside the bridge in order to make a \"sacrifice\" to the river. The man's face is captured in the plaster that surrounds him, as unforgettable as it is horrifying. Though clearly a punishment for the crime of sabotage against the bridge, as Gjon recounts this event, it is less an act of vengeance than it is a true sacrifice. But more than that, it becomes a symbol for the ignorance of and squabbling among tiny Albanian principalities and their fight amongst one another, in front of a major threat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875553", "title": "Ghassan Massoud", "text": "Ghassan Massoud\n\nGhassan Massoud (; born September 20, 1958) is a Syrian actor and filmmaker. He is known in the West for playing the role of Muslim ruler Saladin in Ridley Scott's 2005 film \"Kingdom of Heaven\".\n\nHe played the \"Sheikh\" in the Turkish film \"Kurtlar Vadisi: Irak\" (\"\"), Ammand the Corsair in \"\". and Ramesses II's Grand Vizier, Paser in Ridley Scott's 2014 Bible epic, \"Exodus\". Massoud turned down a role in the 2005 film \"Syriana\", claiming he feared the movie would be anti-Arab. Massoud also cited concerns regarding the political situation in his country and the wider region in declining the role. He later said he regretted his decision after seeing the completed film. Massoud is known in Syria for his appearance in many Syrian-made films, and writing and directing the theatre play \"Diplomasiyyoun\", and was part of the Syrian Ministry of Culture’s National Theater’s 2002 season. He has appeared in the Syrian television miniseries \"The Chant of Rain\", and in Haytham Hakky's well known work \"Memories of the Forthcoming Age\", and on the Syrian stage was an actor in August Strindberg's \"Miss Julie\". Most recently, he starred as the companion of Muhammad, Abu Bakr in MBC's series \"Omar\".\n\nMassoud was born in Damascus, originally from Fajlit, Duraykish District, Tartus Governorate.\n\nHe is married and has a son and a daughter. Massoud teaches Drama at both the Damascus Music and Drama School and Higher Institute for Dramatic Arts.\n"}
{"id": "1875559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875559", "title": "Cangue", "text": "Cangue\n\nA cangue () or tcha is a device that was used for public humiliation and corporal punishment in East Asia and some other parts of Southeast Asia until the early years of the twentieth century. It was also occasionally used for or during torture. Because it restricted a person's movements, it was common for people wearing cangues to starve to death as they were unable to feed themselves.\n\nThe word \"cangue\" is French, from the Portuguese \"canga,\" which means yoke, the carrying tool has also been used to the same effect, with the hands tied to each arm of the yoke. Frequently translated as pillory, it was similar to that European punishment except that the movement of the prisoner's hands was not as rigorously restricted and that the board of the cangue was not fixed to a base and had to be carried around by the prisoner.\n\nAlthough there are many different forms, a typical cangue would consist of a large, heavy flat board with a hole in the center large enough for a person's neck. The board consisted of two pieces. These pieces were closed around a prisoner's neck, and then fastened shut along the edges by locks or hinges. The opening in the center was large enough for the prisoner to breathe and eat, but not large enough for a head to slip through. The prisoner was confined in the cangue for a period of time as a punishment. The size and especially weight were varied as a measure of severity of the punishment. The Great Ming Legal Code (大明律) published in 1397 specified that a cangue should be made from seasoned wood and weigh 25, 20 or 15 jīn (roughly 20–33 lb or 9–15 kg) depending on the nature of the crime involved. Often the cangue was large enough that the prisoner required assistance to eat or drink, as his hands could not reach his own mouth.\n\nThe cangue would be placed atop a cage, such that the prisoners feet could not quite touch the ground. supports would be placed under the feet initially, so that he would stand without pressure on the neck. gradually, the supports would be removed, forcing the cangue to slowly hang him.\n"}
{"id": "1875567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875567", "title": "5th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "5th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 5th Mountain Division () of the German Army was established in the Salzburg region in October 1940, out of units taken from the 1st Mountain Division and the 10th Infantry Division. Its first action was in the 1941 Balkans Campaign, when it took part in Operations Marita and Merkur; in the latter it was used in an air-landing role. In November, it returned to Germany for refitting, and in April 1942 it was deployed to the Eastern Front, where it joined Army Group North on the Volkhov Front. In April 1943 it was redeployed to Italy. It fought out the remainder of the war in Italy and the Western Alps, and surrendered to the U.S. Army near Turin in May 1945.\n\n\nThe division was implicated in the Grugliasco massacre, Piedmont, alongside the 34th Infantry Division, where, on 30 April 1945, 67 civilians were executed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875568", "title": "Bagger", "text": "Bagger\n\nBagger, packer, sacker or bag boy, is an unofficial title given to a courtesy clerk at a Grocery store. The primary duties of a bagger revolve around putting groceries into a shopping bag and then into a shopping cart. Upon requests, baggers may take the groceries out to a customer's motor vehicle or supply other forms of service. Some baggers in stores will do this unless the customer refuses and wishes to bring his/her own groceries out. Depending on store policy, it may be customary to tip a courtesy clerk for this service.\n\nDepending on the store, other duties may include cleaning the store, cleaning the bathrooms, collecting carts, sweeping the store, fixing and maintaining the bottle recycling machines, giving customer assistance, putting back items left behind, and reorganizing products on aisles to make a neater appearance (commonly called \"breaking down\", \"blocking\", \"facing\", or \"conditioning\"). Some courtesy clerks can perform maintenance in the stores, such as minor plumbing, electrical, landscaping, child care, elderly assistance, and many more jobs. The duties vary vastly depending on the store and union regulations, and some of previous duties, in fact, are actually prohibited from being done at some stores by a courtesy clerk due to union contracts. The title of bagger is the result of an extensive evolution of the position of \"courtesy clerk\". The title \"bag boy\" was adopted for some time, until it was finally shortened to \"bagger\".\n"}
{"id": "1875569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875569", "title": "Bottom fishing", "text": "Bottom fishing\n\nBottom fishing, called legering in the United Kingdom, is fishing the bottom of a body of water.\n\nA common rig for fishing on the bottom is a weight tied to the end of the line, and a hook about an inch up line from the weight. The method can be used both with hand lines and rod fishing. The weight can also be used to cast or throw the line to an appropriate distance. Bottom fishing can be done both from boats and from the land. Bottom fishing targets groundfish such as sucker fish, bream, catfish, and crappie. Specialized fishing rods called \"donkas\" are also commonly used for bottom fishing.\n\nThe objective for rigs used for bottom fishing is to take your bait to the bottom of the water and lure in the fish. The bait must appear appetizing to the fish. The most common rig used in bottom fishing is called a \"fish finder rig\". The next rig is called a \"porgy rig\" for the reason that it is effective on porgies, grunts, snapper, and any other schooling, medium-sized fish. A rig that is rarely used is called a \"break-away rig\". The final rig is called a \"party boat rig\" because you will see it on almost every party.\n\nIn stock market terminology, bottom fishing can mean buying the cheapest investments (in terms of valuation ratios) available. Bottom fishing is value investing concentrated on the very cheapest companies. The term can be derogatory as it can imply a lack of attention to the quality of the investments selected.\n\nIn stock trading, bottom fishing can also describe the practice of driving the price of a security lower in order to trigger stop-loss orders, which will then commonly drive a security's price even lower, at which point the person or entity responsible for the triggering will then buy up those shares. As part of this phenomenon, a security's price will then often rise again quickly above the stop-loss order mark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875571", "title": "Buckley Air Force Base", "text": "Buckley Air Force Base\n\nBuckley Air Force Base is a United States Air Force base in Aurora, Colorado, that was established by the U.S. Army as an auxiliary field and bombing range in 1938, and activated as a designated installation in 1941. The base was named in honor of World War I Army pilot First Lieutenant John Harold Buckley.\n\nBuckley Air Force Base is assigned to Space Operations Command (formerly the Fourteenth Air Force) and serves more than 92,000 active duty, National Guard, Reserve and retired personnel throughout the Front Range community. The host unit is the 460th Space Wing. Buckley AFB supports air operations, space-based missile warning capabilities, space surveillance operations, space communications operations and installation support functions.\n\nIn 1938, the city of Denver purchased a 100-square mile area of land several miles east of the city and donated it to the War Department. Initially, it was called the Demolition Bombing Range and served as an auxiliary field, ordnance loading area, and practice range for bombers from nearby Lowry Field. On June 14th, 1941 the site was named Buckley Field after 1st Lt. John Harold Buckley, a pilot from Longmont, Colorado, who was killed in a mid-air collision in France on September 27, 1918.Following the entry of the United States into World War II, the War Department called for a dramatic expansion of Lowry Field's armament training program to 55,000 graduates per year. Lowry officials decided to transfer its fighter armament school to Buckley, and set aside 5,740 acres in the auxiliary field area for this purpose. Under the command of the 336th Headquarters and Air Base Squadron (Army Air Forces Technical Training Command), later the 3702d Army Air Force Base Unit, construction on the base began in May 1942, resulting in the construction of over 700 buildings. On July 1st, 1942, the U.S. Army Air Corps Technical Training School began classes at the base. Along with its primary mission as a fighter armament training base, it also hosted schools for basic training, military police, post engineers, chemical warfare, and an arctic survival school for aircrew headed for the Alaskan Wing of the Air Transport Command. The arctic survival school conducted classroom training at Buckley and field training at Echo Lake, near the summit of Mt. Evans. Technical training at the base was under the jurisdiction of the Western Technical Training Command. During the war, Buckley Field graduated over 52,000 armament students, 4,500 arctic survival students, and 37,000 basic trainees.\n\nAfter World War II, Buckley Field's military role quickly diminished. Beginning in 1945, it alternated roles as a sub-post of Lowry Field and a separate installation. Army Air Force Technical Training Command finally placed it on temporary inactive status in June 1946, and fully inactivated Buckley Field in September 1946. It allowed the Colorado Air National Guard to relocate to the base from Denver Municipal Airport during the same period to serve as custodian, although it never formally transferred control to the Guard during this time. In November 1946, the Department of the Navy announced that it planned to assume command of the base and convert it to a training installation for Reserve forces. The Navy formally assumed command of the base on September 28th, 1947, renaming it Naval Air Station Denver.\nThe renamed base was the location of Naval Air Reserve aviation squadrons, as well as for veterans and their families waiting to return to civilian life. Thousands of veterans returned to civilian life here over the next four years, while Naval Air Reservists concurrently conducted operational training. The Navy remained here for 12 years before decommissioning its base on June 30, 1959, and transferring it to the U.S. Air Force (which had become a separate service branch in 1947). However, the Naval Reserve remained at Buckley as a tenant activity known as Naval Air Reserve Center Denver, the predecessor of the present day Navy Operational Support Center Denver. The Colorado Air National Guard continued to operate at NAS Denver as a tenant organization during this period, first under the 86th Fighter Wing and then the 140th Fighter Wing.\n\nBuckley Field became the Buckley Air National Guard Base on April 18, 1960 under a license from the USAF. At the time, it became the first stand-alone Air National Guard base in the country. The Colorado Air National Guard remained in control of Buckley Field for the next 40 years, operating it as a fighter base.\n\nDuring the Cold War era, the Colorado Air National Guard mobilized the Buckley-based 120th Tactical Fighter Squadron for events as the Cuban Missile Crisis, the USS \"Pueblo\" crisis, and the Vietnam War. Assigned aircraft during this period transitioned over time from P-51s to F-80s and F-86s, to F-100s, to A-7s. The 140th Wing has flown the F-16 \"Fighting Falcon\" since 1992. From 1961-65, the base's former bombing range housed four Titan I missile silos, operated by the 451st Strategic Missile Wing, headquartered at Lowry AFB.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, the growth of Aurora, Denver's eastern neighbor, edged toward Buckley Field. The land of the air base was annexed to Aurora in 1965 and 1966; however, the installation is US Government property under Federal jurisdiction. Growth and encroachment in Aurora and east Denver eventually forced the closure of air operations at Lowry AFB and transfer of all transient military flights to Buckley ANGB on July 1st, 1966.\n\nFrom about 1970 through 1989, another tenant unit at Buckley Field was the 154th Tactical Air Support Group, an Air National Guard (ANG) unit trained to provide close air support for United States Army ground operations. The 154th Group had its own truck-mounted tactical radar units and radar-control vans, but no aircraft were assigned.\n\nIn the spring of 1969, construction began on a top-secret satellite communications installation that eventually became known as the Aerospace Data Facility-Colorado. Two years later, additional construction took place to house the US-based operational center for the Defense Support Program satellite missile-warning system, designed to provide 24-hour detection of intercontinental ballistic missile launches and atmospheric explosions. This complex also featured what eventually became one of Aurora's most iconic architectural landmarks--white geodesic domes to protect the satellite dishes that came to be nicknamed the \"giant golf balls\" by local residents. For over 25 years, the existence of these satellite dishes was highly classified, until base leaders conducted a tour of the domes for the press in November 1996. \n\nAlthough the Cold War ended in the early 1990s, the 120th Tactical Fighter Wing did not see any decrease in its responsibilities. It deployed from Buckley Field numerous times during the decade of the 1990s to take part in various military operations such as Operation Desert Storm, Operation Northern Watch, and Operation Iraqi Freedom. DSP operators also provided support for detection of Iraqi SCUD missile launches during Desert Storm. Due to base closures and realignments in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Buckley ANGB soon became host to an increasing number of tenant and support units, growing from fifteen organizations in the mid-1970s to over 40 by the end of the 1990s. This over-taxed the support capabilities and resources of the 140 WG, prompting National Guard leaders and Governor Bill Owens to request assistance from the Air Force to determine a solution.\n\nSecretary of the Air Force F. Whitten Peters determined that the best long-term solution was to convert Buckley to an active-duty base, so that a larger, more dedicated installation support function could be built for the base's growing tenant units and mission partners, along with the ADF-C and DSP complex. On 1 October 2000, the United States Air Force took control of the base and it was assigned the 821st Space Group to oversee its operations. It was renamed Buckley Air Force Base.\n\nA year later, control of Buckley AFB was transferred to the newly reactivated 460th Air Base Wing, which assumed the responsibility for installation support of the base and its tenant units. On August 19th, 2004, Air Force Space Command redesignated the 460 ABW as the 460th Space Wing, bringing the base's satellite missile warning mission under control of the wing as well.\n\nSince the return of Buckley AFB to the Air Force in 2000, the base has seen an unprecedented amount of new construction and modernization. New enlisted airmen's dormitories, the commissary, the base exchange, chapel, and the fitness center have all been completed, augmented by the completion of family housing units - the first ones ever constructed there. In 2018, the base also saw the consolidation of all medical support functions on site, including a dedicated dental clinic, for the first time since the end of World War II. \n\nIn late 2016, the Air Force approved an upgraded version of the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) ground system from Lockheed Martin. The newly-improved system will strengthen the constellation's efforts in delivering critical infrared data for defense purposes. The Block 10 system, included as part of the initial SBIRS development plan and implemented from 2014-2016, provided the capability of speedier collection times in detecting potential threats, and is located at the SBIRS Mission Control Station at Buckley AFB. In \"Homeland Preparedness News\", a Lockheed Martin spokesman said, \"With the Block 10 upgrade, the mission-critical data supplied by SBIRS is now being managed from a single ground control station, which is not only cost-efficient, but also more effective in providing our Air Force operators with the ability to characterize threats and quickly provide that information to military commanders deployed around the globe.\" \n\nThe United States Space Force (USSF) was established as a separate branch of the armed services on 20 December 2019, with Air Force Space Command being elevated from a US Air Force major command to create the new service. At the same time, the Fourteenth Air Force, under which Buckley AFB operated, was re-designated as Space Operations Command (SpOC). Whilst initially retaining the Buckley Air Force Base name, it is expected bases such as Buckley will eventually be renamed to reflect their role as part of the Space Force. Notwithstanding, there would be heavy reliance of the Air Force to continue to operate and maintain them.\n\n The 460th Space Wing delivers global infrared surveillance, tracking missile warning for theater and homeland defense and provide combatant commanders with expeditionary warrior Airmen. The 460th Space Wing is broken into three groups, each responsible for a distinct part of the Buckley Air Force Base mission.\n\nProvides missile warning, missile defense, technical intelligence, satellite command and control, battlespace characterization and robust communications. The group's team of space professionals operates the Defense Support Program satellite, which provides continuous global surveillance, tracking and targeting. The group includes the 2d, 8th, and 11th Space Warning Squadrons, the 460th Space Communications Squadron, and the 460th Operations Support Squadron.\n\nProvides trained personnel to support the Air Expeditionary Forces and Homeland Defense. The group is responsible for force protection, quality of life, human resources, contracting, logistics, base infrastructure and environmental stewardship support to the 460th SW, its customers and the base operational missions.\n\nSupports military readiness to the Air Expeditionary Forces and Homeland Defense missions by ensuring base personnel are medically qualified for deployments and providing health care, life skills support, family advocacy, aerospace medicine, public health, bioenvironmental engineering, optometry, ancillary services health and wellness services and dental care.\n\n88 tenant units call Buckley AFB \"Home\".\n\nOther tenants include Air Force Office of Special Investigation, Det. 801, Marine Air Control Squadron 23, Navy Marine Corps Reserve Center, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Civil Air Patrol, Army Air Force Exchange Service, Air Force Audit Agency, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center, Air Force Technical Applications Center Det. 45, Defense Commissary Agency, Defense Contract Management Agency, Battery A, 1st Battalion, 14th Marines.\n\nOff-base tenant units supported by Buckley Air Force Base include The 4th Manpower Requirements Squadron, Air Force Accounting and Finance Office, Defense Information Service Agency, Air Force Institute of Technology, Air Force Office of Special Investigation, Det. 110, Air Reserve Personnel Center, Defense Automated Printing Service, Defense Security Cooperation Agency (FMS), SBIRS Combine Task Force, HQ Air Force Weather Agency, ROTC Det. 105, Department of Defense Inspector General, Military Entrance Processing Station, Naval Reserve Recruiting Area West 7, Rocky Mountain Arsenal and the U.S. Army Recruiting Battalion.\n\nIn addition, a $141 million facility for the National Security Agency is planned on the base, which will provide space for 850 people whose offices are now in temporary buildings. Buckley is home to a large contingent of secretive agencies, including the NRO ADF-Colorado noted above, the National Security Agency, Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine intelligence and information units; and Marine and Coast Guard cryptologic units.\n\nFlying and notable non-flying units based at Buckley Air Force Base.\n\nUnits marked GSU are Geographically Separate Units, which although based at Buckley, are subordinate to a parent unit based at another location.\nSpace Operations Command\nAir Combat Command (ACC)\nAir Force Reserve Command (AFRC)\nAir National Guard (ANG)\nColorado Army National Guard\nMilitary Intelligence Corps\n\nMarine Forces Reserve\nUS Fleet Cyber Command\n\nCoast Guard Cryptologic Group\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875574", "title": "Software industry", "text": "Software industry\n\nThe software industry includes businesses for development, maintenance and publication of software that are using different business models, mainly either \"license/maintenance based\" (on-premises) or \"Cloud based\" (such as SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, MaaS, AaaS, etc.). The industry also includes software services, such as training, documentation, consulting and data recovery .\n\nThe word \"software\" was coined as a prank as early as 1953, but did not appear in print until the 1960s. Before this time, computers were programmed either by customers, or the few commercial computer vendors of the time, such as UNIVAC and IBM. The first company founded to provide software products and services was Computer Usage Company in 1955.\n\nThe software industry expanded in the early 1960s, almost immediately after computers were first sold in mass-produced quantities. Universities, government, and business customers created a demand for software. Many of these programs were written in-house by full-time staff programmers. Some were distributed freely between users of a particular machine for no charge. Others were done on a commercial basis, and other firms such as Computer Sciences Corporation (founded in 1959) started to grow. Other influential or typical software companies begun in the early 1960s included Advanced Computer Techniques, Automatic Data Processing, Applied Data Research, and Informatics General. The computer/hardware makers started bundling operating systems, systems software and programming environments with their machines.\n\nWhen Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) brought a relatively low-priced microcomputer to market, it brought computing within the reach of many more companies and universities worldwide, and it spawned great innovation in terms of new, powerful programming languages and methodologies. New software was built for microcomputers, so other manufacturers including IBM, followed DEC's example quickly, resulting in the IBM AS/400 amongst others.\n\nThe industry expanded greatly with the rise of the personal computer (\"PC\") in the mid-1970s, which brought desktop computing to the office worker for the first time. In the following years, it also created a growing market for games, applications, and utilities. DOS, Microsoft's first operating system product, was the dominant operating system at the time.\n\nIn the early years of the 21st century, another successful business model has arisen for hosted software, called software-as-a-service, or SaaS; this was at least the third time this model had been attempted. From the point of view of producers of some proprietary software, SaaS reduces the concerns about unauthorized copying, since it can only be accessed through the Web, and by definition no client software is loaded onto the end user's PC.\n\nAccording to industry analyst Gartner, the size of the worldwide software industry in 2013 was US$407.3 billion, an increase of 4.8% over 2012. As in past years, the largest four software vendors were Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, IBM, and SAP respectively.\nThe software industry has been subject to a high degree of consolidation over the past couple of decades. Between 1995 and 2018 around 37,039 mergers and acquisitions have been announced with a total known value of US$1,166 bil. USD. The highest number and value of deals was set in 2000 during the high times of the dot-com bubble with 2,674 transactions valued at 105. bil. USD. In 2017, 2,547 deals were announced valued at $111 billion. Approaches to successfully acquire and integrate software companies are available. \n\nBusiness models of software companies have been widely discussed. Network effects in software ecosystems, networks of companies, and their customers are an important element in the strategy of software companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875580", "title": "Family tree of Genghis Khan", "text": "Family tree of Genghis Khan\n\nThe family tree of Genghis Khan is listed below. This family tree only lists prominent members of the Borjigin family and does not reach the present. Genghis Khan appears in the middle of the tree, and Kublai Khan appears at the bottom of the tree. The Borjigin family was the royal family of the Mongol Empire, dating back to the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\n\"Only selected, prominent members are shown. Khagans (Great Khans who were rulers of the whole empire\"\") are in bold.\"\n\nThis section is divided in a series of sub-sections for better understanding. The first part traces Genghis Khan's lineage back to the dawn of the Mongolian people, while the second part accounts for his notable descendants (ones that assumed leading roles within the Mongol Empire or later states). The first part is based on the written accounts of \"The Secret History of the Mongols\", a semi-mythical and semi accurate work of history.\n\nThe second part is based on the work of several different scholars and historians (especially Rashid al-Din Hamadani), which are, in most cases, incomplete and even conflicting. The index preceding the individual's name represents the number of generations since a common ancestor (in the first part: Borte Chino; in the second part: Genghis Khan).\n\nBorte Chino (Grey Wolf) and his wife was Gua Maral (White Doe)\n\nTemujin (Genghis Khan) - Founder and Khagan of the Mongol Empire (1206–1227)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875584", "title": "Sara Carrigan", "text": "Sara Carrigan\n\nSara Carrigan (born 7 September 1980 in Gunnedah, New South Wales) is a professional cyclist from Australia, who commenced her cycling career in 1996 at the age of fifteen and is currently a member of the Belgian Lotto-Belisol Ladiesteam.\n\nShe was formerly a member of Professional cycling Team, \"Van Bemmelen - AA Drink\" (NED). She lives in Nerang in Queensland and is a member of the Gold Coast Cats cycling club. She graduated from Somerset College in 1998 and completed her tertiary education at Griffith University.\n\nHer greatest success as a road cyclist has been in the 2004 Summer Olympics Women's Road race where she won the gold medal. With a few laps to the finish Carrigan crossed a gap to the leading group to join fellow Australian cyclist, Oenone Wood. At the start of the final lap Carrigan broke away, with only Judith Arndt of Germany following, leaving Wood to successfully distract the rest in the following group, allowing her to win the gold medal. \n\nCarrigan was an Australian Institute of Sport scholarship holder.\n\nShe was awarded the Order of Australia Medal (OAM) in the 2005 Australia Day Honours List. Other awards include Australian Female Road Cyclist of the Year in 2002, 2003, 2004.\n\nIn 2009 Carrigan was inducted into the Queensland Sport Hall of Fame. In 2015, he was an inaugural Cycling Australia Hall of Fame inductee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875586", "title": "Ciro Ferrara", "text": "Ciro Ferrara\n\nCiro Ferrara (; born 11 February 1967) is an Italian former footballer and manager. His most recent position was as manager of Wuhan Zall. He had also previously coached Juventus and the Italy national under-21 team. As an assistant coach to Marcello Lippi, he won the 2006 FIFA World Cup with Italy senior team.\n\nFerrara spent his playing career as a defender, initially at Napoli and later on at Juventus, winning seven total Serie A titles as well as other domestic and international trophies. At international level, he represented Italy at the 1988 Summer Olympics, at two UEFA European Championships, in 1988 and 2000, and at the 1990 World Cup.\n\nA native of Naples, Ferrara began his career with the youth system of hometown club Napoli in 1980. He graduated the \"primavera\" youth squad in 1984, and began to earn first team call-ups that season. He made 14 total appearances with the club in his first full season. The following season, Ferrara became a part of the starting XI, and he soon began earning call-ups to the Italy national team, making the squad for the 1990 FIFA World Cup. He also scored one of Napoli's goals as they won the 1989 UEFA Cup final. In addition to the UEFA Cup, with Napoli he won two Serie A titles (in 1986–87 and 1989–90), the 1987 Coppa Italia final, and the 1990 Supercoppa Italiana, the latter over his future team, Juventus.\n\nIn the summer of 1994, Ferrara transferred to Turin-based club Juventus under coach Marcello Lippi, and was quickly introduced into the starting XI, making over 40 total appearances for the club in all competitions in his first season, scoring one goal. He is considered one of the best central defenders of his generation, not relinquishing his starting position for the club for the next ten years. He also captained the team from 1995 to 1996 and became one of the most experienced and decorated players of the past two decades, winning eight Serie A championships, six of which were with Juventus, and two with Napoli. Ferrara was also part of two Coppa Italia titles (one with each team), three Supercoppa Italiana titles (two with Juventus, one with Napoli) and several European competitions, including the UEFA Champions League, UEFA Cup, Intercontinental Cup and European Super Cup). His role as captain, however, was taken over by Alessandro Del Piero in 1996.\n\nThroughout his Juventus career, Ferrara played an important role in the club's backline, with his vast experienced and dominating defensive style. Throughout his 12-year tenure with the club, Ferrara formed impressive defensive partnerships with the likes of Mark Iuliano, Moreno Torricelli, Paolo Montero, Gianluca Pessotto, Lilian Thuram, Alessandro Birindelli, Igor Tudor, Gianluca Zambrotta, Nicola Legrottaglie and Fabio Cannavaro. Juventus had what was considered as the best defence in the world at this time, and teams strongly regretted ever going down a goal to the club, as they knew how hard it would be to score one back for themselves. In the 1996–97 season, one of his peak seasons, he scored 4 goals in 32 Serie A matches, while also being capped eight times internationally.Following the \"Scudetto\"-winning season, Ferrara, along with veteran defensive teammates Mark Iuliano and Paolo Montero, ended their Juventus careers. While Montero returned to Uruguay and Iuliano opted to join smaller clubs to conclude his career, Ferrara retired from football altogether in May 2005 at age 38. He made just four Serie A appearances in his final season with the club. Following Juventus' involvement in the 2006 Italian football scandal, \"\"Calciopoli\"\", Juventus' 2004–05 title was later revoked.\n\nFor Italy, Ferrara was capped 49 times and played 1 match each at the 1990 FIFA World Cup on home soil (where Italy finished in third place after a semi-final penalty shootout defeat to Argentina) and at UEFA Euro 2000 (where Italy reached the final, losing to France on a golden goal). Ferrara took part at Euro 1988, where Italy reached the semi-finals, although he did not appear during the tournament. The same year, he was a member of the Italy team that finished in fourth place at the 1988 Summer Olympics after reaching the semi-final.\n\nAn elegant yet powerful and aggressive defender, Ferrara was known throughout his career for his composure, anticipation, technical skills, ball-playing ability, versatility, and class, which enabled him to play anywhere along the back-line, both in the centre, as a man-marker (\"stopper\"), or as a full-back, usually on the right flank, and allowed him to adapt to various formations and systems. A world-class defender, who is regarded as one of the best Italian centre-backs of his generation, Welsh former winger Ryan Giggs described Ferrara and his defensive teammate at Juventus Paolo Montero as \"...the toughest defenders [he] played against\", also adding that they were often very hard in their challenges, while Polish former midfielder Zbigniew Boniek has stated that Ferrara was the best defender he ever faced. A precocious talent in his youth, Ferrara later established himself as one of the best centre-backs in the world in his prime. He was considered to be a complete, experienced, consistent, cautious and successful defender, with a good positional sense, who was quick, athletic, strong in the air, a good tackler, and who excelled at reading the game and marking his opponents; these skills enabled him to be effective in both a man-marking and a zonal marking defensive system. In addition to his defensive skills, he was also known for his offensive contribution as a centre-back, and was also capable of playing as a sweeper. In spite of his tenacious playing style, he was also known to be a fair and correct player. In addition to his ability as a defender, he was also known for his professionalism, leadership, strong personality, and his commanding presence both on the pitch and in the dressing room.\n\nFerrara was part of the Italian technical staff for the 2006 World Cup. After winning the World Cup, he became part of Juventus' staff, joining former club and national teammate Gianluca Pessotto, with Ferrara being named youth system chief (\"responsabile settore giovanile\"), dealing mostly with organisational aspects of the Juve academy. In July 2008, Ferrara took the UEFA Pro License coaching badges following training at Coverciano, Florence. After Juventus fired Claudio Ranieri following a string of seven league games without a win in the 2008–09 season, Ferrara was named interim head coach of Juventus on 18 May 2009 for the remaining two weeks of the season, with the goal of maintaining second place in the league table, and the possibility of being appointed on a full-time basis for a longer period. In his two games as caretaker manager, he led Juventus to 3–0 and 2–0 wins over Siena and Lazio respectively, thus ensuring a second-place finish over rivals Milan. Following these results, he emerged as a strong candidate for to take the job permanently for the next season. On 5 June 2009, Juventus formally announced his appointment as manager for 2009–10 season.\n\nDuring the summer, the team was then strengthened with high-profile signings such as Brazilian internationals Diego and Felipe Melo; 2006 World Cup champions Fabio Cannavaro and Fabio Grosso in defence; and young Uruguayan international Martín Cáceres, on loan. After winning his first four league matches, Ferrara's fortunes changed after Juve failed to make the knockout stage of the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League following a 4–1 defeat by Bayern Munich at home in a match where a draw would have awarded Juve the qualification to the following phase, despite a promising start to the campaign. Despite a win over Derby d'Italia rivals Internazionale, Juve embarked on a losing streak over the winter, notably against minor teams such as Sicilian side Catania and recently promoted Bari. He came under intense scrutiny from the media and there was much speculation about who would succeed him as manager, especially after he was absent at the traditional meeting of all Serie A managers, coaches and referees in Rome during mid-season and was instead represented by then-Juventus director of sport Alessio Secco and 23-year-old midfielder Claudio Marchisio at the press conference.\n\nSix days later, Juventus were knocked out of the Coppa Italia by Inter 2–1 at the San Siro, leading the board of directors to ultimately sack Ferrara after weeks of speculation regarding his position, replacing him with Alberto Zaccheroni until the end of the season.\n\nOn 22 October 2010, Ferrara was announced as new head coach of the Italy under-21 team, with former teammate Angelo Peruzzi his assistant. Under Ferrara, the \"Azzurrini\" remain unbeaten in the 2013 UEFA European U21 Championship qualifiers as of June 2012. On 2 July 2012, he left the country's U-21 side to coach newly promoted Serie A side Sampdoria for the 2012–13 season. However, he was sacked on 17 December 2012.\n\nWith his fellow Neapolitan friend and former defensive teammate Fabio Cannavaro, Ferrara has helped establish a charity foundation, \"Fondazione Cannavaro Ferrara\", specialising in the procurement of cancer research equipment and surgery for special cases of cancer for a hospital in their native Naples. The foundation also aims to help at risk youth in Naples.\n\nNapoli\n\nJuventus\n\nItaly\n\n\nItaly\n\n"}
{"id": "1875592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875592", "title": "Heidal", "text": "Heidal\n\nHeidal is a valley and parish within the Gudbrand Valley, in the county of Innlandet, Norway.\n\nHeidal parish was separated from Vågå as a separate municipality of its own on 1 January 1908. It was merged with the municipality of Sel on 1 January 1965.\n\nHeidal is a side valley of the Gudbrand Valley. The valley runs northwest from the village of Sjoa on Highway E-6, some 10 km before the community center of Otta. \n\nHeidal is rich in beauty and tradition, lying along the narrow valley of the Sjoa River. The Sjoa runs from Lake Gjende in the Jotunheimen Mountains, through Heidal and down to the Gudbrandsdalslågen river. It has a high concentration of older protected timber houses and farmsteads. The main industries are agriculture and forestry. Local traditions includes carpentry, wood carving, painting and weaving.\n\nHeidal Church (\"Heidal Kirke\") was built during the period 1937-41 as an exact replica of a 1754 church which was destroyed after being struck by lightning in 1933. Heidal Church is a cruciform church as are most of the churches in the Gudbrand Valley. The church was built of wood. It has about 300 seats and three galleries. The church was designed by architect Bredo Berntsen (1877–1957). The altarpiece is a work by the Norwegian sculptor Jakob Klukstad. Near the church stands the Bjølstad Chapel (\"Bjølstad-kapellet\"). Bjølstad Chapel seating 75 and dates from around 1531.\n\nSome locations allow guided tours, including Søre Harildstad farm and Bjølstad Chapel. Farms like the Bjølstad Farm are not open to the public. At the Bjølstad Farm the newest building was constructed in about 1820 and the farm has been in the same family since the 13th century.\n1177 - Ivar Gjesling (or \"Ivar Gjæsling\") was King Magnus IV's lendmann for the Opplands. Gjesling allied himself with the Birkebeiner — who chose Sverre as their king at Øreting in Nidaros in 1177. In return King Sverre granted Gjesling the valley of Heidal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875596", "title": "Darren O'Donnell", "text": "Darren O'Donnell\n\nDarren O'Donnell (born 1965) is a Canadian novelist, essayist, performance artist, playwright, director, actor and urban planner.\n\nHe is the artistic director of the Mammalian Diving Reflex theatre company, has written many plays including \"A Suicide-Site Guide to the City\", \"White Mice\", \"Who Shot Jacques Lacan?\", \"Radio Rooster Says That's Bad\", \"Over\", \"[boxhead]\" and ', and has published one novel entitled \"Your Secrets Sleep With Me\". In addition to the novel he has published five other books with Coach House Books: \"Inoculations\", ', \"Social Acupuncture,\" \"[boxhead]\" and \"Haircuts by Children and Other Evidence for a New Social Contract\".\n\nO'Donnell holds a M.Sc. in Urban Planning from the University of Toronto (2014) and a B.F.A in Acting from the University of Alberta (1988).\n\n\"Social Acupuncture\" is both the title of his book and a wing of Mammalian Diving Reflex where O'Donnell creates work that engages the public and claims to prove the \"generosity, abundance and power of the social sphere.\" The book is an extended essay outlining the possibility for a civically engaged artistic practice as well as an in-depth description and analysis of his work in this field. Social Acupuncture projects include \"The Talking Creature\", \"Home Tours\", \"Q&A\" \"Slow Dance with Teacher\", \"Parkdale Public School vs. Queen West\"and \"Haircuts by Children\". With \"Haircuts by Children\" O'Donnell worked with a grade 5/6 class at Parkdale Public School in Toronto and Luther Burbank School in Los Angeles, trained them and provided free haircuts to the public by 10-year-olds. During Toronto's 2006 inaugural Nuit Blanche, an all-night art event, he presented \"Ballroom Dancing\", a dance-party DJ'd by ten-year-olds in a gymnasium filled with thousands of rubber balls. In the 2007 Nuit Blanche he presented \"Slow Dance with Teacher\", an event that offered the opportunity for the public to have a slow dance with university professors and high school teachers. His company, Mammalian Diving Reflex, is the resident art company at Toronto's Parkdale Public School and has created a series of events entitled \"Parkdale Public School vs. Queen West\" that brought children together with artists, the public, businesses and cultural institutions along Toronto's rapidly gentrifying Queen Street West. As of March 1, 2013 Mammalian Diving Reflex is the Company in Residence at the Gladstone Hotel, a boutique hotel in Toronto's West Queen West gallery district.\n\nO'Donnell has collaborated with other artists across Canada including Karen Hines, Daniel MacIvor and da da Kamera, One Yellow Rabbit, Rumble Productions, Theatre Replacement, Instant Coffee, Alberta Theatre Projects, Theatre Passe Muraille, Go Chicken Go, Factory Theatre, the Theatre Centre and Downstage Theatre.\n\nHis writing has appeared in \"Pivot\", \"Material\", \"One Hour Empire\", \"GreenTOpia\", \"Public Access\", the \"Canadian Theatre Review\", \"Daily News and Analysis India\", \"Descant\", \"C Magazine\", \"uTOpia\" and \"The New Quarterly\".\n\nO'Donnell's works and Mammalian Diving Reflex has been presented globally, including The Theatre Centre (Toronto, 1998 and 2010), the Theatre Passe Muraille (Toronto, 2000, 2002 and 2003), High Performance Rodeo (Calgary, 2002), The PuSh International Performing Arts Festival (Vancouver, 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2009), The Toronto Free Gallery (Toronto, 2004, 2008 and 2009), Buddies in Bad Times Theatre (Toronto, 2004, 2007 and 2008), Latitude 53 (Edmonton, 2004), The Dollar Store Show (Chicago, 2005), Alberta Theatre Projects (Calgary, 2005 and 2006), Outpost for Contemporary Art (Los Angeles, 2006), Dublin Fringe Festival (2007), Performa (New York, 2007), World Performing Arts Festival (Lahore, 2007, Fierce Festival (Birmingham UK, 2007 and 2014), Portland Institute for Contemporary Art (Portland, 2007 and 2014), F.I.S.Co. (Bologna, 2008), Melbourne Festival (2008), Sydney Festival (2008), Es Terni (Terni, 2008), Context Gallery (Derry, 2009), Uovo (Milan, 2009), Midsummer Festival (Cork, 2009 and 2013), Weatherspoon Museum (Greensboro, 2009), Les Escales Improbables (Montreal, 2008); Gallery B312 (Montreal, 2009), Context (Brisbane, 2010), West Kowloon Cultural District (Hong Kong, 2010), London International Festival of Theatre (2010), Fusebox (Austin, 2011), Kustenfestivaldesart (Brussels, 2011), Auawirleben (Bern, 2012), Darwin Festival (2012), Fidena (Bochum, 2014), and Liveart.dk (Copenhagen, 2014).\n\nHe was the 2000 recipient of the Pauline MacGibbon Award for directors, and has also been nominated for several Dora Awards for his writing, directing, and acting. He has won one of these awards for design. He also received a 2000 Gabriel award for excellence in broadcasting with his CBC piece \"Crazy Like a Fox\". His \"Mammalian Protocol for Collaborating with Children\" was awarded the 2012 Canadian Coalition for the Rights of Children Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875604", "title": "Heneicosane", "text": "Heneicosane\n\nHeneicosane is a straight chain saturated hydrocarbon with formula CH\n\nHeneicosane is used as a pheromone by the queen or king termites in the species \"Reticulitermes flavipes\". It also attracts mosquitoes in the genus \"Aedes\" and can be used in mosquito baits. This works in nature as the hydrocarbon is produced in the skin of the larva. A 1:100000 faction in water is the most attractive, but if the concentration is 1:1000 then mosquitoes are repelled instead. Heneicosane is one of the major components of the safflower flower essential oil (\"Carthamus tinctorius\"). All parts of the plant \"Periploca laevigata\" contain heneicosane. \"Rosa damascena\" flower essential oil contains 5% heneicosane. \"Sambucus nigra\" contains 2.3%.\n"}
{"id": "1875606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875606", "title": "Alessio Tacchinardi", "text": "Alessio Tacchinardi\n\nAlessio Tacchinardi (; born 23 July 1975) is an Italian football manager and former footballer who played as a defensive midfielder and manager.\n\nHe began his career with Atalanta. In 1994, he moved to Juventus, where he spent the majority of his career, winning 17 trophies; due to his success and performances with the club, Tacchinardi was one of the 50 Juventus players to have their names written inside the club's new home ground, the Juventus Stadium. Following a two-year loan spell with Spanish side Villarreal, he moved to Brescia in 2007, where he retired after a season. A former Italy international, Tacchinardi represented his nation on 13 occasions between 1995 and 2003.\n\nTacchinardi started his professional career in 1992 with Atalanta. He spent two full seasons with the Bergamo-based club, where he made 9 league appearances, including his Serie A debut. After performing extremely well, he caught the eye of then Juventus director Luciano Moggi and was transferred to Juventus in July 1994.\n\nTacchinardi joined Juventus in pre-season training in 1994. In his first season with the club, Tacchinardi made 25 league appearances, and also appeared in the Coppa Italia and the European Cup. Throughout his time with the club, he formed partnerships in midfield with the likes of Antonio Conte, Paulo Sousa, Didier Deschamps, Angelo Di Livio, Edgar Davids, Gianluca Zambrotta, Mauro Camoranesi, Pavel Nedved, Zinedine Zidane, and Enzo Maresca. During his time with the club, Tacchinardi was noted for his work-rate, determination, and wide range of skills.\n\nIn the 2002–03 season, he scored two goals in 27 appearances, and Juventus claimed the league title. He scored two more goals in 13 UEFA Champions League appearances, a run in which Juventus reached the UEFA Champions League final, lost on penalties to Milan. With his three Champions League final defeats, Tacchinardi is the player with the most Champions League final appearances without a victory, alongside former Juventus teammates Paolo Montero and Gianluigi Buffon, although, unlike the latter two players, he did win a Champions League medal during the 1995–96 season.\n\nAfter nearly 14 years with Juventus, Tacchinardi made 261 league appearances with the \"Bianconeri\", and scored 9 goals.\n\nIn July 2005, Tacchinardi was transferred to Villarreal CF who signed him on one-year loan from Juventus, following the appointment of Fabio Capello, who took over the managerial position from Marcello Lippi, and also due in part to the purchases of Patrick Vieira and Federico Balzaretti. He became an integral part of the starting XI for the club, helping the team to reach the UEFA Champions League semi-finals. He returned to Juventus on 30 June 2006, but following the Calciopoli troubles he extended his loan for one more year, in July 2006. His loan finished at the end of the 2006–07 season, in which he appeared for the club in more than 50 official matches, scoring 3 goals. He returned to Juventus again in the summer of 2007, and it was believed that he would remain at the club, following the appointment of Claudio Ranieri and the club's new start, however his contract was mutually terminated in August 2007, following certain unspecified disagreements with the club's new board of directors.\n\nTacchinardi signed a two-year deal with Brescia Calcio on 9 August 2007, and was a key attribute to the Serie B club's first team, appearing in all but 8 league games, and scored 11 goals. At the conclusion of the 2007–08 Serie B season, Tacchinardi did not re-new his contract with Brescia Calcio and retired.\n\nTacchinardi also represented his nation at international level. He made his senior Italy national football team debut in a 1–0 win over Slovenia on 6 September 1995, but was also a member of the Italy under-21 team that won the 1996 UEFA European Under-21 Championship. Tacchinardi has been capped 13 official times for Italy with his last cap coming on 10 September 2003, in a 1–1 draw against Serbia and Montenegro. Tacchinardi was not a regular player for the \"Squadra Azzurra\", never playing in the final stages of a major tournament, in several cases due to injury, but also because this was a period of many high quality Italian international midfielders. It is believed that Tacchinardi would have also been a key part of the national setup had it not been for several injuries.\n\nTacchinardi primarily played as a central or defensive midfielder, although he was also capable of playing as a right-sided winger or wing-back. He was noted for his powerful and accurate long range shooting, as well as his striking ability from volleys, which saw him score several goals from distance during his time with Juventus. A hard-working and tenacious player, with a strong mentality and a wide range of skills, he was predominantly known for his excellent positional sense, anticipation, and tactical intelligence, as well as his tackling ability, which made effective both offensively and defensively, and also allowed him to play as a centre-back on occasion in a zonal marking defensive system. In addition to his aforementioned attributes, he also possessed good technique, vision, and passing range, which allowed him to start attacking plays quickly with long balls after winning back possession, and also enabled him to function as a deep-lying playmaker for his team.\n\nAfter his retirement, Tacchinardi was included in Juventus 50 Legends whose names are written inside the club's new stadium, Juventus Stadium.\n\nAlessio's elder brother, Massimiliano Tacchinardi, also briefly played professional football as a defender.\n\n\nJuventus\n\n"}
{"id": "1875611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875611", "title": "People Will Talk", "text": "People Will Talk\n\nPeople Will Talk is a 1951 romantic comedy/drama film directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and produced by Darryl F. Zanuck from a screenplay by Mankiewicz, based on the German play by Curt Goetz, which had been made into a movie in Germany (\"Doctor Praetorius\", 1950). Released by Twentieth Century Fox, the film stars Cary Grant and Jeanne Crain, with supporting performances by Hume Cronyn, Finlay Currie, Walter Slezak, and Sidney Blackmer.\n\nThe film was nominated for the Writers Guild of America screen Award for Best Written American Comedy (Joseph L. Mankiewicz).\n\n\"People Will Talk\" describes an episode in the life of Dr. Noah Praetorius, a physician who teaches in a medical school and founded a clinic dedicated to treating patients humanely and holistically. The plot contains two parallel story lines: a professional-misconduct challenge brought against Praetorius by his more conventional colleague Dr. Rodney Elwell, who dislikes Praetorius's unorthodox but effective methods; and the struggle of a distressed young woman named Deborah Higgins, who falls in love with Praetorius while dealing with an out-of-wedlock pregnancy. The film also highlights Praetorius's close friend and confidant, physics professor Lyonel Barker, who plays double bass in the student/faculty orchestra conducted by Praetorius.\n\nAt the start of the film, Elwell has hired a detective to investigate Praetorius. A housemaid who once worked for Praetorius reacts visibly when Elwell asks her about Praetorius's mysterious friend Mr. Shunderson, who rarely leaves Praetorius's side and has a deep, intuitive understanding of human and animal nature.\n\nElwell's detective discovers that Shunderson was once convicted of murder, and Elwell calls for a misconduct hearing against Praetorius. At the hearing, Praetorius explains that he started his career in a small town by opening a butcher shop as a front for his undeclared medical practice, because the people of the town didn't trust doctors. Elwell accuses Praetorius of \"quackery\", but Praetorius defends himself with the fact that he was a licensed practitioner, describing how he was forced to leave town after his maid discovered his medical degree.\n\nPraetorius refuses to answer questions about Shunderson, but Shunderson explains that he served 15 years in prison for the alleged death of a man who had tried to murder him, then somehow survived being hanged after actually murdering the man, who had gone into hiding during the first trial. When he woke up, he was lying on a table in front of Praetorius, who was at that time a medical student examining what he believed was a cadaver. Praetorius kept Shunderson's survival a secret, and Shunderson became Praetorius's devoted friend. After this story is told, the chairman concludes the hearing in Praetorius's favor, and Elwell walks away alone and discredited.\n\nMeanwhile, Deborah enters Praetorius's life, displaying signs of emotional distress. After she faints during a lecture, Praetorius examines her and informs her that she's pregnant. Upset by this news, \"Mrs. Higgins\" admits that she's not really married. She will not reveal who the unborn child’s father is, and says knowing about her condition would be too much for her own father to bear. In a hallway near Praetorius's office, she shoots herself.\n\nAfter successfully operating on Deborah, Praetorius tries to calm her by telling her there was a mistake in her pregnancy test, but she has fallen in love with him, and becomes upset at her own embarrassing behavior. She runs away from the clinic, forcing him to find her so he can tell her she really is pregnant.\n\nPraetorius and Shunderson drive out to where Deborah and her father Arthur live, a farm owned by Arthur's brother, John. Deborah and Praetorius hide Deborah's shooting incident from her father, who is a failure in life and lives unhappily as a dependent of his stingy brother. Deborah is his only pride in life, which might become intolerable for him with a baby to take care of and his daughter's reputation ruined.\n\nWhile showing Praetorius the farm, Deborah admits her love for him. She also wonders why he is visiting and begins to suspect that he is attracted to her. After she seductively interrogates him, they share a passionate kiss. They soon get married, and Arthur comes to live with them. A few weeks later, Deborah suggests to Noah that she may be pregnant, and he admits that she was pregnant all along. She ruefully concludes that he married her out of pity, but he convinces her that he really did fall in love with her.\n\nElwell had purposefully arranged for Praetorius's misconduct hearing to be scheduled for the same time as the student/faculty orchestra's concert. After the hearing and Praetorius' acquittal, the film ends with Deborah, her father, and Shunderson in the audience watching Barker play in and Praetorius conduct the orchestra in the finale of Brahms's \"Academic Festival Overture\" : Gaudeamus Igitur.\n\nAccording to a review at the Films de France website, the movie has a number of political overtones. The review says the film is a reaction to \"Mankiewicz’s own experiences during the communist witch hunts of the late 1940s and early 1950s, while he was President of the Directors Guild of America (1950-51).\n\nThe film's investigative trial has parallels to the congressional hearings by anti-communist crusaders. And just as some refused to name names in such hearings, Cary Grant's lead character declines to clear his own name by revealing the private business of another person, in this case a convicted murderer.\n\nThe review said that although the movie is meant as a cautionary tale about the dangers of witch hunts it deals with many other issues, including the pregnancy of a single woman, the \"corrosive effect of unfettered capitalism, the human cost of the Korean war, among others.\"\n\nThe score for the film consists of two classical pieces: Johannes Brahms' \"Academic Festival Overture\" and Richard Wagner's \"Prize Song\", both adapted and conducted by Alfred Newman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875619", "title": "George A. Cowles", "text": "George A. Cowles\n\nGeorge A. Cowles (April 5, 1836 – November 26, 1887) was a 19th-century American businessperson, founder of banks, companies, and a railway, and Southern California landowner.\n\nHe was one of the early business leaders in San Diego and a prominent rancher in San Diego County.\n\nBorn April 5, 1836, and raised on a Connecticut farm in Hartford, his father had been the first to manufacture broadcloth in the US. George was placed to work in a local dry goods store at age 14, by the time he left at 21, he had been promoted to first salesman. He went on to start a cotton mill of his own which unfortunately burned a year later.\n\nCowles became successful in the cotton business as a broker in New York City, moving there when he was 25. That same year he married Jennie Blodgett from Hartford, a girl of 16. He helped organize, and at 30 was the first president of the NY Cotton Exchange.\n\nHe retired from the cotton exchange at age 33. During the following year Cowles and his wife traveled the southern states. He next began a manufacturing business producing cotton cloth under government contract using a process he patented. He continued successfully in this venture until 1875.\n\nCowles and his wife traveled regularly, apparently in part due to her health. In 1870, while touring the South, he contracted malaria in Florida. They traveled several times to California, where Cowles was searching for a preferred site to establish a ranch.\n\nThe Cowleses first visited the San Diego area in 1873, and in 1875 they began making large purchases of ranch land in the El Cajon Valley in San Diego County. After nearly a year of traveling through Europe, including stays at many health resorts, they settled at their El Cajon ranch in 1877 to begin a career in ranching, though he was in noticeably poor health.\n\nArriving in California wealthy, and with expertise in business, finance, and agriculture, Cowles accomplished much in the ten years before his death in 1887. The property he purchased eventually totaled about 4,000 acres (16 km²) in the El Cajon Valley and comprised two ranch sites about a mile apart.\n\nOne was named \"Woodside\" where the ranch house was located and the other, probably by their having planted 17 magnolia trees, was named \"Magnolia\" (today, street names Woodside Ave in Santee and Magnolia Ave in El Cajon are from the Cowles ranches). He planted a great variety of different fruit trees and grapevines, olives, grains and potatoes. The greatest success was in raisins and olives.\n\nCowles' products gained nationwide attention for San Diego's farming potential, particularly in fruits and vines, and he was called the \"Raisin King of the US.\" He raised fine thoroughbred horses, maintaining about 100 head, and 30 head of cattle. The community that developed around his Woodside ranch became known as Cowlestown.\n\nGeorge Cowles was an organizer of the Consolidated National Bank, a director of the Commercial Bank, and vice president of the San Diego Trust & Savings Bank. He was also a cofounder of the San Diego Marine Ways & Dry-dock Company on North Island, and was vice president after having turned down the offer of presidency.\n\nAs a director of the California Southern Railroad, later part of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway, he was responsible for extending the railroad from San Diego's 22nd Street Station into the north end of El Cajon Valley. This included giving free right of way through his ranch properties. The San Diego Trolley Green Line route now runs on some of the right of way, and California State Route 67 also uses a section of the right of way as it turns east from Santee.\n\nGeorge A. Cowles died at age 51 on November 26, 1887, in his room at San Diego's then premier Florence Hotel, succumbing after two weeks to an intestinal ailment. He had just completed the California Southern Railroad negotiations, an effort that some had said hastened his death.\n\nAfter a well attended funeral at a church in new Downtown San Diego, Cowles was buried in the El Cajon Valley. Two years later his remains were moved to the Mount Hope Cemetery in San Diego.\n\nHaving named both his wife Jennie Cowles, with a trusted friend, as the executors of his will, he left all of his estate to his wife. (They had no children.) The estate was considerable, estimated at between $370,000 and $500,000 then (present day $15–$20 million). The year after his death, some of her ranch property was subdivided and placed on the market as San Diego's 1880s land boom was ending. Jennie Cowles continued with the remaining ranches into the 1890s.\n\nShe married Milton Santee, a real estate developer, in November 1890, and they moved to a house at 11th & B in \"New Town\" San Diego. Cowlestown's first school was held in a large room at the former Cowles ranch house. A new schoolhouse was built on land Jennie had donated for the school, and the Cowles School was renamed Santee School.\n\nCowlestown was officially renamed Santee in 1893, for Cowles' second husband Milton Santee. According to historian Harriette Wade, Jennie \"lobbied hard\" to change the name to Santee in honor of her new husband. A \"reluctant vote of the citizens\" approved the idea in 1893, Wade said. Cowles Spring later became known as Dog Spring.\n\nCowles Mountain was losing the name that honored George Cowles, becoming locally known as Black Mountain, a second one in the county; and/or 'S' Mountain, from the large white 'S' painted on its face for San Diego State University. However, the historically significant Cowles Mountain name has been used by Mission Trails Regional Park, which it has been within since 1974.\n"}
{"id": "1875620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875620", "title": "Kazakhstan men's national ice hockey team", "text": "Kazakhstan men's national ice hockey team\n\nThe Kazakhstan men's national ice hockey team is controlled by Kazakhstan Ice Hockey Federation. Kazakhstan is currently ranked 16th in the world. They have competed at the Winter Olympics twice, in 1998 and 2006. The national team joined the IIHF in 1992 and first played internationally at the 1993 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships. The team has frequently played at the elite division of the World Championship, often moving between there and the Division I level.\n\nKazakhstan joined the IIHF in 1992, applying as a separate member with six other former Soviet republics. They played their first IIHF tournament at the 1993 World Championship; as a new member they had to play in Group C, the lowest level. They reached the elite division for the first time in 1998, and have played at the elite level seven times (1998, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010, 2012, 2014 and 2016).\n\nThe national team has appeared at the Winter Olympics twice, in 1998 and 2006. In their debut in 1998, the Kazakhs were able to win their preliminary group, surprising many, and would finish the tournament in 8th place. They returned for the 2006 Winter Olympics, and finished ninth overall.\n\nThe team is the most successful team at the Asian Games, winning it four times, and are the current highest ranked Asian team.\n\n\n\n\n\nRoster for the 2017 IIHF World Championship Division IA:\n\nHead coach: Eduard Zankovets\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875638", "title": "Ira Aldridge", "text": "Ira Aldridge\n\nIra Frederick Aldridge (July 24, 1807 – August 7, 1867) was an American and later British stage actor and playwright who made his career after 1824 largely on the London stage and in Europe, especially in Shakespearean roles. Born in New York City, Aldridge is the only actor of African-American descent among the 33 actors of the English stage honoured with bronze plaques at the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at Stratford-upon-Avon. He was especially popular in Prussia and Russia, where he received top honors from heads of state. At the time of his sudden death, while on tour in Poland, he was arranging a triumphant return to America, with a planned 100-show-tour to the United States.\n\nHe was married twice, once to an Englishwoman, once to a Swedish woman, and had a family in England. Two of his daughters became professional opera singers.\n\nAldridge was born in New York City to Reverend Daniel and Luranah (also spelled Lurona) Aldridge on July 24, 1807. At the age of 13, Aldridge went to the African Free School in New York City, established by the New York Manumission Society for the children of free black people and slaves. They were given a classical education, with the study of English grammar, writing, mathematics, geography, and astronomy. His classmates at the African free school included Charles L. Reason, George T. Downing, and Henry Highland Garnet. His early exposure to theater included viewing plays from the high balcony of the Park Theatre, New York's leading theater of the time, and seeing productions of Shakespeare's plays at the African Grove Theatre.\n\nAldridge's first professional acting experience was in the early 1820s with the African Company, a group founded and managed by William Henry Brown and James Hewlett. In 1821, the group built the African Grove Theatre, the first resident African-American theatre in the United States. The short-lived company was the subject of protests by neighbors, thuggery attacks by a competitor, and racist parody by the Sheriff of New York who was also a newspaper publisher, making it clear that Aldridge's career prospects in America were dim. Aldridge made his acting debut as Rolla, a Peruvian character in Richard Brinsley Sheridan's \"Pizarro\". He may have also played the male lead in \"Romeo and Juliet\", as reported later in an 1860 memoir by his schoolfellow, Dr. James McCune Smith.\n\nConfronted with the persistent discrimination which black actors had to endure in the United States, Aldridge emigrated to Liverpool, England, in 1824 with actor James Wallack. During this time the Industrial Revolution had begun, bringing about radical economic change that helped expand the development of theatres. The British Parliament had already outlawed the slave trade and was moving toward abolishing slavery in the British colonies, which increased the prospect of black actors being able to perform.\nHaving limited onstage experience and lacking name recognition, Aldridge concocted a story of his African lineage, claiming to have descended from the Fulani princely line. By 1831, he for a time took the name of Keene, a homonym for the then popular British actor, Edmund Kean. Aldridge observed a common theatrical practice of assuming an identical or similar nomenclature to that of a celebrity in order to garner attention. In addition to being called F. W. Keene Aldridge, he would later be called African Roscius, after the famous Roman actor of the first century BCE.\n\nAt 17, Aldridge first appeared on the London stage in May 1825 in a low profile production of \"Othello\". On October 10, 1825, Aldridge made a much more high profile debut at London's Royal Coburg Theatre, and became the first African-American actor to establish himself professionally in a foreign country. He played the lead role of Oroonoko in \"The Revolt of Surinam\", or A \"Slave's Revenge\"; this play was an adaptation of Thomas Southerne's \"Oroonoko\" (itself adapted from Aphra Behn's original work).\n\nAccording to the scholar Shane White, English theatre audiences had heard of the African Theatre because of British actor and comedian Charles Mathews, which had the ironic effect of boosting Aldridge's profile. In a forerunner of blackface entertainment, Mathews had recently produced a popular comedic lampoon of what he imagined the African Theater was like (he had never actually been). Bernth Lindfors says:\n[W]hen Aldridge starts appearing on the stage at the Royalty Theatre, he's just called a gentleman of color. But when he moves over to the Royal Coburg, he's advertised in the first playbill as the American Tragedian from the African Theater New York City. The second playbill refers to him as 'The African Tragedian'. So everybody goes to the theater expecting to laugh because this is the man they think Mathews saw in New York City.\n\nAn innovation Aldridge introduced early in his career was a direct address to the audience on the closing night of his engagement at a given theatre. Especially in the years leading up to the emancipation of all slaves in the British colonies in 1832, he would speak of the injustice of slavery and the passionate desire for freedom of those held in bondage.\n\nDuring Aldridge's seven-week engagement at the Royal Coburg, the young actor starred in five plays. He earned admiration from his audiences while most critics emphasized Aldridge's lack of stage training and experience. According to modern critics Errol Hill and James Vernon Hatch, early reviews were mixed. For \"The Times\" he was \"baker-kneed and narrow-chested with lips so shaped that it is utterly impossible for him to pronounce English\"; \"The Globe\" found his conception of Oroonoko to be very judicious and his enunciation distinct and sonorous; and \"The Drama\" described him as \"tall and tolerably well proportioned with a weak voice that gabbles apace.\" \"The Times\" critic also found fault with Aldridge's \"copper\" complexion, considering it insufficiently dark for Othello.\n\nAldridge performed scenes from \"Othello\" that impressed reviewers. One critic wrote, \"In \"Othello\" (Aldridge) delivers the most difficult passages with a degree of correctness that surprises the beholder.\" He gradually progressed to larger roles; by 1825, he had top billing at London's Coburg Theatre as Oronoko in \"A Slave's Revenge\", soon to be followed by the role of Gambia in \"The Slave,\" and the title role of Shakespeare's \"Othello\". He also played major roles in plays such as \"The Castle Spectre\" and \"The Padlock\". In search of new and suitable material, Aldridge also appeared occasionally as white European characters, for which he would be appropriately made up with greasepaint and wig. Examples of these are Captain Dirk Hatteraick and Bertram in Rev. R. C. Maturin's \"Bertram\", the title role in Shakespeare's \"Richard III\", and Shylock in \"The Merchant of Venice\".\n\nAldridge's success also created enemies. \"The Athenaeum\" was scandalized by a black man with white actresses, and \"Figaro in London\" sought to \"drive him from the stage\" because of his color.\n\nIn 1831 Aldridge successfully played in Dublin; at several locations in southern Ireland, where he created a sensation in the small towns; as well as in Bath, England and Edinburgh, Scotland. The actor Edmund Kean praised his Othello; some took him to task for taking liberties with the text, while others attacked his race. Since he was an American black actor from the African Theatre, \"The Times\" called him the \"African Roscius\", after the famed actor of ancient Rome. Aldridge used this to his benefit and expanded African references in his biography that appeared in playbills, also identifying his birthplace as \"Africa\" in his entry in the 1851 census. In June 1844 he made appearances on stage in Exmouth (Devon, England).\n\nBy at least 1848 he had added the anti-heroic role of Zanga in Edward Young's The \"Revenge\" to his repertoire. \"The Revenge\" (1721) race-flips the plot of \"Othello\" by showing how Zanga, a captured Moorish prince who has become the servant and confidant of the noble Don Alonzo, vengefully tricks him into believing his wife is unfaithful. Alonzo finally kills himself and Zanga exults: \"Let Europe and her pallid sons go weep; / Let Afric and her hundred thrones rejoice: / Oh, my dear countrymen, look down and see / How I bestride your prostrate conqueror!\"\n\nAn illustrated review of this performance at the Surrey Theatre shows Aldridge triumphing over Alonzo, dressed in flowing Moorish robes, which, according to the critic, \"reminds one of the portraits of Abd-el Kader\". The same reviewer praised Aldridge's comic talents in the contrasting role of Mungo (in the Bickerstaffe farce \"The Padlock\"), describing them as a refreshing corrective to current stereotypical \"blackface\" representation, \"...differing entirely from the Ethiopian absurdities we have been taught to look upon as correct portraitures; his total \"abandon\" is very amusing.\"\n\nAldridge first toured to continental Europe in 1852, with successes in Germany, where he was presented to the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, and performed for Frederick William IV of Prussia; he also performed in Budapest. An 1858 tour took him to Serbia and to Imperial Russia, where he became acquainted with Count Fyodor Tolstoy, Mikhail Shchepkin and the Ukrainian poet and artist Taras Shevchenko, who did his portrait in pastel.\n\nNow of an appropriate age, about this time, he played the title role of \"King Lear\" (in England) for the first time. He purchased some property in England, toured Russia again (1862), and applied for British citizenship (1863). Shortly before his death he was apparently ready to return to America to perform. It was reported that Aldridge had negotiated a 100-show-tour throughout the post-Civil War United States In its obituary of Aldridge, \"The New York Times\" stated he had been booked to appear in the city's Academy of Music in September, but \"Death has prevented the fulfilment of his intention\".\n\nSoon after going to England, in 1824 Aldridge married Margaret Gill, an English woman. They were married for 40 years until her death in 1864.\n\nAldridge's first son, Ira Daniel, was born in May 1847. The identity of his mother is unknown, but it could not have been Margaret Aldridge, who was 49 years old and had been in ill health for years. She raised Ira Daniel as her own; they shared a loving relationship until her death. He emigrated to Australia in February 1867.\n\nAldridge bought 5 Hamlet Road, in the prosperous suburbs of Upper Norwood, London, in 1861–2 shortly before becoming a naturalised British citizen in 1863. It was where his wife, Margaret, and later his second wife, Amanda, brought up his children. He named the house ‘Luranah Villa’ in memory of his mother. It now bears his English Heritage blue plaque.\n\nA year after Margaret's death, on April 20, 1865, Aldridge married his mistress, the self-styled Swedish countess Amanda von Brandt (1834-1915). They had four children: Irene Luranah, Ira Frederick and Amanda Aldridge, who all went on to musical careers, the two girls as opera singers. Their daughter Rachael Frederica was born shortly after Aldridge's death and died in infancy. Brandt died in 1915 and is buried at Highgate Woods, London.\n\nAldridge spent most of his final years with his family in Russia and continental Europe, interspersed with occasional visits to England. He planned to return to the post-Civil-War United States, but he died in August 1867 while visiting Łódź, Poland.\n\nHis remains were buried in the city's Old Evangelical Cemetery; 23 years passed before a proper tombstone was erected. His grave is tended by the Society of Polish Artists of Film and Theatre.\n\nPlaque unveiled around June-July 2014, on the wall of the tenement house at ul. Piotrkowska 175, in the place where he died (at that time the \"Paradyz\" inn operated here). The plaque was created by the famous Polish sculptor - Marian Konieczny, and the founders were the president of Łódź/Lodz, the Cinematography Museum in Łódź/Lodz and Barbara Johnson-Williams, a researcher of the history of Aldridge. The unveiling of the plaque was also attended by Prof. Krystyna Kujawińska-Courtney from the University of Lodz, author of the book \"Ira Aldridge (1807-1867). The History of the First Black Shakespearean Tragic\"\n\nA half-length portrait of 1826 by James Northcote shows Aldridge dressed for the role of Othello, but in a relatively undramatic portrait pose, is on display at the Manchester Art Gallery (in the Manchester section). Aldridge performed in the city many times. A blue plaque unveiled in 2007 commemorates Aldridge at 5 Hamlet Road in Upper Norwood, London. The plaque describes him as the \"African Roscius\".\n\nIn 1856 Aldridge was successfully sued by actor William Stothard, who alleged Aldridge had had an affair with his wife Emma three years before, resulting in the birth of a son. (Under English law of the time the husband of an adulterous wife was entitled to sue her lover for compensation.) At a hearing on January 14 in London before Mr. Justice Erle the jury found for the plaintiff Stothard, but in view of mitigating circumstances awarded him only £2 in damages.\n\nAldridge was away on tour in Ireland when the trial took place but he was heading the bill at a London theatre by the following year, indicating the scandal caused his career no lasting damage.\n\nAldridge enjoyed enormous fame as a tragic actor during his lifetime, but after his death, he was soon forgotten [in Europe]. The news of Ira Aldridge's death in Poland and the record of his achievement as an actor reached the American black community slowly. In African-American circles, Aldridge was a legendary figure. Many black actors viewed him as an inspirational model, so when his death was revealed, several amateur groups sought to honor his memory by adopting his name for their companies.\n\nMany troupes were being founded in various places around America. In the late nineteenth century Aldridge-titled troupes were established in Washington, DC, in Philadelphia, and in New Haven, their respective productions at the time being an adaptation of Kotzebue's \"\" by Sheridan as \"Pizarro\" in 1883, \"School\" by Thomas William Robertson in 1885, and George Melville Baker's \"Comrades\" in 1889.\n\nThe most prominent troupe named for him was the Ira Aldridge Troupe in Philadelphia, founded in 1863, some 35 years after Aldridge left the US for good. The Ira Aldridge Troupe was a minstrelsy group that caricatured Irish white men. The Ira Aldridge Troupe is unique in annals of minstrelsy; it was named for a Black actor who had left his homeland some 35 years before and achieved fame in Europe. Unlike most, later, Black minstrel companies, the Aldridge Troupe apparently did not do plantation material, although they were billed as a 'contraband troupe'—that is, fugitive slaves. Perhaps because of their substantially Black audience, the troupe felt no need to \"put on the mask.\" Although much of the material the group performed was standard fare, several of the company's acts were downright subversive.\n\nThe Ira Aldridge Troupe appearing during the American Civil War made it \"unique in the annals of minstrelsy.\" The \"Clipper\" (New York City) thought it was important enough to review; and it performed before a mixed audience, at a time when often white and black audiences were separated. Third, it was a black troupe presenting a program designed to appeal to their black audience. The Ira Aldridge Troupe performances eschewed the southern genre of old \"darkies\" longing for the plantation. The exclusion of southern nostalgia may have been in deference to a majority-black audience. The New York \"Clipper\" reported them as \"A more incorrigible set of cusses we never saw; they beat our Bowery gods all to pieces.\"\n\nThe troupe also created performances and songs that referred to the continuing Civil War. A ballad, \"When the Cruel War is Over\", became well known; it was performed by three members of the troupe—Miss S. Burton, Miss R. Clark, and Mr. C. Nixon. The song sold over a million copies of sheet music and was one of the most popular sentimental songs of the Civil War. The song describes a soldier's farewell to his lady, the wounds he receives in battle, and his dying request for a last caress. The song, highly popular with white minstrel groups, was an example of the change in white minstrelsy that had been occurring at this time.)\n\nAnother popular production was a farce called \"The Irishman and the Stranger\", with a Mr. Brown playing a character called Pat O'Callahan and a Mr. Jones playing the Stranger. This farce displayed black actors in white face speaking in a \"nigger accent\". The \"Clipper\" reporter referred to the performance as a \"truly laughable affair, the 'Irish nagur' mixing up a rich Irish brogue promiscuously with the sweet nigger accent\". Perhaps the Aldridge Troupe's audience got its biggest satisfaction, however, from the role reversal inherent in the piece: since the beginning of minstrelsy, minstrels of Irish heritage, such as Dan Bryant and Richard Hooley, had been caricaturing Black men—now it was the turn of Black men to caricature the Irish.\n\nThe history of minstrelsy also shows the cross-cultural influences, with Whites adopting elements of Black culture. The Ira Aldridge Troupe tried to pirate that piracy, and, in collaboration with its audience, turn minstrelsy to its own ends.\n\n\n\n\"The Black Doctor,\" originally written in French by Auguste Anicet-Bourgeois, was adapted by Aldridge for the English stage. \"The Black Doctor\" is a romantic play about Fabian, a bi-racial physician, and his patient Pauline, the daughter of a French aristocrat. The couple falls in love and marries in secret. Although the play depicts racial and family conflict, and ends with Fabian's death, Aldridge portrays his title character with dignity. Some plot points mirror Aldridge's own life, as he married a white Englishwoman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875639", "title": "Dashpot", "text": "Dashpot\n\nA dashpot is a mechanical device, a damper which resists motion via viscous friction. The resulting force is proportional to the velocity, but acts in the opposite direction, slowing the motion and absorbing energy. It is commonly used in conjunction with a spring (which acts to resist displacement). The process and instrumentation diagram (P&ID) symbol for a dashpot is .\n\nTwo common types of dashpots exist - linear and rotary. Linear dashpots are generally specified by stroke (amount of linear displacement) and damping coefficient (force per velocity). Rotary dashpots will have damping coefficients in torque per angular velocity.\n\nA less common type of dashpot is an eddy current damper, which uses a large magnet inside a tube constructed of a non-magnetic but conducting material (such as aluminium or copper). Like a common viscous damper, the eddy current damper produces a resistive force proportional to velocity.\n\nDashpots frequently use a one-way mechanical bypass to permit fast unrestricted motion in one direction and slow motion using the dashpot in the opposite direction. This permits, for example, a door to be opened quickly without added resistance, but then to close slowly using the dashpot. For hydraulic dashpots this unrestricted motion is accomplished using a one-way check-valve that allows fluid to bypass the dashpot fluid constriction. Non-hydraulic dashpots may use a ratcheting gear to permit free motion in one direction.\n\nA dashpot is a common component in a door closer to prevent it from slamming shut. A spring applies force to close the door, which the dashpot offsets by forcing fluid to flow through an orifice, often adjustable, between reservoirs, which slows the motion of the door.\n\nConsumer electronics often use dashpots where it is undesirable for a media access door or control panel to suddenly pop open when the door latch is released. The dashpot provides a steady, gentle motion until the access door has fully opened.\n\nDashpots are commonly used in dampers and shock absorbers. The hydraulic cylinder in an automobile shock absorber is a dashpot. \nThey are also used on carburetors, where the return of the throttle lever is cushioned just before the throttle fully closes, then is allowed to fully close slowly to reduce emissions. The British SU carburettor's main piston carries a stepped needle. This needle is held in the fuel flow orifice. The manifold vacuum causes this piston to rise allowing more fuel into the airflow. The SU's dashpot has a fixed hydraulic piston, damping the main piston as it moves upward. A valve in the piston disables the damping as the main piston returns.\n\nLarge forces and high speeds can be controlled by dashpots. For example, they are used to arrest the steam catapults on aircraft carrier decks.\n\nRelays can be made to have a long delay by utilizing a piston filled with fluid that is allowed to escape slowly. Electrical switchgear may use dashpots in their overcurrent sensing mechanism to reduce reaction speed to brief events, thus making them less sensitive to false-triggering during transients whilst still remaining sensitive to sustained overloads. Another use is for delaying the closing or opening of an electrical circuit. Such a dashpot timer might be used for example for timed staircase lighting. \n\nAnti-stall mechanisms in internal combustion engines are aimed to prevent stalling of the engine at low rpm. Anti-stall mechanisms use dashpots to arrest the final closing movement of the throttle.\n\nDashpots are used as models of materials that exhibit viscoelastic behavior, such as muscle tissue. Maxwell and Kelvin–Voigt models of viscoelasticity use springs and dashpots in series and parallel circuits respectively. Models containing dashpots add a viscous, time-dependent element to the behavior of solids, allowing complex behaviors like creep and stress relaxation to be modeled.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875660", "title": "Red-footed booby", "text": "Red-footed booby\n\nThe red-footed booby (\"Sula sula\") is a large seabird of the booby family, Sulidae. Adults always have red feet, but the colour of the plumage varies. They are powerful and agile fliers, but they are clumsy in takeoffs and landings. They are found widely in the tropics, and breed colonially in coastal regions, especially islands. The species faces few natural or man-made threats, although its population is declining it is considered to be a least-concern species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).\n\nThe first formal description of the red-footed booby was by the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus in 1766 in the twelfth edition of his \"Systema Naturae\". He introduced the binomial name \"Pelecanus sula\". The type locality is Barbados in the West Indies. The present genus \"Sula\" was introduced by the French scientist Mathurin Jacques Brisson in 1760. The word \"Sula\" is Norwegian for a gannet.\n\nThere are three subspecies:\n\n\nThe red-footed booby is the smallest member of the booby and gannet family at about in length and with a wingspan of up to . The average weight of 490 adults from Christmas Island was . It has red legs, and its bill and throat pouch are coloured pink and blue. This species has several morphs. In the white morph the plumage is mostly white (the head often tinged yellowish) and the flight feathers are black. The black-tailed white morph is similar, but with a black tail, and can easily be confused with the Nazca and masked boobies. The brown morph is overall brown. The white-tailed brown morph is similar, but has a white belly, rump, and tail. The white-headed and white-tailed brown morph has a mostly white body, tail and head, and brown wings and back. The morphs commonly breed together, but in most regions one or two morphs predominates; for example, at the Galápagos Islands, most belong to the brown morph, though the white morph also occurs.\n\nThe sexes are similar, and juveniles are brownish with darker wings, and pale pinkish legs, while chicks are covered in dense white down.\n\nThe species has been recorded three times from Sri Lanka.\n\nIn September 2016, a male red-footed booby was found washed up on a beach in East Sussex, UK, 5,000 miles from its nearest usual habitat. It was the first of its species ever recorded in the UK. The bird, later named Norman, was said by some to be exhausted and malnourished, though it flew onto the beach freely and was of normal weight when checked. He was brought back to health before being transported by plane to an environmental center in the Cayman Islands in December 2016, where he subsequently died before ever being released into the wild.\n\nIn January 2017, a red-footed booby was sighted on the New Zealand mainland for the first time.\n\nA red-footed booby was observed to be preyed upon by a large coconut crab on the Chagos Archipelago in 2016.\n\nThis species breeds on islands in most tropical oceans. When not breeding it spends most of the time at sea, and is therefore rarely seen away from breeding colonies. It nests in large colonies, laying one chalky blue egg in a stick nest, which is incubated by both adults for 44–46 days. The nest is usually placed in a tree or bush, but rarely it may nest on the ground. It may be three months before the young first fly, and five months before they make extensive flights.\n\nRed-footed booby pairs may remain together over several seasons. They perform elaborate greeting rituals, including harsh squawks and the male's display of his blue throat, also including short dances.\n\nRed-footed boobies dive into the ocean at high speeds to catch prey. They mainly eat small fish or squid which gather in groups near the surface.\n\nThe International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the red-footed booby as a species of least concern, though the population worldwide is decreasing. The warm phase (El Niño) of the El Niño–Southern Oscillation in 1982 and 1983 negatively impacted on breeding on Christmas Island as higher water temperatures reduced food supply. Where usually 6000 pairs nested, 30 pairs and the around 60 pairs attempted breeding in 1982 and 1983 respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875669", "title": "Secret Valley", "text": "Secret Valley\n\nSecret Valley is an Australian children's television adventure series first shown on the ABC in 1980. It was produced by the Grundy Organisation in association with Telecip, S.A. and Spain's public broadcaster Televisión Española.\n\nSecret Valley is a fictitious children's holiday camp in \"Bildarra\" which had been transformed from a run down ghost town into a resort. The children who worked and visited the camp often found themselves in battle against a gang of bad kids – Spider McGlurk and his gang from \"Spider Cave\". These battles usually featured flour bombs and other food related missiles and everyone inevitably ended up in a big mess.\n\nSpider McGlurk and his gang were not the biggest threat to the peace at Secret Valley. Secret Valley was also under threat of closure by the local council, and property developer William Whopper (also known as 'WW') played by Hugh Keays-Byrne.\n\nProduced by Roger Mirams who also produced the series \"Professor Poopsnagle's Steam Zeppelin\" in 1986, amongst other programs and series.\n\nThe 1980 pilot was directed by Howard Rubie and written by Terry Bourke.\n\nThe series was aired in New Zealand, Spain, Greece, Italy, the UK on ITV in the 1980s, and the Netherlands in 1982/1983 by KRO television. It was also broadcast by the Dutch TV station Kindernet in 1989/1990. It was also aired in South Africa in 1983 on the state-owned SABC.\n\n\nRoger Mirams originally intended to make a series called \"The Ghost Town Gang\" at Smoky Dawson's ranch at Ingleside, which had been used to film \"Luke's Kingdom\" and \"Lost Islands\". However bushfires went through it, and there was no ghost town so the show became \"Secret Valley\". Thirteen days after the fire, filming started again. Producer Mirams says the overall theme of Secret Valley is depicted through kids doing their own thing in what usually is an adult world.\n\nThe theme song \"My Secret Valley\" was sung to the tune of \"Waltzing Matilda\" and composed by Bob Young, with lyrics by series producer Roger Mirams (credited as David Phillips).\n\n\"I had a dream I could ride across the mountaintops\"\n\n\"Ride on the waves where the sea turns blue\"\n\n\"Gum trees, some trees rise until they touch the sky\"\n\n\"I know a place where it all comes true\"\n\nChorus:\n\n\"I know a valley, I know a valley\"\n\n\" My Secret Valley the world has to see\"\n\n\"One place for children, welcome from around the world\"\n\n\"Please come and share Secret Valley with me\"\n\n\"Paris, London, Montreal and Amsterdam\"\n\n\"So many friends that we want to know\"\n\n\"From the hills of Spain to the city streets of Germany\"\n\n\"I know a place where we all can go\"\n\nRepeat chorus\n\n1. Big plans\n\n2. Secret weapon\n\n3. Battle stations\n\n4. The horse who could dance\n\n5. The junkman\n\n6. The ghost of Secret Valley\n\n7. Save the bunyip\n\n8. The monster\n\n9. The magnetic machine\n\n10. The runaway\n\n11. Double trouble\n\n12. The great mini bike race\n\n13. Spanish gold\n\n14. I spy\n\n15. Secret Valley Bush Fire\n\n16. Super scoop\n\n17. Spider McGlurk Meets His Match\n\n18. The Trojan Bull\n\n19. A sticky situation\n\n20. The worm turns\n\n21. Lost in the bush\n\n22. Express delivery\n\n23. The Bildara Bank Bust\n\n24. The oily bird catches the worm\n\n25. Big city\n\n26. End of the rainbow\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875671", "title": "Ogden Reid", "text": "Ogden Reid\n\nOgden Rogers Reid (June 24, 1925 – March 2, 2019) was an American politician and diplomat. He was the U.S. Ambassador to Israel and a six-term United States Representative from Westchester County, New York.\n\nReid was born in New York City, the son of publishers Helen Rogers Reid (1882–1970) and Ogden Mills Reid (1882–1947), and the brother of Whitey Reid (1913–2009) and Elisabeth Reid, who died in childhood.\n\nHe was the grandson of diplomat and 1892 Republican Vice Presidential candidate Whitelaw Reid (1837–1912). His family owned the \"New York Herald Tribune\" and before that the \"New York Tribune\". His aunt, Jean Templeton Reid (1884–1962), was married to Sir John Hubert Ward (1870–1938), the son of William Ward, 1st Earl of Dudley. His grandmother, Elisabeth Reid (née Mills) (1857–1931), and her brother, Ogden Mills (1856–1929), were the children of Darius Ogden Mills (1825–1910).\n\nHe graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1943 and Yale University, where he was a member of Book and Snake, in 1949. He was widely known by his nickname, \"Brownie\".\n\nReid enlisted as a private in the United States Army in 1943 and was discharged as a First lieutenant in 1946. He later served as a Captain in the United States Army Reserve.\n\nFrom 1955 until 1958, Reid served as publisher, president, and editor of the family paper, the \"New York Herald Tribune\". During his tenure, he brought puzzle contests and stories from Hollywood into the newspaper, but did little to help the paper's finances. John Hay Whitney bought the paper shortly thereafter in August 1958.\n\nFrom 1956 until 1959, Reid was a director of the Panama Canal Company.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1961, Reid was the United States Ambassador to Israel. In this role, he interacted with Foreign Minister Golda Meir, who expressed Israel's opposition to a proposal to revive the Palestine Conciliation Commission in an attempt to solve the Arab refugee problem. Following his return to the United States, he became a director of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company in 1961.\n\nIn 1962, Reid was elected to the Eighty-eighth Congress as a Republican. He was on the liberal fringe of the GOP and faced repeated challenges in primaries.\n\nIn 1965, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote to Rep. Reid thanking him for coming to Alabama and visiting Selma. King wrote that \"Your very presence there has had an electric effect upon the voteless and beleaguered Negro citizens of this city, county, state and nation.\"\n\nOn March 22, 1972, he switched parties and joined the Democratic Party. Reid said that he could not support Richard Nixon for re-election and the Republican Party had \"moved to the right\" and was \"not showing the compassion and sensitivity to meet the problems of the average American.\" After switching parties he turned back a Republican challenge in 1972. Then in 1974 at the end of that term Reid declined to seek re-election to the House.\n\nWhile in Congress, Reid sponsored 85 pieces of legislation and co-sponsored 99 pieces of legislation.\n\nIn 1974, he briefly ran for Governor of New York, dropping out of the race before the election. He later served in the administration of Democratic governor Hugh Carey as Commissioner of Environmental Conservation and was the unsuccessful Democratic nominee for the post of Westchester County Executive in 1983.\n\nHis papers are held with the Manuscripts and Archives at the Sterling Memorial Library at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nIn July 1949, Reid married Mary Louise Stewart (b. 8 July 1925), a Barnard College and Columbia University graduate who was the daughter of William Harold Stewart and Dorothy Miller. She was a granddaughter of Roswell Miller (1843–1913), the former president of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad, and Mary Louise Roberts (1866–1955). Her uncle, Roswell Miller, Jr. (1894–1983) married Margaret Carnegie (1897–1990), the only daughter of Andrew Carnegie. Together, the Reids had six children:\n\n\nDuring his youth Reid lived at Ophir Cottage, the home in Purchase, New York that was built by his grandfather, Whitelaw Reid. He owned Flyway, a 430‐acre estate in North Carolina near the Virginia border that was worth $600,000 in 1974. Reid was a member of the New York Athletic Club, the River Club and the Wings Club.\n\nReid died on March 2, 2019, at his home in Waccabuc, New York, at the age of 93.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875672", "title": "Circuit rider (religious)", "text": "Circuit rider (religious)\n\nCircuit rider clergy, in the earliest years of the United States, were clergy assigned to travel around specific geographic territories to minister to settlers and organize congregations. Circuit riders were clergy in the Methodist Episcopal Church and related denominations, although similar itinerant preachers could be found in other faiths as well, particularly among minority faith groups.\n\nIn sparsely populated areas of the United States it always has been common for clergy in many denominations to serve more than one congregation at a time, a form of church organization sometimes called a \"preaching circuit\". In the contemporary United Methodist Church, a minister serving more than one church has a \"(number of churches) point charge\". However, in the rough frontier days of the early United States, the pattern of organization in the Methodist Episcopal denomination and its successors worked especially well in the service of rural villages and unorganized settlements. In the Methodist denominations, congregations do not \"call\" (or employ) a pastor of their own choice. Instead, a bishop \"appoints\" (assigns) a pastor to a congregation or a group of congregations, and until late in the 20th century, neither pastor nor congregation had any say in the appointment. This meant that in the early days of the United States, as the population developed, Methodist clergy could be appointed to circuits wherever people were settling.\n\nA \"circuit\" (nowadays referred to as a \"charge\") was a geographic area that encompassed two or more local churches. Pastors met each year at \"Annual Conference\" where their bishops would appoint them either to a new circuit or to remain at the same one. Most often they were moved to another appointment every year. (In 1804, the Methodist Episcopal General Conference decreed that no pastor was to serve the same appointment for more than two consecutive years.) Once a pastor was assigned a circuit, it was his responsibility to conduct worship and visit members of each church in his charge on a regular basis in addition to possibly establishing new churches. He was supervised by a Presiding Elder (now called a District Superintendent) who would visit each charge four times a year (the \"Quarterly Conference\").\n\nRiding on horseback between distant churches, these preachers were popularly called \"circuit riders\" or \"saddlebag preachers\" although their official role was \"traveling clergy\" (a term still used in Methodist denominations). Carrying only what could fit in their saddlebags, they traveled through wilderness and villages, preaching every day at any place available (peoples' cabins, courthouses, fields, meeting houses, even basements and street corners). Unlike clergy in urban areas, Methodist circuit riders were always on the move, needing five to six weeks to cover the longest routes. Their ministerial activity boosted Methodism into the largest Protestant denomination at the time, with 14,986 members and 83 traveling preachers in 1784 and by 1839, 749,216 members served by 3,557 traveling preachers and 5,856 local preachers.\n\nThe early frontier ministry was often lonely and dangerous. Samuel Wakefield's hymn describes a circuit rider's family anxiously waiting for the preacher's return; the final stanza reads\n\nFrancis Asbury (1745–1816), the founding bishop of American Methodism, established the precedent for circuit riding. Together with his driver and partner \"Black Harry\" Hosier, he traveled 270,000 miles and preached 16,000 sermons as he made his way up and down early America supervising clergy. He brought the concept of the circuit from English Methodism, where it still exists: British Methodist churches are grouped in circuits, which typically include a dozen or more churches, and ministers are appointed (\"stationed\") to the circuit, not to the local church. A typical English circuit has two or three times as many churches as ministers, the balance of the services being led by lay Methodist local preachers or retired (\"supernumerary\") ministers. The title \"circuit rider\", however, was an American coinage born of American necessities. Although John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, covered enormous distances on horseback during his career, and early British Methodist preachers also rode around their circuits, in general they had far less formidable traveling commitments than their American counterparts.\n\nIt makes sense to date the beginning of circuit riding at the Christmas Conference of 1784, but it is much more difficult to date the end of circuit riding because it was never an official category of ministry, so it never appeared in Annual Conference records. The U.S. census eliminated \"frontier\" as a category in 1890, but the need for \"old fashioned\" circuits generally ended much earlier, sometime before the U.S. Civil War. Whenever Methodist Episcopal congregations became well established, bishops would appoint clergy to groupings of small congregations rather than the territories to which earlier clergy had been appointed. Of course, this development moved west as the U.S. frontier moved west.\n\nAs well as being constantly on the move between the churches in their charge, Methodist ministers were regularly moved between charges, a principal known as \"itinerancy\". Although most charges in the United States now consist of a single church, the tradition of itinerancy is still alive and functioning today in American Methodism, as it is in most Methodist Churches worldwide. Although not moving as frequently as in the past, the average U.S. United Methodist Church pastor will stay at a local church for 2–5 years before being appointed to another charge at the Annual Conference (although technically, every pastor is assigned to a charge every year, it is just usually the same one). In British Methodism, ministers are normally appointed to a circuit for five years (again, they are stationed there annually by the Conference); the Conference may not station someone beyond this period without an invitation from the Circuit Meeting for that minister to remain in the circuit, but it is unusual for a minister to stay for longer than seven or eight years in one circuit.\n\nPossibly the most famous circuit rider was Peter Cartwright, who wrote two autobiographies. John B. Matthias was an early circuit rider from New York state who is credited with having written a gospel hymn, \"Palms of Victory.\" Wilbur Fisk, who became an educator, served as a circuit rider for three years. It was not uncommon for clergy to serve on circuits for a few years and then go to other work. Kentucky native Eli P. Farmer, a circuit rider for the Methodist Episcopal Church on the Indiana frontier from 1825 to 1839, became a Bloomington, Indiana, farmer, newspaper editor, and businessman. He later served in the Indiana Senate (1843 to 1845) and as a self-appointed chaplain during the American Civil War. Joseph Tarkington, another circuit rider in Indiana, was the grandfather of novelist Booth Tarkington. \nWilliam G. \"Parson\" Brownlow, Tennessee's radical newspaper publisher, noted book author, American Civil War-Reconstruction Era Tennessee governor, and U.S. Senator, began his career as a circuit rider in the 1820s and 1830s. Brownlow gained wide notoriety for his wild clashes --- both in person and in print --- with rival Baptist and Presbyterian missionaries and Christian sectarian authors across the Southern Appalachian region of the United States. Brownlow's books detailing the Confederate States of America military occupation of his hometown of Knoxville, Tennessee, and his own time briefly spent in a Confederate prison during the American Civil War gained Brownlow a greatly expanded audience across the northern United States who were eager to purchase both his books and admission tickets for his northern U.S. speaking tour during the later years of the American Civil War.\n\nThe father of outlaw John Wesley Hardin, James \"Gip\" Hardin, was a Methodist preacher and circuit rider in the mid-1800s. Hardin's father traveled over much of central Texas on his preaching circuit until 1869 when he and his family settled in Sumpter, Trinity County, Texas where he established a school – also named for John Wesley, the founder of Methodism.\n\nThomas S. Hinde was a Methodist circuit rider in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky and Missouri from the early 1800s until about 1825. He eventually settled in Mount Carmel, Illinois, the town he had earlier founded. Hinde was a notable minister, newspaper publisher, attorney, real estate entrepreneur and clerk for the Ohio House of Representatives. More than 47 volumes of his personal and business documents are among the Lyman Draper collection at the Wisconsin Historical Society, since they were donated after his death by his son in law Charles H. Constable.\n\nFather Pierre Yves Kéralum was a Catholic priest who ministered to ranchers in the Lower Rio Grande Valley from 1853 to 1872. He was one of about thirty Catholic priests known as the Cavalry of Christ because they traveled on horseback. Kéralum was also an architect who designed and helped build churches such as the Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Brownsville, Texas, as well as chapels, rectories, and other buildings in the region.\n\nIn retrospect, the circuit rider became a romantic figure and was featured in a number of novels in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Two of the better known novels are Edward Eggleston's \"The Circuit Rider.\" and Ernest Thompson Seton's \"Preacher of Cedar Mountain.\"\n\nA circuit rider is also a character in the Newbery Award–winning novel for children, \"Caddie Woodlawn\", set in western Wisconsin in the 1860s.\n\nDuring the 1970s, prior to its sign-off message, Richmond, Virginia television station WWBT broadcast \"Justice and The Circuit Rider\", a rural preacher appearing on his mount, Justice, and presenting a brief parable using props from his saddlebag. These spots also appeared on the Richmond ABC affiliate WXEX, now operating as WRIC-TV just after the end of \"Shock Theater\". In these short films, the host was identified only as the Circuit Rider from Cobbs Creek, Virginia at the end of the three-minute segment. The preacher was William B. Livermon, Sr., who served several Virginia churches during his lifetime before passing away in 1992.\n\nInspired by the story of Catholic circuit rider Pierre Yves Kéralum, author Paul Horgan wrote a fictionalized account of the priest's last days titled \"The Devil in the Desert\" (1952).\n\nThe first-person accounts of pioneer circuit riders give insight to the culture of the early United States as well as the theology and sociology of religion (and especially Methodism) in the young nation. Quite a few circuit riders published memoirs. These are generally available in the collections of United Methodist seminary libraries. The United Library of Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary and Seabury-Western Theological Seminary (Evanston, Illinois) seems to have the largest collection of these writings, including over 70 items.\n\nThrough his role as chairman of the United Methodist editorial committee in Shreveport, Louisiana in the latter 1970s, the historian Walter M. Lowrey spearheaded a project, \"A History of Louisiana Methodism\", which includes material on the church's extensive network of circuit riders.\n\nWith the advent of Google Books, several memoirs became available on-line. Here is a list of some circuit rider memoirs available through Google Books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875675", "title": "Champlain Heights", "text": "Champlain Heights\n\nChamplain Heights is a neighbourhood in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nChamplain Heights was one of the last areas of Vancouver to be urbanized. Harold Kalman, an architectural historian stated, \"The showcase residential community was planned in the early 1970s, with curved roads and cul-de-sacs serving a mix of housing types and income levels.\". Located in the extreme south eastern corner of Vancouver, Champlain Heights is often closely associated with the neighbourhood of Killarney and consists mainly of various townhouse complexes and co-op housing units. The majority of the Champlain Heights area is leasehold property, with many of those leases attached to Coop/ affordable housing. The co-ops now at the end of their leases are facing steep increases in unit housing charges, some as much as 200%, and years of negotiations with the city due to these increases.\n\nEverett Crowley Park, a 40-hectare park (the city's 5th largest) and a former city dump, is located in the area. The park is named after Everett Crowley, former city planner and parks board commissioner. Everett Crowley Park is the home of the longest Earth Day Celebration in the City. The City has been using this celebration as part of its long term reforestation project for the Park.\n\nThe education in the area is serviced by Champlain Heights Community School, designed by one of Canada's foremost architects, Arthur Erickson. Champlain Heights Community School services grades from kindergarten to grade seven. The school has many different extracurricular programs such as a photography club, knitting club, volleyball team, and basketball team. There is also an annex located on Champlain Crescent which provides education to children in kindergarten to grade three. The Annex also provides program space to other community groups which include a program for children age newborn to five years old and their caregivers or parents as well as community space to the nearby public recreation centre. Those moving on to grade four from the annex usually transfer to the main school.\n"}
{"id": "1875677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875677", "title": "6th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)", "text": "6th Mountain Division (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe 6th Mountain Division () was established in June 1940, and was deployed to France for occupation duties. In December it was relocated to Poland, where it remained until the spring of 1941. It then took part in Operation Marita, the invasion of Greece during the Balkans Campaign. In September it was relocated to northern Finland, where it operated in Lapland (west of Murmansk). From July 1942 onward it was part of the 20th Mountain Army along the Arctic coast. It withdrew into Norway when the Germans evacuated Finland in late 1944, and surrendered to the British at the end of the war in 1945.\n\n\n\"As of 1 June 1940 (day of formation):\"\n\n\n\"As of January 1941:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875682", "title": "Riding circuit", "text": "Riding circuit\n\nRiding circuit is the practice of judges and lawyers, sometimes referred to as circuit riders, travelling to a regular series of locations in order to hold court there. Circuit riding has mostly been abolished, but the term remains in the name \"circuit court\", commonly applied to levels of court that oversee many lower district courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875691", "title": "Circuit rider (technology)", "text": "Circuit rider (technology)\n\nThe term circuit rider, which has its roots in Methodist preaching, has more recently been applied to technology assistance providers who travel to small non-profit organizations in a particular sector to troubleshoot or support particular technology needs in those organizations. Another term for these people is eRider.\n\nIn this context, a circuit rider is part trainer, part management consultant, part computer expert. They provide consulting and assistance with technology strategy development, make multiple visits to the organizations they serve, and provide advice and information by phone and e-mail. They can serve regional constituencies by travel from a central location. Additionally, circuit riders can \"cross-pollinate\" the groups they service, transmitting insights, tools, and tips as they travel throughout the sector. In addition, training materials and resources can be used at multiple sites thereby spreading the development cost out across a number of organizations.\n\nThe umbrella term for this field is nonprofit technology, and Circuit Riders are a form of Nonprofit Technology Assistance Provider (NTAP)\n\nModern technology circuit riding for nonprofits began in the U.S. in the mid-1990s when Gavin Clabaugh at the Telecommunications Cooperative Network approached the W. Alton Jones Foundation to get funding for technology services for a group of the foundation's grantees. The making of a request directly from a service provider to a funding source (the foundation) to serve a group of grantees was a novel approach for technology provision in the nonprofit sector. To differentiate the approach it was given the name \"circuit riding\"\n\nThe community of Circuit Riders that eventually formed across the American nonprofit technology frontier was initiated by Rob Stuart while working at the Rockefeller Family Fund. Tribute to Rob Stuart\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875713", "title": "Paulo Cesar Farias", "text": "Paulo Cesar Farias\n\nPaulo Cesar Siqueira Cavalcante Farias (September 20, 1945 – June 23, 1996) commonly known as Paulo Cesar Farias or PC Farias, was the political campaign treasurer of Brazilian President Fernando Collor de Mello and a central figure in the corruption scandal that resulted in Collor's 1992 removal from Brazil's presidential office.\n\nPC (as he was colloquially known) was a successful and famous campaign treasurer in Alagoas and a relatively unsuccessful businessman before associating himself with Collor in 1981. As campaign treasurer, PC typically collected much more than he spent on the campaign. The remainder (which was estimated to be over 50 million US dollars) was invested in his own businesses (such as an air taxi service) or hidden in anonymous overseas accounts.\n\nOnce Collor was elected, PC Farias masterminded the vast corruption scheme that rendered Collor's presidency a high-priced toll booth for government favors. He set up dummy companies to collect bribes, with 30 percent of the money going to him and 70 percent to Collor. As much as US $9 million went to PC's accounts between 1990 and 1992. As the corruption scandal emerged in 1992, it was revealed that a fraction of money from PC's businesses was sent directly to Collor to finance the president's personal expenditures, including household staff and extensive landscaping at his home in Brasília.\n\nAfter Collor's impeachment, PC fled to the UK and Thailand, where he was arrested by the Interpol and extradited back to Brazil. In 1994 he was condemned to 7 years in prison. He was released in December 1995 by an indult from the Brazilian president Fernando Henrique Cardoso.\n\nIn 1996, PC and his young girlfriend Suzana Marcolino were found both dead, shot by a .38 Special caliber Rossi revolver in PC's beach house in Maceió. Local police ascribed the deaths to a crime of passion, where Suzana, fearing the imminent dissolution of the relationship, shot PC and then herself. Others would claim it was a form of \"destruction of evidence\" over what PC may know and subsequently reveal. In 1999, both their bodies were exhumed and subjected to another round of forensic examinations by three separate experts from three different institutions. Their conclusions were that while there was not enough evidence to rule out suicide, there was evidence to suggest it was \"not\" a suicide. Subsequently PC Farias' brother, Augusto Farias, and eight others were charged with the murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875715", "title": "Elliptic filter", "text": "Elliptic filter\n\nAn elliptic filter (also known as a Cauer filter, named after Wilhelm Cauer, or as a Zolotarev filter, after Yegor Zolotarev) is a signal processing filter with equalized ripple (equiripple) behavior in both the passband and the stopband. The amount of ripple in each band is independently adjustable, and no other filter of equal order can have a faster transition in gain between the passband and the stopband, for the given values of ripple (whether the ripple is equalized or not). Alternatively, one may give up the ability to adjust independently the passband and stopband ripple, and instead design a filter which is maximally insensitive to component variations.\n\nAs the ripple in the stopband approaches zero, the filter becomes a type I Chebyshev filter. As the ripple in the passband approaches zero, the filter becomes a type II Chebyshev filter and finally, as both ripple values approach zero, the filter becomes a Butterworth filter.\n\nThe gain of a lowpass elliptic filter as a function of angular frequency ω is given by:\n\nwhere R is the \"n\"th-order elliptic rational function (sometimes known as a Chebyshev rational function) and\n\nThe value of the ripple factor specifies the passband ripple, while the combination of the ripple factor and the selectivity factor specify the stopband ripple.\n\n\n\nThe zeroes of the gain of an elliptic filter will coincide with the poles of the elliptic rational function, which are derived in the article on elliptic rational functions.\n\nThe poles of the gain of an elliptic filter may be derived in a manner very similar to the derivation of the poles of the gain of a type I Chebyshev filter. For simplicity, assume that the cutoff frequency is equal to unity. The poles formula_20 of the gain of the elliptic filter will be the zeroes of the denominator of the gain. Using the complex frequency formula_21 this means that:\n\nDefining formula_23 where cd() is the Jacobi elliptic cosine function and using the definition of the elliptic rational functions yields:\n\nwhere formula_25 and formula_26. Solving for \"w\"\n\nwhere the multiple values of the inverse cd() function are made explicit using the integer index \"m\".\n\nThe poles of the elliptic gain function are then:\n\nAs is the case for the Chebyshev polynomials, this may be expressed in explicitly complex form \n\nwhere formula_33 is a function of formula_34 and formula_4 and formula_36 are the zeroes of the elliptic rational function. formula_33 is expressible for all \"n\" in terms of Jacobi elliptic functions, or algebraically for some orders, especially orders 1,2, and 3. For orders 1 and 2 we have\n\nwhere\n\nThe algebraic expression for formula_41 is rather involved (See ).\n\nThe nesting property of the elliptic rational functions can be used to build up higher order expressions for formula_33:\n\nwhere formula_44.\n\nSee .\n\nElliptic filters are generally specified by requiring a particular value for the passband ripple, stopband ripple and the sharpness of the cutoff. This will generally specify a minimum value of the filter order which must be used. Another design consideration is the sensitivity of the gain function to the values of the electronic components used to build the filter. This sensitivity is inversely proportional to the quality factor (Q-factor) of the poles of the transfer function of the filter. The Q-factor of a pole is defined as:\n\nand is a measure of the influence of the pole on the gain function. For an elliptic filter, it happens that, for a given order, there exists a relationship between the ripple factor and selectivity factor which simultaneously minimizes the Q-factor of all poles in the transfer function:\n\nThis results in a filter which is maximally insensitive to component variations, but the ability to independently specify the passband and stopband ripples will be lost. For such filters, as the order increases, the ripple in both bands will decrease and the rate of cutoff will increase. If one decides to use a minimum-Q elliptic filter in order to achieve a particular minimum ripple in the filter bands along with a particular rate of cutoff, the order needed will generally be greater than the order one would otherwise need without the minimum-Q restriction. An image of the absolute value of the gain will look very much like the image in the previous section, except that the poles are arranged in a circle rather than an ellipse. They will not be evenly spaced and there will be zeroes on the ω axis, unlike the Butterworth filter, whose poles are arranged in an evenly spaced circle with no zeroes.\n\nHere is an image showing the elliptic filter next to other common kind of filters obtained with the same number of coefficients:\n\nAs is clear from the image, elliptic filters are sharper than all the others, but they show ripples on the whole bandwidth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875726", "title": "Katie Mactier", "text": "Katie Mactier\n\nKatie Mactier (born 23 March 1975 in Melbourne) is an Australian professional racing cyclist. She began racing in 1999 at 24 and was an Australian Institute of Sport scholarship holder. She was educated at Wesley College, Melbourne.\n\nShe is a member of the Carnegie Caulfield Cycling Club. She lives in Melbourne, Australia with her 2 Children, Charlie & Lachie.\n\nShe won the pursuit at the 2005 world championship, the 2005 World Cup and the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne. At the Cycling at the 2004 Summer Olympics Mactier broke the world record in the heats in the pursuit, but Sarah Ulmer set a new record in the final, relegating her to a silver medal.\n\nIn 2001 Mactier won in the national road championship. In 2002/2003 she was the Australian pursuit champion, and second in the 2003 world pursuit championship. She was 2003 and 2005 Australian Female Track Cyclist of the Year.\n\nShe was a favourite in the pursuit at the 2008 Olympics but ended seventh overall after being defeated by eventual winner Rebecca Romero of Great Britain in her qualifying round.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875732", "title": "Charleston Air Force Base", "text": "Charleston Air Force Base\n\nCharleston Air Force Base is a United States military facility located in the City of North Charleston, South Carolina. The facility is under the jurisdiction of the United States Air Force's 628th Air Base Wing (628 ABW), a subordinate element of the Air Mobility Command (AMC). It is part of Joint Base Charleston, which combined Charleston Air Force Base with Naval Support Activity Charleston.\n\nA joint civil-military airport, Charleston Air Force Base today shares its runways with Charleston International Airport for commercial airline aircraft operations, and a commercial aircraft factory making Boeing aircraft, on the south side of the airfield and general aviation aircraft operations on the east side. The 437th Airlift Wing (437 AW) of the Air Mobility Command (AMC) and the 315th Airlift Wing (315 AW) of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) operate the C-17A Globemaster III from the base. The installation has also in the past maintained an alert site for rotational Air Combat Command (ACC) and ACC-gained Air National Guard fighter-interceptor aircraft.\n\nCharleston Air Force Base is home to the 628th Air Base Wing (628 ABW), the host wing for installation support. The 628 ABW's primary duties are to provide installation support to 53 DoD and Federal agencies, servicing a total force of over 79,000 Airmen, Sailors, Soldiers, Marines, Coast Guardsmen, civilians, dependents and retirees on Charleston AFB and Naval Weapons Station Charleston. Additionally, they also provide expeditionary Airmen to combatant commanders in support of joint and combined operations.\n\nThe 437th Airlift Wing (437 AW) operates the C-17 Globemaster III strategic airlift aircraft in support of its mission to provide airlift of troops and passengers, military equipment, cargo, and aeromedical equipment and supplies worldwide in accordance with tasking by Air Mobility Command and unified combatant commanders.\n\nThe air base has four operational groups consisting of 21 squadrons and two wing staff directorates. It is augmented by a parallel, collocated Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) \"associate\" wing, the 315th Airlift Wing (315 AW), which shares the same C-17 aircraft with the 437 AW.\n\nIn addition, the USAF Auxiliary / Civil Air Patrol's Coastal Charleston Composite Squadron is also assigned to Charleston Field, utilizing the Charleston AFB Aero Club facility near the control tower.\n\nThe history of Charleston Air Force Base began in 1919 when U.S. Army Colonel Herbert A. Dargue, then Chief of the Air Service (forerunner to the Federal Aviation Administration), visited the area looking for a suitable landing field for \"aeroplanes. Charles Lindbergh's nonstop solo crossing of the Atlantic Ocean in 1927 heightened city officials' interest to establish air operations in Charleston.\n\nIn 1928, the City of Charleston rented land and began operating a simple airfield about twelve miles north of city limits. Foreseeing a commercial future in air travel, the city formed the Charleston Aircraft Corporation to acquire the land for a municipal airport. In May 1931, the corporation purchased for $25,000 from the South Carolina Mining and Manufacturing Company. Later in the year, the city acquired the airport facility for $60,000 and immediately began improvements.\n\nDuring the 1930s, airport operations expanded to keep pace with advances in general and commercial aviation being experienced throughout the country. Despite the Great Depression, the Federal Government stepped in to assist the city with modernizing the airport. In 1935, the Works Progress Administration poured $313,000 into the airport. Workers paved one and constructed a second . The project also improved upon the existing lighting system with up-to-date field lighting.\n\nGiven the continuing growth in passenger aviation, Pan American Airways selected Charleston Airport as its western terminus for trans-Atlantic flights. Although this plan never came to fruition, it contributed to a burgeoning increase in traffic for the airport. As a result, the city purchased 300 more acres (120 ha) of land surrounding the airport for $300,000 in 1937 to accommodate additional service buildings and hangars.\n\nIn 1939, with world tensions heightening, the United States Army Air Corps began a massive buildup of troops, bases, and equipment in preparation for war. As a result, Charleston acquired more land in 1940 for additional airport improvements that included construction of a hangar and administration building and lengthening of the runways to 5,000 feet. Prior to the U.S. entering World War II, in 1941 the War Department allotted another $199,000 to the Charleston Airport for runway extension and other improvements needed for aircraft dispersal against attack\n\nAfter the Pearl Harbor attack on 7 December 1941, the 56th Pursuit Group based at Charlotte Airport, North Carolina, and its 61st Pursuit Squadron arrived at the Charleston airport. The squadron's P-39 Airacobra and P-40 Warhawk aircraft provided coastal defense operations for the Southern Defense Command, Third Air Force, Carolina Sector. Arriving later that month, the 67th Observation Group, 107th Observation Squadron and the Federalized 105 Observation Squadron (Tennessee National Guard) provided antisubmarine patrols along the east coast with North American O-47 and O-49 Vigilant observation aircraft.\n\nOn 11 December the War Department assumed de facto control of Charleston Municipal Airport yet allowed Delta and Eastern commercial airlines to continue their civilian operations. Although Air Corps personnel had operated from the airport since the war began, true occupancy did not take place until 23 March 1942 when the city of Charleston and the War Department signed a lease and formally activated the installation.\n\nEffective 1 April 1942, the base was assigned to Air Service Command and 29th Air Base Group, Distribution Point No. 2 became the first host unit responsible for building, maintaining and operating the installation infrastructure. On 9 June that same year, the base transferred to First Air Force and was officially named Charleston Army Air Base on 22 October 1942. The installation transferred back to Air Service Command in December 1942, then moved back to First Air Force in September 1943 where it remained until the end of the war. At the same time as the base struggled to find its niche, the 16th Antisubmarine Squadron operated B-34 Lexington bombers helping defend the eastern seaboard from possible attack.\n\nOn 31 March 1944, Johns Island Army Airfield became an auxiliary of Charleston AAB, providing an emergency landing field for the base.\n\nRenamed Charleston Army Air Field on 15 June 1943, initially the base served mainly as an air depot training station, providing the final phase of training to service groups and air depot groups departing home for the war overseas. Concurrent with its reassignment to First Air Force, in September 1943 the base changed missions. Now it would give the final phase of training to B-24 Liberator crews. The 454th Bombardment Group arrived in September and left Charleston for the European Theater of Operations in December 1943. This same month the 400th Bombardment Group arrived, but this organization was to function as a replacement training unit rather than an operational training unit.\n\nOn 10 April 1944, the 113th Army Air Field Base Unit (CCTS-H) activated and took over as Charleston's host unit. But the need for B-24 crews ended with Germany's defeat and end of the war in Europe. In their place, however, the Army Air Force required a large number of transport crews. Consequently, the base was transferred to Air Transport Command on 1 June 1945 and began C-54 Skymaster crew training that lasted until late August 1945.\n\nOnly a few months after the Japanese surrender, on 25 April 1946 the government placed the base in surplus status as part of the massive postwar draw down. The city of Charleston requested that the field, which originally had been leased to the U.S. Army for $1 per year, be returned to the municipality. By this time, the field consisted of with more than $12 million worth of facilities and improvements. Despite not being official returned to the city until 19 October 1948, the city council voted to construct a new air terminal in 1947, and commercial air operations resumed on a full-time basis at the now fully civilian airport.\n\nAs a result of the Cold War, the now independent United States Air Force requesting funds from Congress to begin troop carrier operations at the Charleston airport. By August 1951, Congress approved a $28 million public works improvement package, and during the remainder of the year, preliminary work was underway to construct facilities for a troop carrier wing. In March 1952, the city of Charleston signed a lease agreement with the Air Force for joint use of the airport. For $1 per year the lease allowed the U.S. Air Force to occupy all properties south and west of the Southern Railway's tracks while the city retained terminal buildings, hangars, and other buildings along the north and east boundaries of the airport. Construction of base facilities, meanwhile, began in May 1952.\n\nBy early 1953, elements of the 456th Troop Carrier Wing, assigned to Tactical Air Command, arrived at Charleston to prepare the base for operational status. On 1 June 1953, the base received its current name of Charleston Air Force Base and activated on 1 August. Two weeks later, on 15 August 1953, the arrival of 50 C-119 Flying Boxcars effectively made the base operational. Although numerous construction projects were still underway, the wing held a dedication ceremony on 13 November 1953 to open the base officially.\n\nWith the 456th already in place, advance elements of the newly activated 1608th Air Transport Group, assigned to Military Air Transport Command (later, Military Airlift Command), first arrived in February 1954 to establish operations. One month later on 4 March 1954, the group received its first C-54 Skymaster transport. As the 1608th increased in size, MATS and TAC negotiated ownership of the base. Eventually, on 1 March 1955, Charleston AFB came under the jurisdiction and control of MATS and the 1608th Air Transport Wing (Medium) became the base's host unit. Also upon assignment to MATS, the base became the terminus for all C-54 airlift to Europe and the Near East.\n\nOn 16 February 1954, Air Defense Command established the 444th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron as a tenant unit on Charleston flying F-86D Sabre fighter aircraft as the east coast's air defense against airborne invaders. Soon after, the base achieved permanent status and with that declaration MATS began various facility construction projects to further improve upon the base's status. Meanwhile, the 1608th received its first C-121C Constellation appropriately named \"City of Charleston\" on 16 September 1955 (tail number \"54-153\"). Shortly thereafter the base was designated as an aerial port of embarkation, giving Charleston AFB more prominent role in MATS. Tactical Air Command and the 456th left Charleston on 16 October 1955, which also ended the base's association with the C-119 Flying Boxcars.\n\nCharleston AFB underwent a significant change on 18 June 1958 when the 1608th received its first C-124C Globemaster aircraft, then again a month later when it lost its last C-54 transports. The 444th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron's aircraft changed as well. In February 1960, it began operating F-101 Voodoo aircraft and lost its F-86Ds.\n\nThe next big change came in 1962. The Air Force decided to retire the C-121 fleet and sent the 1608th its first replacement C-130 Hercules on 16 August 1962. The last C-121 Connie left Charleston AFB on 9 February 1963. Only two years later, on 14 August 1965, the wing received its first C-141 Starlifter, the newest airlifter in the Air Force inventory. But, unlike the previous aircraft changes, the arrival of this new aircraft meant a change in host units.\n\nOn 8 January 1966, the 437th Military Airlift Wing took over as Charleston AFB's host unit. Although the 1608th inactivated and the 437th activated its place, it appeared that every unit with a \"1608\" in its name simply changed it to \"437.\" All of the 1608th's people, aircraft, buildings, etc. became the 437th's. The operational history of Charleston AFB is now inextricably tied to the 437th Airlift Wing's history.\n\nSoon after the wing's arrival, on 30 September 1968 the 444th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron inactivated, ending Charleston AFB's long-standing association with air defense and fighter aircraft. In September 1969, the Air Force Reserve Command's 943d Military Airlift Group activated at Charleston AFB making it the first associate unit in the southeastern United States. On 1 July 1973, the 315th Military Airlift Wing (Associate) activated and replaced the 943d as the 437th's associate Reserve wing, similar to how the 437th replaced the 1608th a few years earlier.\n\nIn 1992, following the disestablishment of MAC as part of an Air Force-wide reorganization, the 437th Military Airlift Wing (437 MAW) was placed under the newly established Air Mobility Command (AMC) and redesignated as the 437th Airlift Wing (437 AW) and 315th Airlift Wing (315 AW), respectively.\n\nToday, the 437 AW and 315 AW (Associate) operate the C-17 Globemaster III. The base has also maintained an alert site for fighter-interceptor aircraft (primarily Air National Guard aircraft) of Tactical Air Command (TAC) and Air Combat Command (ACC), conducting the continental air defense mission. The last unit to occupy the alert site was a detachment of F-16 aircraft from the 158th Fighter Wing of the Vermont Air National Guard. Detachment operations officially ended at the end of FY99, with the facility placed in caretaker status. However, since 11 September 2001, the facility has seen intermittent operations by various USAF fighter aircraft of the Active and Reserve Components resuming the continental air defense mission under the cognizance of United States Northern Command and NORAD. In FY 2014-2015 the alert site and associated hangar were demolished.\n\n\n\n\n\nAn Air Force Times article dated 21 December 2009 announced the activation of the 628th Air Wing to \"take over administrative duties for a number of military commands\" in January 2010. The 628th \"will essentially serve as the 'landlord' for Charleston Air Force Base, the Charleston Naval Consolidated Brig and about 50 other military commands. The unit will handle items such as building and grounds services, supply and civil engineering and public works.\n\nAfter nearly a year of much needed work, runway 03/21 at Joint Base Charleston reopened on 25 February 2010. The $30 million project to rebuild the deteriorating runway began 9 April 2009. Its completion was marked with the first take off and landing of a Charleston C-17. The runway now has newly paved asphalt overruns, and asphalt-paved shoulders, both of which the runway lacked. The runway also has new edge lighting, distance remaining markers and runway end indicator lights on both ends.\n\nBecause of that construction, larger and heavier aircraft were cleared to land on runway 03/21, which was key when work scheduled for Fiscal Year 2012 began on runway 15/33, the base's main runway. The last major work done on Joint Base Charleston runways was in 1968.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875733", "title": "Eugene Atkinson", "text": "Eugene Atkinson\n\nEugene Vincent Atkinson (April 5, 1927 – August 4, 2016) was a member of the House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.\n\nAtkinson was born in the Pittsburgh Metro Area city of Aliquippa, Pennsylvania. He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh. Atkinson was the director of customs for the port of Pittsburgh from 1962 to 1969. Atkinson then served as the Beaver County commissioner from 1972 to 1978. Atkinson was elected to the House as a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nAtkinson was an early supporter of Jimmy Carter in 1976 but in 1980, Atkinson endorsed Ted Kennedy for President. At rallies for Kennedy, Atkinson praised Kennedy's leadership.\n\nWhile he was on a radio call-in show in 1981, Atkinson was called by President Ronald Reagan and persuaded to support budget cuts.\n\nOn October 14, 1981, Atkinson switched parties, joining the Republican Party. Atkinson lost re-election by a 21 percentage point margin in 1982 to Joseph P. Kolter.\n\nAtkinson died on August 4, 2016 at the age of 89.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875734", "title": "20th Mountain Army (Wehrmacht)", "text": "20th Mountain Army (Wehrmacht)\n\nThe German Lapland Army (\"AOK Lappland\") was one of the two army echelon headquarters controlling German troops in the far north of Norway and Finland during World War II. It was established in January 1942, and renamed the 20th Mountain Army (\"20. Gebirgsarmee\") in June 1942. On 18 December 1944, the 20th Mountain Army absorbed the German 21st Army.\n\n\nApril 1942\n\nSupporting Units ~\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875740", "title": "Drew Hayden Taylor", "text": "Drew Hayden Taylor\n\nDrew Hayden Taylor (born 1 July 1962) is a Canadian playwright, author and journalist.\n\nBorn in Curve Lake, Ontario, Taylor is part Ojibwe and part Caucasian. About his background Taylor says: \"I plan to start my own nation. Because I am half Ojibway half Caucasian, we will be called the occasions. And of course, since I’m founding the new nation, I will be a special occasion.\" He also mused in a \"Globe and Mail\" essay: \"Fighting over status/non-status, Métis, skin colour etc., only increases the sense of dysfunction in our community.\"\n\nHe writes about First Nations culture, and has also been a frequent contributor to various magazines including \"This Magazine\". His writing includes plays, short stories, essays, newspaper columns and film and television work. In 2004 he was appointed to the Ontario Ministry of Culture Advisory Committee.\n\nAs well as his writing, Taylor has been the artistic director of Native Earth Performing Arts, and has taught at the Centre for Indigenous Theatre. He co-created the series \"Mixed Blessings\" for APTN in 2007, and has been a writer for \"The Beachcombers\", \"Street Legal\" and \"North of 60\".\n\nTaylor has held writer-in-residence positions at Native Earth Performing Arts, Cahoots Theatre, the University of Michigan, The University of Western Ontario, the Stephen Leacock Festival, the Blyth Festival, Lüneburg University, and Ryerson University.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875752", "title": "Epinephelus", "text": "Epinephelus\n\nEpinephelus is a genus of fishes in the family Serranidae found in Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans.\n\nThe 89 recognized species in this genus are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1875767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875767", "title": "Shirley Englehorn", "text": "Shirley Englehorn\n\nShirley Ruth Englehorn (born December 12, 1940) is an American former professional golfer. She won 11 tournaments during her LPGA Tour career, including one major, the 1970 LPGA Championship.\n\nBorn and raised in Caldwell, Idaho, Englehorn was introduced to golf by Shirley Spork, one of the thirteen founders of the LPGA, and also studied with Johnny Revolta, an 18-time PGA Tour winner and the PGA Championship victor in 1935.\n\nShe won many amateur and open events, including the McCall Open in 1957 and 1958, the Idaho Open from 1957 to 1959 and the Pacific Northwest Amateur in 1958. She also won the Oregon Open in 1959 and was the youngest player ever to receive the Dorothy Pease Trophy (Trans-Miss) at the age of 15.\n\nAfter graduation from Caldwell High School in 1958, Englehorn turned pro at age 18 in 1959 and joined the LPGA Tour. She was sponsored by the Athletic Round Table of Spokane from 1960 through 1962. Despite a career-threatening equestrian accident in Georgia in March 1960, Englehorn recovered and won her first tournament at age 21 in July 1962 at the Women's Eastern Open in Sutton, Massachusetts. She won a total of 11 events on the LPGA Tour, including one major championship, the LPGA Championship in 1970 in a playoff over Kathy Whitworth, her third victory at Sutton.\n\nEnglehorn led the tour that season in wins with four. Five years earlier in 1965, she suffered injuries in an automobile accident and missed much of the season. Englehorn was awarded the Ben Hogan Award in early 1968 by the Golf Writers Association of America in honor of her successful comeback from injuries. She had surgery on her ankle in 1971 and 1973 and in each case returned to compete. She later became a golf instructor, and won the LPGA Teacher of the Year Award in 1978. Her last LPGA appearance was in 1979.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (3–2)\n\n Won in an 18-hole playoff. Englehorn:74, Whitworth:78\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875775", "title": "Australian federal budget", "text": "Australian federal budget\n\nAn Australian federal budget is a document that sets out the estimated revenues and expenditures of the Australian Treasury in the following financial year, proposed conduct of Australian government operations in that period, and its fiscal policy for the forward years. Budgets are called by the year in which they are presented to Parliament and relate to a financial year that commences on the following 1 July and ends on 30 June of the following year, so that the budget brought down in May relates to the / financial year (1 July  – 30 June , FY).\n\nRevenue estimates detailed in the budget are raised through the Australian taxation system, with government spending (including transfers to the states) representing a sizeable proportion of the overall economy. Besides presenting the government's expected revenues and expenditures, the federal budget is also a political statement of the government's intentions and priorities, and has profound macroeconomic implications.\n\nAustralia follows, to a great extent, the conventions of the Westminster system. For example, the prime minister must have the support of a majority in the House of Representatives, and must in any case be able to ensure the existence of no absolute majority against the government. In relation to the budget, that requires that if the House fails to pass the government's budget, even by one dollar, then the government must either resign so that a different government can be appointed or seek a parliamentary dissolution so that new general elections may be held in order to re-confirm or deny the government's mandate.\n\nThe process of putting together the budget begins in November when the Central Budget Management System (CBMS) is updated with the latest estimates, and the senior ministers' review, where the Prime Minister, Treasurer, and Minister for Finance meet to establish the policy priorities and strategy for the coming financial year.\n\nThe outcome of the senior ministers' review determines how the different portfolios will prepare their budget submissions for cabinet. Agencies within each portfolio do not submit a request for new funding, because their potential savings within the agency are unfounded. After Finance has agreed to the costings, the submissions are circulated for coordination comments and lodged with the cabinet office by late February.\n\nThe Expenditure Review Committee (ERC), a committee of Cabinet, meets in March to consider all submissions. They decide which proposals will be funded and the level of funding each will receive. At the end of the ERC, the ad hoc revenue committee meets to make decisions on the revenue streams of the budget. A pre-budget review of the estimates is conducted after all decisions have been finalised to ensure that they are reflected in CBMS.\n\nBudget documentation commences at the end of the ERC process. Agencies prepare two components: the portfolio budget statements and the mid-year economic and fiscal outlook.\n\nThe portfolio budget statements provide additional details and explanations of the budget and the statement of risks, which is included in Budget Paper No. 1.\n\nThe final budget is presented and tabled in Parliament by the Treasurer on budget night as part of the Second Reading of the \"Appropriation Bill (No. 1)\", which \"appropriates money out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the ordinary annual services of the government\".\n\nThe budget has to be presented within the framework that has been established by the Charter of Budget Honesty Act (1998).\n\nThe charter provides for:\n\nBetween 1901 and 1993 the practice was for the budget to be brought down in August, on the first Tuesday night of the Spring session. Since 1994 the Treasurer has presented the budget on the second Tuesday in May. Exceptions have been made in: (i) 1996 as there was an election and a change of government in March, so the budget was brought down in August; (ii) 2016 when it was held on the first Tuesday in May to allow the government to potentially call a double dissolution election following the presentation of the budget; and (iii) 2019 when a federal election called for May 18 caused the budget to be brought forward to 2 April.\n\nOn budget day but before the presentation of the budget, the Treasurer spends the day behind locked doors briefing media and interest groups on various aspects of the budget. This is known as the budget lock-up. Because of the market sensitive nature of some of the information which they are being provided, those invited to attend the briefings are not allowed access to the outside world until the budget has been presented in Parliament by the Treasurer, which normally commences at 7.30 pm.\n\nIn modern times, the budget has been broadcast live from Parliament House on the ABC and Sky News Australia. It is hosted on the ABC, without interruption from 7:30 pm to 8 pm, normally followed up with a report by a panel assessing the changes, benefits and flaws in the budget. Additional budget documents and materials are available on the government budget website for other interested parties.\n\nA convention in Australian politics is that the Leader of the Opposition is given a \"right of reply\", which they deliver in Parliament two days after the government's budget speech, and which is also broadcast on television.\n\nIn comparison with similar economies, Australia's government spending is relatively low. For the twenty-year period from 1960 to 1980, the growth in spending roughly matched percentages in the much higher populated nations of Japan and the United States.\n\nIn the first half of the 1980s, spending surged by approximately 3% of gross domestic product and the tax rate surpassed that of Ronald Reagan's administration. However, government accountability was a highly contentious issue in the late 1970s, and John Howard maintains that under Fraser \"spending went up... at about two per cent per year in real terms... Reagan [didn't do] better than that\".\n\nAs the debate played out, the free-market politicians turned to attacking the political parties which were in power in the Australian states, and public sector medium enterprises came to be seen as inefficient. The economic term \"current account deficit\" was in vogue.\n\nRiding on strong economic growth in the latter part of the 1980s, the Hawke Government brought forward an agenda for public sector reform that had been pioneered in the US. Declaring a number of debt reduction strategies ranging from tariff rate reductions to privatisation and competitive tendering, Australia's public sector significantly declined in the period.\n\nSpending in the 1990s saw significant shifts in social policy expenditure as part of a broader scheme of \"low inflation targeting\". Although outlays for services to industry increased, the budget outcome remained the same throughout the early 1990s recession. The Howard Government actually reduced expenditure by 1.3% of gross domestic product in its first two years, making large cutbacks to outlays for the hospital system and education. Overall the government continued to run down public debt and promote asset trading in the private sector.\n\n\nInternational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875782", "title": "South Plains College", "text": "South Plains College\n\nSouth Plains College (SPC) is a public community college in Levelland, Texas. It operates satellite branches in Plainview, at the Reese Technology Center, formerly Reese Air Force Base, in western Lubbock, and the Lubbock Center near central Lubbock. SPC also has many classes in the Byron Martin Advanced Technology Center in Lubbock as part of a joint venture with the Lubbock independent school District.\n\nSPC has distance-education centers located in Muleshoe, Littlefield, and Denver City. In addition to its distance-education programs, the college also provides online (distance-education) courses to its students, as well as dual-credit courses to high schools in the West Texas area.\n\nAs defined by the Texas Legislature, the official service area of South Plains College is:\n\nSouth Plains College plays as part of the Western Junior College Athletic Conference in athletics. It is also part of the National Junior College Athletic Association Region 5. The school participates in men's and women's basketball, cheerleading, cross-country, track and field, and rodeo. All the men's and women's basketball games are broadcast as part of the High Plains Radio Network under HPRN Sports on KLVT and at http://www.hprnetwork.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875785", "title": "Augusto Farias", "text": "Augusto Farias\n\nAugusto Farias is a Brazilian politician from the state of Alagoas. He is a brother of the murdered businessman Paulo Cesar Farias, who was the campaign treasurer of Brazilian President Fernando Collor de Mello. PC Farias was murdered in June 1996.\nOn November 18, 1999, Augusto Farias was formally charged with being a co-conspirator in the murder of his brother. The charges were filed by prosecutors who gathered new evidence in the third investigation into the murders. The first two inquiries ruled that PC Farias was the victim of a murder-suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875786", "title": "Skycycle X-2", "text": "Skycycle X-2\n\nThe Skycycle X-2 was a steam-powered rocket owned by Evel Knievel and flown during his Snake River Canyon jump in Idaho in 1974.\n\nAn earlier prototype, the Skycycle X-1 designed by Doug Malewicki and retired U.S. Navy engineer Robert Truax, superficially resembled a motorcycle. It was tested in November 1973 and dove in the Snake River.\n\nThe Skycycle X-2 was designed by Truax, and ridden by Knievel in his attempt to jump the Snake River approximately west of Shoshone Falls near the city of Twin Falls, Idaho, on September 8, 1974. The parachute deployed during the launch, causing the stunt to fail.\n\nA later analysis showed that a design flaw in a mechanical parachute retention cover, which did not properly take base drag into account, caused the premature parachute deployment. Following the failed jump, Truax blamed Knievel for the failure and vice versa. Later, Truax accepted full responsibility for the failure.\n\nAlthough the parachute deployed early, the aerial photographs show the X-2 cleared the canyon. However, the winds blew the rocket back to launch side, crashing at the bottom of the canyon, barely missing the river. Knievel stated that if the X-2 had landed in the water, he would have drowned, as he did not have the ability to release himself from the harness.\n\nIn order to obtain permission from the State of Idaho to perform the canyon jump, the X-2 was registered as an airplane rather than a motorcycle.\n\nThree Skycycle X-2s were built for Knievel. The first two were used for test flights. Unable to fund further tests, Knievel used the third for the canyon jump. In 2007, the Skycycle X-2-1 was offered for sale for $5 million. The X-2-2 is owned by the Knievel estate and periodically exhibited along with a museum of Knievel artifacts.\n\nIn the era before cable networks, the Sunday afternoon jump was covered live by Top Rank on paid closed circuit television in several hundred theaters and arenas, promoted by Bob Arum with an average price of ten dollars. Taped coverage by ABC was shown on \"Wide World of Sports\" later in the month. The ticket price at the launch site was twenty-five dollars.\n\nThe jump was pushed out of the newspaper headlines by the pardon of Richard Nixon by President Gerald Ford.\n\nA memorial to Knievel is located near the Perrine Bridge, which crosses the Snake River about west of the jump site. The monument was dedicated in September 1985, at a small ceremony attended by Knievel.\n\nSince the 1974 launch, seven daredevils have expressed interest in recreating the jump, including Knievel's two sons Robbie and Kelly. Robbie announced he would recreate the jump in 2010. Stuntman Eddie Braun worked with Kelly and Robert Truax's son to recreate the jump using a replica of the Skycycle X-2. He successfully flew his rocket, named Evel Spirit, across the Snake River Canyon on September 16, 2016.\n\nOn July 18, 2012, Audi of America recreated Knievel's Snake River jump in a promotional commercial for the Audi RS5. The commercial depicts the RS5 being driven by a professional driver and jumping the canyon off a jump ramp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875789", "title": "Justin Bartha", "text": "Justin Bartha\n\nJustin Lee Bartha (born July 21, 1978) is an American actor, known for his roles as Riley Poole in the \"National Treasure\" film series, Doug Billings in \"The Hangover\" trilogy, and David Sawyer in the NBC comedy series \"The New Normal\". He starred as Colin Morrello in the CBS All Access legal and political drama \"The Good Fight.\"\n\nBartha was born in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and moved to West Bloomfield, Michigan when he was eight. His father, Stephen, is a real estate developer, while his mother, Betty, is a school teacher. He has one older brother, Jeffrey. Bartha was raised in a Reform Jewish family. After he graduated from West Bloomfield High School in 1996, he moved to New York City and studied filmmaking and theatre at New York University's Tisch School of Arts.\n\nBartha began his film career behind the camera as a production assistant on the film \"Analyze This\". His acting debut came with his first film, \"54\", as a clubgoer. He wrote and directed a short film, \"Highs and Lows\" with Darrell M. Smith as co-producer, which was shown at the South by Southwest Film Festival in 2003. Additionally, he wrote, produced, and starred in an MTV pilot called \"The Dustin and Justin Show\".\n\nBartha had major roles in the critically bashed \"Gigli\" and \"Carnival Sun\" in 2003, before his co-starring role in \"National Treasure\" (2004) as Riley Poole.\n\nIn 2006, Bartha had roles in \"Failure to Launch\" and NBC's \"Teachers\" which only aired six episodes.\n\nIn November 2007, Bartha was cast in an indie comic-drama, \"Holy Rollers\". His character lures a young Hasidic Jew (Jesse Eisenberg) into becoming an ecstasy dealer. Filming began in New York in the spring of 2008, and the film was released in 2010. Bartha re-teamed with Eisenberg for Eisenberg's critically acclaimed play, \"Asuncion.\" Bartha also starred alongside Catherine Zeta-Jones in the Bart Freundlich film, \"The Rebound\" which is about a 25-year-old man who starts a romance with his older single mother neighbor, the film began shooting in April 2008 in New York and finished in June. In \"The Hangover\" comedy film series, he played Doug Billings, one of the \"Wolfpack\" members who goes on weekend trips with the trio. After a wild nights of partying, he goes missing and his friends frantically search everywhere for him.\n\nBartha starred as Max in the Broadway revival of the play \"Lend Me a Tenor\" by Ken Ludwig. He performed alongside Tony Shalhoub, Anthony LaPaglia, Brooke Adams, and Jan Maxwell. A farcical comedy, it was directed by Stanley Tucci and started previews at the Music Box Theatre on March 11, 2010, with the official opening date on April 4, 2010. In 2011, Bartha signed on to star in the premiere of Zach Braff's play \"All New People\" at Second Stage Theatre. \"All New People\" began June 28 and ran through mid-August. Anna Camp, David Wilson Barnes and Krysten Ritter co-starred in this production under the direction of Peter DuBois. In February 2012, Bartha signed on to co-star on the NBC comedy pilot \"The New Normal\". On May 7, 2012, NBC ordered the project to series. The show was centered around a gay couple (played by Bartha and Andrew Rannells) and the surrogate mother (Georgia King) they selected to bear their child. It premiered on September 11, 2012, but was officially cancelled the next year on May 10, 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Bartha starred in another of Jesse Eisenberg's plays, \"A Little Part of All Of Us\", alongside Eisenberg, for Playing On Air, a non-profit organization that \"records short plays [for public radio and podcast] written by top playwrights and performed by outstanding actors.\"\n\nBartha has worked with the Matrix Theatre Company, guest directing their Teen Company in \"Are You Passing?\", a play on the state of education in Detroit.\n\nBartha married Pilates instructor Lia Smith in Oahu, Hawaii, on January 4, 2014. She is the founder of the B The Method form of Pilates. On April 13, 2014, she gave birth to their daughter, Asa Charlotte. On April 16, 2016, she gave birth to their second daughter, Ruby.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875797", "title": "Oldest railroads in North America", "text": "Oldest railroads in North America\n\nThis is a list of the earliest railroads in North America, including various railroad-like precursors to the general modern form of a company or government agency operating locomotive-drawn trains on metal tracks.\n\n\nWhile private railroads are legally free to choose their jobs and customers, common carriers must charge fair rates to all comers.\n\nAny effort to arrange early common-carrier railroads in chronological order must choose among various possible criterion dates, including applying for a state charter, receiving a charter, forming a company to build a railroad, beginning construction, opening operations, and so forth.\n\nSelected railroads chartered since 1832:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875798", "title": "Italian Socialist Party", "text": "Italian Socialist Party\n\nThe Italian Socialist Party (, PSI) was a socialist and later social-democratic political party in Italy, whose history stretched for longer than a century, making it one of the longest-living parties of the country.\n\nFounded in Genoa in 1892, the PSI dominated the Italian left until after World War II, when it was eclipsed in status by the Italian Communist Party. The Socialists came to special prominence in the 1980s, when their leader Bettino Craxi, who had severed the residual ties with the Soviet Union and re-branded the party as \"liberal-socialist\", served as Prime Minister (1983–1987). The PSI was disbanded in 1994 as a result of the \"Tangentopoli\" scandals.\n\nThe party has had a series of legal successors: the Italian Socialists (1994–1998), the Italian Democratic Socialists (1998–2007) and the Italian Socialist Party (since 2007, originally \"Socialist Party\"). These parties have never reached the popularity of the old PSI. Socialist leading members and voters have joined quite different parties, from the centre-right Forza Italia, The People of Freedom, and the 2013 Forza Italia, to the centre-left Democratic Party.\n\nPrior to World War I, future dictator Benito Mussolini was a member of the PSI.\n\nThe Italian Socialist Party was founded in 1892 as the Party of Italian Workers (\"Partito dei Lavoratori Italiani\") by delegates of several workers' associations and parties, notably including the Italian Workers' Party and the Milanese Socialist League. It was part of a wave of new socialist parties at the end of the 19th century and had to endure persecution by the Italian government during its early years. While in Sicily the Fasci Siciliani were spreading, the party was celebrating on September 8, 1893 its second congress in Reggio Emilia and changed its name to Socialist Party of Italian Workers (\"Partito Socialista dei Lavoratori Italiani\"). During the third congress on January 13, 1895 in Parma it decided to adopt the name of Italian Socialist Party and Filippo Turati was elected its secretary.\nAt the start of the 20th century, the PSI chose not to strongly oppose the governments led by five-time Prime Minister Giovanni Giolitti. This conciliation with the existing governments and its improving electoral fortunes helped to establish the PSI as a mainstream Italian political party by the 1910s.\n\nDespite the party's improving electoral results, the PSI remained divided into two major branches, the Reformists and the Maximalists. The Reformists, led by Filippo Turati, were strong mostly in the unions and the parliamentary group. The Maximalists, led by Costantino Lazzari, were affiliated with the London Bureau of socialist groups, an international association of left-wing socialist parties.\n\nIn 1912, the Maximalists led by Benito Mussolini prevailed at the party convention and this led to the split of the Italian Reformist Socialist Party. In 1914 the party obtained good success in local elections, especially in the industrialized northern Italy, and Mussolini became leader of the City Council of Milan. From 1912 to 1914, Mussolini headed up the Bolshevik wing of the Italian Socialist Party who purged moderate or reformist socialists.\n\nWorld War I tore the party apart. The orthodox socialists were challenged by advocates of national syndicalism, who called for revolutionary war to liberate Italian-speaking territories from authoritarian Austrian control and force the government by threat of violence to create a corporatist state. The national syndicalists intended to support Italian republicans in overthrowing the monarchy if such reforms were not made and if Italy did not enter the war together with the Allied Powers and their struggle against the Central Empires, seen as the final fight for the worldwide triumph of freedom and democracy. The dominant internationalist and pacifist wing of the party remained committed to avoiding what it called a \"bourgeois war\". The PSI's refusal to support the war led to its national syndicalist faction either leaving or being purged from the party, such as Mussolini who had begun to show sympathy to the national syndicalist cause. A number of the national syndicalists expelled from the PSI later joined Mussolini's Fascist Revolutionary movement in 1914, including his Fascist Revolutionary Party (PFR) in 1915. In late 1921, during the Third Fascist Congress, Mussolini renamed his party the National Fascist Party.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1917, the PSI quickly aligned itself in support of the Communist Bolshevik movement in Russia and supported its call for the overthrow of the bourgeoisie. In the 1919 general election, the PSI reached its highest result ever: 32.0% and 156 seats in the Chamber of Deputies. From 1919 to the 1920s, the Socialists and the Fascists emerged as prominent rival movements in Italy's urban centres, often resorting to political violence in their clashes. In 1919, the Socialist Party of Turin formed the Red Army of Turin, which was accompanied by a proposal to organise a national confederation of Red Scouts and Cyclists. The left-wing of the party broke away in 1921 to form the Communist Party of Italy, a division from which the PSI never recovered and which had enormous consequences on Italian politics. In 1922, another split occurred when the reformist wing of the party, headed by Turati and Giacomo Matteotti, was expelled and formed the Unitary Socialist Party (PSU).\n\nIn 1924, Matteotti was assassinated by Fascists and shortly afterwards a fascist dictatorship was established in Italy. In 1926, the PSI and all other political parties except the Fascist Party were banned. The party's leadership remained in exile during the Fascist years and in 1930 the PSU was re-integrated into the PSI. The party was a member of the Labour and Socialist International between 1930 and 1940.\n\nIn the 1946 general election and the first after World War II, the PSI obtained 20.7% of the vote, narrowly ahead of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) that gained 18.9%. In the 1948 general election, the US secretly convinced the British Labour Party to pressure social democrats to end all coalitions with communists, which fostered a split in PSI —Socialists led by Pietro Nenni chose to take part in the Popular Democratic Front along with the PCI, while social democrat Giuseppe Saragat launched the Italian Workers' Socialist Party. The PSI was weakened by the split and was far less organized than the PCI; therefore, Communist candidates were far more competitive. As a result, the Socialist parliamentary delegation was cut by a half. Nonetheless, the PSI continued its alliance with the PCI until 1956, when Soviet repression in Hungary caused a major split between the two parties.\n\nStarting from 1963, the Socialists participated in the centre-left governments in alliance with Christian Democracy (DC), the Italian Democratic Socialist Party (PSDI) and the Italian Republican Party (PRI). These governments acceded to many of the demands of the PSI for social reform and laid the foundations for Italy's modern welfare state. During the 1960s and 1970s, the PSI lost much of its influence despite actively participating in the government. The PCI gradually outnumbered it as the dominant political force in the Italian left. The PSI tried to enlarge its base by joining forces with the PSDI under the name Unified Socialist Party (PSU). However, after a dismaying loss in the 1968 general election in which the PSU gained far fewer seats in total than each of the two parties had obtained separately in 1963, it disbanded. The 1972 general election underlined the PSI's precipitate decline as the party received less than 10% of the vote compared to 14.2% in 1958.\n\nIn 1976, Bettino Craxi was elected new secretary of the party. From the beginning, Craxi tried to undermine the PCI which until then had been continuously increasing its votes in elections and to consolidate the PSI as a modern, strongly pro-European reformist social-democratic party, with deep roots in the democratic left-wing. This strategy called for ending most of the party's historical traditions as a working-class trade union based party and attempting to gain new support among white-collar and public sector employees. At the same time, the PSI increased its presence in the big state-owned enterprises and became heavily involved in corruption and illegal party funding which would eventually result in the \"mani pulite\" investigations.\n\nEven if the PSI never became a serious electoral challenger either to the PCI or the DC, its pivotal position in the political arena allowed it to claim the post of Prime Minister for Craxi after the 1983 general election. The electoral support for the Christian Democrats was significantly weakened, leaving it with 32.9% of the vote, compared to the 38.3% it gained in 1979. The PSI that had obtained only 11% threatened to leave the parliamentary majority unless Craxi was made Prime Minister. The Christian Democrats accepted this compromise to avoid a new election. Craxi became the first Socialist in the history of the Italian Republic to be appointed Prime Minister.\n\nUnlike many of its predecessors, Craxi's government proved to be durable, lasting three-and-a-half years from 1983 to 1987. During those years, the PSI gained popularity as Craxi successfully boosted the country's GNP and controlled inflation. He demonstrated Italy's independence and nationalism during the clash with the United States during the Sigonella incident. Moreover, Craxi spoke of many reforms, including the transformation of Italian Constitution toward a presidential system. The PSI looked like the driving force behind the bulk of reforms initiated by the Pentapartito, but Craxi lost his post in March 1987 due to a conflict with the other parties of the coalition over the proposed budget for 1987.\n\nIn the 1987 general election, the PSI won 14.3% of the vote and this time it was the Christian Democrats' turn to govern. From 1987 to 1992, the PSI participated in four governments, allowing Giulio Andreotti to take power in 1989 and to govern until 1992. The Socialists held a strong balance of power, which made them more powerful than the Christian Democrats, who had to depend on it to form a majority in Parliament. The PSI kept tight control of this advantage.\n\nThe alternative which Craxi had wanted so much was taking shape, namely the idea of a \"Social Unity\" with the other left-wing political parties, including the PCI, proposed by Craxi in 1989 after the fall of Communism. He believed that the collapse of communism in eastern Europe had undermined the PCI and made Social Unity inevitable. In fact, the PSI was in line to become the Italy's second largest party and to become the dominant force of a new left-wing coalition opposed to a Christian Democrat-led one, but this did not actually happen because of the rise of the Northern League and the \"Tangentopoli\" scandals.\n\nIn February 1992, Mario Chiesa, a Socialist hospital administrator in Milan, was caught taking a bribe. Craxi denounced Chiesa by calling him an isolated thief, who had nothing to do with the party as a whole. Feeling betrayed, Chiesa confessed his crimes to the police and implicated others, starting a chain reaction of judicial investigations that would ultimately engulf the entire political system. The investigations, named \"mani pulite\" (\"clean hands\") was carried out by three Milanese magistrates among whom Antonio Di Pietro quickly stood out becoming a national hero thanks to his charismatic character and his ability to extract confessions.\n\nThe investigations were suspended for four weeks in order for the 1992 Italian general election to take place in an uninfluenced atmosphere and the PSI managed to garner 13.6% of the vote in spite of the corruption scandals. Many in the party thought the scandal had been brought under control, but they failed to realize that investigations would eventually be launched against ministers and party leaders. Furthermore, as early as May 1992 public opinion unconditionally supported the magistrates against a political system that the majority of Italians already distrusted. Craxi himself was under criminal investigation since December 1992. In April 1993, the Parliament denied four times the authorization for magistrates to continue investigation for Craxi. Italian newspapers shouted scandal and Craxi was besieged at his Rome residence by a crowd of young people, who threw coins at him, shouting: \"Bettino, do you want these as well?\". This scene was to become one of the many symbols of that period.\n\nIn 1992–1993, many Socialist regional, provincial and municipal deputies, MPs, mayors and even ministers found themselves overwhelmed with accusations and arrests. At this point, public opinion turned against the Socialists and many regional headquarters of the PSI were besieged by people who wanted an honest party with true socialist values. Between January 1993 and February 1993, Claudio Martelli (former Justice Minister and Deputy Prime Minister) started to contend for party leadership. Martelli stepped forward as a candidate, emphasizing the need to clean the party of corruption and make it electable. Although he had many supporters, Martelli and Craxi were both caught in a scandal dating back to 1982, when the Banco Ambrosiano gave to the two of them around 7 million dollars. Martelli subsequently resigned from the party and from the government. Giuliano Amato, a Socialist, resigned as Prime Minister in April 1993. His government was succeeded by a technocratic government led by Carlo Azeglio Ciampi.\n\nCraxi resigned as party secretary in February 1993. Between 1992 and 1993, most members of the party left politics and three Socialist deputies committed suicide. Craxi was succeeded by two Socialist trade-unionists, first Giorgio Benvenuto and then by Ottaviano Del Turco. In the December 1993 provincial and municipal elections, the PSI was virtually wiped out, receiving around 3% of the vote. In Milan, where the PSI had won 20% in 1990, the PSI received a mere 2% and was shut out of the council. Del Turco tried in vain to regain credibility for the party.\n\nBy the 1994 general election, the PSI was in a state of near-collapse. Its remains contested the election as part of the Alliance of Progressives dominated by the post-Communist incarnation of the PCI, the Democratic Party of the Left (PDS). Del Turco had quickly changed the party symbol to reinforce the idea of innovation. However, this did not stop the PSI gaining only 2.2% of the votes compared to 13.6% in 1992. The PSI elected 16 deputies and 14 senators, down from 92 deputies and 49 senators of 1992. Most of them came from the left-wing of the party as Del Turco himself did. Most Socialists joined other political forces, mainly Forza Italia, the new party led by Silvio Berlusconi, the Patto Segni and Democratic Alliance.\n\nThe party was disbanded on 13 November 1994 after two years of agony in which almost all of its longtime leaders, especially Bettino Craxi, were involved in \"Tangentopoli\" and decided to leave politics. The 100-year-old party closed down, partially thanks to its leaders for their personalization of the PSI.\n\nThe Socialists who did not align with the other parties organized themselves in two groups: the Italian Socialists (SI) of Enrico Boselli, Ottaviano Del Turco, Roberto Villetti, Riccardo Nencini, Cesare Marini and Maria Rosaria Manieri, who decided to be autonomous from the PDS; and the Labour Federation (FL) of Valdo Spini, Antonio Ruberti, Giorgio Ruffolo, Giuseppe Pericu, Carlo Carli and Rosario Olivo, who entered in close alliance with it. The SI eventually merged with other Socialist splinter groups to form the Italian Democratic Socialists (SDI) in 1998 while the FL merged with PDS to form the Democrats of the Left (DS) later on that year.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996, many former Socialists joined Forza Italia as did Giulio Tremonti, Franco Frattini, Massimo Baldini and Luigi Cesaro. Gianni De Michelis, Ugo Intini and several politicians close to Bettino Craxi formed the Socialist Party while others like Fabrizio Cicchitto and Enrico Manca launched the Reformist Socialist Party. In the 2000s, two outfits claimed to be the party's successor, namely the Italian Democratic Socialists (SDI) that evolved from the Italian Socialists (SI) and the New Italian Socialist Party (NPSI) founded by Gianni De Michelis, Claudio Martelli and Bobo Craxi in 2001.\n\nHowever, both the SDI and the NPSI were minor political forces. A number of Socialist members and voters joined the centre-right Forza Italia while others joined the DS and Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy (DL). Many others were not members of any party any more. Some former Socialists are still affiliated to The People of Freedom (PdL) while others are in centre-left Democratic Party (PD) and modern-day Socialist Party (PS). The Socialists who joined Forza Italia include Giulio Tremonti, Franco Frattini, Fabrizio Cicchitto, Renato Brunetta, Amalia Sartori, Francesco Musotto, Margherita Boniver, Francesco Colucci, Raffaele Iannuzzi, Maurizio Sacconi, Luigi Cesaro and Stefania Craxi. Although it may seem unusual for self-identified socialists to be members of a centre-right party, many of those who did so felt that the centre-left was now dominated by former Communists and the best way to fight for mainstream social democracy was through FI/PdL. Valdo Spini, Giorgio Benvenuto, Gianni Pittella and Guglielmo Epifani joined the DS and Enrico Manca, Tiziano Treu, Laura Fincato and Linda Lanzillotta joined DL. Giuliano Amato joined The Olive Tree as an independent.\n\nIn 2007, some former Socialists, including the SDI, a portion of the NPSI led by Gianni De Michelis, The Italian Socialists of Bobo Craxi, Socialism is Freedom of Rino Formica and splinters from the DS joined forces and formed the Socialist Party (PS), renamed Italian Socialist Party (PSI) in 2011. Nowadays, the PSI is the only Italian party represented in Parliament which explicitly refers to itself as Socialist, even though many other Socialist associations and organization participate to the political debate both in the centre-right and the centre-left.\n\nWhen the Socialists came out in the late 1890s, they were present only in rural Emilia-Romagna and southern Lombardy, where they won their first seats of the Chamber of Deputies, but they soon enlarged their base in other areas of the country, especially the urban areas around Turin, Milan, Genoa and to some extent Naples, densely populated by industrial workers. In the 1900 general election, the party won 5.0% of the vote and 33 seats, its best result so far. Emilia-Romagna was confirmed as the Socialist heartland (20.2% and 13 seats), but the party did very well also in Piedmont and Lombardy.\nBy the end of the 1910s, the Socialists had broadened their organization to all the regions of Italy, but they were obviously stronger in the North, where they emerged earlier and where they had their constituency. In the 1919 general election, thanks to the electoral reforms of the previous decade and especially the introduction of proportional representation in place of the old first-past-the-post system, they had their best result ever: 32.0% and 156 seats. The PSI was at the time the representative of both the rural workers of Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany and north-western Piedmont and the industrial workers of Turin, Milan, Venice, Bologna and Florence. In 1919,the party won 49.7% in Piedmont (over 60% in Novara), 45.9% in Lombardy (over 60% in Mantua and Pavia), 60.0% in Emilia-Romagna (over 70% around Bologna and Ferrara), 41.7% in Tuscany and 46.5% in Umbria.\n\nIn the 1921 general election and after the split of the Communist Party of Italy, the PSI was reduced to 24.5% and was particularly damaged in Piedmont and Tuscany, where the Communists got more than 10% of the vote. During the Italian Resistance, which was fought mostly in Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna and Central Italy, the Communists were able to take roots and organize people much better than the Socialists so that at the end of World War II the balance between the two parties was completely changed. In the 1946 general election, the PSI was narrowly ahead of the Communists (20.7% over 18.7%), but it was no longer the dominant party in Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany.\n\nIn the 1948 general election, the Socialists took part to the Popular Democratic Front with the Italian Communist Party (PCI), but they lost almost half of their seats in the Chamber of Deputies due to the better get-out-the-vote machine of the Communists and the split of the social-democratic faction from the party, the Italian Workers' Socialist Party (7.1%, with peaks over 10% in the Socialist strongholds of the North). In 1953, the PSI was reduced to 12.7% of the vote and to its heartlands above the Po River, having gained more votes than the Communists only narrowly in Lombardy and Veneto. The margin between the two parties would have become larger and larger until its peak in 1976, when the PCI won 34.4% of the vote and the PSI stopped at 9.6%. At that time, the Communists had almost five times the vote of the Socialists in the PSI's ancient heartlands of rural Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany and three times in the Northern regions, where the PSI had some local strongholds left such as in north-eastern Piedmont, north-western and southern Lombardy, north-eastern Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, where it gained steadily 12–20% of the vote.\n\nUnder the leadership of Bettino Craxi in the 1980s, the PSI had a substantial increase in term of votes. The party strengthened its position in Lombardy, north-eastern Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia and broadened its power base to Southern Italy as all the other parties of Pentapartito coalition (Christian Democrats, Republicans, Democratic Socialists and Liberals) were experiencing. In the 1987 general election, the PSI gained good result with 14.3% of the vote, but below expectations after four years of government led by Craxi. Alongside the high shares of vote in north-western Lombardy and the North-East (both around 18–20%), the PSI did fairly well in Campania (14.9%), Apulia (15.3%), Calabria (16.9%) and Sicily (14.9%). In 1992, this trend toward the South was even more evident—while the Socialists, like the Communists and the Christian Democrats, had lost votes to Lega Nord especially in Lombardy, they gained in the South, reaching 19.6% of the vote in Campania, 17.8% in Apulia and 17.2% in Calabria. This is why the PSI's main successors, the Italian Socialists, the Italian Democratic Socialists, the New Italian Socialist Party and the modern-day Italian Socialist Party, had always been stronger in those Southern regions.\n\nThe electoral results of the PSI in general (Chamber of Deputies) and European Parliament elections since 1895 are shown in the chart below.\n\n\n\nThe PSI was rather unusual among mainstream socialist/social-democratic parties in Europe in using the hammer and sickle as its symbol. However, the symbolism of the party was gradually moderated. In 1978 Craxi decided to change the party logo of the party. He chose a red carnation to represent the new course of the party, in honour of the Carnation Revolution in Portugal. The party shrank the size of the old hammer and sickle in the lower part of the symbol. It was eventually eliminated altogether in 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875803", "title": "Arlindo Barbeitos", "text": "Arlindo Barbeitos\n\nArlindo do Carmo Pires Barbeitos (born December 24, 1940 in Catete, Bengo province, Angola) is an Angolan poet.\n\nBarbeitos studied from 1965 to 1969 in West Germany, then returned to Angola to teach at bases of the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) during the struggle for independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875809", "title": "False statement", "text": "False statement\n\nA false statement is a statement that is not true. Although the word \"fallacy\" is sometimes used as a synonym for \"false statement\", that is not how the word is used in philosophy, mathematics, logic and most formal contexts.\n\nA false statement need not be a lie. A lie is a statement that is known to be untrue and is used to mislead. A false statement is a statement that is untrue but not necessarily told to mislead, as a statement given by someone who does not know it is untrue.\n\nJohn told his little brother that sea otters aren't mammals, but fish, even though John himself was a marine biologist and knew otherwise. John simply wanted to see his little brother fail his class report, in order to teach him to begin projects early, which help him develop skills necessary to succeed in life.\n\nJames, John's brother, stated in his class report that sea otters were fish. James got an F after his teacher pointed out why that statement was false. James did not know that sea otters were in fact mammals because he heard that sea otters were fish from his older brother John, a marine biologist.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, false statement is a crime similar to perjury.\n\nIn U.S. law, a \"false statement\" generally refers to United States federal false statements statute, contained in . Most commonly, prosecutors use this statute to reach cover-up crimes such as perjury, false declarations, and obstruction of justice and government fraud cases. Its earliest progenitor was the False Claims Act of 1863, and in 1934 the requirement of an intent to defraud was eliminated to enforce the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 (NIRA) against producers of \"hot oil\", oil produced in violation of production restrictions established pursuant to the NIRA.\n\nThe statute criminalizes a government official who \"knowingly and willfully\":\n\n(1) falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact;(2) makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or(3) makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875813", "title": "Kensington, Calgary", "text": "Kensington, Calgary\n\nKensington is a Business Revitalization Zone (BRZ) in Calgary, Alberta, focused around the intersection of Kensington Road and 10th St. NW, also known as the Kensington-Louise Crossing Business Association. It is located in the communities of Hillhurst and Sunnyside, immediately north of downtown and the Bow River, and is easily reached by most of the city's major access routes.\n\nThe Calgary C-Train (above ground light-rail transit system) runs through the Kensington area via Sunnyside Station. The station is located along 9A Street, between 3rd and 4th Avenue N.W.\n\nKensington is a lively area with many independent shops, restaurants and pubs.\n\nThe BRZ hosts \"Christmas in Kensington Village\" in December, the Sun and Salsa Festival in July, as well as the \"Bizarre Bikes & Bazaar\" in May.\n\nThe surrounding Hillhurst area was owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway and pioneer rancher Ezra Riley at the beginning of the 20th century, when Riley Park was used for horse pasture. The oldest commercial buildings still standing date from before the First World War. \n\nIn 2017 and 2018 businesses in the Kensington area transformed themselves into shop replicating those seen in Diagon Alley from the Harry Potter series. The event takes place in July and is open to the public for free.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875815", "title": "Kaishakunin", "text": "Kaishakunin\n\nA kaishakunin () is a person appointed to behead an individual who has performed seppuku, Japanese ritual suicide, at the moment of agony. The role played by the \"kaishakunin\" is called kaishaku (\"nin\" means person).\n\nAside from being spared prolonged anguish until death, both the condemned and those on hand to observe are spared the spectacle of the writhing death throes that would ensue.\nThe most recent \"kaishakunin\" of the 20th century was Hiroyasu Koga, who beheaded the novelist Yukio Mishima and political activist Masakatsu Morita during their seppuku.\n\nStill preserved in modern-day movements (\"kata\") of the martial art Iaidō, the ritual of performing \"kaishaku\" varies very little between Japanese fencing schools, but all of them are bound to the following steps to be performed by the \"kaishakunin\":\n\nAfter the dead samurai falls, the \"kaishakunin\", with the same slow, silent style used when unsheathing the \"katana\", shakes the blood off the blade (a movement called \"chiburi\") and returns the \"katana\" to the scabbard (a movement called \"noto\"), while kneeling towards the fellow samurai's dead body. When this is completed, the \"kaishakunin\" remains kneeling for a while, as a sign of deep respect to the fallen samurai who performed the ritual suicide, always in a state of \"total awareness\" (\"zanshin\") before standing up and bowing (\"rei\") to his body.\n\nIn some \"seppuku\" rituals, no disembowelment occurs. The condemned person merely moves the tantō, or, sometimes, a wooden stick or fan, across his stomach, followed by a beheading by the \"kaishakunin\". In this variation, the \"kaishakunin\" becomes in effect the executioner, and \"seppuku\" becomes effectively a beheading.\n\nIn other seppuku rituals, the cut to the neck may be done as the condemned person simply reaches for the tanto. The reaching gave honor to the condemned, as he was exhibiting intent by doing so, and the \"early\" stroke of the sword could be dismissed as a small mistake in timing by an overzealous kaishakunin. In reality, this was planned ahead of time to spare the condemned the pain of actually trying to disembowel himself.\n"}
{"id": "1875835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875835", "title": "Misión Santa Gertrudis", "text": "Misión Santa Gertrudis\n\nMission Santa Gertrudis, called \"Dolores del Norte\" by some historians, was founded by the Jesuit missionary Jorge Retz in 1751 among the Cochimí Indians of the Baja California Peninsula, about 80 kilometers north of San Ignacio. The mission is located in the modern-day Mexican state of Baja California.\n\nThe future mission site was found by the missionary-explorer Ferdinand Konščak in 1750, and work at the site was begun before the formal founding of the mission. Construction actually began under the direction of the German Jesuit Jorge Retz in 1752. Konščak's sponsors for establishing this mision were the and his wife Dona Gertrudis de la Peña after whom the mision was named. Konščak would die shortly after selecting the site leaving the task of building the mission to his successor Retz, but stipulated that the name of the mission be changed from Our Lady of Sorrows, North to Santa Gertrudis. Assisted by Andrés Comanji, Retz discovered a spring as well as ancient rock paintings a mere three kilometers from the site of the mission. He enlisted the aid of the Cochimi to transport water from the spring of Santa Gertrudis and used it to establish vineyards for sacramental wine production. These vines became the basis for the contemporary vineyards of Baja California.\n\nThe architecture of the mission is reminiscent of the medieval styles of the country of origin of Retz, with carved stone. The beautiful church doors are flanked by finely decorated obelisk style columns.\n\nThe mission was finally abandoned in 1822. The church was extensively renovated in 1997, substantially altering its historical character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875843", "title": "Chinatown, Calgary", "text": "Chinatown, Calgary\n\nCalgary's Chinatown is a district of Calgary located along Centre Street in the northeast area of Downtown Calgary immediately west of the Downtown East Village. Calgary's Chinese Cultural Centre with its traditional architecture and decor (styled after the Temple of Heaven in Beijing) is the largest facility of its kind in North America. The Dragon City Mall is also located in this district.\n\nThe area along Centre Street north of downtown and continuing for several blocks is also very Asian-influenced and is often thought of as the city's second Chinatown. International Avenue is also a major multi-ethnic centre in the city's southeast with considerable Asian influence.\n\nThe community has an area redevelopment plan in place.\n\nChinatown Calgary Celebrates 100 Years\nIn 2010, Calgary's Chinatown community celebrated 100 years of challenge, growth and prosperity on its way to becoming Canada's third largest Chinese community by population and its largest in area. But 100 years marks only the time since Chinatown settled in its permanent home in Calgary. Its actual history dates back to the mid-19th century when the struggles for Calgary's earliest Chinese citizens were just beginning.\n\nRailroaded by the Canadian Government\nUpon completion of the rail line to Canada's west coast (1885), the Canadian government reneged on its promise to provide Chinese rail workers return fare to their homeland. It also severely curtailed Chinese immigration, by way of a costly $500 head tax, leaving many displaced Chinese workers, predominately men, stranded in a strange land without their families.\n\nStrength in Unity\nCompelled to form protective and culturally supportive enclaves with their fellow countrymen, Calgary's first Chinese community took root beginning in the 1880s. It was located in the area of 8th Avenue and Centre Street on Calgary's eastern edge near the site of today's Glenbow Museum.\nA growing Chinese population, as well as a huge fire in 1886 that consumed much of the original Chinese district, forced the relocation of \"Chinatown\" south and west to 10th Avenue and 1st Street in the area today known as the \"Beltline.\"\nLess than ten years later, the Canadian Pacific Railway announced its plan to run tracks between 9th and 10th Avenues, as well as building the Palliser Hotel (now the Fairmont Palliser Hotel) and a railway station between Centre and First Street S.W. Again Calgary's Chinese community was displaced as property owners took advantage of suddenly soaring land values in the area.\nIn turn, around 1910, several prosperous Chinese merchants bought land in what today is the heart of Chinatown near 2nd Avenue and Centre Street south. City Council rejected a public call for a deliberately segregated Chinese community and elected only to pass a bylaw regulating sleeping and living space in houses. Over the next decade, many organizations such as the Chinese Public School, Chinese Mission, the Chinese National League and Chinese YMCA were established giving Calgary's Chinese community substance and a sense of permanency, although at the time its population was considerably less than 1,000.\nWith the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1947, the City's Chinese population soared, more than doubling between 1951 and 1961. Many Chinese newcomers, however, opted to live outside Chinatown and the community began to fall into disrepair.\n\nGrowth Without Vision\nSince rising in its present location, Calgary's Chinatown evolved without any formal development plan. Then, in 1966, Chinatown's survival was again threatened when the City released a draft Downtown Master Plan which proposed a major freeway, known as the \"east-west downtown penetrator\" to run as an extension of Bow Trail through downtown between second and third avenues; directly through the heart of Chinatown.\nAfter years of debate, protests and revision, City Council adopted the three-part, Bow Trail Staging Report in February 1970 with construction of the \"east-west downtown penetrator\" scheduled to begin in 1978.\n\nTaking Control of Destiny\nIn response to the newly adopted Bow Trail Staging Report with its \"east-west downtown penetrator\" making community devastation almost a certainty, Chinatown residents, merchants and businessmen rallied together through the leadership of Calgary's first Chinese-Canadian Alderman and then Member of the Legislature for Calgary McCall, George Ho Lem.\nAt a packed meeting in the Chinese United Church on November 18, 1973, the Calgary Chinatown Development Task Force (CCDTF) was born, with the full support of the Chinese community. Brian Lee, a future Alderman and member of the Legislative Assembly, was recruited as its coordinator. Under the chairmanship of George Ho Lem, the CCDTF set out to fight the \"downtown penetrator\" and insure Chinatown's survival.\nInitially, the CCDTF was entirely funded by two Chinese community organizations, the United Calgary Chinatown Association and the Sien Lok Society of Calgary. Sien Lok was formed in 1968 and counts among its many achievements the creation of Chinatown's Sien Lok Park.\nThe CCDTF assembled a broad coalition of community leaders who worked for three years to author the Chinatown Design Brief, a comprehensive plan, notable primarily for its exclusion of the east-west downtown penetrator as well as a call for substantial improvements to housing, schools and cultural facilities within its boundaries.\nThe Chinatown Design Brief was formally approved by City Council on November 9, 1976, ensuring the future integrity of Chinatown. The 30th Anniversary of the approval of the document that saved Chinatown was celebrated on the same date in 2006 with over 30 of the original Task Force members in attendance to receive long overdue recognition for their contributions.\n\nMore Victories for Chinatown\nThe Chinatown Development Task Force also played a role in the building of the Oi Kwan Foundation's seniors' housing project and later doubling its capacity as well as the construction of Bowside Manor, a ten-storey public-housing apartment building for low income and elderly Chinese Calgarians.\nIn a marvellous example of community cooperation, land for the building was secured when George Ho Lem convinced the Lee Family Association and the Calgary Chinese School, both in aging buildings on either side of a large vacant lot, to pool their resources. Together, they purchased the middle vacant lot and developed the entire parcel for the good of the community. The result, Bowside Manor, was approved under the National Housing Act, and opened in April 1980. Management was handed to the Calgary Chinatown Development Foundation where it remains today. In addition to housing hundreds of Chinese tenants, Bowside Manor remains home to the Calgary Chinese School and the Lee Family Association which celebrated its 100th Anniversary on May 23, 2010.\nAnother of the task force's achievements was its role as mediator between Chinatown and Canada Public Works when the federal government expropriated crucial Chinatown land for the planned Harry Hays Federal Building. While the project went ahead as planned, a large number of displaced, low-income Chinatown residents were relocated to significantly improved housing elsewhere.\n\nChinatown Growth Continues\nWith numerous elements of the Chinatown Design Brief including dozens of new commercial and apartment buildings, Family Associations and recreation and cultural activity centres such as the Dragon Mall and the Chinese Cultural Centre, (1982) Calgary's Chinatown is a proud and thriving community that has spilled over its formal boundaries and now occupies most of both sides of Centre Street North and west along 16th Ave.\nCalgary's Chinatown is the first Chinatown in Canada identified in local city bylaws. Calgary City Council approved a half million dollar budget for Chinatown's 100th Anniversary in 2010. Clearly, the district called a \"festering sore\" by the Calgary Herald in 1910 has blossomed like a lotus to become an unlikely success story among Chinatowns in North America. It is the second to oldest china town\n\nIn the City of Calgary's 2012 municipal census, Chinatown had a population of living in dwellings, a 24.3% increase from its 2011 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2012.\n\nResidents in this community had a median household income of $16,174 in 2000 (the lowest in the city), and there were 57% low income residents living in the neighbourhood.\n\nAs of 2000, 92.1% of the residents were immigrants. A proportion of 98.6% of the buildings were condominiums or apartments, and 86% of the housing was used for renting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875846", "title": "Ryan Bayley", "text": "Ryan Bayley\n\nRyan Neville Bayley OAM (born 9 March 1982) is an Australian professional track cyclist and double Olympic gold medallist.\n\nBorn in Perth, Western Australia, Bayley started competitive cycling in 1997 at fifteen years of age. He is a member of the Albany Cycling Club and employed by the Australian Institute of Sport.\n\nBayley won gold medals for the Sprint and Team Sprint track cycling events at the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester.\n\nHis greatest success as a track cyclist came in the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, where he won gold medals in the sprint and Keirin events.\n\nFollowing Bayley's failure to win a medal at the World Cup round in Sydney in December 2007, he was criticized by Martin Barras, the national coach, for not developing his tactics. He was still employing the same final kick which achieved success in Athens, the opposition had learnt to attack early to counter this.\n\nIn February 2008, tension was brewing between Bayley and his rival for Olympic selection, Shane Perkins. Both were deemed by the judges to be riding improperly at the Australian National Track Championships. Bayley crashed when Perkins moved down on him during a race, burning a hole in the back of his skinsuit. The relationship between the two riders was given another dimension, when Perkins announced his engagement to Bayley's younger sister, Kristine Bayley.\n\nBayley was finally selected to ride at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, as Perkins had not competed in any Team Sprint events. Bayley qualified in 12th place in the sprint event and eventually finished 11th, he was eliminated from the Keirin in the second round, placing 8th overall; he blamed himself for poor tactics. Bayley was also a member of the Team Sprint squad along with Daniel Ellis and Mark French, they qualified for the final ride-off for the bronze medal. After a strong start, they faded and finished fourth, missing out on a medal by 0.008 of a second.\n\nBayley now lives in Brisbane with his wife and their two children.\n\nBayley was awarded the Order of Australia Medal (OAM) in the 2005 Australia Day Honours List. Other awards include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1875849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875849", "title": "Fringeworthy", "text": "Fringeworthy\n\nFringeworthy is a role-playing game first published in 1982 by Tri Tac Games. In 1984, a second edition saw a print run of 4000 and new expanded version was released in 1992. \"Fringeworthy\" is famous for being the first alternate history adventure role-playing game ever published. In 2009, Tri Tac Games released a \"d20 Modern\" edition.\n\n2013: A Japanese research team in the Antarctic finds a gateway to Alien and Alternate Earths. Sayuri Tanuma became the first known Fringeworthy, a person with the special ability that lets one use the Fringepaths. She explored our local system and our nearest Alternate Earths, meeting an alien named Schmert.\n\nThe United Nations forms the United Nations Interdimensional Survey Service (UNISS) along with IDET (Inter-Dimensional Exploration Teams) to oversee the administration of the Fringepaths and their exploration. As a member of IDET, characters help explore other worlds, help other alternate worlds with their problems, and face down the menaces that exist on the Fringepaths. Players play characters with the 1-in-100,000 ability to use the equipment left behind by a race named the Tehrmelern. They created the pathways, called the fringes, that lead to other worlds and other places.\n\nThe Mellor are a species of shape-changers, engineered by the Tehrmelern to aid in their undetected study and social uplift of other beings. Centuries ago, the Mellor became infected by some mysterious force that turned them to a path of indiscriminate genocide. As of 2013, they have nearly eradicated the Tehrmelern and have wiped out entire worlds of other races. They are a cunning and implacable enemy.\n\nThe game was written by Tri Tac Games founder Richard Tucholka, one of the creators of the game called The Morrow Project. He based it on a series of unpublished science fiction stories he wrote in the '70s. The original game system uses Tri Tac's Classic combat/rules model which is highly detailed. The game system makes it possible to use real weapons in the game as long as basic stats are known about the weapon, so an issue of \"Guns and Ammo\" magazine or \"Jane's Defence Weekly\" can be used as a Tri Tac game supplement.\n\nCharacter creation, like combat, in the Classic Edition, is highly \"granular\", with 15 basic attribute scores and between 6 and 19 secondary abilities and skills, many of which may be moderated by an Education Type attribute.\n\nFringeworthy Classic, Fringeworthy, Fringeworthy d20\n\n\nRogue 417, Cloisters, Invasion US, Weirdzone, Hardwired Hinterland\n\nWilliam A. Barton reviewed \"Fringeworthy\" in \"Space Gamer\" No. 65. Barton commented that \"\"Fringeworthy\" I view as the most innovative of the recent new RP systems for its first-of-its-kind alternate worlds theme. I believe it to be deserving of an award of some sort for creativity and innovation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875862", "title": "Luci Baines Johnson", "text": "Luci Baines Johnson\n\nLuci Baines Johnson Turpin (née Johnson, formerly Nugent, born July 2, 1947) is an American businesswoman and philanthropist. She is the younger daughter of U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife, former First Lady Lady Bird Johnson.\n\nBorn in Washington, D.C., Johnson has an older sister Lynda Bird. Johnson's first name was originally spelled \"Lucy\"; she changed the spelling in her teens as a rebellion towards her parents. As her parents both had the initials LBJ, they named their two daughters to have these initials also. Although her father was a member of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), her mother was an Episcopalian, and she and her older sister, Lynda Bird, were raised as Episcopalians. Johnson converted to Roman Catholicism at the age of eighteen, when she requested and received conditional baptism. Johnson had been baptized with water and in the name of the Trinity at five months old by an Episcopal priest in Austin, Texas. Her rebaptism caused protests from leading figures in the Episcopal Church, which made headlines, as the Roman Catholic teaching does not require converts who are already baptized to receive baptism a second time.\n\nShe was sixteen when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas on November 22, 1963. Johnson heard of the assassination while attending a Spanish class at the National Cathedral School. She was unaware whether her father had been injured as well but realized he had been sworn in as the 36th President of the United States when Secret Service agents showed up on her school campus a few hours later. She later attended Georgetown University School of Nursing and Health Studies but dropped out in 1966 as the school prohibited married students (Johnson married her first husband in August 1966).\n\nSince 1993, Johnson has been the Chairman of the Board and manager of LBJ Asset Management Partners, a family office, as well as Chairman of the Board of BusinesSuites, a national operator of executive suites, which she co-founded with her husband in 1989. She received a BLS in Communication from St. Edward's University in 1997.\n\nShe is on the Board of Directors of the LBJ Foundation and has served on multiple civic boards, raising funds for The Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center and the American Heart Association, acting as trustee of Boston University, and as a member of the advisory board of the Center for Battered Women.\n\nOn August 6, 1966, Johnson married Air National Guardsman Patrick John \"Pat\" Nugent in front of 700 guests at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C.. The wedding was broadcast on television (drawing 55 million viewers) and was featured on the August 19, 1966, cover of \"Life\" magazine.\n\nThey had four children: Patrick Lyndon (born 1967), now a lawyer and a pilot in San Antonio; Nicole Marie (born 1970); Rebekah Johnson (born 1974); and Claudia Taylor Nugent (born 1976). The couple later divorced, and the marriage was annulled by the Catholic Church in August 1979.\n\nOn March 3, 1984, she married Ian J. Turpin (born 1944), a Scottish-born Canadian financier; he is president of LBJ Asset Management Partners at LBJ Ranch. Through that marriage, she has a stepson.\n\nIn April 2010, Johnson was diagnosed with Guillain–Barré syndrome (also known as Landry's paralysis), an autoimmune disorder affecting the peripheral nervous system. She was flown to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, to begin treatment. Johnson returned to Austin in May 2010. Her doctor called her case \"less severe than usual,\" and she experienced a full recovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875863", "title": "Shutter lag", "text": "Shutter lag\n\nIn photography, shutter lag is the delay between triggering the shutter and when the photograph is actually recorded. This is a common problem in the photography of fast-moving objects or people in motion. The term narrowly refers only to shutter effects, but more broadly refers to all lag between when the shutter button is pressed and when the photo is taken, including metering and focus lag.\n\nIn film cameras, the delay is caused by the mechanism inside the camera that opens the shutter, exposing the film. Because the process is mechanical, however, and relatively brief, shutter lag in film cameras is often only noticeable (and of any concern) to professionals. SLRs have slightly longer shutter lag than rangefinders, because of the need to lift the mirror. Point and shoot film cameras often have significant shutter lag.\n\nShutter lag is much more of a problem with digital cameras. Here, the delay results from the charging of the charge-coupled device (CCD) image sensor and relatively slow transmission of its capture data to the circuitry of the camera for processing and storage.\n\nThe lag that early CCD sensors suffered from was significantly reduced by the invention of the pinned photodiode (PPD). It was invented by Nobukazu Teranishi, Hiromitsu Shiraki and Yasuo Ishihara at NEC in 1980. It was a photodetector structure with low lag, as a result of low noise, high quantum efficiency and low dark current. In 1987, the PPD began to be incorporated into most CCD devices, becoming a fixture in consumer electronic video cameras and then digital still cameras. The PPD has since been used in most CCD sensors and then CMOS sensors.\n\nRecent improvements in technology, such as the speed, bandwidth and power consumption of processor chips and memory, as well as CCD technology and then CMOS sensors, have made shutter lag less of a problem. As of 2007, the greatest advancements have been limited mostly to professional, \"prosumer,\" and high-end consumer-grade digital cameras. Inexpensive (most \"point-and-shoot\") digital cameras, however, have even reduced the average shutter lag to half seconds, and higher-end \"point-and-shoot\" cameras have reduced this down to a quarter second or less.\n\nHowever, what many people consider shutter lag is in fact the time the camera takes to meter (set the exposure) and auto-focus, which is lag of a different cause but similar effect.\n\nThese causes of lag can be eliminated by pre-setting the exposure and focus, by either manually setting the exposure and focus, or by pre-exposing and pre-focusing. Pre-exposing and pre-focusing mean \"using automatic exposure and autofocus, then fixing the settings so they do not change\"; this can often be done by holding the shutter release halfway down, or by using a separate \"AE / AF lock\" button (useful if taking multiple photographs that are not in a burst), and means the subsequent photographs will be taken faster. These techniques can be combined – one can manually set the exposure and then use AF lock or conversely.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875864", "title": "Tytti Isohookana-Asunmaa", "text": "Tytti Isohookana-Asunmaa\n\nTytti Isohookana-Asunmaa (born 24 September 1947, in Haukipudas) is a Finnish politician. She represents the Centre Party.\n\nIsohookana-Asunmaa holds a master's degree of Philosophy (1971) and a Doctorate of State sciences (1980). She works as assistant professor of Communal sciences in the University of Oulu. In 1983 Isohookana-Asunmaa was elected as a member of the Finnish parliament, from the Centre Party.\n\nIsohookana-Asunmaa is married and has a son.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875865", "title": "New Jack", "text": "New Jack\n\nJerome Young (born January 3, 1963) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler, better known by his stage name New Jack. He is best known for his time with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), where he became notorious for his willingness to take dangerous bumps and his stiff hardcore wrestling style, often taking high risks and \"shooting\" on opponents, including in the infamous 1996 Mass Transit incident. He is also known for being the only wrestler to have had his theme song (\"Natural Born Killaz\" by Ice Cube and Dr. Dre) play throughout his matches in ECW.\n\nYoung trained under Ray Candy and debuted in 1992 in the Memphis, Tennessee-based United States Wrestling Association (USWA), where he adopted the name New Jack, inspired by the movie \"New Jack City\". In June 1993, he won his first championship, the USWA World Tag Team Championship with his partner Homeboy, defeating Simply Devine for the titles. They would hold onto the titles for two weeks before losing them to C.W. Bergstrom and Melvin Penrod, Jr. He would remain with the company until the end of the summer.\n\nAfter leaving Memphis, New Jack, returned to Atlanta and wrestled for North Georgia Wrestling Alliance, and won their WorldHeavyweight Championship. In early 1994, he paired up with former WCW enhancement talent Mustafa Saed and formed The Gangstas, and won NGWA Tag Team Championship in July 1994, but quickly vacated them, as they left the territory.\n\nIn July 1994, The Gangstas went to Knoxville and began working for Jim Cornette in Smoky Mountain Wrestling. The Gangstas took part in several controversial angles, on one occasion using affirmative action to enable them to win matches with a two count pinfall as opposed to the conventional three count. They engaged in a long feud with the Rock 'N Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson). During their stint, the NAACP would picket outside the performance venues because of the \"Gangsta\" gimmick, claiming that no racial violence had occurred in the Tennessee area for years, and they did not want the reputation of gangsters to be put into the Tennessee area. After the feud with the Rock 'n' Roll Express ended, they feuded with The Thugs (Tracy Smothers and Tony Anthony) and with USWA's PG-13 until they left the company in June 1995.\n\nIn June 1995, The Gangstas joined the Philadelphia-based Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) promotion, debuting for the promotion as a villainous team by attacking The Public Enemy (Rocco Rock and Johnny Grunge) at \"Barbed Wire, Hoodies and Chokeslams\" on June 17, 1995. Gangstas made their ECW in-ring debut at Hardcore Heaven by competing against Public Enemy in a losing effort. The two teams engaged in a lengthy rivalry and traded wins against each other throughout the year, with the feud ending in a street fight at House Party, which Public Enemy won. Public Enemy departed ECW after the event, thus ending the rivalry. At CyberSlam Gangstas were scheduled to compete in a match against The Headhunters but Jack was imprisoned in Atlanta and Mustafa was attacked by Headhunters. Jack returned to ECW on March 8 during the \"Big Ass Extreme\" tour to rescue Mustafa from an assault by The Headhunters, resulting in Gangstas turning into fan favourites.\n\nGangstas began pursuing the ECW World Tag Team Championship and entered into a rivalry with the tag team champions The Eliminators (John Kronus and Perry Saturn) and received several title shots against Eliminators but came up short. At Fight the Power, Samoan Gangstas Party (L.A. Smooth and Sammy the Silk) made their ECW debut by attacking Gangstas. Samoan Gangsta Party cost Gangstas, another title shot against Eliminators at Hardcore Heaven. Gangstas then faced Samoan Gangstas Party in a match at Heat Wave which ended in a brawl between both teams. Gangstas' feud with Eliminators, Samoan Gangsta Party and The Bruise Brothers led to a four-way dance between the four teams at \"The Doctor is In\", which Gangstas won to capture their first World Tag Team Championship. Gangstas successfully defended the title against teams such as Samoan Gangsta Party, The Eliminators and Rob Van Dam and Sabu throughout the year.\n\nNew Jack was involved in the Mass Transit Incident on November 23, 1996 in Revere, Massachusetts. The Gangstas were scheduled to face D-Von Dudley and Axl Rotten. Axl, however, never made it to the show for reasons never made clear. (In the 2005 documentary \"Forever Hardcore\", New Jack said he thinks something happened with Axl's grandmother, which forced Axl to not make it). Rotten was replaced with \"Mass Transit\" Eric Kulas, an untrained seventeen-year-old who convinced booker Paul Heyman that he was twenty-three and had been trained by the veteran Killer Kowalski. Kulas requested that New Jack \"blade\" him during the match, but the incision was made incorrectly, causing excessive bleeding. Kulas was hospitalized as a result, eventually receiving fifty stitches. New Jack was charged with aggravated assault stemming from the incident, but was acquitted. Kulas subsequently sued New Jack and ECW for damages in July 1998, but lost the case. Kulas died on May 12, 2002 at the age of 22 due to complications from gastric bypass surgery. Later, Kulas' parents tried to sue New Jack because they believed their son's death was caused due to depression and a major eating disorder after what New Jack did to him.\n\nGangstas lost the World Tag Team Championship back to Eliminators on the January 4, 1997 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", ending their reign at 139 days. Gangstas feuded with Eliminators and The Dudley Boyz over the titles for the next several months. At Heat Wave, Gangstas defeated Dudley Boyz in a steel cage match to capture their second World Tag Team Championship. Mustafa Saed left ECW after the title win, leading to the dissolution of Gangstas. The following month, at Hardcore Heaven, Dudley Boyz were returned the titles via forfeit due to Saed's departure.\n\nThe departure of Mustafa Saed and Perry Saturn from ECW led New Jack to form a new tag team with former Eliminator John Kronus called The Gangstanators on August 21, 1997 by defeating The Dudley Boyz. The team debuted on television on the September 20 episode of \"Hardcore TV\" when Kronus earned a title shot at the ECW World Tag Team Championship by defeating the Dudleys and then Jack showed up as his tag team partner. They received their title shot at \"As Good as it Gets\", where Gangstanators defeated Dudley Boyz to win the World Tag Team Championship, marking Jack's third tag title reign. They lost the titles to The Full Blooded Italians (Little Guido and Tracy Smothers) on the November 1 episode of \"Hardcore TV\". They defeated Hardcore Chair Swingin' Freaks (Axl Rotten and Balls Mahoney) and Dudley Boyz in a three-way dance at \"Fright Fight\" and received a rematch for the titles against FBI, the Freaks and Dudleys in a four-way dance at November to Remember but failed to win the titles.\n\nGangstanators resumed their feud with Dudley Boyz as the two teams competed in a match at the 1998 House Party, which Dudleys won. Gangstanators formed an alliance with Spike Dudley, an arch rival of the Dudleys. At the Living Dangerously pay-per-view, New Jack and Spike Dudley defeated Hardcore Chair Swingin' Freaks and Dudley Boyz in a three-way dance. Jack would then face Bam Bam Bigelow in a losing effort at Wrestlepalooza. Jack began emerging as a singles competitor while feuding with Dudley Boyz. This led to Jack and Kronus quietly dissolving Gangstanators and going their separate ways as Jack more frequently teamed with Spike Dudley to feud with Dudley Boyz. New Jack began dragging in a garbage can full of weapons and throwing it into the ring as a sort of ultra-violent trash bag.\n\nNew Jack's feud with Dudley Boyz continued in 1999 as he teamed with Spike Dudley to compete against Dudley Boyz in a losing effort at Guilty as Charged. At \"Crossing the Line\", Jack brought out his former Gangstas tag team partner Mustafa Saed to compete against Dudley Boyz but Mustafa turned on Jack by smashing a guitar on his head and revealed himself to be the mysterious benefactor of Dudleys, who wanted to run out The Public Enemy and New Jack out of ECW. As a result, Jack began a rivalry with Mustafa, which culminated in a match between the two at Living Dangerously, which Jack won. At CyberSlam, Jack teamed with Hardcore Chair Swingin' Freaks (Axl Rotten and Balls Mahoney) against Mustafa and the Dudley Boyz in an Ultimate Jeopardy match in a losing effort. After the match, Jack drove Mustafa through a table with a diving splash from the top of the cage. Jack was out of action for the next few months until he returned to ECW at Heat Wave, where he attacked Dudley Boyz with weapons from a shopping cart.\n\nOn the October 22 episode of \"ECW on TNN\", Jack received his first opportunity for the World Heavyweight Championship against Mike Awesome but failed to win the title. On the November 5 episode of \"ECW on TNN\", Jack rescued Hardcore Chair Swingin' Freaks from an attack by Da Baldies (The Spanish Angel, Vito LoGrasso, Tony DeVito and Vic Grimes) but Angel stapled Jack in the eyes. This led to a lengthy rivalry between Jack and Angel over the unofficial title of \"King of the Streets\". The two battled back and forth over the matter in bloody street fights. One of ECW television's most gruesome moments was when in the course of a match, Angel used New Jack's staple gun (which he often wore around his neck with a chain) against him, stapling him in the eye. Referees called off the match, and New Jack disappeared from the air for many months. New Jack returned by the end of 1999 with his eye seemingly recovered, now sporting a scythe around his neck, claiming that he had \"upgraded\" the staple gun.\n\nTheir first encounter was at November to Remember, where Jack and the Freaks lost to Da Baldies in a handicap match. At the 2000 Guilty as Charged pay-per-view, Jack lost a singles match to Angel due to interference by Da Baldies. At the Living Dangerously live pay-per-view in Danbury, Connecticut on March 12, New Jack suffered serious injuries during a match against Vic Grimes involving a bump that required them to jump and fall 15 feet off a scaffold. Mere seconds before the jump, Grimes became reluctant to take this very risky bump, and New Jack, annoyed with Grimes's reluctance and unprofessionalism (because of the live broadcast they had no time to improvise) dragged Grimes down with him after a count of 3, and Grimes awkwardly fell half a second after Jack instead of falling together in the safest fashion. They fell off the scaffold, missed the tables that were supposed to absorb the force of their fall and landed on the concrete floor, with Grimes landing on New Jack's head. New Jack suffered legitimate brain damage, a broken leg, a skull fracture (resulting in permanent insomnia) and was permanently blinded in his right eye, and spent 6 months recovering, but even while injured Jack defeated Da Baldies leader Angel in a match 2 months later at Hardcore Heaven.\n\nHe appeared at Heat Wave where he appeared on crutches and Angel stapled him with his staple gun in the forehead until Nova and Chris Chetti made the save and defeated Da Baldies in a tag team match. Jack was out of action for the next few months. He returned to ECW on the September 22 episode of \"ECW on TNN\", where he rescued Spike Dudley from an assault by Justin Credible and Rhino but was double teamed by the two. Jack was named the number one contender for Rhino's World Television Championship at November to Remember, where he failed to win the title. In his last ECW match, Jack defeated longtime rival Angel on the December 17 episode of \"Hardcore TV\". Jack remained with the promotion which was closed due to bankruptcy a month later in January 2001.\n\nAfter ECW declared bankruptcy in April 2001, New Jack began wrestling on the independent circuit. In 2001 and 2002, he wrestled for XPW, and in 2003, he made multiple appearances with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and also Combat Zone Wrestling, competing in Cage of Death V. . In 2004 New Jack in IWA & appeared at the ECW reunion show, \"Hardcore Homecoming\", on June 10, 2005, as well as competing on the \"Extreme Reunion\" tour from September 15–16.\n\nNew Jack came across Grimes again in February 2002 in a scaffold match, and Jack was personally affronted by Grimes's civil behavior towards him to regain Jack's trust because Grimes had not contacted Jack when he was recovering from his injuries after their fall in Danbury 18 months before. Towards the end of the match, Jack broke from the script and legitimately shocked Grimes with a taser before throwing Grimes from the scaffold and sending him crashing to the ring 40 feet below; there were over 12 tables stacked on top of each other in the ring to break the fall, but Grimes missed all but two of them and came within less than a foot of missing the ring completely, which almost certainly would have killed him. Grimes broke his fall on the top rope, dislocating his ankle and suffering multiple other injuries in the process. In the 2005 documentary \"Forever Hardcore\", New Jack claimed that his intentions were to throw Grimes so hard that he would fall head-first onto the steel turnbuckle and be killed, as retaliation for Grimes's lack of caring after the botched spot in Danbury 18 months before. However, this is now believed to have been a 'work' on New Jack's part as closer inspection of the footage appears to show that Grimes threw himself off the scaffolding at an unexpected angle and with more velocity than intended.\n\nIn April 2003, New Jack was in a hardcore match with longtime wrestler Gypsy Joe. Before the match, Jack met Gypsy Joe and went to the booker of the show and asked exactly what he was supposed to do with Joe. Jack was told \"Gypsy Joe is as tough as leather\", and Jack replied that he was not going to lose dollar value from this match and would not have a comedy or gimmick match- but that he would kill Gypsy Joe in this match. For unknown reasons, Joe was continuously no-selling New Jack, and Joe headbutted him in the nose. New Jack then got angry with Joe and decided to get genuine sells by legitimately attacking the 71-year-old man with a chain, a framed picture of his aunt, a baseball bat wrapped in barbed wire, and several other weapons. The crowd, horrified by Jack's savage beating of this man either left the show in disgust or started calling Jack the \"n\" word- a term he had been called almost every week during his days in Smoky Mountain Wrestling. In an interview for \"Vice\" in 2019, Jack stated \"the more they called me a n****r, the angrier I got and the more I beat the guy (Gypsy Joe) up.\"\n\nIn October 2004, New Jack, wrestling for Thunder Wrestling Federation, was scheduled to fight fellow wrestler William Jason Lane at an event near Jacksonville, Florida. During the match, Lane, to New Jack's surprise began punching him in the face legitimately and landed a few blows. New Jack then pulled out a metal blade from his camouflage wrestling attire, and stabbed Lane multiple times in the head. New Jack stated in the \"Vice\" documentary series \"Dark Side of the Ring\" that the news stated he stabbed Lane 16 times. This action caused New Jack to receive various felony charges, including for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, and aggravated assault to commit murder. New Jack claims that the two met prior to the match and agreed to use a \"piece of metal\" to inflict injury. Despite this, a police officer who was recording the incident stated that it looked like it went \"past a routine wrestling match.\" The promoter of the event, Mr. Maurice Williams, claims the event was never intended to be hardcore. New Jack has claimed that he only stabbed Lane nine times. New Jack announced his retirement on XPW's A Cold Day To Hell in 2008 though he continued working independent shows. In 2012, New Jack competed for Extreme Rising and CZW.\n\nDuring 2003 and 2004 New Jack wrestled occasional events for TNA wrestling. on the April 2, 2003 NWA-TNA, New Jack, Perry Saturn and The Sandman defeated Chris Daniels and The Harris Brothers. on the April 9 NWA-TNA, New Jack and Sandman lost a 3-way match to The Harris Brothers. on the April 14 NWA-TNA, New Jack and The Sandman lost to Brian Lee and Slash.\n\nOn August 8, 2010, New Jack appeared at TNA's ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice, where he and Mustafa assaulted Team 3D and Joel Gertner after a match.\n\nOn April 5, 2013 at Pro Wrestling Syndicate's Super Card 2013 Night 2, New Jack defeated Necro Butcher in his official retirement match. Following the match New Jack and Necro Butcher embraced passionately & performed his theme song & celebrated with Marty Jannetty & Ricky Morton.\n\nNew Jack has been wrestling for Money Mark Productions and most recently wrestled Brad Cash in Lewisberg, Tennessee on April 16, 2016. On June 11, 2016, New Jack was set to face former UFC star Phil Baroni in an unsanctioned match at a Pro Wrestling Syndicate event at Starland Ballroom in Sayreville, New Jersey. In October, New Jack appeared at the Crushed 2 wrestling event in Minneapolis, MN interfering in a match between Eugene and Tommy Lee Curtis. He ran out with the garbage can full of weapons and saved Eugene from a beat down and ended up doing a diving splash through a table to pin Tommy Lee Curtis even though he was only interfering. It was billed as his last appearance in the Midwest. In January, Jack was eliminated in battle royal by White Mike but went on to defeat Mike in a singles match. In March, he teamed with fellow ECW Alumni The Sandman & Justin Credible in a winning effort at an ECW show.\n\nIn the video game \"ECW Anarchy Rulz\", New Jack's theme song was rerecorded by Bootsy Collins with unique lyrics, unlike every other character's theme, which consisted of cover versions of their real themes. The real theme (\"Natural Born Killaz\") could not be featured; copyright issues from their record labels wouldn't allow it. New Jack was featured in the 1999 wrestling documentary \"Beyond the Mat\". In addition, he appeared in the television series \"Early Edition\" on May 6, 2000 as a biker in the episode \"Mel Schwartz, Bounty Hunter\". He was also featured in the video game \"\". New Jack is also the subject of an episode of the documentary series \"Dark Side of the Ring.\" The hour-long episode debuted on Vice on March 31, 2020.\n\nNew Jack is referenced in the 1996 Weezer single \"El Scorcho\". The line \"watchin' Grunge legdrop New Jack through a press table\" was derived from a caption for a photograph of New Jack fighting wrestler Johnny Grunge that was published in \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\".\n\nNew Jack took part in a shoot interview with The Iron Sheik and The Honky Tonk Man where the subject was the Chris Benoit double-murder and suicide. New Jack commented that nothing could excuse what Benoit had done and all people on WWE and elsewhere who were making excuses for him were hypocrites. He also thought it was ironic how Extreme Championship Wrestling was seen as violent and dangerous wrestling when he was working there and still only one person died under New Jack's time with the company, whereas WWE was \"averaging three a year.\"\n\nNew Jack, along with indy wrestler Jay Lover, made a one-time appearance on \"The Daily Show\", on the May 9, 2013 episode of the show, in a segment entitled \"Stay Out Of School\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875871", "title": "The Hallucinogenic Toreador", "text": "The Hallucinogenic Toreador\n\nThe Hallucinogenic Toreador is a 1968–1970 multi-leveled oil painting by Salvador Dalí which employs the canons of his particular interpretation of surrealist thought. It is currently being exhibited at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. \n\nIn \"The Hallucinogenic Toreador\" Dalí transmits his wife's dislike for bullfighting by combining symbolism, optical illusions, and estranging yet familiar motifs. Dali used his paranoiac-critical method to create his own visual language within the painting, and combined versatile images as an instructive example of his artistic ability and vision.\n\nThe entire scene is contained within a bullfighting ring, submerged under a barrage of red and yellow tones, alluding tentatively to the colors of the Spanish flag. In the upper left section we observe a representational portrait of his wife, Gala, to whom he dedicated this piece. Her serious, rigid expression could be interpreted as a pictorial representation of her deep-seated dislike for bullfighting. In the bottom left section there is a pattern of multicolored circles. This rectangular-shaped burst of colors immediately grasps the viewer's attention and steers it down towards the visibly emerging shape of a dying bull's head (probably Islero), dripping blood and saliva from its mouth.\n\nThis pool of blood transforms itself into a sheltered bay where a human figure on a yellow raft comes into sight. The lower section of the bay takes on the shape of a Dalmatian. The slain bull slowly rises to become the landscapes of Cap de Creus, around Dalí's living place. It was said that concern for an increase in tourism led Dalí to embrace its features in the painting. The mountain is mimicked on the right; however, this time, the mountain bears greater resemblance to the precipitous mountains around the town of Roses, near Dalí's studio.\n\nAn old anecdote lies behind the painter's desire to represent the sculpted figures of Venus de Milos, seen 28 times in the painting. Dalí decided to incorporate these particular silhouettes in his paintings after a visit to New York, where he purchased a box of pencils with a reproduction of the goddess on the cover. Dalí uses negative spaces to produce an image, alternate and complementary to the Venus de Milo. This complementary image encourages the eye to contemplate the painting in such a way as to introduce the quasi-hypnotic array of forms that inhabit the canvas. Examined from a distance, the body of the second Venus reveals the face and torso of the toreador (bullfighter, likely Manolete). Her breasts as his nose, while her face transform into his eye. Their long skirts make up his white shirt and red scarf of the Toreador. The green layer makes up his necktie. His eye is found within the face of the second Venus. The soft white area unveils a tear slipping from his eye.\n\nThe gadflies of Saint Narcissus of Gerona march over the arena in seemingly straight and parallel lines, forming the cap, hairnet and cape of the toreador. Situated on the lower right hand corner, the whole spectacle is being watched by an infant boy dressed in a sailor's suit who is said to represent Dalí as a youth.\n\nWhen the painting was exhibited in a New York City gallery in the late 1960s as a work in progress, it was accompanied by an illustration of the design, matting out the areas not relevant to the Toreador so the Toreador was easier to see. It was labeled explicitly, \"How to see the toreador.\"\n"}
{"id": "1875875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875875", "title": "WUVP-DT", "text": "WUVP-DT\n\nWUVP-DT, virtual channel 65 (UHF digital channel 17), is a Univision owned-and-operated television station serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States that is licensed to Vineland, New Jersey. The station is owned by the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications, as part of a duopoly with Wildwood, New Jersey-licensed Justice Network affiliate WMGM-TV, channel 40 (which simulcasts WUVP-DT on its third digital subchannel); it is also sister to Philadelphia-licensed low-power, Class A UniMás owned-and-operated station WFPA-CD (channel 28). WUVP-DT and WFPA-CD share studios on Delsea Drive in Franklin Township, New Jersey while their news department is based in Center City, Philadelphia; WUVP shares transmitter facilities with MyNetworkTV affiliate WPHL-TV (channel 17) in the Roxborough section of Philadelphia.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on June 22, 1981 as WRBV. The station was owned by a local group called Renaissance Broadcasting of Vineland (not to be confused with the Renaissance Broadcasting Company that was sold to the Tribune Company, which owned WPHL-TV from 1991 to 2019, in 1996). Renaissance had hoped to operate the station as the ABC affiliate for southern New Jersey; however, the network decided not to add the station to its lineup, and when WRBV began operation it was running syndicated shows during the day, a half-hour local newscast at 7 p.m., and subscription television programming from Wometco Home Theater during the evening and overnight hours.\n\nThe station's signal, broadcast from a transmission tower located in Waterford Township, New Jersey ( southeast of Philadelphia), put it at a disadvantage. It covered the city of Philadelphia, but only a few of the densely populated and affluent suburbs west of the city, leaving it with a smaller potential audience than its competitors. WRBV also ran into difficulty obtaining carriage by the cable television providers within its large coverage area. In defiance of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations of the time, NYT Cable, Sammons, Tri-County and other large systems refused to add the station to their channel lineups. As a result, the station ran into financial difficulties within months, unable to get a network affiliation, garner an audience, or sell advertising to support its acquired programming and its extensive evening newscast (which was discontinued when the owners declared bankruptcy the first week of December 1981).\n\nIn December 1981, Renaissance filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, forcing the bankruptcy trustee Richard Milstead to lay off the entire newsroom staff and all but a skeleton crew of managers and technicians, as well as drop all programming outside of the Wometco Home Theater schedule. However, the station continued to sell production services and operate in bankruptcy for more than three years, resuming broadcasting within nine months and running at an operating profit under an aggressive, young staff led by veteran station manager Carmen Colucci. The former schedule of syndicated shows was succeeded by Financial News Network, public domain movies, and new syndicated series in 1982, when WWSG (channel 57, now WPSG) dropped FNN to run subscription television programming 24/7. When FNN went cable-only in 1984, WRBV began carrying a music video channel called Odyssey during all but the prime access hours. By 1985, Odyssey was broadcast during prime time as well, when Wometco Home Theater abruptly ceased operations. Management of the station under Milstead persuaded \"TV Guide\" and the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" to begin carrying the station's schedule information in their listings. Then, assisted by Washington attorneys, the station won an order by the FCC to the region's cable television systems to begin carrying WRBV. Both actions were critical to making the station attractive to potential investors.\n\nIn June 1985, Press Broadcasting Company, a division of the \"Asbury Park Press\", purchased the station for a mere $3.3 million and changed the call letters to WSJT (for \"South Jersey Television\"). Press Broadcasting executives planned to program the station with relatively recent reruns of syndicated programming, but found that the rights to virtually all current product were held by existing Philadelphia market stations, even though many were not then being broadcast. One of the stations, WWSG, which was purchased by Milton Grant a few months earlier, bought most of the stronger leftover product, as that station would change formats that coming fall and begin running those shows. Consequently, Press Broadcasting adopted a strategy of televising old black-and-white series from the 1950s and 1960s, along with B-movies. In a notable success, previous to the sale to Press Broadcasting, the station obtained the rights to the basketball games of the newly formed Big East Conference, as well as LSU Tigers football. When Villanova's men's basketball team reached the top 10 rankings in winter 1985 and the Big East conference tournament came around, WSJT was the only station in the Philadelphia region with rights to carry the games, and thousands of area residents learned about the station for the first time.\n\nSome of WSJT's shows included \"The Adventures of Ozzie & Harriet\", \"The Danny Thomas Show\", \"My Little Margie\", \"Our Miss Brooks\", \"December Bride\", \"The Donna Reed Show\", \"The Patty Duke Show\", \"Petticoat Junction\", \"Bachelor Father\", \"Love That Bob\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"Naked City\", \"Ironside\", \"The Ann Sothern Show\" and other vintage series not wanted by other Philadelphia area stations. The station also resumed broadcasting news in the form of five-minute newsbreaks at the top of primetime hours, anchored by Brian Eckert, producer of the station's first news program in 1981. Unfortunately, ratings were dismal. Channel 57 had been renamed WGBS only a few months after Channel 65's format change and easily won the third place among independent stations. Soon after, the owners of the \"Asbury Park Press\" told Press Broadcasting's management that the station would have to significantly improve ratings \"or else.\"\nIn 1986, Silver King Broadcasting, the Home Shopping Network's television station group, bought WSJT from Press Broadcasting for an astonishing $27 million. In announcing the sale to the station staff, Press Broadcasting executives said they expected to buy the defunct channel 48 license of the former WKBS, and that all of the now former WSJT staff would be rehired when that happened. However, the purchase never occurred.\n\nWSJT changed its call letters to WHSP-TV (for \"Home Shopping Philadelphia\"), and began running HSN programming on the station full-time starting on December 31 of that year. The station remained a Home Shopping Network station for the next 16 years. Silver King was acquired by USA Broadcasting in the late 1990s. There were plans to eventually convert WHSP to a general entertainment format with many sitcoms from the 1960s and 1970s, drama series, and cartoons sometime in 2002, as USA-owned stations in Miami, Atlanta, Boston and Dallas–Fort Worth had already converted to such formats. However, USA Broadcasting put its stations up for sale in late 2000.\n\nThe Walt Disney Company almost bought the stations (had Disney bought WHSP, it would have created a duopoly with ABC O&O WPVI-TV channel 6), but Univision Communications wound up outbidding them for the broadcast group in 2001. Accordingly, on January 14, 2002, WHSP affiliated with the Univision network and changed its call sign to WUVP. The move gave Univision its first full-power station in the Philadelphia area. Previously, Univision aired on a low-powered repeater of New York City's Univision station, WXTV, which aired on WXTV-LP channel 28. Following the switch, that station joined Univision's new Telefutura network, as WFPA-CA.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWUVP-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 65, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 29. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 65, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition. Eleven days later, WUVP, along with all other Univision owned-and-operated full-power television stations, permanently adopted a \"-DT\" suffix in its callsign, regardless of whether or not any stations had a \"-TV\" suffix prior to that date. As a result, the station's callsign was modified to WUVP-DT.\n\nGet TV was launched on the station's 65.3 digital sub-channel in February 2014, becoming the first free over-the-air English movie channel to be seen on the station since its affiliation with Wometco Home Theater.\n\nOn June 22, 1981, WRBV-TV aired its first program, a weeknight half-hour 7 p.m. newscast, anchored by Dick Minton, news director; produced by Brian Eckert; directed by Dave Williams, all formerly of New Jersey Public Television. Eckert produced and anchored hourly weekday newscasts that began the next day. However, news and all other \"free\" programming were discontinued when the station declared bankruptcy on December 5, 1981. In the summer of 1985, after the station became WSJT, Press Broadcasting launched hourly evening news updates, anchored by Eckert. After acquisition by HSN, WHSP broadcast hourly three-minute current affairs interview programs hosted by Eckert.\n\nWUVP-DT presently broadcasts five hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with one hour each on weekdays). On February 17, 2004, the station launched its news department with the premiere of \"Noticias 65\", airing on Monday through Friday evenings at 6 and 11 p.m. making it the first Spanish-language television news operation in the Philadelphia market anchored by Ilia García. Since the station does not produce newscasts on weekends, the station initially rebroadcast newscasts from its San Juan, Puerto Rico sister station WLII-DT. In December 2013, the station announced a news share agreement with WPVI-TV (channel 6); as a result, WUVP began airing a live newscast at 11 p.m. on December 26.\nOn September 11, 2017, it was announced that WUVP was awarded two Emmys from the Mid-Atlantic Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. The station won for news stories \"Human Interests,\" \"After a Second Chance,\" and \"New Leash on Life,\" as well as the promotional campaign \"Philadelphia Pride.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1875876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875876", "title": "FTL:2448", "text": "FTL:2448\n\nFTL:2448 is a science fiction role playing game, created by Richard Tucholka, and published by Tri Tac Games in 1982, about faster-than-light (FTL) travel with alien races. In 1985, there was an expanded edition, and in 1990, a two-volume version of the game was released. Book One covered character creation, alien races, combat, equipment, and some scenarios. Book Two included the extensive Star-System-generation system, several campaign setups, and more background information on the overall campaign. The 2000 PDF Edition includes an additional 100 pages of new material as well as starship blueprints, The Art of FTL, and additional material.\n\n\"FTL:2448\" was designed by Richard Tucholka and published by Tri-Tac Inc. in 1982 as a 102-page book in a plastic ring binder, with a 150-page revised edition in 1985. Two supplements were produced in 1986: \"Cop 2448\" by Tucholka and Kreig Branden, and \"Star Charts\" by Tucholka and Lloyd Stilwell.\n\n\"FTL:2448\" is set in the mid-25th century. Humans have developed faster-than-light travel. The game focus is, instead of a gleaming high-tech space setting or space battlefield, more of an industrial space-as-workplace view of the galaxy. Humanity has made contact with a number of alien races and is a primary force in the intergalactic governing body, ISCO.\n\nCharacters face the trials of maintaining and operating a starship. While not a war-based setting, there are hostile races. The game has been compared, in look and feel, to movies and settings such as \"Outland\", \"Space Rangers\", and \"Firefly\", in that each of these present the galaxy as a less-than-perfect place.\n\nThe game uses the same base system as Tri Tac's other releases, \"Fringeworthy\" and \"Bureau 13\". The system requires the use of a full set of polyhedral dice, pencils and paper. Forms, such as character sheets and other record sheets, are provided in the book, with permission to photocopy for personal use.\n\n\"FTL:2448\" is available in a hardcopy version or as a PDF file at website Tritacgames.com.\n\nWilliam A. Barton reviewed \"FTL:2448\" in \"Space Gamer\" No. 65. Barton commented that \"\"FTL\", while not treading any new paths, at least makes an admirable effort to cover aspects of play that too many other systems have ignored or made needlessly complex. If nothing else, I'd highly recommend it as a sourcebook for existing SFRPGs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1875877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875877", "title": "Ralph Towner", "text": "Ralph Towner\n\nRalph Towner (born March 1, 1940, Chehalis, Washington) is an American multi-instrumentalist, composer, arranger and bandleader. He plays the twelve-string guitar, classical guitar, piano, synthesizer, percussion and trumpet.\n\nTowner was born into a musical family in Chehalis, Washington. His mother was a piano teacher and his father a trumpet player. Towner learned to improvise on the piano at the age of three. He began his career as a conservatory-trained classical pianist, attending the University of Oregon from 1958-1963, where he also studied composition with Homer Keller. He studied classical guitar at the Vienna Academy of Music with from 1963-64 and 1967-68. \n\nHe joined world music pioneer Paul Winter's \"Consort\" ensemble in the late 1960s. He first played jazz in New York City in the late 1960s as a pianist and was strongly influenced by the renowned jazz pianist Bill Evans. He began improvising on classical and 12-string guitars in the late 1960s/early 1970s and formed alliances with musicians who had worked with Evans, including flautist Jeremy Steig, bassists Eddie Gómez, Marc Johnson, Gary Peacock, and drummer Jack DeJohnette.\n\nAlong with bandmates Paul McCandless, Glen Moore, and Collin Walcott, Towner left the Winter Consort in 1970 to form the group Oregon, which over the course of the 1970s issued a number of highly influential records mixing folk music, Indian classical forms, and avant-garde jazz-influenced free improvisation. At the same time, Towner began a longstanding relationship with the influential ECM record label, which has released virtually all of his non-Oregon recordings since his 1973 debut as a leader \"Trios / Solos\". \n\nTowner appeared as a sideman on Weather Report's 1972 album \"I Sing the Body Electric\". His 1975 album Solstice which featured a popular track called \"Nimbus\" demonstrates his skill and versatility to the full using a 12-string guitar.\n\nSince the early 1990s, Towner has lived in Italy, first in Palermo and then in Rome.\n\nTowner eschews amplification, using only 6-string nylon-string and 12-string steel-string guitars. As a result, he tends to avoid high-volume musical environments, preferring small groups of mostly acoustic instruments that emphasize dynamics and group interplay. Towner also obtains a percussive effect (e.g., \"Donkey Jamboree\" from \"Slide Show\" with Gary Burton) from the guitar by weaving a matchbook among the strings at the neck of the instrument. Both with Oregon and as a solo artist, Towner has made significant use of overdubbing, allowing him to play piano (or synthesizer) and guitar on the same track; his most notable use of the technique came on his 1974 album \"Diary\", in which he plays guitar-piano duets with himself on most of the album's 8 tracks. In the 1980s, Towner began using the Sequential Circuits Prophet-5 synthesizer extensively but has since de-emphasized his synthesizer and piano playing in favor of guitar.\n\nTwo lunar craters were named by the Apollo 15 astronauts after two of Towner's compositions, \"Icarus\" and \"Ghost Beads.\"\n\n\nWith Atmosphere\n\nWith Oregon\n\nWith Paul Winter Consort\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875881", "title": "Bureau 13", "text": "Bureau 13\n\nBureau 13 is a fictional top-secret government agency which investigates and combats supernatural events, featured in the eponymous role-playing game (RPG) series. The Bureau's motto is \"Protecting America from Every\"thing\"\". \"Stalking the Night Fantastic\" is a Bureau 13 horror game released by Tri Tac Games in 1983.\n\nIn 1991, the Bureau 13 series won the Gamers Choice Award at Gencon for best Fantasy Game. In 2008 a new d20 Modern edition was released. The series has a definite tongue in cheek attitude that is emphasized by both the background stories and the illustrations.\n\nBureau 13 (the 13th Bureau of the U.S. Department of Justice) was founded in 1862 by Abraham Lincoln to deal with supernatural and paranormal threats to the Union (and to suppress public knowledge of them). Its first agents were a motley crew of military personnel, Pinkerton detectives, civilian consultants, freed slaves, paroled criminals, and even Confederate prisoners of war.\nAfter the Civil War, the Bureau had access to a large budget and limitless resources. Safe houses and caches of equipment were stockpiled across the country. The headquarters in Washington, D.C., later became the East Coast office. A West Coast office was created in Silver City, New Mexico Territory, to speed up response times to threats on the frontier. After the Indian Wars and the settling of the West, Bureau 13 began to face threats outside the jurisdiction of the United States, and so the Bureau's agents served during World War I, World War II, and the Cold War.\n\nOn 7 July 1977, an attack destroyed the Bureau 13 headquarters and killed hundreds of agents. This was later dubbed the \"'77 Massacre\". This shattered the organization. Scattered groups of survivors took years to re-form. The remaining agents decided to go underground as a cell-based network. Gradually they began to create networks of \"friendlies\" - assets and sympathizers that would help the Bureau when called upon. As the number of original agents retired or died, the \"friendlies\" started to be promoted to agent status. Most agents encountered are usually civilians who received their training on the job.\n\nThe job of Bureau 13 is as it has always been. Investigate the strange or unusual, analyze the evidence to see if there is a supernatural or paranormal cause, and assess whether the cause is hostile or dangerous.\n\nBureau 13 tends to have a weird, humorous or satirical bent to it. Another factor is that the characters are usually mundane civilians rather than commandos or Men In Black. They don't usually have a lot of military or espionage skills.\n\n\nNick Pollotta has published five novels set in the Bureau 13 universe:\n\nGameTek published a video game based on the role-playing game in 1995. Depending on which agents the player picked and how they handled people they encountered, the mission would go differently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875886", "title": "Rodney (wrestler)", "text": "Rodney (wrestler)\n\nRodney Lienhardt (born January 1, 1971) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with the World Wrestling Federation from 1999 to 2001 under the ring name Rodney.\n\nLienhardt was a childhood friend of Shane McMahon, the son of World Wrestling Federation owner Vince McMahon. Lienhardt and Shane attended junior high together in Greenwich, Connecticut, befriending Pete Gasparino in high school, where the trio played American football. After graduating from high school, Lienhardt and Gasparino would exercise at the WWF gym in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nIn 1999, Shane McMahon invited Lienhardt and Gasparino to appear on WWF television as part of an angle. Lienhardt (known simply as \"Rodney\") and Gasparino (renamed \"Pete Gas\") debuted on WWF television on the March 22, 1999 episode of \"Raw is War\" as part of a stable known as the \"Mean Street Posse\", and began assisting Shane in his feud with Test and helping him retain the European Championship. Joey Abs was added to the faction three months later. Shane eventually turned face and briefly feuded with his former allies before leaving WWF television.\n\nThe Posse took part in a tag team battle royal for the number one contendership to the WWF World Tag Team Championship at Armageddon 1999, and gained an advantage by switching places with the third wrestler behind the referees' backs, thus enabling them to outnumber the other teams three to two. Despite this advantage, they failed to win and were the first team eliminated.\n\nIn early 2000, the Posse repeatedly tried to defeat Crash Holly for the WWF Hardcore Championship, attacking the champion in unlikely venues such as an airport, a circus and his hotel room. At WrestleMania 2000 on April 2, the trio took part in a Hardcore battle royal for the Hardcore Championship. Lienhardt pinned Funaki to win the title after stunning him by throwing him into a metal fence railing, but was pinned by Abs just fourteen seconds later. Despite the infighting, the Posse remained a relatively cohesive unit. On an episode of \"Sunday Night Heat\" later that year, Edge and Christian briefly became the managers of the Mean Street Posse. They accompanied them to ringside for the duration of their WWF World Tag Team Championships title match with the Hardy Boyz, assisting the Posse with the proviso that they would receive a title shot if the posse was to win. The Hardy Boyz, however, thwarted the interference of Edge and Christian and retained their titles.\n\nLater that year, all three members of the Posse were sent to Memphis Championship Wrestling, then a WWF developmental territory. On May 24, 2000 in Tunica, Mississippi, Lienhardt and Abs defeated Bull Pain and Todd Morton to win the MCW Southern Tag Team Championship. They lost the titles to The Kingpins on July 26 in Memphis, Tennessee, but regained the titles on August 12, 2000 in Jackson, Mississippi. Their second reign ended when they were defeated by The Dupps on October 28 in Jonesboro, Arkansas.\n\nLienhardt was then sent to the MCW affiliate Memphis Power Pro Wrestling, where he was renamed RodRageous. He defeated Bulldog Raines to win the MPPW Television Championship on January 27, 2001 in Memphis. He lost the title to Grandmaster Sexay on February 21 of that year in Jonesboro, but regained the title just three days later in Memphis. His second reign came to an end on March 17, 2001, when MPPW severed all connection with the WWF and vacated all titles held by WWF employees. Lienhardt and the remainder of the Posse were released by the WWF later that year.\nLienhardt is married with two daughters. Now retied from wrestling he runs a landscaping company in Glen Ridge, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875894", "title": "Freeride", "text": "Freeride\n\nFreeride is a discipline of mountain biking closely related to downhill biking and dirt jumping focused on tricks, style, and technical trail features. It is now recognized as one of the most popular disciplines within mountain biking.\n\nThe term freeriding was originally coined by snowboarders, meaning riding without a set course, goals or rules on natural terrain. In mountain biking, it is riding trail with the most creative line possible that includes style, amplitude, control, and speed. Many in the cycling industry suggest that the Laguna Rads were the first to freeride, that is riding terrain that didn't already have an existing path or network of trails.\n\nThe original freeride bikes were modified downhill bikes which utilized gearing that enabled the rider to go up hills as well as down them. Modern freeride bikes are similar to downhill bikes, but feature slightly less suspension travel and are lighter – which enables them to be ridden not just downhill but through more technical sections, such as North Shore obstacles. Most freeride bikes feature slightly steeper headangles and shorter wheelbases than pure downhill bikes. Although a minimal difference, it is done to help with maneuverability and spin tricks.\nSki areas have started to embrace the sport of freeriding, adding bike racks to chairlifts to create \"lift accessed mountain biking\". This helps ski areas operate year-round and gives the bikers the ability to ride more runs in less time.\n\nA few specialist riders have embraced the sport including:\n\nDue to similarities with the bicycles used and often the riding locations, the divisions between downhill riding and freeriding are often overlooked. For example, freeride bikes have steeper head tube angles and shorter wheelbases for low-speed stability on technical stunts, while downhill bikes have slacker headtube angles and longer wheelbases for absolute high-speed stability at the cost of low-speed maneuverability. Downhill riding is primarily concerned with descending a slope on a given course as quickly as possible. There are often many obstacles in downhill riding, including jumps, drops, and rocky sections.\n\nFreeride is, by definition, a much broader realm of riding. For example, a freerider may often ride a very narrow wooden plank raised as many as twenty five feet above the ground, drop off of cliffs, raised platforms, or other man-made or natural objects onto a landing, or \"transition\" up to forty feet below. This may involve jumping over a structure below, such as a road or highway. Many aspects of freeriding are similar to downhill riding, with wide open speed and technical and very steep sections, or dirt jumping, with a series of man-made jumps and landings. Another key difference is the emphasis on performing tricks or stylish riding stances while airborne. A freeride course can be compared to a skatepark, where the purpose of the trail is to provide ample opportunities for the rider to become airborne, throw tricks, and create new and imaginative lines on and over the terrain.\n\nThe frame is made usually of aluminium alloys and/or steel, and usually smaller build compared to a downhill bike. It is also equipped with rear suspension systems, and many manufacturers still rely on simpler systems (i.e. single-pivot) in order to preserve strength and un-interrupted suspension travel. Freeride frames can also be lighter (where weight is an important consideration) than downhill frames, with these bikes being designated \"freeride lite\" and may come equipped with the new, oversized \"onepointfive\"(inch) head tube standard, in order to cater for increasing demand for stronger, long-travel(150–200 mm), single crown forks. There also exists a burlier breed of freeride bicycles. These bikes were originally designed for weight-no-object strength and reliability rather than lighter weight. However, in recent years, due to the emergence of new forging techniques for aluminum and the introduction of carbon fiber as a viable construction material, these frames have become considerably lighter than earlier generations, sometimes comparable to the weight of normal bicycles.\n\nSingle crown Forks are now more popular. Companies such as Fox, Answer Products(Manitou), Marzocchi and RockShox, introduced them with very similar strength to their dual crown counterparts, with the immense advantage of being single crown. This enables a significantly narrower steering diameter, and, more recently, airborne tricks such as 'barspin' or 'tailwhip', at the expense of torsional rigidity. This enables the bike to be used in a variety of ways.\n\nFreeride mountain bikes are often geared differently to downhill or other mountain bikes. There are three main types of Freeride mountain bike gearings, these are Single Speed, Short Range and Long Range. Single Speed mountain bikes use a single chainring at the front, mounted to the cranks, and a single cog at the rear, normally mounted to a freewheel or a freehub. A Short range freeride bike uses a single chainring at the front, with a cassette hub, containing multiple (usually 7 or 10) cogs, ranging in size from 10 teeth to 24 teeth. A Long range freeride bike normally has a single chainring at the front (however older bikes may have 2 or 3) with multiple (10 or 11) cogs at the rear mounted on a cassette hub, ranging in size from 10-36t. The larger number of gears and larger rear rings provide a more \"low low gear\" for climbing up steep surfaces.\n\nThere are many competitions in the discipline of freeride mountain biking that take place around the globe, similar to downhill mountain biking. The most popular competitions include Red Bull Rampage, Red Bull Crankworx and Red Bull Joyride, all of which take place once a year.\nX-Games had slopestyle mountain bike event introduced and debut in X-Games Munich 2013. The sport hasn’t been able to follow up with X-Games since despite its popularity and growth over the years. This is partially due to the poorly executed event which had a poorly designed course. Along with bad wind conditions and constant rain throughout the weekend. Due to the conditions and sketchy course many riders chose not to ride and in the finals only consisted of 6 riders. Athlete Martin Soderstrom would be the only European rider who dropped on his run he later quoted saying “I would say that we pretty much had all the bad luck we could get for our first X-games with the rain and wind and a course that was really hard to trick.” \n\nX-Games legend Cam Zink competed finals with a separated shoulder. He later was quoted on ESPN saying “Who cares if the course sucks? Sack up and ride!”\nCrankworx\nIs a series of slopestyle events that take place in FMB world tour. \nRed Bull Joyride\nKnown as the Super Bowl of the sport Joyride takes place in Whistler Canada.\n\nRed Bull District Ride \nIs a street style contest that goes throughout the streets of a city and later into the final massive jump.\n\nThe sport has spread across the planet, but the widely recognized starting point for the addition of man-made obstacles for downhill trails is Vancouver, British Columbia's \"North Shore\". This refers to three mountains across the Burrard Inlet from downtown Vancouver, Mount Seymour, Mt. Fromme, and Cypress Mountain.\n\nThe mountains weren't the first places to have downhill trails with natural obstacles, but they were one of the first places to have man-made obstacles such as skinny bridges and teeter totters. The trail builders often integrate many natural features, using fallen logs to ride on and rocks faces to jump or ride down.\n\nTrails on the North Shore are mostly described as \"technical\". This means that the trails corners are tight and the tread strewn of natural obstacles such as rocks and roots.\n\nThe \"shore\" has seen some controversy. Most of the trails are built on private property or parkland. BC Parks has responded to growing popularity of freeriding with increased enforcement against illegal trail building and usage. A major voice in the conflict in North Vancouver District was councillor Ernie Crist, who had been lobbying for the closing of all the trails on Mt. Fromme. Housing developments at the base of the mountains complain of bikers going across their lawns etc. The expansion of the residential areas called for the destruction of some trails on Cypress Mountain. There were also cases of sabotage (such as the removal of bridge supports). Most recently, Howell at the Moon Productions partnered with IMBA to create \"Pedal-Driven: a bikeumentary\", a documentary film highlighting the conflicts and confrontations between freeriders and public land managers over the right to build trails and ride on public lands.\n\nTo help promote biking and keep the trails open there is an advocacy group, the North Shore Mountain Biking Association (NSMBA). They negotiate with landowners, organize volunteers to maintain the trails and hold races. The NSMBA 101 document explains the organizations involvement.\n\nFreeride mountain-biking movies are films about freeride mountain-biking and downhill mountain biking. Scenes from freeride competitions are normally included. Given the high spectacularity of the freeride and downhill action, an increasing number of films are released every year, covering the annual major competitions and promoting particular trails and champions. The Film \"Where the Trail Ends\" and the YouTube series \"Life Behind Bars\" are very good examples of freeriding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875895", "title": "Danú", "text": "Danú\n\nDanú is an Irish traditional music band.\n\nThe founding members of Danú (Donnchadh Gough, Dónal Clancy, Daire Bracken, and Benny McCarthy) met in Waterford in Ireland in 1994, and consolidated as a band after performing in the Festival Interceltique de Lorient in 1995.\n\nTheir second album, \"Think Before You Think\" (2000) was voted Best Overall Traditional Act by Dublin's magazine \"Irish Music\". They are the only band to have been voted Best Traditional Group twice in the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards, in 2001 and again in 2004 when their version of Tommy Sands's \"County Down\" also won Best Original Song.\n\nBenny McCarthy is a founding member of Danú; he manages and performs with the band and plays button accordion and melodeon. Benny won the All Ireland Oireachtas in 1994 on both button accordion and melodeon. He is the driving force of Danú and is a key member of several other bands including Raw Bar Collective and Cordeen.\n\nOisín McAuley, a previous member of Stockton's Wing, plays four- and five-string fiddle with Danú. He has recently released a solo album of fiddle music. Jesse Smith and Daire Bracken previously played fiddle for Danú.\n\nTom Doorley was the flute-player with Danú from 1996 until he retired from large-scale touring in 2007, and often acts as the spokesman for the band on stage. He teaches and lives in Dublin and makes an appearance now and again with Danú at concerts in Ireland and Europe. Ivan Goff, who had been a guest on several tours before Tom Doorley's retirement, became the full-time flute player for the band following his retirement. An accomplished Uileann piper, flute and whistle player from Dublin, Goff is based in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nÉamon Doorley plays bouzouki and fiddle, and is the younger brother of Tom Doorley. His bouzouki playing has a strong emphasis on countermelody. He currently collaborates with his wife Julie Fowlis, playing mainly Scottish Gaelic music and song. The Doorley brothers joined Danú in 1996.\n\nDonnchadh Gough, another founding member of the band, plays both bodhran and uillean pipes. He guests on Bodhran with Danú in Ireland and Europe. Amy Richter has performed on Bodhran with Danú during US tours since Dec 2017.\n\nUntil 2016, the band's lead singer was Muireann Nic Amhlaoibh, who replaced earlier singer Ciarán Ó Gealbháin, a tenor who left to finish his education in May 2003, and who had in turn replaced founding member Cárthach Mac Craith in August 1999. Nic Amhlaoibh sang in English and Irish, in the folk and Sean Nós traditions, and also played flute and whistle. In January, 2016, it was announced that she would be leaving the band to be replaced by Sean Nós singer Nell Ní Chróinín.\n\nDónal Clancy a founding member of Danú was the guitar player for the band in 1995 and returned to the band in 2002 until he retired from Danú in March 2017. During his absence, he was replaced by guitar player from Newport, Co.Tipperary Noel Ryan. Clancy was replaced by Tony Byrne, who had done tours with the band since 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875896", "title": "Julie Cox", "text": "Julie Cox\n\nJulie Cox (born 24 April 1973) is an English actress. She played Princess Irulan in the Sci Fi Channel's 2000 miniseries \"Frank Herbert's Dune\" and its 2003 sequel, \"Frank Herbert's Children of Dune\". She also played The Childlike Empress in \"The Neverending Story III\".\n\nCox was born in Ely, Cambridgeshire, to a father who worked as an engineer in the oil business, and a mother of Irish and Scottish ancestry who died when Cox was a child.\n\nOne of Cox's earliest roles was the Childlike Empress in the 1994 film \"The NeverEnding Story III\". She played Diana, Princess of Wales in \"Princess in Love\" by David Greene, a film released in 1996 based upon the publication by Anna Pasternak. Cox played the character Sophie Aronnax in a remake of \"20,000 Leagues under the Sea\" in 1997, and in 1999 she appeared as Giulietta in the film adaptation of \"Alegría\".\n\nCox portrayed Princess Irulan in the 2000 Sci Fi Channel miniseries \"Frank Herbert's Dune\" and its 2003 sequel, \"Frank Herbert's Children of Dune\".\n\nCox starred with Jean-Claude Van Damme in \"Second in Command\" (2006) and in 2007 was the female lead in \"The Riddle\" alongside Vinnie Jones, Derek Jacobi, and Vanessa Redgrave. She starred in \"The Oxford Murders\" with Elijah Wood and John Hurt in 2008.\n\nCox portrayed a fictionalised Mary Shelley, a companion of the Eighth Doctor, in several Big Finish Productions \"Doctor Who\" audio dramas, including \"The Company of Friends\", \"The Silver Turk\", \"The Witch from the Well\" and \"Army of Death\".\n\nCox lives in Bristol, U.K. with her partner, with whom she has a son, Luke. In addition to acting, she also runs a business called \"Luke Drew This\" (named after her son), which creates clothing and gifts for families from children's artwork using organic and locally sourced materials.\n"}
{"id": "1875902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875902", "title": "Johnny Stompanato", "text": "Johnny Stompanato\n\nJohn Stompanato Jr. (October 10, 1925 – April 4, 1958), was a United States Marine who became a bodyguard and enforcer for gangster Mickey Cohen and the Cohen crime family.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, he began an abusive relationship with actress Lana Turner. In 1958, he was stabbed to death by Turner's daughter, Cheryl Crane, who said she did it to defend her mother from a vicious beating by Stompanato. His death was ruled as justifiable homicide because he had been killed in self-defense.\n\nJohn Stompanato Jr., was born into an Italian American family in Woodstock, Illinois. His father, John Sr., owned a barber shop and his mother, Carmela, was a seamstress. Both parents were born in Italy but were married in Brooklyn. They had moved to Woodstock in 1916. Stompanato was the youngest of four children: he had two older sisters, Grace and Teresa; and an older brother, Carmine. Six days after his birth, his mother died of peritonitis. Johnny's father soon married a woman named Verena Freitag.\n\nIn 1940, after Stompanato's freshman year at Woodstock High School, his father sent him to Kemper Military School for boys in Boonville, Missouri. In 1942, he graduated at the age of 17. In 1943, Stompanato joined the U.S. Marines serving with the 1st Service Battalion, 1st Marine Division. He served in the South Pacific theater, in Peleliu and Okinawa, and then served in China. Stompanato left the Corps in March 1946, being discharged in China.\n\nStompanato met his first wife, Sara Utush, a Turkish woman, while stationed in Tianjin, China. They wed in May 1946. Utush was a dress designer who had formerly lived in Beijing. Stompanato converted to Islam in order to marry her. They returned to Woodstock where they had their first son, John Stompanato III, who was born in September 1947. Stompanato left his wife and child and moved to Hollywood, California, in 1947. His wife was granted a divorce in Illinois on the grounds of desertion in January 1949. The next month, Stompanto, described in a news article as a \"ceramics manufacturer,\" married actress Helen Gilbert. Three months later, Gilbert announced she would seek to end the marriage, calling it a \"mistake.\" They divorced in July 1949.\n\nAfter moving to Los Angeles, Stompanato owned and managed \"The Myrtlewood Gift Shop\" in Westwood. The business sold inexpensive pieces of crude pottery and wood carvings as fine art. Through connections to the LA underworld, he became a bodyguard for gangster Mickey Cohen and as well as an enforcer for his crime family. Stompanato also established himself within Hollywood society. In 1948, Frank Sinatra asked Cohen to tell Stompanato to keep away from Ava Gardner. But the mob boss instead told Sinatra to go back to his wife and children, because he never got between men and their \"broads.\" \n\nIn August 1949, Stompanato was described in the press as the \"new right hand man\" and bodyguard of rackets boss Mickey Cohen, replacing Neddie Herbert, who was slain in an ambush the previous month. At the time, Stompanato was arrested on a charge of vagrancy. He was driving a Cadillac at the time of his arrest, which was ordered as part of a campaign by Los Angeles County sheriff Eugene W. Biscailuz to \"de-hoodlumize\" the Sunset Strip. He was carrying checks totaling $33,657.50. \n\nIn 1950, Stompanato, described as a \"recent and inexperienced recruit from Illinois,\" was listed as one of the principal members of the Cohen gang by the California Commission on Organized Crime. Throughout the 1950s, he was arrested seven times by the LAPD for various criminal charges ranging from vagrancy to suspicion of robbery.\n\nIn October 1952, Stompanato left Cohen and started dating Helene Stanley, a former 20th Century Fox contract player. By December, he was working as her manager. The following year, she became his third wife; however, they divorced two years later. \n\nBy 1957, Stompanato was in a relationship with actress Lana Turner (who had split up from her fifth husband Lex Barker). She had also just lost her MGM contract after a series of box office flops. In recognition of their relationship, he wore a heavy gold-link bracelet on his wrist with \"Lanita\" inscribed inside. Turner's daughter Cheryl Crane described him as:\n\nB-picture good looks... thick set ... powerfully built and soft spoken ... and talked in short sentences to cover a poor grasp of grammar and spoke in a deep baritone voice. With friends, he seldom smiled or laughed out loud, but seemed always coiled, holding himself in ... had watchful hooded eyes that took in more than he wanted anyone to notice ... His wardrobe on a daily basis consisted of roomy, draped slacks, a silver buckled skinny leather belt and lizard shoes.\n\nTheir relationship was stormy; it was often punctuated with frequent arguments and fights. In 1957, Stompanato became so jealous about Turner's relationship with future James Bond actor Sean Connery, he flew to the United Kingdom. He stormed onto the set of \"Another Time, Another Place\" threatening Connery with a gun. Unperturbed, the 6 ft 2 in Scotsman, who was a former body builder and karate black belt, bent Stompanato's hand back forcing him to drop the weapon. He was reported to the police and quietly deported from the United Kingdom. After Stompanato's death, it was rumored that at least one LA mobster held Connery responsible, leading the actor to go into hiding for a short time afterwards.\n\nOn April 4, 1958, Stompanato was stabbed to death by Turner's teenage daughter Cheryl Crane at her mother's home in Beverly Hills, California. She claimed that Stompanato had been violently attacking her mother, so she stabbed him. A coroner's inquest returned a decision of justifiable homicide. After the ruling, Stompanato's family sued Turner for $750,000 (later settled for $20,000).\n\nStompanato is interred at Oakland Cemetery, in Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois beside his mother Carmela (1890–1925), his father John (1890–1952), and his stepmother Verena (1901–1967). His brother Carmine (1912–1961) is buried nearby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875908", "title": "Prime Minister of Mauritius", "text": "Prime Minister of Mauritius\n\nThe Prime Minister of Mauritius () is the head of government of Mauritius. He presides over the Cabinet of Ministers which advises the President of the Country and is collectively responsible to the National Assembly for any advice given and for all action done by or under the authority of any Minister in the execution of his office.\n\nThe position is the most powerful constitutional office of the Republic. This is mainly because the office is amalgamated with other functions whereby conventions, the office holder is also the Minister of Defense & Home Affairs (which makes the office holder responsible for law & order, internal security, defense, the armed forces and intelligence services), the Leader of the National Assembly (which makes the office holder responsible for setting the agenda for parliament) and Minister for Rodrigues & Dependencies (which makes the office holder responsible for territorial occupancy, administration of local dependencies & their defense). It is also inter-alia, the head of government and presides over the cabinet of Ministers. It is second in the order of precedence just after the president and enjoys relative importance in the public as the office holder is usually the leader of the party/alliance that wins an election.\n\nThe current Prime Minister of Mauritius, [[B Fley], leader of the [[Militant Socialist Movement|MSM]], was appointed by the President on 23 January 2017 following the resignation of coalition leader Sir [[Anerood Jugnauth]] who held the post following victory of his Alliance in the [[2014 Mauritian general election|2014 General Election]]. The [[official residence]] of the Prime Minister during his term in office is the [[Clarisse House]], the [[List of constitutional offices of Mauritius|Prime Minister's Office]] is located in [[Port Louis]]. The longest serving prime minister is [[Anerood Jugnauth]] who held the office for 19 years as Prime Minister.\n\nThe current Prime Minister's portfolio includes, inter-alia, the following:\n\nThe Prime Minister is appointed by the President. He or She holds the second most senior position in the country, second only to the president. The Prime Minister is usually the leader of the largest party in the ruling coalition. The position of Prime Minister along with the office of [[Deputy Prime Minister of Mauritius|Deputy Prime Minister]] is specified under CHAPTER VI Section 59 Part 1 of the [[Constitution of Mauritius]].\n\nAfter the country became a Republic on 12 March 1992, the President became the [[Head of State]]. The President holds [[prerogative powers]] which includes summoning, prorogation and dissolution of parliament including appointment of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The Prime Minister has the constitutional duty to advise him/her when to exercise these prerogatives.\n\nDuring the [[British Mauritius]] period, it was the [[Chief Minister]] who was the [[head of government]], [[Executive (government)|executive powers]] was vested by the Governor, representative of the Monarch. The only Chief Minister which the country had known was [[Seewoosagur Ramgoolam|Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam]], from 26 September 1961 to 12 March 1968.\n\nThe office of the Prime Minister of Mauritius was created on 12 March 1968 when Mauritius became an independent state. [[Queen Elizabeth II]] remained as head of state as [[Queen of Mauritius]], with her executive powers in Mauritius delegated to the [[Governor-General of Mauritius|governor-general]].\n\nAfter the [[1967 Mauritian general election|1967 General Election]], [[Seewoosagur Ramgoolam|Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam]] (SSR) became the first Prime Minister of Mauritius, he was re-elected in the [[1976 Mauritian general election|1976 General Election]] and remained in office. In the [[1982 Mauritian general election|1982 General Election]], [[Anerood Jugnauth|Sir Anerood Jugnauth]] (SAJ) coalition was elected, he became Prime Minister. However his alliance break up in 1983 and the [[1983 Mauritian general election|1983 General Election]] was held, SAJ formed another alliance, he was elected again and remain in office. In the [[1987 Mauritian general election|1987 General Election]], another coalition concluded by SAJ won again, he remained in office. SAJ also won the [[1991 Mauritian general election|1991 General Election]] and remained the Prime Minister of Mauritius. The new leader of the Labour Party [[Navin Ramgoolam|Dr. Navin Ramgoolam]], became the [[Leader of the Opposition (Mauritius)|Leader of the Opposition]].\n\nAfter the country became a Republic on 12 March 1992, the President became the [[Head of State]]. The President holds [[prerogative powers]] which includes summoning, prorogation and dissolution of parliament including appointment of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The Prime Minister has the constitutional duty to advise him/her when to exercise these prerogatives.\n\nOn 12 March 1992, Mauritius became a Republic State, with a new constitution in 1992, the terms of the General Elections was regulated to 5 years. Since then, each 5 years elections take place and a new Prime Minister is elected. After the [[1995 Mauritian general election|1995 General Election]], Dr. Navin Ramgoolam became Prime Minister of Mauritius for the first time. However, he lost the [[2000 Mauritian general election|2000 General Election]]. In 2000, the Prime Minister's office was shared between two leaders, Sir Anerood Jugnauth spent 3 years as Prime Minister and [[Paul Bérenger]] spent 2 years. After the [[2005 Mauritian general election|2005 General Election]], Dr. Navin Ramgoolam became the Prime Minister of Mauritius again. In [[2010 Mauritian general election|2010 General Election]], he was re-elected and remained in office. The [[2014 Mauritian general election|2014 General Election]] returned Sir Anerood Jugnauth to the Prime Minister's office.\n\nAccording to the third Schedule of the [[Constitution of Mauritius]], an oath under this section shall be administered by the Prime Minister.\n\n\n[[Category:Government of Mauritius]]\n[[Category:Mauritian politicians]]\n[[Category:History of Mauritius]]\n[[Category:Prime Ministers of Mauritius]]\n[[Category:1968 establishments in Mauritius]]"}
{"id": "1875910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875910", "title": "EMD 645", "text": "EMD 645\n\nThe EMD 645 family of diesel engines was designed and manufactured by the Electro-Motive Division of General Motors. While the 645 series was intended primarily for locomotive, marine and stationary engine use, one 16-cylinder version powered the 33-19 \"Titan\" prototype haul truck designed by GM's Terex division.\n\nThe 645 series was an evolution of the earlier 567 series and a precursor to the later 710 series. First introduced in 1965, the EMD 645 series remained in production on a by-request basis long after it was replaced by the 710, and most 645 service parts are still in production. The EMD 645 engine series is currently supported by Electro-Motive Diesel, Inc., which purchased the assets of the Electro-Motive Division from General Motors in 2005.\n\nIn 1951, E. W. Kettering wrote a paper for the ASME entitled, \"History and Development of the 567 Series General Motors Locomotive Engine\", which goes into great detail about the technical obstacles that were encountered during the development of the 567 engine. These same considerations apply to the 645 and 710, as these engines were a logical extension of the 567C, by applying a cylinder bore increase, 645, and a cylinder bore increase \"and\" a stroke increase, 710, to achieve a greater power output, without changing the external size of the engines, or their weight, thereby achieving significant improvements in horsepower per unit volume and horsepower per unit weight.\n\nThe 645 series engines entered production in 1965. As the 567 series had reached its limits in horsepower increases, a larger displacement was needed; this was accomplished by increasing the bore from on the 567 series to on the 645 series, while maintaining the same stroke and deck height. While the crankcase was modified from the 567 series, 567C and later engines (or 567 engines which have been modified to 567C specifications, sometimes referred to as 567AC or 567BC engines) can accept 645 series service parts, such as power assemblies. Conversely, the 567E engine employs a 645E series block with 567 series power assemblies.\n\nAll 645 engines utilize either a Roots blower or a turbocharger for cylinder scavenging. The turbocharger (a combination turbo-compressor system) follows EMD's innovative design that uses a gear train and over-running clutch to drive the compressor rotor during low engine speed, when exhaust gas temperature (and, correspondingly, heat energy) alone is insufficient to drive the turbine. At higher engine speeds, increased exhaust gas temperature is sufficient to drive the turbine and the clutch disengages, turning the turbo-compressor system into a true turbocharger. The turbo-compressor can revert to compressor mode momentarily during demands for large increases in engine output power. While more expensive to maintain than Roots blowers, the turbocharger significantly reduces fuel consumption and emissions, while improving high-altitude performance. Additionally, EMD's turbo-compressor can provide a 50 percent increase in maximum rated horsepower over Roots-blown engines for the same engine displacement ( for the Roots-blown 16-645, and for the turbocharged 16-645, and similar increases for 12- and 8-cylinder 645s).\n\nHorsepower for naturally aspirated engines (including Roots-blown two-stroke engines) is usually derated 2.5 percent per above mean sea level, a tremendous penalty at the or greater elevations which several Western U.S. and Canada railroads operate, and this can amount to a 25 percent power loss. Turbocharging effectively eliminates this derating.\n\nThe 645 series has a maximum engine speed of between 900 and 950 revolutions per minute (rpm), an increase over the 800 to 900 rpm maximum speed for the 567 series. An engine speed of 900 rpm was essential for 60 Hz stationary power generator applications and certain passenger locomotives equipped with 60 Hz, 480-volt three-phase \"head-end power\" systems. When used solely for traction purposes, the engine speed varies depending on the throttle position. The 950 rpm maximum speed of the 645F engine proved to be too high, thereby compromising its reliability, and the replacement engine, the 710G, reverted to 900 rpm maximum speed.\n\nEMD built an SD40 demonstrator (number 434) in July 1964 to field test the 16-645E3 engine, followed by another eight SD40 demonstrators (numbers 434A through 434H) and a GP40 demonstrator (number 433A) in 1965. In December 1965 and January 1966, EMD built three SD45 demonstrators (numbers 4351 through 4353) to field test the 20-645E3 engine.\n\nWhen the 645 engine entered production in 1965, a large series of new locomotive models was introduced. The turbocharged version was used in EMD's \"40 Series\" (GP40, SD40 and SD45) in , sixteen-cylinder form and in , twenty-cylinder form. EMD also introduced the Roots-blown \"38 Series\" (GP38, SD38) and turbocharged, twelve-cylinder \"39 Series\" (GP39, SD39). All of these locomotive models extensively share common components and subsystems, thereby significantly reducing cost and increasing interchangeability. The GP38-2 and SD40-2 became the most popular models of the series and among the most popular locomotive models ever built.\n\nStarting with the introduction of the 645 series engines, EMD's model naming convention generally increased model designs by ten (such as with the 40, 50, 60 and 70 series). The number was reduced by one for twelve-cylinder versions (such as the 39, 49 and 59 series); reduced by two for Roots-blown versions (for the 38 series); and increased by five for higher-horsepower versions (such as the 45 and 75 series).\n\nUnlike the 645 series, the 710 series does not offer a Roots-blown model, but nothing in the basic design of that engine prevents such an offering, although a pair of Roots blowers which would be required for a Roots-blown 710 series likely would be too large (too long) to fit in the available carbody space, and making a special carbody just for the very few likely to be ordered would be economically unsound.\n\nAll 645 engines are two-stroke 45-degree V-engines. Each cylinder is of displacement, hence the name; with a bore of , a stroke of and a compression ratio of 14.5:1. The engine is a uniflow design with four poppet-type exhaust valves in the cylinder head and charge air scavenging ports within the sides of the cylinders. All engines use a single overhead camshaft per bank, with exhaust valves operated by two cam lobes (each of which operates two exhaust valves through a \"bridge\") and one cam lobe to operate the Unit injector which is in the center of the four exhaust valves. Rocker arms are roller-equipped to eliminate friction while hydraulic valve actuators are used to eliminate valve lash. Post-1995 710 engines employ Electronic Unit injectors, however these injectors still utilize a camshaft-actuated piston pump, as on non-EFI injectors.\n\nCylinders in each V-pair are directly opposite each other, and since all rods are always in compression, the connecting rods use a simple system of \"fork\" rods on one bank of cylinders and \"blade\" rods on the other (with the same stroke on both banks). As all rods are alternately in compression or tension throughout all four engine cycles, competitor General Electric in its 7FDL engine series uses the more complex \"articulated\" connecting rods (with a slightly longer stroke on the bank with articulated rods). The engines are provided with either a single or twin Roots blower, or a single mechanically-assisted turbocharger, depending on required power output.\n\nFor maintenance, a power assembly, consisting of a cylinder head, cylinder liner, piston, piston carrier and piston rod can be individually replaced relatively easily and quickly. The engine block is made from flat, formed and rolled structural steel members and steel forgings welded into a single structure (a \"weldment\"), so it can easily be repaired using conventional shop tools.\n\nLike most EMD engines, the 645 is also sold for stationary and marine applications.\n\nStationary and marine installations are available with either a left or right-hand rotating engine.\n\nMarine engines differ from railroad and stationary engines mainly in the shape and depth of the engine's oil sump, which has been altered to accommodate the rolling and pitching motions encountered in marine applications.\n\nEngine Speed\nBrake Horsepower (ABS Rating)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875912", "title": "John Leech (politician)", "text": "John Leech (politician)\n\nJohn Sampson Macfarlane Leech (born 11 April 1971) is a British Liberal Democrat politician who is currently Leader of the Opposition on Manchester City Council. He was the Member of Parliament for Manchester Withington from 2005 to 2015. He was the first MP to speak out against the under-occupancy penalty (commonly called the 'bedroom tax') in Parliament.\n\nLeech served on the city council from 1998 and was elected to the House of Commons in the 2005 general election. In the 2005–2010 Parliament he was a member of the Transport Select Committee and a Shadow Transport Spokesperson on the Liberal Democrat frontbench team in 2006. He held his seat with an increased majority in 2010. He has campaigned in particular on gay rights, affordable housing and refugees.\n\nHe is often described as the \"architect\" of 'Turing's Law' which, when eventually approved in 2013, used Alan Turing's pardon as a precedent to grant a posthumous pardon to more than 49,000 men historically criminally convicted of 'Gross Indecency' for being gay. \n\nHe played a role in the campaign to outlaw homophobic chanting at football matches and put pressure on leaders in Greater Manchester to take on Syrian child refugees. He lost his Parliamentary seat at the 2015 General Election but was elected to Manchester City Council a year later as the sole opposition member. He is now Leader of the Opposition on the 96-member council.\n\nLeech was born in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, and grew up in Chorlton-cum-Hardy, where his father was a minister at Chorlton Methodist Church. He attended Manchester Grammar School, Loreto College and Brunel University where he studied History and Politics and also joined the Liberal Democrats. He received an Upper-Second Class Honours degree on graduating. After leaving university he worked as a trainee manager for McDonald's and part-time at the RAC in Stretford as a call centre insurance claims handler.\n\nLeech was elected to Manchester City Council in 1998 winning the Barlow Moor ward from Labour with a 12% swing. He was re-elected in 2002, increasing his majority. In 2004, the whole council was contested due to boundary changes and Leech won a seat for Chorlton Park, which covered most of the former Barlow Moor ward area. He became the deputy leader of the council's opposition group and spokesperson for Planning and the Environment.\n\nLeech was elected to parliament at the 2005 general election, defeating Keith Bradley, the incumbent Labour MP, with a swing of over 17%—the largest swing in the country that year. He was the first Liberal or Liberal Democrat to win a Manchester seat since 1929.\n\nIn 2006, Leech was the Shadow Transport Spokesperson on the Liberal Democrat frontbench team. He continued in the role under Nick Clegg. He was the first Patchwork \"MP of the Year\" for his \"tireless work with minority and ethnic groups\" and Brake's \"MP of the Year\" and \"MP of the Month\" twice, for work on road safety in his constituency.\n\nIn the 2009 expenses scandal, it was reported that Leech claimed one of the lowest levels of expenses of any MP in the North of England. He completed more than 111,000 pieces of casework during his ten years in parliament.\n\nLeech voted against entering the 2010 Coalition Government with the Conservatives.\n\nHe was one of 21 MPs to vote against the increased tuition fees bill. Leech also voted against the under-occupancy penalty (commonly called the 'bedroom tax'), and was the first MP to speak out against the bill in Parliament. He voted against a pay rise for MPs in 2013.\n\nHe designed the 'Alan Turing Law' bill which led to the eventual posthumous pardon of Alan Turing and tens of thousands of other criminally convicted gay people.\n\nIn early 2015, an article in the \"Manchester Evening News\" reported that Leech was the second-most rebellious MP in the North of England and the second-most rebellious Lib Dem MP.\n\nIn early 2015, he launched his re-election campaign, with the slogan 'Make it 15'. Amid a UK-wide collapse in support for the Liberal Democrats, Leech lost his seat to Labour.\n\nAfter losing the seat, Leech said he would stand in the Manchester City Council elections in May 2016.\n\nLeech stood in Didsbury West and won the seat from Labour with a 25% swing, picking up 53% of the vote. Didsbury West was the most contested seat in the city with an unusually high turnout of 45%. The \"Manchester Evening News\" described the result as \"historic\", signifying the first gain for any party in Manchester other than Labour for the first time in six years and providing the city with its first opposition for two years. Leech was the only opposition member of the 2016–18 council, with Labour holding 95 of the 96 seats.\n\nIn 2018, Leech launched the Liberal Democrat 'Manchester Together' campaign and manifesto.\n\nDuring the election campaign, Leech released a film showing young children watching television and reacting to controversial news headlines, including then-recent comments about women made by Withington councillor Chris Paul. A spokesperson for the Manchester Liberal Democrats defended the film, stating that it was \"an uncomfortable truth about Manchester Council.\"\n\nLeech was re-elected to Manchester City Council in May 2018, topping the ballot and increasing his share of the vote to 55% with a turnout of just under 50%, unusually high for a local election. He was selected as Leader of the Opposition.\n\nIn an opinion piece written on the day the UK left the EU, Leech said Brexit was \"not in our [Lib Dems] name, and we will fight back.\" He called for members and activists to \"fight for a progressive and optimistic future because it’s the right thing to do. And look forward to sharing that future once again with our European neighbours and friends with hope, courage and confidence in our hearts.\"\n\nIn 2005 Leech campaigned for the Metrolink tram system to come through his constituency. In 2012 it began running through south Manchester, terminating at East Didsbury.\n\nLeech campaigned to reduce the stake on fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs) from £100 to £2. The issue received cross-party support and was supported by campaign groups including Stop The FOBT's. A bill he introduced to have the Statuary Instrument (SI) reduced to £50 FOBT threshold in February 2015 was defeated.\n\nFor many years Leech campaigned against homophobia and for same-sex marriage. In 2013, he ran a campaign calling for homophobic chants at football matches to be outlawed. Leech is often described as the architect of the campaign to pardon Alan Turing, who was convicted of homosexuality and later committed suicide. He submitted a bill calling for a formal pardon, and at the UK premiere of a film based on Turing's life, \"The Imitation Game\", the producers thanked him for bringing the topic to public attention and securing Turing's pardon. His campaign then turned to acquiring pardons for the 75,000 other men convicted of the same crime. Leech said it was \"utterly disgusting and ultimately just embarrassing\" that the conviction was upheld as long as it was, and celebrated the posthumous pardon. Leech's campaign gained public support from popular physicists such as Stephen Hawking. In November 2018 after The Bank of England invited members of the public to vote on which figure should appear on the new £50 note, Leech said it should be Alan Turing so as to \"serve as a stark and frankly painful reminder of what we lost in Turing\" A number of Leech's campaign posters, letters and campaign material went on display at the Manchester Museum of Science and Indsutry after the Bank of England announced Turing as the new face of the £50 note. \n\nLeech led a campaign for safe standing at football matches. Standing has been banned in English football's top two divisions following the Taylor Report into the 1989 Hillsborough disaster. Leech told the Commons that clubs should be allowed to install 'rail-seating' allowing supporters to stand with the option of sitting down following the lead of countries including Germany, Austria and Sweden that operate safe standing.\n\nLeech campaigned to remain during the 2016 EU referendum.\n\nOn 5 October 2016, Leech said that Manchester had not accepted any refugees under the Government's 2015 resettlement scheme due to disagreements with funding. He accused the council of being \"sickeningly shallow\" and demanded it commit to housing 50 Syrian refugee families and as many unaccompanied Syrian refugee children as possible. The council was vague in its response but said 'Manchester would play its part.'\n\nLeech has criticised the city council's attitude towards homelessness.\n\nIn January 2017, Leech revealed statistics about the number of sexual attacks linked to the dating apps Tinder and Grindr. In March he called on the council to implement 'Ask for Angela', a scheme to help people get out of uncomfortable situations in bars and pubs to which the council agreed.\n\nIn September 2017, Leech launched a Manchester-based campaign to tackle what he described as an \"appalling\" rise in homophobic and transphobic bullying in local schools.\n\nIn September 2017, Leech released a report on homophobic and transphobic bullying in Manchester's schools. It revealed that incidents had doubled in the last two years. Speaking at the Liberal Democrats conference, he said 'We have absolutely no right to claim we live in a decent society when this kind of behaviour is still rife in our schools.' Seventeen schools refused to take part in his report which he criticised as a 'worrying lack of transparency'. Leech pledged to work with schools, LGBT+ groups and called on both Manchester Council and the UK Government to work harder to 'stamp out the deplorable behaviour'.\n\nAlso in September 2017, Leech delivered a speech at the Liberal Democrats Conference in which he called on the Government to take a more proactive role in youth crime. He criticised Government cuts but also spoke of the need for police to become role models in their communities and \"completely immerse themselves in their communities to really get to know local people and earn their trust.\" Leech worked with youth charity Kids Count to work to a solution.\n\nIn October 2018, Leech criticised the shortlisting of two companies for a £330m contract to renovate Manchester Town Hall. He said that \"Under absolutely no circumstances\" should Lendlease ever be considered for a council contract again until they paid a £3m Grenfell-style cladding bill in the Green Quarter of Manchester. In January 2019, Lendlease was announced as the winner of the contract. Leech criticised the decision and said it showed a lack of concern for local people.\n\nIn an opinion piece for Manchester Confidential, Leech stated he was seeking to implement special paid leave for Manchester Council employees seeking gender reassignment treatment, comparing it to any other health-related appointment.\n\nLeech won the first-ever Patchwork MP of the Year award for his work with LGBT and BAME groups.\n\nPolitics.co.uk gave him the magazine's monthly ‘Top MP’ honour for his campaign to outlaw homophobic chanting at football matches.\n\nHe won Brake's Road Safety MP of the Year for his work to reduce speed limits in his constituency.\n\nUK Lung Cancer Coalition awarded him their 'Parliamentary Champion' award for his work to improve cancer services in Greater Manchester.\n\nFormer Spice Girl Geri Halliwell presented him the Breast Cancer Campaigner award.\n\nJohn Leech has campaigned to improve and progress liberal parties across Europe. In the 2019 EU elections, he worked with the Liberal Democrats' sister party D66 to deliver a campaign aimed at young people. He highlighted the importance of voting for pro-European parties in the elections citing Brexit as his reasoning.\n\nAt an event held in central Utrecht, Leech told the audience that Brexit was \"destroying the soul\" of the UK whilst in a video for D66 he told Dutch voters that \"if anyone knew the impact of not voting for pro-Europe parties, it was us [British people].\"\n\nIn a press conference in Utrecht, he said the saddest thing about Brexit was losing the close and long relationship the Netherlands and the UK have had for generations.\n\nLeech is an amateur dramatics enthusiast with Manchester Road Players. He is a supporter of Manchester City F.C. and was a member of the Parliamentary Football team.\n\nIn November 2016 police investigated a number of \"very serious\" threats directed at Leech on Twitter. One tweet received on 6 October 2016, was in response to Leech being invited to a walking basketball event at the Amaechi Basketball Centre in Whalley Range. Leech responded: \"Thinking about coming down one time this month. How is 23rd or 30th for you guys?\" An anonymous user then entered the conversation to say: \"Excellent I'll bring the knuckle dusters.\" Police advised Leech not to post his schedule publicly and to temporarily pause his advice surgeries whilst the force worked with Twitter to find the user. Lib Dems did not press charges.\n\nDuring the 2017 General Election police investigated a number of theft and intimidation reports. The activists boasted about stealing garden posters on Twitter, publicly planned where to target next and posed in pictures with the posters in balaclavas. The events happened just days after a terrorist targeted the Manchester Arena.\n\nIn July 2013 correspondence between Leech and a constituent attracted mixed reactions. In the letter, the constituent accused Leech of trying to “brainwash children” into supporting homosexuality after Leech led a report on eradicating homophobia from football. Responding to the constituent, Leech wrote that the majority of people \"are sick and tired of a small minority of homophobic people like you\". The constituent claimed he would not vote for Leech based on his \"obsession with that Turing bloke\", referring to Leech's campaign to pardon Alan Turing. Responding, Leech said he \"did not seek the vote of homophobes\", signing off with \"You are, of course, entitled to hold your offensive views, but please do not bother to waste my time, and yours, by expressing them to me.\" The exchange attracted praise from the LGBT community.\n\nOn 12 February 2019 Leech sparked controversy when he tweeted that a potential council policy, which was still out for public consultation, was \"absolute crap\". Manchester Council announced it was consulting the public on a new Public Spare Protection Order (PSPO) which, among other things, targeted 'aggressive' begging and rough sleepers who pitch tents or sleep in doorways. When asked to clarify his comments by local media, Leech refused to apologise and instead went on to describe the policy as a \"Homeless Tax\", \"social cleansing\" and promised his party would \"oppose it until the end of time.\"\n\nOn 8 March 2019, at a routine council budget meeting, a row broke out. The argument was prompted by a sign put up by Labour above the Lord Mayor's chair at the front of the council chamber, reading '10 Years of Tory And Lib Dem Cuts'. When Leech entered the chamber, he took down the message—prompting senior Labour Councillor Pat Karney to 'thunder' across the chamber. He began 'screaming' and 'shouting' at Leech and told him to hand over the laminated A4 pieces of paper at least 11 times, according to \"Manchester Evening News\" journalist Jen Williams, who filmed and reported the events.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875913", "title": "Massimo Ambrosini", "text": "Massimo Ambrosini\n\nMassimo Ambrosini (; born 29 May 1977 in Pesaro, Marche) is a former Italian professional footballer, who mainly played as a defensive midfielder. At club level, he is mostly known for his successful time at Italian team AC Milan, where he spent eighteen years of his career, winning several titles, and captained the side from 2009 to 2013 following the retirement of Paolo Maldini. Ambrosini retired from professional football in 2014, after a season with Fiorentina. At international level, he represented Italy at the 2000 Summer Olympics, and in two UEFA European Championships, winning a runners-up medal at UEFA Euro 2000.\n\nHe currently works as a pundit and football commentator for Sky Sport Italia.\n\nAmbrosini began his career with Cesena and graduated to their first team at the age of 17 during the 1994–95 season. Milan coach Fabio Capello then won the race to sign him the following year, and despite facing tough competition to break into the all-star Milan side, Ambrosini was given a handful of games as the team romped to the Serie A championship. Used in the 1996–97 season only sporadically, Ambrosini was sent on loan to Vicenza, where he was given a spot in the team's starting line-up almost immediately, and helped his team avoid relegation at the end of the season. He also reached the semi-final of UEFA Cup Winners' Cup with Vicenza. Recalled to the San Siro, Ambrosini at last made a first-team place his own as Milan won back the Serie A championship in 1999. A regular the following term, he then saw his chances limited by a troublesome knee injury before returning to full fitness to help Milan win the Coppa Italia (scoring in a 4–1 win in the first leg of the final over Roma) and the UEFA Champions League during the 2002–03 season, where he replaced Rui Costa in the 87th minute of the final against Juventus, held at Old Trafford.\n\nIn 2003–04, although unable to establish himself as a first-team starter due to a series of niggling injuries and a loss of form, Ambrosini made 20 Serie A appearances – predominantly as a substitute – and scored one goal as Milan captured their 17th Serie A championship. In March 2005, he renewed his contract to June 2008.\n\nIn 2004–05, he struggled to break into Milan first team, making only made 22 Serie A appearances and scoring one goal. It is his late goal, however, that took Milan to the UEFA Champions League final. With Milan losing 2–0, a scoreline which would have sent the match to extra time as Milan defeated PSV with the same score in the San Siro, Ambrosini scored a header in second half injury time to bring the score to 2–1 and give Milan the 3–2 aggregate lead. PSV immediately responded with a goal of their own to tie the aggregate score at 3–3, but Milan advanced to the final on the away goals rule. Ambrosini, however, missed the final in Istanbul with yet another injury as Milan were defeated on penalties by Liverpool.\n\nIn 2005–06, he again suffered a series of injuries which limited him to just 13 Serie A appearances and one goal, thus making him out of contention for the Italian squad for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany.\nUnlike the previous seasons, 2006–07 became Ambrosini's late breakthrough as he had fully recovered from his recurring injuries. Although not an immediate starter at the beginning, following a series of stunning performances, he eventually made his way into the team's starting 11, prompting Carlo Ancelotti to change his preferred formation from 4–3–1–2 to 4–3–2–1 (alternatively, 4–4–1–1), in which he would play a left-sided defensive midfielder, in a role similar to that of Gennaro Gattuso responsible for winning back possession and passing the ball to either a deep-lying playmaker Andrea Pirlo or other attacking players. He scored two decisive goals in Serie A against Sampdoria and Atalanta, both with his head. He was also a key member to Milan's victory over Bayern Munich and Manchester United in the UEFA Champions League, balancing the game for Milan through his vision and leadership skills; his long pass from his team's half of the pitch to an unmarked striker Alberto Gilardino helped ensure Milan's eventual 3–0 victory as Gilardino scored a goal that drastically reduced Manchester United's chances of a comeback. This game also prompted Ambrosini to change his mind about leaving Milan due to lack of playing time and extend his contract until June 2010.\n\nLater that month, Ambrosini started in the final of the 2006–07 Champions League and played a strong game in Milan's eventual 2–1 win over Liverpool. He was also the last player to touch the ball seconds before the final whistle. \nIn Paolo Maldini's absence, Ambrosini was once again the stand-in captain for the European Super Cup Final against UEFA Cup winners Sevilla FC, which Milan won 3–1.\n\nAmbrosini was Milan captain in the absence of Paolo Maldini throughout the 2007–08 campaign. In this campaign, Ambrosini scored four goals. He scored decisive goals against Palermo and Empoli, and played very well in the home leg of the Milan derby against Internazionale on 4 May 2008, setting up the second goal for teammate Kaká and putting in an excellent performance throughout the game, which Milan won 2–1. However, Milan had failed to earn 3 points in each single game leading up to a 4–1 win against Udinese on the final day of the season, thus finishing only in fifth place and qualifying for 2008–09 UEFA Cup instead of the desired Champions League.\n\nDuring the 2008–09 campaign, Ambrosini was once again a regular fixture in the Milan starting lineup, making 26 appearances in the team's Serie A campaign. During a pre-season friendly tournament against Juventus, Ambrosini was named Man of the Match as he netted twice to secure a Milan victory. His second goal was a superb effort into the roof of the net, past a bewildered Alex Manninger.\n\nThis season was also memorable for him as he had managed a season total of eight goals (one in the UEFA Cup), more than he has scored in any season in his career with Milan. The goals included a brilliant header off David Beckham's free kick against Lazio, and a well-placed goal in a 5–1 win over Torino. Ambrosini also scored his first double in a competitive fixture in a 3–2 loss to Roma during Paolo Maldini's final home game, and received a standing ovation from the home crowd despite being sent off by the referee for a second yellow card.\n\nOn 6 July 2009, as the Milan team reunited for pre-season training, Ambrosini was officially named club captain, inheriting the armband from Paolo Maldini. On 8 September 2009, he added one more year to his contract, extending his stay with the team at least until 2011. He won the Serie A title in 2010–11 season with three games in hand, edging out city rivals Internazionale. On 19 May 2011, he signed a new, one-year contract. After a disappointing second-place finish in the 2011–12 season and the departure of fellow team greats Filippo Inzaghi, Alessandro Nesta, Gennaro Gattuso, and Clarence Seedorf, Ambrosini was reported to be considering his future with the club, but Adriano Galliani was able to convince Massimo to sign yet another one-year deal and continue on to be the captain for Milan for the 2012–13 season. After a very rough start with several notable defeats, Milan eventually finished the season in the third place behind the defending champions Juventus and runners-up Napoli, securing a spot in the next season's Champions League qualification play-off.\n\nOn 11 June 2013 A.C. Milan CEO Adriano Galliani confirmed that the club had decided not to extend Ambrosini's expiring contract, thus ending his eighteen-year stay at Milan.\n\nOn 4 July 2013 Fiorentina confirmed on their official website that they had won the race to sign Ambrosini on a one-year deal, beating West Ham United who were also looking to sign him. He made 30 appearances for Fiorentina in his first season with La Viola, helping the club to fourth place in Serie A. Massimo Ambrosini would announce on 21 May 2014 that he would be leaving Fiorentina after one season.\n\nAmbrosini made his senior international debut on 28 April 1999 against Croatia, under manager Dino Zoff, and was part of the Italian squad at UEFA Euro 2000, which ended with an appearance as a substitute in the final loss to reigning World champions France following David Trezeguet's golden goal; he also represented Italy at the 2000 Summer Olympics under Marco Tardelli later that year, where Italy were eliminated in the quarter-finals by eventual finalists Spain. Ambrosini was unavailable for selection for the 2002 FIFA World Cup finals under Giovanni Trapattoni due to injury, and then failed to break into the squad for the UEFA Euro 2004 finals. Under subsequent manager Marcello Lippi, he was also excluded from the national side and was not called up for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, which Italy went on to win.\n\nOn 16 August 2006, Ambrosini earned his 23rd cap for Italy after almost two years of absence from the squad in a 2–0 friendly home defeat to Croatia; for this match, he was given the captain's armband by coach Roberto Donadoni in the absence of regular contenders for the armband. He was then called up by the national side's manager to Italy's squad for UEFA Euro 2008 in Austria and Switzerland, appearing in all four of his nation's matches throughout the tournament, as Italy were eliminated in the quarter-finals of the tournament by eventual champions Spain, following a penalty shootout. After Donadoni's dismissal, however, Lippi was put back in charge, and Ambrosini was no longer called up for Italy, despite putting in battling displays for Milan. In total he made 35 appearances for Italy.\n\nA physically strong, tenacious, energetic, and hardworking box-to-box, central, or defensive midfielder, with a wide range of skills, Ambrosini was well regarded for his ability in the air, and was capable of being a goal-threat, in particular from set-pieces, due to his height, elevation, ability to make attacking runs into the area, and his heading accuracy, as well as his powerful striking ability from distance, which even led manager Carlo Ancelotti to deploy him as a centre forward on occasion. Throughout his career, he stood out for his leadership, as well as his stamina, versatility, tactical intelligence, and aggressive tackling. Although Ambrosini primarily served as a ball winner, he was also known for his ability to start attacking plays after winning back possession, courtesy of his vision and passing range, despite his lack of notable technical skills. Despite his ability as a midfielder, he often struggled with injuries throughout his career.\n\nMassimo Ambrosini is married to an Italian woman, Paola Ambrosini. Ambrosini has two children with his wife, his son Federico Ambrosini was born on 11 May 2009, and his daughter Angelica Ambrosini was born on 21 November 2011.\n\nMilan\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875914", "title": "Alex Shelley", "text": "Alex Shelley\n\nPatrick Martin (born May 23, 1983) is an American professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Alex Shelley. \n\nHe is best known for his time with impact Wrestling (TNA), as one half of The Motor City Machine Guns, with Chris Sabin. He first gained fame on the independent circuit, working for Ring of Honor (ROH), as well as in Japan, for Pro Wrestling Zero1-Max. He has also worked for New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW), where he is a former three-time IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champion. Aside from wrestling, he is the lead singer of a rock band called The High Crusade, which includes his friends and fellow wrestlers Chris Sabin and Petey Williams.\n\nMartin initially started training in the early 2002 under Breyer Wellington and Truth Martini. He then joined the Border City Wrestling's Can-Am Wrestling School, and began training under Joe E. Legend and Scott D'Amore. Martin debuted in March 2002 as Alex Shelley, a name he created by combining the forename of Alex, the protagonist of the 1962 novel \"A Clockwork Orange\", with the surname of Pete Shelley, the lead singer of the 1970s punk rock band the Buzzcocks. Six months into his career, he was hospitalized with a shattered jaw when he slipped on a wet ring and hit the unpadded ring apron. Shelley had steel plates inserted into his jaw as a result. After eight months, Shelley joined Ian Rotten's IWA Mid-South promotion. He worked in the IWA for six months before joining the Philadelphia-based Combat Zone Wrestling. Not long after that, he joined Ring of Honor (ROH).\n\nOn June 12, 2005, Shelley made an appearance on the international version of \"WWE Heat\", losing to Simon Dean after being hit with the Simonizer. His appearance was a tryout, but nothing came of it.\n\nShelley debuted in Ring of Honor on June 28, 2003, at \"WrestleRave 2003\", facing B.J. Whitmer, Tony Mamaluke and Jimmy Jacobs in a Four Corners Survival match, which was won by Whitmer. He appeared with ROH sporadically throughout the remainder of 2003 and early 2004, feuding with Jimmy Jacobs and Matt Stryker.\n\nAt \"Generation Next\" on May 22, 2004, Shelley formed a stable, \"Generation Next\", with Austin Aries, Jack Evans and Roderick Strong. Generation Next, led by Shelley, spent the entirety of the event attacking other wrestlers, claiming that they were \"the best that Ring of Honor has to offer\". They began feuding with wrestlers with a respect for tradition such as Matt Stryker, Jimmy Rave and John Walters.\n\nOn July 17, 2004, at \"Reborn: Completion\", Shelley lost to Doug Williams in the finals of a tournament for the vacant ROH Pure Championship. That same night, Generation Next attacked Ricky Steamboat during his confrontation with CM Punk, with Punk subsequently siding with Steamboat to fend off Generation Next. This led to a feud between Generation Next and the allies of Ricky Steamboat, culminating in a forty–five-minute-long eight–man elimination match at \"The Midnight Express Reunion\" on October 2, pitting Generation Next against CM Punk, John Walters, Jimmy Jacobs and Ace Steel. The match was won by Generation Next, with Shelley and Aries surviving. Following the match, Shelley announced his intention of challenging Samoa Joe for the ROH World Championship. Aries then announced he too was going after the title, with Shelley telling him to \"remember where your loyalties lie\".\n\nOn December 26, 2004, at \"Final Battle 2004\", Shelley and Strong were defeated by CM Punk and Steve Corino. Following the match, Aries, feeling that Shelley was spending far too much time in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) than he was leading Generation Next, came to the ring and demanded that Shelley step–down as the leader. Before Shelley could give an answer, he was attacked by Aries and Strong and kicked out of Generation Next, turning him into a fan favorite in the process.\n\nShelley feuded with Generation Next throughout early 2005, unsuccessfully challenging Aries for the ROH World Championship at \"Manhattan Mayhem\" on May 7. On July 23, Shelley was in a tag match against Aries and Strong, with him choosing a mystery partner. Shelley gave speculation in a backstage promo as to who his partner would be, saying it could be a new wrestler making their debut in Ring of Honor. He later revealed that he did not bring someone in to ROH, but had joined \"The Embassy\", a heel stable controlled by Prince Nana. Teaming with Fast Eddie Vegas that night, The Embassy won their first match in a feud with Generation Next that would last for the remainder of the year. The feud culminated in an eight–man elimination steel cage match on December 3, with Austin Aries, Roderick Strong, Jack Evans and Matt Sydal of Generation Next defeating Shelley, Jimmy Rave, Abyss and Nana of The Embassy.\n\nAt \"Hell Freezes Over\" on January 14, 2006, Shelley teamed up with Rave to defeat the duo of Claudio Castagnoli and Azrieal. Later that evening, Prince Nana offered to buy the ROH World Championship from Bryan Danielson after his successful defense against Chris Hero. When Danielson refused to sell it, he was attacked by The Embassy with Shelley giving him a Sliced Bread #2 claiming it was his \"Kryptonite\" as Danielson's long–time rival and former Embassy member, Spanky, utilized the move to defeat him on numerous occasions. The following show, The Embassy of Shelley, Rave and Abyss won the 2006 Trios Tournament defeating Generation Next of Jack Evans and Matt Sydal and their partner Jimmy Yang in the finals, and thus each wrestler was granted any match they wanted, with Shelley and Rave both announcing they wanted a shot at the ROH World Championship. Shelley was originally scheduled to face Danielson for the title on February 11, but a severe snowstorm hit the Northeast and Shelley was told by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling to fly back early to Orlando, Florida so he would not miss their pay-per-view the following day. Shelley would eventually get his title shot one month later at \"Arena Warfare\", but was unable to defeat Danielson.\n\nShelley would then wrestle sporadically in ROH for the next few months before quietly leaving in June. His last appearance as a regular in Ring of Honor took place on June 24 when he managed Jimmy Rave and Conrad Kennedy III in a losing effort against the Briscoe Brothers.\n\nHe returned to ROH along with Chris Sabin on March 30, 2007, following the Briscoe Brothers winning the ROH World Tag Team Championship. The two challenged Jay Briscoe for a shot at the title on April 28 in Chicago, then attacked him after he accepted. The two would ultimately lose the match and leave the company.\n\nIn April 2008, Shelley and Sabin returned to ROH, losing to The Age of the Fall (Jimmy Jacobs and Tyler Black) and defeating the Briscoe Brothers (Jay and Mark) on the 18 and 19 respectively.\n\nIn August 2008, Shelley and Sabin once again returned to ROH, wrestling Austin Aries and Bryan Danielson to a 25-minute time limit draw and losing to Kevin Steen and El Generico on the 1st and 2nd respectively. Shelley and Sabin were scheduled to return to ROH on October 24 and 25, but were pulled from the events by TNA and replaced by The Latin American Xchange.\n\nOn February 13, 2010, Ring of Honor announced at their 8th Anniversary Show that the Motor City Machine Guns would return to the company on May 8 in New York City. On May 8 the Motor City Machine Guns were defeated by the ROH World Tag Team Champions The Kings of Wrestling (Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli) via disqualification, when the Briscoe Brothers interfered in the match.\n\nShelley returned to ROH on December 7, 2014, at Final Battle 2014, where he and Kushida unsuccessfully challenged reDRagon (Bobby Fish and Kyle O'Reilly) for the ROH World Tag Team Championship. The Time Splitters returned to ROH on August 22, 2015, losing to the Briscoes at Field of Honor.\n\nIn March 2005, Shelley joined Pro Wrestling Zero1-Max. He won the vacant Zero1-Max United States Openweight Championship on September 19, 2005, in Tokyo, Japan, defeating Sonjay Dutt. His reign lasted until November 23 of that year, when he lost the title to Christopher Daniels.\n\nOn August 25, 2006, at Korakuen Hall's Zero-1 Max show, Shelley and Chris Sabin became NWA International Lightweight Tag Team Champions, when they defeated champions, Ikuto Hidaka and Minoru Fujita. They lost the titles to the team of Minoru Fujita and Takuya Sugawara on April 6, 2008.\n\nShelley signed a non–exclusive contract with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling on July 8, 2004. He was paired with Goldy Locks and dubbed \"Baby Bear\" Alex Shelley. Shelley requested his release from TNA late that year after booker Dusty Rhodes stopped utilizing him.\n\nShelley signed a new contract with TNA in 2005 after Rhodes resigned as TNA booker, and returned on June 19, 2005, at Slammiversary, losing to Shocker. He went on to form a tag team with Michael Shane, with the duo losing to America's Most Wanted at No Surrender 2005 on July 17. Shelley entered the TNA 2005 Super X Cup Tournament, but lost to Samoa Joe in the semifinals on August 7. He then entered the Chris Candido Memorial Tag Team Tournament with Sean Waltman as his tag team partner, and won the tournament by defeating Shocker and Chris Sabin in the finals on the September 9 episode of \"TNA Impact!\". As a result of their victory, Waltman and Shelley were granted a shot at the NWA World Tag Team Championship in a four–way tag team bout at Unbreakable on September 11. After Waltman no-showed the event, Shelley was left without a partner, but opted to wrestle alone. He was doubled teamed by Team Canada (Eric Young and A-1) for much of the match until Johnny Candido, the brother of Chris Candido, climbed onto the apron and accepted Shelley's tag. However, Candido was pinned by Young shortly thereafter, with Shelley being eliminated from the match as a result.\n\nThroughout late–2005, Shelley wrestled in the X Division as a villain, facing Austin Aries on several occasions. In November 2005, he introduced a gimmick that saw him bring a camcorder (the \"Shelley–cam\") to ringside in order to film matches to study later for strategic purposes (in reality, Shelley owned over 200 professional wrestling videotapes at the time). In late 2005, he began teaming with his former Generation Next teammates Austin Aries and Roderick Strong, feuding with established X Division fan favorites, Sonjay Dutt, Chris Sabin, and Matt Bentley and demanding bigger roles in the company from road agent Jerry Lynn which led to a series of matches in which the re–formed Generation Next came out on top.\n\nIn early 2006, after both Aries and Strong were suspended by TNA, Shelley was recruited by Jeff Jarrett to obtain candid video footage of Jackie Gayda for the purposes of blackmail. Shelley went on to create the fictional enterprise \"Paparazzi Productions\" and obtain footage of Sting, Christian Cage and their respective families for the purposes of intimidation. Throughout April and May 2006, Shelley wrestled in the 2006 World X Cup Tournament as a member of the victorious Team USA. In May whilst the World X Cup was in progress, he interviewed Kevin Nash, during which Nash announced that the X Division was mere filler, and that intended to destroy the X Division. Shelley's lack of defense for the division created friction between his team mates and himself, with Shelley ultimately aligning himself with Nash after the tournament's end.\nSince then the two did several well–received comedy vignettes (some exclusive to YouTube) mostly focusing on their feud with Chris Sabin. At Slammiversary, Shelley helped Nash defeat Sabin. Earlier Shelley had been ranked fifth in the X Division after being the second person eliminated in a six–man contender's match. In a post–match interview with Nash, Shelley claimed there was \"ten guys, twenty guys – some of them had knives. I think I spotted a couple gats... guns\". On July 16, 2006, Shelley teamed with Nash to face Chris Sabin and Jay Lethal in a losing effort.\n\nAt Hard Justice, Shelley replaced Nash in a match for the number one contendership of the X Division Championship. Shelley and Devine moved into the tag team division until they lost a Triple Chance Tag Team Battle Royal at No Surrender. Shelley also appeared in Kevin Nash's Open Invitational X Division Battle Royal at Bound for Glory on October 22, 2006. He lost the match to Austin Starr.\n\nOn the June 29, 2006, \"Impact!\", Shelley recruited former Team Canada member Johnny Devine as a production assistant of Paparazzi Productions. Devine was later fired by the Paparazzi. Devine was replaced much to the dismay of Shelley by former Generation Next team mate Austin Starr due to Kevin Nash's wishes. Since this, the three were seen backstage on various episodes of \"Impact!\" in a tournament known as the Paparazzi Championship Series, which he won at Final Resolution.\n\nAfterwards, he would tape two storyline attacks by The Latin American Xchange (LAX). One on Brother Rays uncle, another on Johnny Rodz. When he showed the footage of the LAX beatdown on Rodz, he was confronted by Brother Ray. Before a fight could breakout, the LAX attempted to attack Brother Ray. When it seemed Ray had the upper hand, however, Kevin Nash distracted him, allowing Shelley to hit him with a low blow. At Destination X 2007 Shelley helped LAX win the match by hitting Brother Devon with a video camera and giving him a Frog Splash through a table.\n\nShelley lost in the five–man Xscape match at Lockdown 2007. He was pinned by Jay Lethal. Later, Jay Lethal and Chris Sabin were the remaining two and Sabin escaped, retaining the X Division Championship.\n\nDuring the summer of 2007, Shelley began wrestling as a tag team in TNA with Chris Sabin. The two had been teaming in several independent promotions under the names Murder City Machine Guns and The Motor City Machine Guns, both names being a play off of one of Shelley's former tag teams, \"The Sexy Time Machine Guns\" and the fact that both Sabin and Shelley hail from Detroit, Michigan.\n\nIn October 2007, Shelley and Sabin started a feud with Team 3D, during which Team 3D declared a war on the entire X Division and was looking to kill it off. After months of feuding, Shelley and Sabin along with Jay Lethal were able to defeat Team 3D and Johnny Devine in a Street Fight at Against All Odds to save the X Division and to end the feud. With the win, Team 3D were forced to drop their weights under 275 pounds if they wanted to keep on wrestling for the company. Shelley then fought for Team TNA in the World X Cup alongside Kaz, the team captain, his tag team partner Chris Sabin, and Curry Man. On June 19, in the first round of the tournament, Shelley and Sabin defeated Daivari and Tyson Dux of Team International to give Team TNA their first point. In the finals of the tournament, held at Victory Road, Shelley, Sabin and Curry Man represented Team TNA in the twelve–man, four–team elimination tag team match. Shelley made it to the end of the match and finally pinned Masato Yoshino of Team Japan to win the match and give Team TNA the lead ahead of the final round of the tournament, an Ultimate X match contested between the team captains. Despite Shelley's efforts, Team TNA was defeated in the final round by Team Mexico, who won the 2008 World X Cup. A month later, on July 25, 2008, Shelley and five other TNA wrestlers traveled to Mexico to compete in the Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre International Grand Prix, contested in a sixteen–man \"torneo cibernetico\" match. In the end, Shelley managed to avenge Team TNA's loss in the World X Cup, by winning the Gran Prix, after pinning Último Guerrero. This led to a match on September 19 at CMLL's 75th Anniversary Show, where Shelley, Sabin and Sonjay Dutt unsuccessfully challenged Guerrero, Atlantis and Negro Casas for the CMLL World Trios Championship. After the tournaments Shelley and Sabin slipped into the role of tweeners, showing disrespect to Christian Cage, A.J. Styles, Consequences Creed, B.G. James and The Latin American Xchange however still being cheered heavily by the fans towards whom they did show respect.\nOn the October 30, 2008, \"Impact!\", Shelley, Samoa Joe, A.J. Styles, Jay Lethal, Consequences Creed, Petey Williams, Eric Young, ODB and Chris Sabin formed a faction knows as The Frontline to battle The Main Event Mafia of Kurt Angle, Sting, Kevin Nash, Booker T and Scott Steiner. Despite their alliance Shelley and Sabin showed disrespect to both their stablemates and the TNA executive shareholder Mick Foley.\n\nOn the November 27, 2008, \"Impact!\", Shelley took part in the second annual Turkey Bowl, defeating Cute Kip and Consequences Creed in a three–way dance in the semifinals. In the finals Shelley faced the reigning X Division Champion Sheik Abdul Bashir and Rhino in another three–way dance where the winner would receive a check for $25,000, and the loser had to wear a turkey suit. Rhino won the match, pinning Shelley following a Gore forcing him to wear the suit. Shelley finally agreed to put on the suit after Mick Foley threatened to fire him if he did not. After putting on the turkey suit Shelley gave Foley a middle finger and was laid out with a double arm DDT.\n\nAt Final Resolution in December 2008, Shelley and Sabin competed in the Feast or Fired match, but did not win a title contract.\n\nDuring December 2008 and January 2009, Shelley qualified for the finals in the X Division title tournament after defeating Jay Lethal and Eric Young. At Genesis, he defeated his tag team partner Chris Sabin for his first reign as the X Division Champion. At Destination X in March 2009, he lost the title to Suicide in an Ultimate X match, which included Jay Lethal, Consequences Creed, and Chris Sabin. At Slammiversary Shelley, Sabin, Lethal, Creed and Suicide competed in the first ever X Division Title King of the Mountain match, in which Shelley was unsuccessful in regaining the title.\nAfter Slammiversary Shelley and Sabin went inactive, barely making television appearances. In making a comeback on the July 30 \"Impact!\" they could be seen in the crowd holding signs that read, \"Conspiracy Victims\" and \"Yes, We Still Work Here\". On August 6 the duo interrupted Daniels' backstage interview before his match with World Elite leader Eric Young and agreed to accompany him to the ring in order to get some TV time. Later that night, after being attacked by Sheik Abdul Bashir and Kiyoshi of World Elite, Shelley and Sabin aligned themselves with Daniels and other fan favorites in a brawl with the alliance of World Elite and Main Event Mafia, which made them fan favorites again. During September Shelley and Sabin began appearing as occasional commentators alongside Mike Tenay and Taz on \"Impact!\" broadcasts. In late 2009, Shelley and Sabin gained two shots at the TNA World Tag Team Championship, but were both times defeated by the Champions British Invasion (Doug Williams and Brutus Magnus), first at Turning Point in a three–way match, which also included Beer Money, Inc. (Robert Roode and James Storm) and then in a regular tag team match at Final Resolution. At Destination X Shelley and Sabin defeated Generation Me (Jeremy Buck and Max Buck) in an Ultimate X match to earn another shot at the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Shelley and Sabin received their title shot on the April 12 \"Impact!\", but were defeated by World Tag Team Champion Matt Morgan and Amazing Red, who replaced the injured Hernandez in the match.\nThe following month at Sacrifice the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. and Team 3D in a three–way match to earn another shot at the Tag Team Championship. On July 11 at Victory Road the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. to win the vacant TNA World Tag Team Championship for the first time. After Victory Road the Motor City Machine Guns entered a Best of Five Series with Beer Money, Inc., contested for the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Beer Money won the first two matches, a ladder match and a Street Fight, after knocking their opponents out with beer bottles. However, Shelley and Sabin came back to win the two following matches, a steel cage match and an Ultimate X match, to even the score to 2–2 and set up a deciding match for the August 12 \"Impact!\". On the August 12 \"Impact!\" the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Beer Money, Inc. in a Two Out of Three Falls match to win the Best of Five Series and retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship. The following month at No Surrender, the Motor City Machine Guns retained their titles in a match against Generation Me. After the match Generation Me turned heel by attacking the Machine Guns and injuring Shelley in storyline. On the following \"Impact!\", Generation Me laid claim to the TNA World Tag Team Championship, claiming that the champions would not be able to defend them for 30 days, due to Shelley's injury, before stealing Sabin's title belt. Shelley would however make his return two weeks later and promised Generation Me a rematch for the World Tag Team Championship at Bound for Glory. At the pay–per–view the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Generation Me to retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Also at Bound for Glory, Team 3D announced their retirement from professional wrestling, but requested one final match against the Motor City Machine Guns, whom they called the best tag team in wrestling. The Motor City Machine Guns accepted and the match took place on November 7, 2010, at Turning Point, where they defeated Team 3D to retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship. After Jeremy Buck pinned Sabin in an eight-person tag team match, where the Motor City Machine Guns teamed with Jay Lethal and Velvet Sky and Generation Me with Robbie E and Cookie, on the November 18 \"Impact!\", the Motor City Machine Guns challenged Generation Me to an Empty Arena match. The match took place later that same night on \"Reaction\" with the Motor City Machine Guns coming out victorious. On December 5 at Final Resolution the Motor City Machine Guns defeated Generation Me in a Full Metal Mayhem match to retain the World Tag Team Championship. The following month at Genesis, Shelley and Sabin lost the World Tag Team Championship to Beer Money, Inc., after Roode rolled up Sabin, following a miscommunication between the Machine Guns. Shelley and Sabin received their rematch for the title on the following \"Impact!\", but lost again due to a miscommunication. On January 16 Shelley broke his collarbone during a match in Hagerstown, Maryland. Originally, Shelley was advertised to make his return on April 17 at Lockdown in a nine-man Xscape match, but on April 7 he was removed from the match and his return postponed. Shelley made his return on April 20 at the tapings of the April 28 \"Impact!\", saving Sabin from Mexican America (Anarquia and Hernandez). Ironically, the same day Shelley made his return, Sabin suffered a knee injury in his match with Anarquia. Later that same week, Sabin underwent knee surgery, which would sideline him for the rest of the year.\nOn the June 2 \"Impact Wrestling\", Shelley formed an alliance with former rivals Beer Money, Inc., who were looking for a partner to replace the injured Bobby Roode in their World Tag Team Championship defense against the British Invasion at Slammiversary IX. At the pay-per-view, Shelley and Storm were successful in their title defense. At Destination X, Shelley defeated Amazing Red, Robbie E and Shannon Moore in an Ultimate X match to become the number one contender to the TNA X Division Championship. Shelley received his shot at the X Division Championship, held by Brian Kendrick, on the July 21 \"Impact Wrestling\", but was defeated following outside interference from Austin Aries. Two weeks later, Aries defeated Shelley in a singles match. On August 7 at Hardcore Justice, Shelley and Aries competed in a three-way match for the TNA X Division Championship, but were both unable to win the belt from the defending champion, Brian Kendrick. After a four-month absence, Shelley returned on the January 19, 2012, \"Impact Wrestling\", confronting and challenging X Division Champion Austin Aries. The following week, Shelley defeated Zema Ion to become the number one contender to Aries' title. On February 12 at Against All Odds, Shelley was unsuccessful in his title challenge against Aries, after submitting to the Last Chancery.\n\nOn March 18 at Victory Road, TNA started promoting the returns of Chris Sabin and the Motor City Machine Guns. Sabin returned on the April 5 \"Impact Wrestling\", where he and Shelley defeated Mexican America in a tag team match, before announcing their intention of going for the TNA World Tag Team Championship, held by Magnus and Samoa Joe. On April 15 at Lockdown, The Motor City Machine Guns unsuccessfully challenged Magnus and Joe for the TNA World Tag Team Championship in a steel cage match. During the next month, The Motor City Machine Guns did not make another appearance on \"Impact Wrestling\", instead wrestling exclusively on TNA house shows. On May 21, it was reported that Shelley had chosen not to renew his contract with TNA, ending his eight-year run with the promotion. On May 29, Shelley was removed from the official TNA roster page, confirming his departure from the promotion.\n\nOn January 4, 2009, Shelley and Sabin defeated No Limit (Tetsuya Naito and Yujiro) at New Japan Pro-Wrestling's Wrestle Kingdom III in Tokyo Dome to win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. They followed in the footsteps of American Dragon and Curry Man as the only other gaijin team to win those titles. After three successful title defenses, two of which took place in TNA, Shelley and Sabin lost the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Title to Apollo 55 (Prince Devitt and Ryusuke Taguchi) on July 5, 2009, at NJPW's \"Circuit 2009 New Japan Soul\". On November 8, 2010, NJPW announced that the Motor City Machine Guns would be returning to the promotion the following month, competing at events on December 11 and 12. On December 11 the Motor City Machine Guns were defeated by No Limit in their New Japan return match. The following day they defeated Apollo 55 in the fourth ever match between the two teams.\n\nFollowing his departure from TNA, New Japan announced on August 13, 2012, that Shelley would be returning to the promotion the following month. Before Shelley's return to Japan, he and A.J. Kirsch unsuccessfully challenged Forever Hooligans (Alex Koslov and Rocky Romero) for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship on August 26 at a Sacramento Wrestling Federation (SWF) event in Gridley, California. Following the match, Kushida saved Shelley from a beatdown at the hands of Koslov and Romero. Shelley wrestled his New Japan return match on September 7, when he, Bushi, Máscara Dorada and Ryusuke Taguchi were defeated in an eight-man tag team match by Alex Koslov, Averno, Low Ki and Rocky Romero. Afterwards, Shelley continued teaming with Kushida with the two forming the tag team \"Time Splitters\" and scoring several wins over Koslov and Romero in multiple man teamed matches, after debuting their new double-team finishing maneuver, the \"I-94\". On October 8 at King of Pro-Wrestling, Time Splitters unsuccessfully challenged Forever Hooligans for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. On October 21, the Time Splitters entered the 2012 Super Jr. Tag Tournament, defeating Jado & Gedo in their first round match. On November 2, Shelley and Kushida defeated Suzuki-gun (Taichi and Taka Michinoku) to advance to the finals, where, later that same day, they defeated Apollo 55 to win the tournament and become the number one contenders to the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. On November 11 at Power Struggle, the Time Splitters defeated Forever Hooligans in a rematch to win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. Time Splitters made their first successful title defense on February 10, 2013, at The New Beginning, defeating Forever Hooligans in the third title match between the two teams. Their second successful defense took place on March 3 at New Japan's 41st anniversary event, where they defeated Jyushin Thunder Liger and Tiger Mask. On April 5, Shelley received his first shot at the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship, but was defeated by the defending champion, Prince Devitt. Two days later at Invasion Attack, Time Splitters defeated Devitt and Ryusuke Taguchi for their third successful defense of the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. On May 3 at Wrestling Dontaku 2013, Time Splitters lost the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship back to the Forever Hooligans in their fourth defense.\nFrom late May to early June, Shelley took part in the 2013 Best of the Super Juniors, where he managed to win five out of his eight matches with a win over Ricochet in the final round-robin match of the tournament on June 6, earning him a spot in the semifinals. On June 9, after defeating Taka Michinoku in his semifinal match, Shelley was defeated in the finals of the tournament by Prince Devitt. On June 22 at Dominion 6.22, Time Splitters failed in their attempt to regain the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship from the Forever Hooligans. On September 29 at Destruction, Shelley and Kushida defeated Suzuki-gun (Taichi and Taka Michinoku) to earn another shot at the Forever Hooligans and the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. However, on October 7, New Japan announced that Shelley had suffered a back injury, which would force Time Splitters to back out of the title match. Shelley later revealed that he had received a severe sciatica taking a sitout powerbomb from Taichi, which marked his fourth injury in the promotion since his September 2012 return. Shelley wrestled his return match on January 4, 2014, at Wrestle Kingdom 8 in Tokyo Dome, where he and Kushida unsuccessfully challenged The Young Bucks for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship in a four-way match, which also included the Forever Hooligans and Suzuki-gun. Time Splitters were victorious in a non-title rematch the following day, after which they asserted themselves as The Young Bucks' next challengers. They received their title shot on February 11 at The New Beginning in Osaka, but were again defeated by The Young Bucks. Time Splitters received another title shot on May 10 at Global Wars, a special event co-produced by NJPW and ROH in Toronto, but were defeated by The Young Bucks in a three-way match, also involving Forever Hooligans. On May 30, Shelley entered the 2014 Best of the Super Juniors tournament, where he won his block with a record of four wins and three losses, advancing to the semifinals. However, after injuring his left shoulder in his final round-robin match on June 6, Shelley was forced to pull out of the semifinals.\n\nShelley returned to the ring on June 21 at Dominion 6.21, where he and Kushida defeated The Young Bucks to win the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship for the second time as a team. On August 10, Time Splitters made their first successful defense of the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship against the ROH tag team reDRagon. Time Splitters made their second successful title defense on September 23 against Suzuki-gun (El Desperado and Taichi). On October 13 at King of Pro-Wrestling, Time Splitters made their third successful title defense in a three-way match against Forever Hooligans and The Young Bucks. On November 8 at Power Struggle, Time Splitters lost the title to 2014 Super Jr. Tag Tournament winners reDRagon. Time Splitters received a rematch for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship on January 4, 2015, at Wrestle Kingdom 9 in Tokyo Dome, in a four-way match also involving Forever Hooligans and The Young Bucks, but were again defeated by reDRagon. On February 11 at The New Beginning in Osaka, Time Splitters received another title shot in a three-way match, but were this time defeated by The Young Bucks, who became the new champions. On May 3 at Wrestling Dontaku 2015, Shelley unsuccessfully challenged Kenny Omega for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship. Later that month, Shelley suffered ligament damage and an avulsion fracture in his left foot, which forced him to pull out of the 2015 Best of the Super Juniors. Shelley returned to New Japan ring in September and on September 27 at Destruction in Kobe, he and Kushida unsuccessfully challenged reDRagon for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. Following the 2015 Super Jr. Tag Tournament in November, Shelley left Japan.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, NJPW announced that Shelley would return to the promotion on August 21, now again as part of the Motor City Machine Guns tag team with Chris Sabin. In their return match, The Motor City Machine Guns unsuccessfully challenged The Young Bucks for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship.\n\nOn November 20, 2015, Shelley returned to ROH, revealing himself as the mystery man who had been interfering in The Addiction's (Christopher Daniels and Frankie Kazarian) matches, wearing a mask associated with KRD, a stable made up of The Addiction and Shelley's former tag team partner Chris Sabin. On December 18 at Final Battle, Shelley teamed with ACH and Matt Sydal to defeat Sabin, Daniels and Kazarian in a six-man tag team match. On February 26, 2016, at the 14th Anniversary Show, Sabin turned on Daniels and Kazarian, re-forming the Motor City Machine Guns with Shelley. At the following day's \"Ring of Honor Wrestling\" tapings, Shelley and Sabin defeated Daniels and Kazarian in their return match. On May 16, Shelley confirmed he had signed with ROH and would work for the promotion regularly going forward. On June 24 at Best in the World '16, The Motor City Machine Guns unsuccessfully challenged The Addiction for the ROH World Tag Team Championship. On September 30 at All Star Extravaganza VIII, The Motor City Machine Guns took part in a three-way ladder match for the ROH World Tag Team Championship, which was won by The Young Bucks (Matt Jackson and Nick Jackson) and also included The Addiction. Shelley and Sabin then formed a stable named \"Search and Destroy\" with Jay White, Jonathan Gresham and Lio Rush.\n\nOn September 22, 2017, at Death Before Dishonor XV, The Motor City Machine Guns defeated The Young Bucks to win the ROH World Tag Team Championship for the first time. They would retain the titles until March 9, 2018, when they lost them against The Briscoe Brothers at ROH 16th Anniversary Show. In June, Shelley suffered an injury. On July 20, 2018, it was reported his contract with ROH expired and left the promotion to focus on his wrestling school. Four days after, Shelley announced his retirement.\n\nOn June 30, 2019, Shelley returned to ROH and announced he wants a match with the winner of Manhattan Mayhem, hinting that he might come out of retirement. On July 21, 2019, Shelley came out of retirement to team up with Jay Lethal and Jonathan Gresham to beat The Kingdom. On August 9, 2019, at Summer Supercard, Shelley was defeated by Matt Taven for the ROH World Championship. On December 13, 2019, At Final Battle, Shelley defeated Colt Cabana.\n\nOn the January 1, 2020 episode of \"NXT\", the participants to the Dusty Rhodes Tag Team Classic were announced, with the exception of Kushida's partner, whose identity was kept a mystery. On January 8, a surprise announcement was made that Shelley was coming to WWE, as part of the NXT brand and would be Kushida's partner, reforming their Time Splitters tag team for the first time since their New Japan Pro Wrestling days in 2015; this is Shelley's first time performing on WWE, after a one-off appearance on \"WWE Heat\" back in his early wrestling days in 2005. On the January 15 episode of \"NXT\", Shelley and Kushida lost to Grizzled Young Veterans (James Drake and Zack Gibson) in the first round of the tournament.\n\nShelley has appeared in the video games \"TNA Impact!\" and \"TNA Wrestling Impact!\".\n\nMartin is a fan of punk rock. He has worn the logo of the band Teenage Bottlerocket on his ring attire and the band has talked about being in contact with him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875918", "title": "Heracleopolis", "text": "Heracleopolis\n\nHeracleopolis or Herakleopolis (, \"Herakleópolis\") or Herakleiopolis (Ἡρακλειούπολις) may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1875925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875925", "title": "Pythagorean Method of Memorization", "text": "Pythagorean Method of Memorization\n\nPythagorean Method of Memorization (PYMOM), also known as Triangular Movement Cycle (TMC), is a game-based, educational methodology or associative-learning technique that primarily uses corresponding information, such as terms and definitions on opposing sides, displayed on cue cards, to exploit psychological retention of information for academic study and language acquisition. PYMOM is named such because of the shape the cue-cards form during the progression of the game, a right-angled or Pythagorean triangle.\n\nIt is a theoretical educational method that is made up of several established and tested educational methods that have been in use for decades.\n\nPYMOM is a composite body of techniques that claims, in its digital form, to incorporate (to a greater or lesser degree): spaced repetition, non-failure redundant subroutine, chromatics, positive reinforcement, the Von Restorff effect, picture association, selective musical tonality, kinesthetics, the serial-position effect and meditation. There are two branches of this methodology:\n\nAs with both branches, there is only one variable in the game or learning method: a correct or incorrect answer. The initial movement cycle also remains largely unchanged.\n\nThe movement cycle which is most crucial to the methodology and reinforces the spaced repetition, begins with either 3, 4 or 5 cards; 3 cards for a 6-card session, 4 cards for a 10-card session and 5 cards for the most advanced 15-card session. Because two-sided associative cue-cards are being used, all cards are presented with a congruent side up, either all \"terms\" or \"definitions,\" not mixed.\n\nOnce cards have been answered correctly, the predominant row has reached its maximum and a card must be graduated out of this row to continue the game. Thus the card to the far right comes into play. Routines are repeated as each row reaches its maximum. A cue-card is finally eliminated from the game session by being answered correctly once more, after it has graduated to the top tier or row.\n\nThe first manifestation, referred to as the \"Triangular Movement Cycle\" or TMC, was a simple paper-based learning technique that was primarily a manual movement cycle using physical cue-cards, which allowed for manual-spaced repetition to elicit psychological retention of information. Its origins, however, are not very clear. Using TMC, teachers would move the cards for the student in a one-on-one setting according to either the correct or incorrect feedback from the student. This presented challenges for the teacher or tutor using this method. The first challenge lies in the fact that, although TMC lent itself well to a two-party learning group (i.e. teacher & student), it could also be done by the student themselves on their own. It was a very easy system to utilize once learned, however, it was found exceptionally difficult to teach the complex movement cycle and principles behind such to students, especially where a linguistic barrier was present. The second challenge lay in that the educator needed to create and remember innumerable cue-cards or create custom master lists in order to know the correct answers — and properly guide the student, thus progressing or digressing the card in play. TMC often failed to keep the attention of many students owing to the fact that cards were not very visually appealing. To make them so required tremendous effort — and was very time consuming.\n\nThe term \"Pythagorean Method of Memorization\" was coined in 2013 and officially copyrighted in October 2014 by a Canadian company named You Learn Educational Solutions & Linguistics Inc. PYMOM takes the movement cycle from TMC and remedied the challenge of teaching the movement cycle itself to students by providing a software-based solution to handling cycles by means of sub-routines prompted by the user’s input.\n\nPYMOM wove established educational theory into the fabric of TMC to create a viable educational platform for academic and linguistic study by several means. Because spaced repetition is intrinsically part of the movement-cycle subroutines, it adds to the content and surrounding experience making it into a platform. The developers of PYMOM describe it as an “organic learning experience.” The tenets that truly allow a learning system to be a PYMOM-based system are enumerated thusly: The Von Restorff effect: for example, where it features a language, this method is employed to further aid in memory retention of the highlighted word in the phrase.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875928", "title": "Nigel Lappin", "text": "Nigel Lappin\n\nNigel Lappin (born 21 June 1976) is a former professional Australian rules footballer. Lappin is currently serving as an assistant coach with the Geelong Football Club.\n\nLappin was born in the locally based regional hospital at Corowa, New South Wales and grew up in Chiltern, Victoria. He was drafted to play for the Brisbane Bears in the Australian Football League in 1993, playing his first AFL game the following year. In 1997 he was a member of the inaugural Brisbane Lions team following the Bears merger with Fitzroy.\n\nA long, accurate kick, capable of running as a play maker throughout the whole match, he was recognised as a member of the group of players known as the \"Fab Four\", a group of highly skilled midfield players considered to be one of the major driving forces behind the Lions successive Australian Football League premierships in 2001, 2002 and 2003. An example of his courage was the 2003 Grand Final win, in which he played the whole match with a broken rib.\n\nLappin represented Australia in International Rules in 2001.\n\nIn 2004 he achieved a personal milestone in winning his first Merrett-Murray Medal. However his 2005 season ended prematurely when he broke his right ankle late in the season. Weeks into his comeback, the ankle was re-injured in a 2006 pre-season practice match, forcing him to miss the entire 2006 season.\n\nFollowing the retirement of longtime captain Michael Voss at the end of 2006, Lappin was appointed co-captain of the club alongside Simon Black, Luke Power, Jonathan Brown, and Chris Johnson on 20 March 2007.\n\nHis cousin Matthew Lappin also played AFL football for Carlton and St. Kilda.\nOn 19 August 2008, Nigel Lappin announced his retirement from professional football. After only being able to play 4 games in the 2008 season due to an Achilles tendon problem, Nigel decided it was time to draw a close on his career. \"I'm really disappointed this season hasn't worked out for me,\" Lappin said at a Gabba press conference. \"Every footballer wants the fairytale ending. It's hard to walk away from something that's been a really big part of your life, but I've got a family that will care for me.\"\n\nIn October 2008, Lappin joined the Geelong Football Club as an assistant coach. In 2016 he was inducted into the Australian Football Hall of Fame.\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1994\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1995\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1996\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1997\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1998\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1999\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2000\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 2001\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 2002\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center;\" | 2003\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2004\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2005\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2006\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2007\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2008\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 279\n! 174\n! 173\n! 3758\n! 2153\n! 5911\n! 1293\n! 596\n! 0.6\n! 0.6\n! 13.5\n! 7.7\n! 21.2\n! 4.6\n! 2.1\n\nTeal Cup\nBrisbane Bears/Lions\n\n"}
{"id": "1875937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875937", "title": "Brooks Air Force Base", "text": "Brooks Air Force Base\n\nBrooks Air Force Base was a United States Air Force facility, located in San Antonio, Texas. It was closed on September 30, 2011.\n\nIn 2002 Brooks Air Force Base was renamed Brooks City-Base when the property was conveyed to the Brooks Development Authority as part of a unique project between local, state, and federal government. The Brooks Development Authority is now the owner and operator of the property, and is redeveloping it as a science, business, and technology center. The Air Force was the largest tenant at Brooks City-Base.\n\nBrooks Air Force Base was one of thirty-two Air Service, United States Army training camps established in 1918 after the United States entry into World War I, being established on December 8, 1917 as Kelly Field No. 5. Flying at Brooks, however predates its military establishment, as the facility was known as Gosport Field prior to the first Army airplanes arriving on December 5, 1917.\n\nBrooks Air Force Base was named to honor San Antonio aviator Sidney Johnson Brooks, Jr. Cadet Brooks died on November 13, 1917 when his Curtiss JN-4 nosed down as he prepared to land after his final training flight at Kelly Field, Texas, possibly because he had blacked out in reaction to the inoculations they had been given shortly before the flight. Brooks was one of the first to volunteer at the call for men for the American Flying Corps; he was about to complete his training for a commission as a military aviator. He was awarded his wings and commission posthumously.\n\nThe history of Brooks Air Force Base parallels the history of military aviation and aviation medicine in the United States. After the United States entered World War I, in April 1917, the U.S. Army recognized the need for trained flying instructors. San Antonio was chosen for a year-round training site due to its favorable climate, good water supply and convenient transportation facilities.\n\nThe Chamber of Commerce assembled an 873-acre tract southeast of the city near Berg's Mill and offered it as the site for the new aviation field. The site was originally called Gosport Field, a name derived from the flight instruction system used at the new base. On December 5, 1917, the Army named the site Kelly Field No. 5, and on 8 December, ground breaking ceremonies were held.\n\nOn February 16, 1918, Kelly Field No. 5 became a separate post and named Brooks Field by the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps The first commander of Brooks Field was Lt. Col. H. Conger Pratt, who until the preceding October had been a cavalryman.\n\nThe first aircraft flown from the new Brooks Field, on March 28, 1918, was a Curtiss JN-4D \"Jenny\" of World War I fame, piloted by Maj. Leo A. Walton. Brooks Field, contained the principal flight instructor's school. Brooks Field was used as the Air Service Flight Instructor's School. It was a six-week course, with a maximum student capacity of 300.\n\nDuring its first year of operation, Brooks Field consisted of 16 hangars with extensive support facilities. Of these early buildings, Hangar 9, now the Edward H. White II Memorial, is the only structure still in existence.\n\nSquadrons assigned to Brooks Field:\n\nOn 13 December 1919, the United States House of Representatives passed an appropriations bill for $9.6 million for the purchase of additional land at military camps \"which are to be made part of the permanent military establishment.\" Brooks Field was allocated $140,446 of this amount.\n\nIn May 1919, the pilot instructor school was closed and a Balloon and Airship School was opened for pilots and ground crew members. A huge 91,000-square-foot airship hangar was constructed.\n\n\nHowever, a series of mishaps in operating the hydrogen-filled craft led to the transfer of the school from Brooks to Scott Field, Illinois on June 26, 1922. The base commander at the time, Major John A. Paegelow, an experienced commander in lighter-than-air craft activities, left for the position of executive officer at Scott Field the same year. After the cancellation of the airship training, the 11th School Group was formed at Brooks Field as the Primary Flying School for the Air Service and Army Air Corps, replacing the World War I school at Carlstrom Field, Florida.\nThe Primary Flying School operated between September 1922 through July 1931. The school took about six months initially, with advanced training later divided into three months each of basic and advanced instruction. The dual trainer initially used was the Curtiss JN-6H. Brooks later accepted other planes, including Vought VE-7 Bluebirds and Dayton-Wright TA-3s, for evaluation, but JNs were used until 1926. The beginning class in March of that year was the first without Jennies. Students now flew in the new Consolidated PT-1, with tandem seats and a Wright E engine. A few National Guard officers went to Brooks Field in January 1923 for pilot instruction. World War I flyers underwent refresher training while others took the regular course. Eight of the ten officers entering graduated to become junior airplane pilots. The Air Service suggested, and the Militia Bureau adopted, a policy of giving men flying training before commissioning them in the Guard. During the 1920s, the Primary Flying School at Brooks expanded but still could not accommodate all primary students. Needing another school, the Air Corps reopened March Field, California.\n\nReorganizing pilot training, the Air Corps created a Training Center at San Antonio with Brig. Gen. Frank P. Lahm in charge. He opened headquarters at Duncan Field on September 1, 1926. As an Assistant Chief\nof Air Corps, he commanded the Primary Flying School and the School of Aviation Medicine (Flight Surgeons) at Brooks Field, and the Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field. In 1927 basic moved out of the advanced phase and combined with primary. At that point, primary-basic changed to eight months in length and advanced to four months. With the beginning of the five-year expansion program. More than 1,400 pilots were trained during those years and graduates included such notable aviation figures as Generals Claire L. Chennault, Thomas D. White, Nathan F. Twining, and Col. Charles A. Lindbergh.\n\nAlso during this period, the School of Aviation Medicine was moved from Mitchel Field, New York, to Brooks. The flying school was a source for aviation medicine research and, in turn, the School of Aviation Medicine provided a means to screen, examine and upgrade the caliber of cadets being trained at Brooks. Both organizations were transferred to the newly constructed Randolph Field in October 1931.\n\nOn September 28, 1929, Brooks was the site for the first successful mass parachute drop in the world. The concept, conceived and implemented at Brooks, confirmed the practicality of tactical paratrooper warfare. The concept proved its value during World War II.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Brooks was the center of aerial observation activity and several units were trained in tactical observation. In 1938, the Air Corps wanted to move Headquarters 21st Balloon Group to Brooks Field to organize a balloon school. Ten years had passed since it had trained observers at Scott Field. It needed 300 more observers for balloon units in mobilization plans. It wanted to run two sessions a year at Brooks, with five officers of the Regular Army and 15 from the National Guard in each class. The War Department thought the proposal significant enough to merit further study. On September 21, 1938, the small band of lighter-than-air enthusiasts in the Air Corps lost their leader (General Westover) in an aircraft crash. Instead of letting the Air Corps open a school, the War Department inactivated the 21st Balloon Group at Scott Field on June 1, 1939. Thus, the lighter-than-air branch consisted of 3 balloon squadrons, plus 10 officers and 350 enlisted men, when war broke out in Europe. In 1940, Brooks became the site for a special school for combat observers.\n\nDuring World War II, Brooks Field housed the School for Combat Observers and the Advanced Flying School (Observation). To cope with the huge buildup in personnel and equipment, the Air Corps adopted a policy of using temporary constructio for housing and permanent structures for technical buildings, putting up tents to accommodate personnel.\n\nThe observation observers and pilots were graduates of the Advanced Flying School and were selected for this hazardous duty, as the observation aircraft were unarmed when flying over enemy-held territory. They flew the North American O-47 two-man aircraft, with the pilot being in charge of the aircraft and the aircraft observer taking photographs and notes of the ground below.\n\nThe Observation School course was ten weeks in length. The observers were thoroughly trained in code practice and the use of the radio for air-to-ground communication, and the pilots were trained in transition flying. Later in the course, photography from aircraft was taught and concentration of instruction was performed in flying as a team. Six student observers and three pilots were assigned to each flight.\n\nThe program remained in operation until 1943 when it was disbanded. Training in the school then switched to twin-engine aircraft, flying the Curtiss AT-9 \"Jeep,\" the all-wood Beechcraft AT-10 Wichita, or the Cessna AT-17 Bobcat, subsequently training pilots to fly the B-25 Mitchell bomber beginning in 1943 until the end of the war.\n\nWhen pilot training at Brooks Field concluded at the end of World War II, the base took on a new mission. In September 1951 in the midst of the Korean War, the Air Force established a reserve training center at Brooks Air Force Base. The 907th Air Reserve Wing was assigned to the center. Conceived originally as a troop carrier unit, the wing did not receive its first planes until the summer of 1952. The planes were T-6 Texans, an indication of the 907th's new mission, Air Force Reserve pilot training.\n\nAlmost before it began its new mission, the 907th Air Reserve Wing was replaced by the 8707th Pilot Training Wing (Single-Engine). On the first anniversary of its activation, the 8707th had six T-6s and two C-46 Commandoes assigned. That began to change in April 1953 when the wing acquired its first five North American T-28 Trojans.\n\nIn 1954 Colonel David L. \"Tex\" Hill, a fighter pilot who made his reputation as a member of Chennault's Flying Tigers, took over the wing's pilot training program. At year's end the wing converted to C-46s and the 8707th was replaced by the 433d Troop Carrier Wing.\n\nIn 1956 reservists celebrated their fifth anniversary at Brooks with the arrival of another aircraft, the C-119 Flying Boxcar transport. Four years later, the 433d Troop Carrier Wing moved to Kelly AFB. From the time the Reserve first established a wing at Brooks in 1951, whatever the numerical designation, the people of San Antonio have always referred to the unit as the Alamo Wing.\n\nAn era in aviation history ended on June 20, 1960, when the last plane took off from Brooks. The aircraft was a C-131 Samaritan piloted by Col. L.B. Matthews, commander of Det. 1, 1st Aeromedical Transport Group.\n\nDuring the late 1950s, Brooks was transformed from a flying training center to a center for modern medical research and development and education. The transition started in the summer of 1959 when the School of Aviation Medicine returned to Brooks from Randolph AFB. Brooks became the headquarters for the School of Aerospace Medicine (SAM). In 1957, SAM scientists moved into the newly completed center at Brooks AFB. SAM aided the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) with Project Mercury and served as a back-up site for lunar samples brought back to Earth on the Apollo missions between 1969–1972. The air evacuation program at Brooks AFB proved vital to the care of wounded personnel in the Vietnam War.\n\nOn November 1, 1961, Air Training Command transferred jurisdiction of Brooks AFB to Air Force Systems Command (AFSC). This was all part of an Air Force plan to reorganize aerospace medical research. Along with the transfer of Brooks, ATC passed to AFSC (and its newly formed Aerospace Medical Division at Brooks) control of the USAF Aerospace Medical Center, the School of Aerospace Medicine, the USAF Hospital Lackland, and the 3790th Epidemiological Laboratory. (The School of Aviation Medicine had been re-designated as the School of Aerospace Medicine on May 8, 1961.) However, the Medical Service School at Gunter AFB, Alabama remained in the command, reassigned from the medical center to Headquarters ATC on October 1.\n\nUnited States President John F. Kennedy dedicated the School of Aerospace Medicine on November 21, 1963, the day before he was assassinated in Dallas. This was Kennedy's last official act as president.\n\nIn 1962, USAF Colonel B. Dean Smith was conducting a test of the Gemini space suit with a colleague in a pure oxygen chamber at Brooks when a fire broke out, destroying the chamber. Smith and his partner narrowly escaped. On January 31, 1967, Airman 2/C William F. Bartley, Jr., and Airman 3/C Richard G. Harmon were killed in a flash fire while tending laboratory rabbits in the Two Man Space Environment Simulator, a pure oxygen chamber at the School of Aerospace Medicine. Like the Apollo 1 spacecraft fire, which occurred four days earlier, the SAM fire was caused by an electrical spark in a pure oxygen environment. The widows of the Apollo 1 crew sent condolence letters to Bartley and Harmon's families.\n\nAfter the Vietnam War, the base's mission narrowed to one centered on specific research related to aeronautically rated U.S. Air Force personnel (e.g., pilots and navigators, to include USAF astronauts) and enlisted aircrew. The aerospace era placed new demands on medical research and education, particularly in space medicine. Research efforts at the USAF School of Aerospace Medicine were instrumental in making manned space flight a reality. Researchers continued to study man's interaction with the aerospace environment, seeking ways to maximize a pilot's ability to use modern, high performance aircraft. Flight simulation devices, the centrifuge, altitude chambers, lasers and other specially developed equipment, enabled researchers to perform laboratory studies of man's tolerances in the aerospace environment.\n\nIn the early 1980s, other organizations relocated to Brooks AFB. Among them were the Air Force Human Resources Laboratory and the USAF Occupational and Environmental Health Laboratory. In addition to the Air Force Office of Medical Support, Brooks became home to the Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory and the Air Force Systems Command's Systems Acquisition School.\n\nA new Schriever Heritage Park, named for General Bernard A. Schriever, first commander of Air Force Systems Command, was dedicated on October 7, 1986, during the celebration of Aerospace Medical Division's 25th Anniversary. The Aerospace Medical Division was redesignated the Human Systems Division on February 6, 1987.\n\nIn November 1987, Brooks celebrated its 70th anniversary. During the celebration the Sidney J. Brooks Jr. Memorial Park was dedicated. This area, along with Schriever Heritage Park, provides a quiet beauty to the base and offers a spot for remembrance of the heritage that is Brooks AFB.\n\nThe 1990s ushered in a new era. For several years the Department of Defense had been looking for leaner, and smarter cost-saving ways to do business. However, this process was intensified with the unexpected collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and the demise of the Soviet Union. Americans expected a peace dividend—a reduction in defense spending. Downsizing became the key word, but Brooks AFB continued to grow.\n\nIn 1991 four of its laboratories—the Air Force Human Resources Laboratory, the Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory, the Harry G. Armstrong Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory, and the Air Force Occupational and Environmental Health Laboratory, as well as the laboratory function of the USAF School of Aerospace Medicine—combined to become the Armstrong Laboratory, one of four super laboratories in the Air Force.\n\nAlso, the Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence was formed and located at Brooks. This organization has the monumental task of restoring closing installations to their original state and of ensuring that future installations are environmentally safe.\n\nConsolidations continued in 1992 with the merging of the Air Force Systems Command and the Air Force Logistics Command into a new organization called the Air Force Materiel Command. As a part of the new command, the Human Systems Division at Brooks again changed its name to the Human Systems Center. Although the Air Force continued to shrink, it would be flexible enough to respond on short notice to a wide range of regional crises and contingencies.\n\nFollowing the 1995 BRAC, when Brooks AFB was removed from the Base Realignment and Closure list, city, state, military, and community planners began several years of hard work to develop a plan to privatize approved the gradual transition in ownership of Brooks AFB from the Air Force to the Brooks Development Authority. This transition came into full effect on Jul. 22, 2002, when the Brooks Development Authority assumed control of the newly named Brooks City-Base.\n\nIn 2005, Brooks City-Base was once again placed on the BRAC list. Air Force operations ceased on Sep. 15, 2011. The Brooks Development Authority has demonstrated economic development success with projects including a retail development, approximately of research and distribution facilities for DPT Laboratories, the South Texas Center for Emerging Infectious Diseases (an infectious disease research institute coordinated with the University of Texas at San Antonio), an international pharmaceutical company, and a $25.5 million City/County emergency operations center which opened in the fall of 2007. The 311th Air Base Group inactivated on Sept. 1, 2011, and the remaining few USAF personnel had shuttered the base for good by the 15th of that month.\n\nIn the spring of 2006, construction of Brooks Academy of Science and Engineering, a STEM charter school, started on 8 acres of land in the southeast part of Brooks City Base. Classes had already started in August 2006 at a temporary location on South Presa Street (in the far west part of Brooks City Base), and then students were relocated to the current location of Brooks Academy (on the north side of Lyster Road) in March 2007.\n\nIn August 2011, Texas A&M University opened a satellite campus at 2601 Louis Bauer Drive (in the west part of Brooks City Base), and uses this building for the College of Business and the Department of Counseling and Leadership.\n\nIn 2012, the $90 million Mission Trail Baptist Hospital opened at 3327 Research Plaza.\n\nOn August 8, 2016, the University of the Incarnate Word opened a School of Osteopathic Medicine on 16 acres in the northwest part of Brooks City Base (at 100 Kennedy Circle), in buildings which were once the Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine. Classes began in August 2017.\n\nBrooks Field Hangar 9 was restored in 1969 to become the U.S. Air Force Museum of Aerospace Medicine. This museum is to display the early history of Brooks Field and to preserve and display an extensive collection of photographs and equipment related to aviation and aerospace medicine.\n\n\nUSAAC/USAAF\n\nUnited States Air Force\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875942", "title": "Baron von Raschke", "text": "Baron von Raschke\n\nJames Donald Raschke (born October 17, 1940) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Baron von Raschke.\n\nAfter a successful amateur wrestling career and a stint in the United States Army, James Raschke started in professional wrestling in 1966 in the American Wrestling Association as a referee. He was soon wrestling under his real name, playing off of his amateur wrestling notoriety in the area. He eventually changed his ring name to Baron von Raschke and claimed to be from Germany. He would do a goose-step and then put his finisher known as the \"brainclaw\", on his opponent. Earlier in his career, the Von Raschke had a finishing maneuver known as the \"Prussian sleeper\", a rather complex variation of a traditional sleeper hold. His mantra at the time was; \"I am \"ordered\" to win! I \"must\" win! And I \"will\" win!\"\n\nThroughout the 1970s and early 1980s he held numerous singles and tag team titles throughout several NWA and AWA territories, as well as wrestling for the WWWF, where his claw hold was \"censored\" by a huge red \"X\" on WWWF television because it was considered such a violent act. Managed by Fred Blassie, Von Raschke's highest-profile match of his 1970s WWWF run came in March 1977, where he wrestled WWWF World Heavyweight Champion Bruno Sammartino for the title at Madison Square Garden in New York. Von Raschke lost the match by disqualification when, after Sammartino became tied up in the ropes, he shoved the referee away as he had his clawhold applied to Sammartino's head. Sammartino defeated Von Raschke in a rematch a month later at Madison Square Garden, marking Sammartino's last successful title defense before losing the belt to Superstar Billy Graham.\n\nIn 1978, Von Raschke was recognized as the first NWA Television champion (the Mid Atlantic Television title had been renamed).\nIn May 1984, Raschke and The Crusher defeated Jerry Blackwell and Ken Patera for the AWA World Tag Team Championship. They would lose the belts in August of that same year to The Road Warriors.\n\nIn 1986, he wrestled for the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions where he reunited with former tag partner Paul Jones (who was now a manager) as part of Paul Jones' Army. He also filled in for the injured Krusher Khruschev, defending the NWA World Six-Man Tag Team Championship with Ivan and Nikita Koloff. Toward the end of his run there he turned \"face\" against Jones and teamed with Hector Guerrero defeating the Barbarian and Pez Whatley at Starrcade (1986). After teaming with Wahoo McDaniel at the 1987 Crockett Cup he left the National Wrestling Alliance.\n\nHe had a brief stint in the World Wrestling Federation in 1988 as the manager for The Barbarian and The Warlord (The Powers of Pain) under the name of the \"Baron\", but was released shortly after his arrival.\n\nRaschke resurfaced in the AWA, returning to the ring to feud with Soldat Ustinov and Teijho Khan in late 1988. He then went on to captain \"Baron's Blitzers\" during the Team Challenge Series. When the AWA folded, Raschke continued to wrestle for independent promotions, primarily in the Minnesota area, retiring in 1995.\n\nRaschke also took part in one of the legends matches at WCW's inaugural Slamboree: A Legend's Reunion in 1993. He teamed with Ivan Koloff, losing to Thunderbolt Patterson and Brad Armstrong.\n\nHis last match was a victory over David Lynch at Superstars of Wrestling in Princeton, West Virginia on February 10, 1996.\n\nWhen not wrestling, Raschke worked as a substitute teacher. Upon retirement, Raschke purchased and managed a bric-a-brac shop called \"The Wigwam\" in Lake George, Minnesota. He sold it in 2000.\n\nIn April 2007, James Raschke began a several month run at the Minnesota History Theatre in a play based around his life, persona, and times in the AWA. The play detailed how a very mild-mannered and polite man created an in-ring gimmick that drew so much heat that he and his frequent tag-team wrestling partner (and real life friend) Mad Dog Vachon often had to fight their way out of the ring.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875956", "title": "Ronneby Party", "text": "Ronneby Party\n\nThe Ronneby Party () is a local political party in Ronneby Municipality, Sweden. It was founded in 1994 by Sune Håkansson, Göran Tidman and Per Thano. In 1994 it won four seats in the municipal council. In 1998 the party had 6.3% of the votes and three seats in the municipal council. In 2002 the voteshare was reduced to 3.0% and one seat was lost. Currently Sune Håkansson and Susanne Lundgren represent the party in the council. Lundgren is the party president.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875957", "title": "Víctor Carranza", "text": "Víctor Carranza\n\nVíctor Carranza Niño (8 October 1935 – 4 April 2013), often referred to as \"Don Víctor\" was a Colombian emerald dealer and the owner of emerald mines in the Boyacá mountains (a forested area not far from Bogotá), widely known as Colombia's \"emerald czar.\" The economy of the area around the mines is dependent on the trade.\n\nVíctor Carranza was born in the small town of Guateque, Boyacá, in a very poor family of farmers and pig growers. He had dropped school already at 2nd grade, and by age 8 he was already involved in emerald business, by scratching the soil for the gemstones, and then a few years later as a mine worker in Chivor. He started making money after moving to Gachalá, in 1947, where he found three large sources. He found his first emerald mine in 1960, Peñas Blancas, and from then on his influence and power kept increasing, expanding his business by associating with others, buying share rights from new mines in Muzo and Quípama, and selling emeralds in Europe, thanks particularly to his business with lawyer Juan Beetar Down, who took Carranza to many countries and opened to him the doors of political influence and taught him in the art of diplomacy, leading to even meet often with presidents. The money flowing in from the newfound mines soon became a matter of conflict and in the 1960s a series of vendettas and disputes gave rise to the so-called \"first green war,\" which he not only survived but used in his favor to increase his power. He had already made a name as a wealthy and stingy man, but also as a violent man, surrounded by armed bodyguards.\n\nOne of his most powerful associates was Gilberto Molina Moreno, the \"emerald czar\" of the time, and together they were the main beneficiaries of the requests for bids of the emerald mines by the governments of Misael Pastrana and Alfonso López, which essentially eliminated governmental control of the mines, and allowed Carranza and Molina to legalize their riches and to take control of the security of the regions. A new green war was unleashed in the 1980s, and this one also involved violent drug lord Gonzalo Rodríguez Gacha, who had been an old associate of both Carranza and Molina. Carranza was always linked to Rodríguez Gacha, but Carranza always denied such links and stated he always opposed the introduction of drug cartels in his region. Rodríguez Gacha had wanted to consolidate his power in the region, and also received financial support from Molina to train the first paramilitary troops. When the drug lord allegedly asked them to participate as a partner in the mines, Molina and Carranza refused which led to violent retaliation by the drug lord, who murdered Molina, and later detonated a bomb in the offices of Tecminas in Bogotá, which were property of Carranza, and whose nephew's murder he also ordered. These violent actions led Carranza to a self-imposed internment to protect himself. Reportedly, Carranza was instrumental in providing intelligence reports about Rodríguez Gacha that led to his demise.\n\nThe death of Rodríguez Gacha and that of other emerald traders meant he obtained even more power, and in 1990 he signed a peace agreement with his rivals in the business, particularly Luis Murcia, (aka el Pequinés) mediated by the Catholic church. He also spread his connection to politicians, and military, which joined to his entrepreneurial proficiency led him to become the new emerald czar, one that ruled with an iron fist. As such he enjoyed some peace, and although he was completely involved in the green wars and the thousands of deaths they produced, he was never accused for that reason. He also bought many lands in the Llanos Orientales region, to such an extent that at his peak he managed to own about 10,000 acres, and he created his own militia to protect them, the feared \"Carranceros.\" This and his friendship with the region paramilitary leader Héctor Buitrago (aka Martín Llanos) only reinforced his links to illegal paramilitary groups, for which he never was judged. He was accused by paramilitary leader Don Mario of being the instigator of the war between the paramilitary organizations led by Miguel Arroyave and Buitrago respectively that led to thousands of deaths in the department of Casanare.\n\nHe was accused, however, of participating in a massacre of 40 farmers in the Meta department and arrested, but he was absolved two months later. Some years later he would be part of a new conflict, this time involving Leonidas Vargas, an old worker of Rodríguez Gacha who accused him of the disappearance of his daughter. His support of the Convivir watch groups which were at the root of many paramilitary organizations led him to jail once again in 1998, and a controversy was created when Juan Manuel Santos (ex president of Colombia) called the Attorney General to ask about his friend Carranza, and also when he was visited in jail by the then president of the powerful cattlemen association Fedegán. Despite the finding of corpses and a paramilitary training camp in some of his farms, he only spent three years and a half jailed in a DAS installation, during which time an attempt at his life was made by poisoning his food. He was finally absolved, once again, when the judge to determine his guilt was suddenly changed, and the new judge found no reason to condemn him.\n\nOnce out of jail his war to Leonidas Vargas continued, until the latter was killed by hitmen in Spain in 2009. He also found himself in another war, this time against Yesid Nieto, a young emerald trader who had made a fortune in drug trafficking and had started making a name in the emerald field after being introduced to it by another rival of Carranza, Pedro Nel Rincón, (aka Pedro Orejas). Nieto appointed himself as the new emerald czar and associated with the paramilitary forces at the service of Freddy Rendón (aka el Alemán) to fight Carranza. Nieto was killed in Guatemala in 2007. The conflict with Rincón continued, despite some attempts at negotiation, as Rincón involved himself with a number of drug lords and paramilitary leaders, particularly Pedro Oliveiro Guerrero (a.k.a. Cuchillo) and Daniel Barrera Barrera. It was in the context of this new green war that some months later another attempt at Carranza's life was made when his convoy was attacked with guns and grenades, an attack that has been attributed to Rincón and the drug lords. It's estimated that 25 assassination attempts were made on Carranza's life.\n\nIn a 2012 interview for Al Jazeera, Carranza declared \"Six years ago I was diagnosed with prostate cancer and I never took a pill for that. But two years ago I got lung cancer and that one has got me all the way up to the hair ... It's about time for God to remember me and call me to his side.\" Also in 2012, prosecutors launched an investigation to find out whether Carranza financed a number of paramilitary groups in the 1990s based on testimony given by a former leader of the paramilitary group called United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, Fredy Rendon Herrera. Carranza claimed that he was instead the victim of extortion. After being hospitalized for a week in Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá he finally died of lung cancer on April 4, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875958", "title": "Peter Lei", "text": "Peter Lei\n\nPeter Lei Wang-Kei 李宏基主教 (March 29, 1922 – July 23, 1974) was the fourth Roman Catholic bishop of Hong Kong.\n\nBorn in Nam Hoi, Lei was ordained priest on 6 July 1955 and Appointed Auxiliary Bishop of Hong Kong 3 July 1971, appointed Titular Bishop of Octaba 8 September 1971.\n\nHe was sworn in as the Vicar Capitular on May 23, 1973. Appointed Bishop of Hong Kong on December 21, 1973 and installed on April 22, 1974, he died not long afterwards on July 23, 1974 of sudden heart attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875960", "title": "Emirau Island", "text": "Emirau Island\n\nEmirau Island, also called Emira, is an island in the Bismarck Archipelago located at . It is currently part of the New Ireland Province of Papua New Guinea. The local language is a dialect of the Mussau-Emira language. Emira is part of what on many maps are charted as the St Matthias Islands, also known as the Mussau Islands, a small group to the north-west of the main-island group of New Ireland. Early explorers named it Squally Island, a name still found in some early records.\n\nEarly in World War II this small island became international news when over 500 prisoners from various ships (including RMS \"Rangitane\") sunk by German surface raiders were released following the first attack on Nauru and subsequently rescued by the Australian authorities. \n\nEmirau was seized unopposed by two battalions of the United States 4th Marine Division on 20 March 1944.\n\nConstruction activities were taken in hand by the US Navy Seabees of the 18th Construction Regiment, which consisted of the 27th, 61st, and 63rd Construction Battalions and the 17th Special Battalion, which arrived between 25 and 30 March, and the 77th Construction Battalion which arrived on 14 April. The 27th built a PT boat base, an LCT floating drydock and slipway, and roads. The 61st constructed housing, ammunition storage facilities, a runway, and some of the buildings at the PT boat base. It also handled sawmill operations. The 63rd assisted at the sawmill and worked on the roads, camps, harbor facilities, warehouses, magazines and avgas dumps. The 77th built taxiways, hardstands, aviation workshops and the avgas tank farm. The 88th worked on runways, roads, radar stations and a causeway at the eastern end of the island.\n\nTwo airfields were constructed, Inshore and North Cape. These were heavy bomber strips, long and wide. The former had parking for 210 fighters or light bombers; the latter for 84 heavy bombers. Both were fully equipped with towers, lighting, and a dispensary. The aviation tank farm consisted of three and nineteen tanks together with the appropriate filling and distribution points. A reserve of was stored in drums. Three hospitals were established, a 100-bed naval base hospital, the 160-bed 24th Army Field Hospital, and the 150-bed Acorn 7 Hospital. The anchorage at Hamburg Bay could accommodate up to five capital ships. Port facilities included eight cranes, of refrigerated space, and of covered storage. The port could handle of cargo per day. Connecting the various facilities was of coral-surfaced all-weather road. All this work was completed by August and Construction Battalion Maintenance Unit (CBMU) 502 assumed responsibility for maintenance work. All the construction battalions departed by December.\n\nThe 4th Marines were relieved as the garrison of Emirau by the 147th Infantry on 11 April 1944. The next day, General Noble was replaced as island commander by a marine aviator, Major General James T. Moore, the Commanding General of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing. In turn, the 147th Infantry was relieved as garrison by the 369th Infantry in June. In August, General MacArthur directed that responsibility for garrisoning Emirau would be transferred to the Australian Army. The Australian 8th Infantry Battalion arrived to take over the garrison role on Emirau on 30 September. They were met by a small ANGAU detachment that had been on the island since May. Marine Aircraft Group 12 operated from Emirau until December, when it moved to Leyte, its place was taken by squadrons of the RNZAF.\n\nOn 20 March 1945, General MacArthur authorized a reduction in the garrison size to one company of the 8th Infantry Battalion. In June 1945, it too was withdrawn. CBMU 502 departed for Manus that month. The RNZAF maintained a bomber-reconnaissance squadron at Emirau until July 1945, and a fighter squadron until August, when all forces were withdrawn from the island.\n\nUSN Patrol Torpedo Boats (PTs) were based on Emirau Island. Squadron 11-2 (including PTs 177, 182, 185, and 186) under the command of LT John H. Stillman was transferred to Emirau Island in May 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875962", "title": "Collection II", "text": "Collection II\n\nCollection II, also known as Misfits II, a compilation album of songs by the American punk rock band Misfits. Released on November 14, 1995, it serves as a companion album to the band's previous compilation, \"Collection I\". Both compilations collect all the early singles and the entire \"Earth A.D./Wolfs Blood\" album, and are meant to complement \"Walk Among Us\" (not represented because Warner Bros. owns the rights) and \"Legacy of Brutality\" with little overlap. All the early singles are supposed to be represented, although alternative versions of some songs are used instead of the original releases.\n\n\"Misfits II\" is controversial among fans because six of the tracks are not songs the Misfits recorded as a functioning band. They were recorded in 1986, several years after the Misfits broke up, by Glenn Danzig and Samhain bassist Eerie Von for a sequel to \"Walk Among Us\".\n\n\"Cough/Cool\" uses the drum track of the original Misfits version, but Danzig overdubbed guitar and drum machine tracks and new vocals. The song originally had no guitar at all, and was recorded when the Misfits were a three-piece of keyboards, bass and drums. The four \"Walk Among Us\"-era tracks (\"Hate Breeders\", \"Braineaters\", \"Nike-A-Go-Go\", and \"Devil's Whorehouse\") included on \"Collection II\" were also recorded during the same sessions, and featured no participation by any other Misfits. Jerry Only is adamant that \"Braineaters\" was recorded only once by the Misfits. \"Mephisto Waltz\" was rehearsed by the Misfits but never recorded by the band.\n\n\"We Are 138\" and \"Attitude\" are the tracks from the \"Bullet\" EP that were not present on \"Collection I\". There is very little difference between these and the mixes on the \"Static Age\" LP.\n\n\"Last Caress\" is from the \"Beware\" EP. This mix, exclusive to this compilation and not included on the box set, is characterized by its use of reverb and more prominent guitar.\n\n\"Return of the Fly\" is a song recorded at the same time as the above three during the \"Static Age\" sessions, but had previously only been available via bootlegs.\n\n\"Children in Heat\" is taken from the \"Horror Business\" EP. It was originally conceived as the second part of a medley with \"Teenagers From Mars,\" and was mixed together with that song for the \"Horror Business\" EP. The engineer's introduction at the beginning of \"Teenagers from Mars,\" announcing the take, mentions both songs. For the \"Beware\" EP, the intro was kept, even though \"Children in Heat\" was replaced by \"Last Caress\". The intro was also kept for \"Collection I\", even though \"Children in Heat\" was nowhere to be found.\n\n\"Rat Fink\" is taken from the \"Night of the Living Dead\" EP, and is the only song on the EP to appear on this record or on \"Collection I\". (the other two tracks on the EP can only be found on CD3 of the Box Set). \"Rat Fink \" is also the only cover (by Allan Sherman) the Misfits ever recorded.\n\n\"Horror Hotel\" is the final \"3 Hits from Hell\" track re-released to CD.\n\n\"Halloween\" and \"Halloween II\" are taken from the Halloween 7-inch. These tracks are alternate versions of the tracks included on \"Legacy of Brutality\" and the aborted \"12 Hits From Hell\" album. Unlike songs such as \"Horror Hotel\", \"Halloween\" and \"Halloween II\" do not reference the movies of the same name. Instead, they point to the darker pagan undertones Danzig would pursue later with Samhain.\n\n\"We Bite\" is taken from the \"Die, Die My Darling\" single, which is also included on the Earth A.D. CD.\n\n\"Queen Wasp,\" \"Demonomania,\" \"Hellhound,\" and \"Bloodfeast\" are the remaining \"Earth A.D.\" tracks not included in \"Collection I\".\n\nAll songs written by Glenn Danzig except \"Rat Fink\" written by Allan Sherman, Johnnie Lee Wills and Deacon Anderson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875976", "title": "List of political parties in Quebec", "text": "List of political parties in Quebec\n\nOther parties authorized by the Director-General of Elections:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1875982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875982", "title": "Rundown", "text": "Rundown\n\nA rundown, informally known as a pickle or the hotbox, is a situation in the game of baseball that occurs when the baserunner is stranded between two bases, also known as no-man's land, and is in jeopardy of being tagged out. When the base runner attempts to advance to the next base, he is cut off by the defensive player who has a live ball and attempts to return to his previous base before being tagged out. As he is doing this, the defenseman throws the ball past the base runner to the previous base, forcing him to reverse directions again. This is repeated until the runner is put out or reaches a base safely. \n\nA rundown can be escaped if a fielder makes an error, the runner gets around the fielder with the ball without running out of the baseline, a fielder throws the ball elsewhere (e.g., toward home plate if another runner is trying to score), or the runner manages to get by the fielder without the ball while there is no other fielder to cover the runner's destination base.\n"}
{"id": "1875991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875991", "title": "Sölvesborg Party", "text": "Sölvesborg Party\n\nThe Sölvesborg Party () a local political party in Sölvesborg, Sweden. Formed ahead of the 2002 election by a group of former Green Party members. Party councilors are Dan Boberg and Bo Sandquist.\n\nIn the 2002 elections the party got 4.7% of the votes (472 votes) and two seats in the municipal council.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875993", "title": "Marc Cooper", "text": "Marc Cooper\n\nMarc Cooper is an American journalist, author, journalism professor and blogger. He is a contributing editor to \"The Nation\". He wrote the popular \"Dissonance\" column for \"LA Weekly\" from 2001 until November 2008. His writing has also appeared in such publications as the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"Harper's Magazine\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"Playboy\" and \"Rolling Stone\". His translated work has been published in various European and Latin American publications, including the French daily \"Liberation\" and the Mexico City-based dailies \"La Jornada\" and \"Uno Mas Uno\". He has also been a television producer for PBS, \"CBS News\", and \"The Christian Science Monitor\". His radio reports have aired on NBC, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the BBC. During the 2008 presidential campaign he worked as editorial coordinator of \"The Huffington Post\"s citizen-journalism project OffTheBus as well as a senior editor of the overall site.\n\nCooper was born in and grew up in Los Angeles. His career in journalism began in 1966 when he founded and edited an underground newspaper at Fairfax High School in Los Angeles, California. In 1971, he was expelled from the California State University system for his antiwar activism by order of Governor Ronald Reagan.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1973, Cooper served as the Spanish-English translator for Chilean Socialist president Salvador Allende. Following the military coup of 1973, he fled the country, fearing execution as a participant in the Allende government; some of his American friends were executed by the military, including journalist Charles Horman. In 2002 he testified before a Chilean magistrate in the investigation of Horman's death.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1983, Cooper was the news and public affairs director of Pacifica station KPFK-FM, Los Angeles. Between 1995 and 2005 he served as the principal host and executive producer of Radio Nation, a weekly syndicated one-hour production of The Nation Institute, featuring writers and editors from \"The Nation\" magazine. Cooper anchored the program from its inception in 1995 until he relinquished the post in 2006. Between 1998 and 2001, he also hosted a daily KPFK talk show, ultimately resigning amid disagreements with a dissident group that gained control of the station's parent, the Pacifica Foundation. At its peak, Radio Nation was heard on more than 100 public and community radio stations.\n\nIn spring 2006, Cooper was appointed a full-time member of the journalism faculty at the USC Annenberg School for Communication for the academic year 2006–2007. He had taught the previous five years as an adjunct. He was also promoted to the post of associate director at Annenberg's Institute for Justice and Journalism. In late 2008, Cooper was also named director of Annenberg Digital News and its online publication Neon Tommy.\n\nIn 2010 he was promoted to Associate Professor of Professional Practice.\n\nHe also coordinates the USC Annenberg News21 fellowship which is part of a national Carnegie-Knight initiative for developing innovative journalism. His journalism prizes include awards from the Society of Professional Journalists, the Armstrong Memorial Foundation, the Sidney Hillman Foundation, the California Associated Press TV and Radio Association, the California Newspaper Publishers Association, the Best in the West, Project Censored, PEN American Center, and the Greater Los Angeles Press Club.\n\nHe began his own daily blog in 2004. Since May 2005 he has been a contributing blogger at \"The Huffington Post\". During the 2008 campaign he served as a senior editor of the site and also worked as editorial director of its OffTheBus citizen journalism reporting project. The same year he joined the advisory board of Pajamas Media, a weblog-related company. As of July 2007, Cooper is no longer affiliated with Pajamas Media. He left \"The Huffington Post\" in December 2008.\n\nHe is married to Chilean writer and teacher Patricia Vargas-Cooper and has one adult daughter, Natasha Vargas-Cooper, who studied at UCLA. She graduated in May 2007 and is now a writer and journalist. Her book \"Mad Men Unbuttoned: A Romp Through America of the 60's\" was published by Harper Collins in 2010.\n\nAlthough Cooper espouses many traditional leftist positions, he also criticizes some of his fellow leftists for what he says is a kneejerk and irrational tendency to support \"unworthy\" and marginal causes. He ruffled many ideological allies by his criticism of Mumia Abu-Jamal, whom he famously dismissed as \"a bad choice for poster-boy of the anti-death penalty movement.\" Cooper also disparaged Ward Churchill, calling him a \"guaranteed loser\" who was \"an irrelevant and clearly deranged loner on the edge of the looniest left.\" Cooper was vocal in his opposition to the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the subsequent occupation, but he has been scathingly critical of other leftist opponents to the war, such as Canadian journalist Naomi Klein, who he lambasted as a \"friend\" and \"apologist\" for prominent Iraqi Shiite Islamist Muqtada al-Sadr in response to a piece she wrote for the September 13, 2004 edition of \"The Nation\".\n\nCooper has also been harshly critical of Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez, whom he regards as a \"thug,\" and very supportive of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution in 2004.\n\nOver the past few years Cooper has sharply criticized the Cuban government for its crackdown on internal dissidents—some of whom have been handed stiff sentences for receiving funds and instructions from the United States. Cooper has helped write and circulate international letters of protest defending the locked-up dissidents.\n\nHe has described his current political position as \"contrarian\" and declares himself \"agnostic\" on grand ideological schemes.\n\nCooper has published three books: \"Roll Over Che Guevara: Travels of a Radical Reporter\" (1994), an anthology of his journalistic pieces,\"Pinochet and Me: A Chilean Anti Memoir\" (2001) which was an L.A. Times best-seller, and \"The Last Honest Place in America: Paradise and Perdition in the New Las Vegas\" (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "1875995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875995", "title": "Pachycereus pringlei", "text": "Pachycereus pringlei\n\nPachycereus pringlei, also known as Mexican giant cardon or elephant cactus, is a species of cactus native to northwestern Mexico in the states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, and Sonora. It is commonly known as cardón, a name derived from the Spanish word \"cardo\", meaning \"thistle\".\n\nLarge stands of this cactus still exist, but many have been destroyed as land has been cleared for cultivation in Sonora.\n\nThe fruit of this cactus was an important food for the Seri people in Sonora, who call the cactus \"xaasj\".\n\nThe flesh of this cactus contains alkaloids, and may have been used as a psychoactive plant in Mexico.\n\nA symbiotic relationship with bacterial and fungal colonies on its roots allows \"P. pringlei\" to grow on bare rock even where no soil is available at all, as the bacteria can fix nitrogen from the air and break down the rock to produce nutrients. The cactus even packages symbiotic bacteria in with its seeds.\n\nA cardon specimen is the tallest living cactus in the world, with a maximum recorded height of , with a stout trunk up to in diameter bearing several erect branches. In overall appearance, it resembles the related saguaro (\"Carnegiea gigantea\"), but differs in being more heavily branched and having branching nearer the base of the stem, fewer ribs on the stems, blossoms located lower along the stem, differences in areoles and spination, and spinier fruit.\n\nIts flowers are white, large, nocturnal, and appear along the ribs as opposed to only apices of the stems.\n\nAn average mature cardon may reach a height of , but individuals as tall as are known. It is a slow-growing plant with a lifespan measured in hundreds of years, but growth can be significantly enhanced in its initial stages by inoculation with plant growth-promoting bacteria such as \"Azospirillum\" species. Most adult cardon have several side branches that may be as massive as the trunk. The resulting tree may attain a weight of 25 tons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876012", "title": "Highland Railway Loch Class", "text": "Highland Railway Loch Class\n\nThe Highland Railway Loch class locomotives were large 4-4-0s normally used north of Inverness. They were introduced in 1896, to the design of David Jones. Fifteen were built by Dübs and Company in Glasgow, all going into traffic between July and September 1896. Three more were built in 1917 by Dübs' successor, the North British Locomotive Company (NBL).\n\nThey had the typical Jones appearance with outside cylinders, domed cab roof, louvred chimney, but, as with the Jones Goods class 4-6-0, the Allan style front framing was dispensed with. Allan valve gear was still used.\n\n \n\nThese were needed primarily for the increased traffic on the Kyle line where they were the heaviest locomotives permitted. This period was when the initial traffic of the United States effort in World War I was flowing, and much was brought to the west coast of Scotland in an effort to reduce the effect of the U-Boat menace. The trains ran from Kyle to Invergordon so it was a wholly HR traffic.\n\nThey passed to the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) in 1923. The LMS classified them '2P'. Withdrawal occurred from 1930 onwards.\n\nOnly two survived into British Railways (BR) ownership in 1948. Neither received their allocated BR number before being withdrawn in 1948 ('Loch Insh') and 1950 ('Loch Tay').\n\n"}
{"id": "1876018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876018", "title": "Geocoding", "text": "Geocoding\n\nGeocoding is the process of taking input text, such as an address or the name of a place, and returning a latitude/longitude location on the Earth's surface for that place. Reverse geocoding, on the other hand, converts geographic coordinates to a description of a location, usually the name of a place or an addressable location. Geocoding relies on a computer representation of address points, the street / road network, together with postal and administrative boundaries.\n\n\nThe geographic coordinates representing locations often vary greatly in positional accuracy. Examples include building centroids, land parcel centroids, interpolated locations based on thoroughfare ranges, street segments centroids, postal code centroids (e.g. ZIP codes, CEDEX), and Administrative division Centroids.\n\nGeocoding – a subset of Geographic Information System (GIS) spatial analysis – has been a subject of interest since the early 1960s.\n\nIn 1960, the first operational GIS – named the Canada Geographic Information System (CGIS) – was invented by Dr. Roger Tomlinson, who has since been acknowledged as the father of GIS. The CGIS was used to store and analyze data collected for the Canada Land Inventory, which mapped information about agriculture, wildlife, and forestry at a scale of 1:50,000, in order to regulate land capability for rural Canada. However, the CGIS lasted until the 1990s and was never available commercially.\n\nOn 1 July 1963, five-digit ZIP codes were introduced nationwide by the United States Post Office Department (USPOD). In 1983, nine-digit ZIP+4 codes were brought about as an extra identifier in more accurately locating addresses.\n\nIn 1964, the Harvard Laboratory for Computer Graphics and Spatial Analysis developed groundbreaking software code – e.g. GRID, and SYMAP – all of which were sources for commercial development of GIS.\n\nIn 1967, a team at the Census Bureau – including the mathematician James Corbett and Donald Cooke – invented Dual Independent Map Encoding (DIME) – the first modern vector mapping model – which ciphered address ranges into street network files and incorporated the \"percent along\" geocoding algorithm. Still in use by platforms such as Google Maps and MapQuest, the \"percent along\" algorithm denotes where a matched address is located along a reference feature as a percentage of the reference feature's total length. DIME was intended for the use of the United States Census Bureau, and it involved accurately mapping block faces, digitizing nodes representing street intersections, and forming spatial relationships. New Haven, Connecticut was the first city on Earth with a geocodable streets network database.\n\nIn the late 1970s, two main public domain geocoding platforms were in development: GRASS GIS and MOSS. The early 1980s saw the rise of many more commercial vendors of geocoding software, namely Intergraph, ESRI, CARIS, ERDAS, and MapInfo Corporation. These platforms merged the 1960s approach of separating spatial information with the approach of organizing this spatial information into database structures.\n\nIn 1986, Mapping Display and Analysis System (MIDAS) became the first desktop geocoding software, designed for the DOS operating system. Geocoding was elevated from the research department into the business world with the acquisition of MIDAS by MapInfo. MapInfo has since been acquired by Pitney Bowes, and has pioneered in merging geocoding with business intelligence; allowing location intelligence to provide solutions for the public and private sectors.\n\nThe end of the 20th century had seen geocoding become more user-oriented, especially via open-source GIS software. Mapping applications and geospatial data had become more accessible over the Internet.\n\nBecause the mail-out/mail-back technique was so successful in the 1980 Census, the U.S. Bureau of Census was able to put together a large geospatial database, using interpolated street geocoding. This database – along with the Census' nationwide coverage of households – allowed for the birth of TIGER (Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing).\n\nContaining address ranges instead of individual addresses, TIGER has since been implemented in nearly all geocoding software platforms used today. By the end of the 1990 Census, TIGER \"contained a latitude/longitude-coordinate for more than 30 million feature intersections and endpoints and nearly 145 million feature 'shape' points that defined the more than 42 million feature segments that outlined more than 12 million polygons.\"\n\nTIGER was the breakthrough for \"big data\" geospatial solutions.\n\nThe early 2000s saw the rise of Coding Accuracy Support System (CASS) address standardization. The CASS certification is offered to all software vendors and advertising mailers who want the United States Postal Services (USPS) to assess the quality of their address-standardizing software. The annually renewed CASS certification is based on delivery point codes, ZIP codes, and ZIP+4 codes. Adoption of a CASS certified software by software vendors allows them to receive discounts in bulk mailing and shipping costs. They can benefit from increased accuracy and efficiency in those bulk mailings, after having a certified database. In the early 2000s, geocoding platforms were also able to support multiple datasets.\n\nIn 2003, geocoding platforms were capable of merging postal codes with street data, updated monthly. This process became known as \"conflation\".\n\nBeginning in 2005, geocoding platforms included parcel-centroid geocoding. Parcel-centroid geocoding allowed for a lot of precision in geocoding an address. For example, parcel-centroid allowed a geocoder to determine the centroid of a specific building or lot of land. Platforms were now also able to determine the elevation of specific parcels.\n\n2005 also saw the introduction of the Assessor's Parcel Number (APN). A jurisdiction's tax assessor was able to assign this number to parcels of real estate. This allowed for proper identification and record-keeping. An APN is important for geocoding an area which is covered by a gas or oil lease, and indexing property tax information provided to the public.\n\nIn 2006, Reverse Geocoding and reverse APN lookup were introduced to geocoding platforms. This involved geocoding a numerical point location – with a longitude and latitude – to a textual, readable address.\n\n2008 and 2009 saw the growth of interactive, user-oriented geocoding platforms – namely MapQuest, Google Maps, Bing Maps, and Global Positioning Systems (GPS). These platforms were made even more accessible to the public with the simultaneous growth of the mobile industry, specifically smartphones.\n\nThe 2010s saw vendors fully support geocoding and reverse geocoding globally. Cloud-based geocoding application programming interface (API) and on-premises geocoding have allowed for a greater match rate, greater precision, and greater speed. There is now a popularity in the idea of geocoding being able to influence business decisions. This is the integration between the geocoding process and business intelligence.\n\nThe future of geocoding also involves three-dimensional geocoding, indoor geocoding, and multiple language returns for the geocoding platforms.\n\nGeocoding is a task which involves multiple datasets and processes, all of which work together. A geocoder is made of two important components: a reference dataset and the geocoding algorithm. Each of these components are made up of sub-operations and sub-components. Without understanding how these geocoding processes work, it is difficult to make informed business decisions based on geocoding.\n\nInput data are the descriptive, textual information (address or building name) which the user wants to turn into numerical, spatial data (latitude and longitude) – through the process of geocoding.\n\nInput data is classified into two categories: relative input data and absolute input data.\n\nRelative input data are the textual descriptions of a location which, alone, cannot output a spatial representation of that location. Such data outputs a relative geocode, which is dependent and geographically relative of other reference locations. An example of a relative geocode is address-interpolation using areal units or line vectors. \"Across the street from the Empire State Building\" is an example of a relative input data. The location being sought cannot be determined without identifying the Empire State Building. Geocoding platforms often do not support such relative locations, but advances are being made in this direction.\n\nAbsolute input data are the textual descriptions of a location which, alone, can output a spatial representation of that location. This data type outputs an absolute known location independently of other locations. For example, USPS ZIP codes; USPS ZIP+4 codes; complete and partial postal addresses; USPS PO boxes; rural routes; cities; counties; intersections; and named places can all be referenced in a data source absolutely.\n\nWhen there is a lot of variability in the way addresses can be represented – such as too much input data or too little input data – geocoders use address normalization and address standardization in order to resolve this problem.\n\nA simple method of geocoding is address interpolation. This method makes use of data from a street geographic information system where the street network is already mapped within the geographic coordinate space. Each street segment is attributed with address ranges (e.g. house numbers from one segment to the next). Geocoding takes an address, matches it to a street and specific segment (such as a block, in towns that use the \"block\" convention). Geocoding then interpolates the position of the address, within the range along the segment.\n\nTake for example: \"742 Evergreen Terrace\"\n\nLet's say that this segment (for instance, a block) of Evergreen Terrace runs from 700 to 799. Even-numbered addresses fall on the east side of Evergreen Terrace, with odd-numbered addresses on the west side of the street. 742 Evergreen Terrace would (probably) be located slightly less than halfway up the block, on the east side of the street. A point would be mapped at that location along the street, perhaps offset a distance to the east of the street centerline.\n\nHowever, this process is not always as straightforward as in this example.\nDifficulties arise when\nWhile there might be a 742 Evergreen Terrace in Springfield, there might also be a 742 Evergreen Terrace in Shelbyville. Asking for the city name (and state, province, country, etc. as needed) can solve this problem. Boston, Massachusetts has multiple \"100 Washington Street\" locations because several cities have been annexed without changing street names, thus requiring use of unique postal codes or district names for disambiguation.\nGeocoding accuracy can be greatly improved by first utilizing good address verification practices. Address verification will confirm the existence of the address and will eliminate ambiguities. Once the valid address is determined, it is very easy to geocode and determine the latitude/longitude coordinates.\nFinally, several caveats on using interpolation:\n\nA very common error is to believe the accuracy ratings of a given map's geocodable attributes. Such accuracy as quoted by vendors has no bearing on an address being attributed to the correct segment or to the correct side of the segment, nor resulting in an accurate position along that correct segment. With the geocoding process used for U.S. Census TIGER datasets, 5–7.5% of the addresses may be allocated to a different census tract, while a study of Australia's TIGER-like system found that 50% of the geocoded points were mapped to the wrong property parcel.\nThe accuracy of geocoded data can also have a bearing on the quality of research that uses this data. One study by a group of Iowa researchers found that the common method of geocoding using TIGER datasets as described above, can cause a loss of as much as 40% of the power of a statistical analysis. An alternative is to use orthophoto or image coded data such as the Address Point data from Ordnance Survey in the UK, but such datasets are generally expensive.\n\nBecause of this, it is quite important to avoid using interpolated results except for non-critical applications. Interpolated geocoding is usually not appropriate for making authoritative decisions, for example if life safety will be affected by that decision. Emergency services, for example, do not make an authoritative decision based on their interpolations; an ambulance or fire truck will always be dispatched regardless of what the map says.\n\nIn rural areas or other places lacking high quality street network data and addressing, GPS is useful for mapping a location. For traffic accidents, geocoding to a street intersection or midpoint along a street centerline is a suitable technique. Most highways in developed countries have mile markers to aid in emergency response, maintenance, and navigation. It is also possible to use a combination of these geocoding techniques — using a particular technique for certain cases and situations and other techniques for other cases.\nIn contrast to geocoding of structured postal address records, toponym resolution maps place names in unstructured document collections to their corresponding spatial footprints.\n\nPlace codes offer a new way to create digitally generated addresses where no information exists using satellite imagery and machine learning, e.g., Robocodes\n\nResearch has introduced a new approach to the control and knowledge aspects of geocoding, by using an agent-based paradigm. In addition to the new paradigm for geocoding, additional correction techniques and control algorithms have been developed. The approach represents the geographic elements commonly found in addresses as individual agents. This provides a commonality and duality to control and geographic representation. In addition to scientific publication, the new approach and subsequent prototype gained national media coverage in Australia. The research was conducted at Curtin University in Perth, Western Australia.\n\nGeocoded locations are useful in many GIS analysis, cartography, decision making workflow, transaction mash-up, or injected into larger business processes. On the web, geocoding is used in services like routing and local search. Geocoding, along with GPS provides location data for geotagging media, such as photographs or RSS items.\n\nThe proliferation and ease of access to geocoding (and reverse-geocoding) services raises privacy concerns. For example, in mapping crime incidents, law enforcement agencies aim to balance the privacy rights of victims and offenders, with the public's right to know. Law enforcement agencies have experimented with alternative geocoding techniques that allow them to mask a portion of the locational detail (e.g., address specifics that would lead to identifying a victim or offender). As well, in providing online crime mapping to the public, they also place disclaimers regarding the locational accuracy of points on the map, acknowledging these location masking techniques, and impose terms of use for the information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876020", "title": "Pachycereus", "text": "Pachycereus\n\nPachycereus is a genus of 9–12 species of large cacti native to Mexico and just into southern Arizona, United States. They form large shrubs or small trees up to 15 m tall, with stout stems up to 1 m in diameter. \"Pachycereus\" comes from the ancient Greek παχύς (\"pachys\") meaning \"thick\" and the Latin \"cereus\" meaning \"torch\".\n\n\"P. pringlei\" is the tallest cactus species in the world, with a maximum recorded height of 19.2 m.\nThese genera have been brought into synonymy with \"Pachycereus\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1876031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876031", "title": "Cardon cactus", "text": "Cardon cactus\n\nCardon cactus is a common name for several plants and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1876044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876044", "title": "Jean Delville", "text": "Jean Delville\n\nJean Delville (19 January 1867 – 19 January 1953) was a Belgian symbolist painter, author, poet, polemicist, teacher, and Theosophist. Delville was the leading exponent of the Belgian Idealist movement in art during the 1890s. He held, throughout his life, the belief that art should be the expression of a higher spiritual truth and that it should be based on the principle of Ideal, or spiritual Beauty. He executed a great number of paintings during his active career from 1887 to the end of the second World War (many now lost or destroyed) expressing his Idealist aesthetic. Delville was trained at the \"Académie des Beaux-arts\" in Brussels and proved to be a highly precocious student, winning most of the prestigious competition prizes at the Academy while still a young student. He later won the Belgian Prix de Rome which allowed him to travel to Rome and Florence and study at first hand the works of the artists of the Renaissance. During his time in Italy he created his celebrated masterpiece \"L'Ecole de Platon\" (1898), which stands as a visual summary of his Idealist aesthetic which he promoted during the 1890s in his writings, poetry and exhibitions societies, notably the \"Salons d'Art Idéaliste\".\n\nCharacteristically, Delville's paintings are idea-based, expressing philosophical ideals derived from contemporary hermetic and esoteric traditions. At the start of his career, his esoteric perspective was mostly influenced by the work of Eliphas Levi, Edouard Schuré, Joséphin Péladan and Saint-Yves d'Alveydre, and later by the Theosophical writings of Helena Blavatsky and Annie Besant. The main underlying theme of his paintings, especially during his early career, has to do with initiation and the transfiguration of the inner life of the soul towards a higher spiritual purpose. Specifically they deal with themes symbolising Ideal love, death and transfiguration as well as representations of Initiates ('light bringers'), and the relationship between the material and metaphysical dimensions. His paintings and finished drawings are an expression of a highly sensitive visionary imagination articulated through precisely observed forms drawn from nature. He also had a brilliant gift for colour and composition and excelled in the representation of human anatomy. Many of his major paintings, such as his \"Les Trésors de Sathan\" (1895), \"l'Homme-Dieu\" (1903) and \"Les Ames errantes\" (1942), represent dozens of figures intertwined in complex arrangements and painted with highly detailed anatomical accuracy. He was an astonishingly skilled draughtsman and painter capable of producing highly expressive works on a grand scale, many of which can be seen in public buildings in Brussels, including the Palais de Justice.\n\nDelville's artistic style is strongly influenced by the Classical tradition. He was a lifelong advocate of the value of the Classical training taught in the Academies. He believed that the discipline acquired as a result of this training was not an end in itself, but rather a valuable means of acquiring a solid drawing and painting technique to allow artists freely to develop their personal artistic style, without inhibiting their individual creative personality. Delville was a respected Academic art teacher. He was employed at the Glasgow School of Art from 1900 to 1906 and as Professor of drawing at the \"Académie des Beaux-arts\" in Brussels thereafter until 1937.\n\nHe was also a prolific and talented author. He published a very great number of journal articles during his lifetime as well as four volumes of poetry, including his \"Le Frisson du Sphinx\" (1897) and \"Les Splendeurs Méconnues (1922)\". He authored more than a dozen books and pamphlets relating to art and esoteric subjects. The most important of his published books include his esoteric works, \"Dialogue entre Nous\" (1895) and \"Le Christ Reviendra\" (1913) as well as his seminal work on Idealist art, \"La Mission de l'Art\" (1900). He also created and edited several contemporary journals and newspapers during the 1890s promoting his Idealist aesthetic including \"L'Art Idéaliste\" and \"La Lumière\".\n\nDelville was an energetic artistic entrepreneur, creating several influential artistic exhibition societies, including \"Pour l'Art\" and the \"Salons de l'Art Idéaliste\" in the 1890s and later, the \"Société de l'Art Monumental\" in the 1920s which was responsible for the decoration of public buildings including the mosaics in the hemicycle of the Cinquantenaire in Brussels. He also founded the very successful \"Coopérative artistique\", which provided affordable art materials for artists at the time.\n\nDelville was born on 19 January 1867 at 2.00 a.m., rue des Dominicains in Louvain. He was born illegitimate into a working class household. His mother was Barbe Libert (1833–1905), the daughter of a canal worker who earned a living as a 'journalière' as an adult. Delville never knew his father Joachim Thibault who was a lecturer in Latin and Greek at a local college and who came from a bourgeoisie family. He bore his mother's name until she married a functionary working in Louvain, Victor Delville (1840–1918). Victor adopted Jean who, until then, was known as Jean Libert. The family moved to Brussels in 1870 and settled in Boulevard Waterloo near Porte de Hal. The Delville family later moved to St Gilles where Delville began his schooling at the \"Ecole Communale\" in rue du Fort.\n\nDelville took an early interest in drawing, even though his initial career ambitions were to become a Doctor. He was introduced to the artist Stiévenart by his adoptive grandfather, François Delville, while still a young boy. Delville recalls that this was 'the first artist I had ever seen, and for me, as a child, still unaware of my vocation, this was an enchanting experience.'\n\nAt the age of twelve, Delville entered the famous \"Athénée Royale\" in Brussels. His interest in art developed around this time and he received his father's permission to enroll in evening drawing classes at the \"Académie des Beaux-arts\" in the rue du Midi in 1879. He entered the course for drawing 'après la tête antique' (after the classical head) and in 1882 classes for drawing 'après le torse et figure' (after torso and face). Soon after he gave up his schooling at the Athénée to study full-time at the Académie. In 1883, he enrolled in the 'cours de peinture d’après nature' (class in painting after nature) under the direction of the celebrated teacher Jean-François Portaels (1818–1895). Portaels objected to Delville's youth, but he excelled in the entrance examination and was unconditionally admitted to study painting under Portaels and Joseph Stallaert. Delville was a precocious talent and at age 17 won many of the major prizes at the Academy including 'drawing after nature', 'painting after nature', 'historical composition' (with high distinction), 'drawing after the antique', and ‘figure painting’.\n\nDelville first exhibited in a public context at the moderate exhibition society called \"l'Essor\" from 1887 to 1891. His early works were largely depictions of working class -and peasant life executed in a contemporary realist style influenced by Constant Meunier. Delville's early efforts exhibited in 1887 were largely favourably reviewed in the contemporary press, notably \"L'Art Moderne\" and the \"Journal de Bruxelles\", even if they were seen to be eclectic and derivative of the works of older established artists. These included works inspired by Baudelaire's poetry including his \"Frontispiece\" and \"L'épave\" (now lost) and his main work \"La Terre\" of which a detailed drawing still survives.\n\nThe following year his works were singled out as among the most outstanding of the 1888 exhibitors at L'Essor. This was the year in which he exhibited his highly controversial study for his painting \"La Mère\" depicting a woman in labour. A contemporary review described it in the following: 'On a huge bed with purple sheets ... a dishevelled standing woman displays her nudity as she writhes in spasmodic movements, bending under the pains of childbirth. Her face is contorted, her gnashing teeth alternate with the curse, her clenched hands lift the bed cover over her belly in an unconscious reflex of modesty ... abominable vision ...! and poor women!' This subject, rarely depicted in art, was seen to be shocking and contrary to bourgeois taste. It does however signal an aspect of Delville's art to depict ideas that are vivid and provocative. \n\nDuring the 1880s, Delville's work tended towards social realism. This included images of workers and peasants (\"Soir\" and \"Paysan\", 1888); of beggars and destitution (\"Asile de nuit\", 1885); of hunger (\"L’Affamé\",1887) and ultimately of death (\"Le Dernier Sommeil\", 1888). Here he focussed on themes of poverty, despair and hopelessness. In an undated drawing titled \"Le las d’Aller\" Delville depicts a fallen figure curled up on his side in a barren landscape, asleep, or perhaps even dead. However, during the period 1888-9 his artistic interests started developing in a more non-realist direction and began to move towards Idealism which dominated his work from then on. This was first indicated in his \"Fragment d’une composition: Le cycle de la passion\" (now lost) displayed at L'Essor in 1889. The final work \"Le Cycle passionnel\" (9 × 6 metres) was displayed at \"L'Essor\" the following year (1890) and was inspired by Dante's \"Divine Comedy\". It depicts a vast composition of intertwined figures floating through the nether regions of hell. The theme concerns lovers who have succumbed to their erotic passions. One of the main themes of initiation is to control one's lower passions in order to achieve spiritual transcendence. This painting of this work represents this idea in metaphoric form. This is an early major work by Delville sadly destroyed in the incendiary attack on Louvain in 1914. Despite its importance, it was not received with much enthusiasm in the contemporary press.\n\nAnother work that display Delville's growing interest in non-realist ideas during the 1880s is his more well-known\"Tristan et Yseult\" (Royal Museums of Fine Art, Brussels, 1887). The work is inspired by Wagner's eponymous opera and deals with the relationship between love and death and the idea of transcendence that can be achieved through both. It is an early work that reveals themes closely related to the initiatory tradition which is fully discussed in Brendan Cole's recent book on Delville.\n\nA further important work dealing with non-realist, or Idealist, subject matter was exhibited by Delville at the final \"L'Essor\" exhibition in 1891 titled \" La Symbolisation de la chair et de l'ésprit\" (the original is lost, but a detailed study recently came up for auction). It depicts a naked female figure dragging a nude male beath the water. Bright light appears above the male figure while dark sub-aquatic vegetation surrounds the base of the female. The initiatory theme here is self-evident in its depiction of the conflict between spirit (light) and matter (dark vegetation). The male aspires towards the light but is dragged down towards the bottom of the dark mass of water. The work establishes an essential duality between consciousness/unconsciousness, light/dark, as well as spirituality and materialism. In Delville's writings he emphasises this duality and its reconciliation; a theme that pervades much of Symbolist art and writings and was conspicuous amongst Romantic artists as well, especially the writings of Goethe. The theme dominates Delville's art. He wrote that:\n'Men have two very distinct trends in them. One of these two trends is physical, which must, of course, provide for his preservation by physical means, having the task of sustaining tangible life, sustaining the body. The other trend, which is not only immaterial but indefinable, is that which arises as a perpetual aspiration beyond the material, for which this world is not enough: it is this 'something else' that overcomes all distances or is, rather, unknowable. This is the very threshold of the occult world, in front of which all science, seized with unsteadiness, prostrates itself in the insuperable premonition of a world beyond!'\n\nDelville's growing interest in Idealist art led him to instigate a succession from \"L'Essor\" to start a new exhibition society called \"Pour L'Art\". Many of the younger artists of \"L'Essor\" followed him which led to the dissolution of that group. \"Pour L'Art\" became one of the noted avant-garde exhibition societies on Brussels at the time. The leading avant-garde exhibition forum at the time was \"Les XX\". Following \"Les XX\", \"Pour L'Art\" invited international artists as well, several of whom became well known in Symbolist circles, including Carlos Schwabe, Alexandre Séon, Chales Filiger and Jan Verkade. Their first exhibition took place in November 1892 and the works displayed were executed in either an Impressionist or Symbolist idiom. Delville designed the poster for the first exhibition depicting a long-necked sphinx – a key symbol of the period – cupping a flaming chalice in her hands. Delville's main work of that year was his \"L'Idole de la Perversité\" which can be considered one of the major images of the period. The new group received a largely positive press during the time. The group was closely associated with Joséphin Péladan's \"Salons de la Rose+Croix\" in Paris, and Péladan was frequently invited to lecture in Brussels at the time by members of the \"Pour L'Art\" group.\n\nThe second exhibition of the Pour L'Art group took place in January 1894. Significantly the society also included the applied, or decorative arts, which were become widely popular at the time and a particular feature of Art Nouveau. Tapestries, bookbindings, and wrought-iron work was displayed alongside the paintings. The influence of Delville and Péladan was evident in the predominance of idealist works of art influenced by late fifteenth-century Florentine art, the work of Gustav Moreau, Puvis de Chavannes and the tendency towards large-scale figure compositions. The show was enthusiastically received by the press. \n\nDelville's main works exhibited that year was his celebrated \"La Mort d'Orphée\" (1893, Royal Museums of Fine Art, Brussels) and his outstanding \"Mysteriosa\" or \"Portrait of Mrs Stuart Madame Stuart Merrill\" (1892, Royal Museums of Fine Art, Brussels). His work was enthusiastically praised in the press. The leading critic Ernest Verlant wrote:\nThe final \"Pour L'Art\" show took place in January 1895. Delville also participated for the last time in Péladan's Salons de la Rose+Croix. This was the year when he began preparing the formation of his own exclusively Idealist exhibition Society, the \"Salons d'Art Idéaliste\", which opened the following year. By this time the \"Pour L'Art\" Salons were well-established, successful and enthusiastically supported by the contemporary press. Delville's \"L'Ange des splendeurs\" (1894, Royal Museums of Fine Art, Brussels), was Delville's main work of that show. Although not widely praised it stands, according to Brendan Cole, as one of his initiatory paintings \"par excellence\" of Delville's \"oeuvre\"\n\nDelville exhibited at Joséphin Péladan's Rosicrucian Salons for the first four years of their existence (1892–5), which coincided with his own Pour l'Art Salons. At this time Delville was closely allied to Péladan and his ideals. Delville probably met Péladan in Paris when he accompanied one of the touring exhibitions of L'Essor, around 1888.\n\nDelville shared Péladan's concept of creating a forum that showcased art of an exclusively Idealist persuasion. Delville sought to bring Idealist art into the public eye in Belgium through the \"Pour l'Art\" salons, but more specifically in the \"Salons d'Art Idéalist\" which he founded in 1895 and opened to the public in 1896. By 1896, Delville began severing formal ties with Péladan, which cleared the way for his move towards Theosophy later that decade. Delville records his association with Péladan in his autobiography: '... my personality as an idealist painter emerged more and more. I made the acquaintance of Péladan and became interested in and started participating in the esoteric movement in Paris and Brussels. I exhibited at the Rosicrucian Salon where only idealist art was allowed. Péladan exhibited several of my works there, notably \"La Mort d’Orphée\" which he placed at the centre of the exhibition, along with \"La chair et l’esprit\" and some drawings. Under his influence, I went to live in Paris where I stayed on the Quai Bourbon among some Rosicrucian friends, disciples of Péladan. I stayed there for several months occupying my time not only with the organization of the Péladanesque salons, but also in painting the set of \"Babylone\" which was an overall success' \n\nIn 1892 Delville exhibited his \"La symbolisation de la chair et de l’esprit\" (which was reproduced in the catalogue to the first exhibition) as well as his \"l’Idole de la Perversité\". In 1893 he exhibited eight works including his \"Imperia\", \"Élegia\", \"La symbolisation de la chair et de l’esprit\", \"L’Annonciateur\", \"Le Murmure profane\", \"Mysteriosa\", \"Vers l’Inconnu\", and \"L’Homme de Glaive\". In 1894 he exhibited seven works including: \"La Mort d’Orphée\", \"La Fin d’un règne\", \"Le Geste d’Ame\", \"Satana\", \"Maternitas\", \"Etude féminine\" and \"La Tranquille\". In 1895 Delville exhibited four works including his portrait of Péladan: \"Portrait du Grand Maître de la Rose+Croix en habit de choeur\" and \"L’Ange des splendeurs\". Many of these works would be displayed in Brussels as well in Delville's \"Pour l'Art\" exhibitions.\n\nDelville lived as an indigent artist in St Gilles in Brussels during the course of his early career. By the middle of the 1890s he was married and had a growing family which he struggled to support as an artist. On the advice of his close friend, the sculptor Victor Rousseau, he was motivated to enter the prestigious Prix de Rome, which came with a very generous bursary that also covered the costs for a lengthy sojourn in Italy. Delville won the 1895 competition, but his entry created a controversy amongst his peers given the 'Establishment' nature of the Prix that ran counter to the ideals of the avant-garde at the time. Delville was by then a fairly established figure in avant-garde circles and his association with the Prix de Rome appeared to be a betrayal of their cause. The Prix de Rome, however, also meant that Delville could spend a significant amount of time in Italy studying the Classical art of the Renaissance that he admired so much. \n\nThe rules of the competition were stringent. Competitors were isolated in small studios in the Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp which ran the competition and were expected to produce a finished drawing of their composition before setting to work on the final painting. A strict time-limit was imposed on competitors to finish the work. The competition opened in June 1895 and he winner was announced in October. The theme of the competition that year was \"Le Christ glorifié par les enfants\". Delville recorded his experience in his autobiography:\n\nThe rules were demanding … At that time the six selected competitors for the final exam had to paint their work in a secluded lodge, after leaving the original preliminary drawing in a hallway of the Antwerp Academy. It was strictly forbidden to bring any drawings into the lodge, only live models were allowed there. While working on their painting, the competitors had to change their clothes each time they entered their lodge, after having been visited by a specially appointed supervisor. These procedural requirements were the moral guarantee of this great contest in which these artists from the country took part…. As soon as they were selected, they entered into a lodge in order to produce, over three days, the sketch of the requisite painting, and they were given eighty days to complete it without receiving any visitors or advice from anyone – in order to ensure that the competitors were the unique and personal author of the work so that the jury, composed of the country’s most well-known artists, could cast a definitive judgement.\nDuring his stay Delville was expected to paint original works reflecting his studies of classical art as well as to make copies after the old masters. He was also expected to send regular reports back to the Antwerp Academy relating to his work there. The experience proved to be a turning point in his career and brought to focus his ideal to synthesise the classical tendency in art with his interest in esoteric philosophy which was the defining attribute of his Idealist aesthetic form then onwards. Delville produced several remarkable paintings during his time in Rome that reflect a dramatic evolution in his art towards a more refined expression of this Idealist aesthetic. These included his outstanding \"Orphée aux enfers\" (1896), a key initiatory work, as well as his great masterpiece of the period, his \"L'Ecole de Platon\" (1898), which he exhibited at the 1898 \"Salon d'Art Idéalist\" to universal praise. In 1895, Delville published his first book on esoteric philosophy, \"Dialogue entre Nous\".\n\nDelville's \"Salons D'Art Idéaliste\" were exclusively devoted to exhibiting artwork of an Idealist nature. Delville signalled his programme in a series of polemical articles during the course of the months preceding the opening of the first Salon, which created some controversy amongst his contemporaries. Delville's ideas were bold and confrontational, but it was characteristic of him to stick to the courage of his convictions and to carry his projects through with relentless energy and determination. The aim of the Salons were couched in a short manifesto published before the opening of the first Salon. This is an early instance of a new avant-garde art movement supported by a manifesto; something that would be a commonplace in later Modernist movements and after. The Salons were also accompanied by a series of lectures and musical soirées. Delville's Salons were also significant for their inclusion of women artists, something almost unheard of in other contemporary avant garde exhibition societies. The manifesto provides a valuable record of the Idealist movement founded by Delville:\nDelville's main work exhibited that year was his visionary \"Trésors de Sathan\" (1895, Royal Museums of Fine Art, Brussels). The work had previously been on show at the Salon de Gand. The depiction of a satanic figure represented under water was unique in Western Art. Instead of wings he is represented with long octopus tentacles. His 'treasures' are the sleeping figures surrounded with jewels and gold coins; objects representing materialism and avarice. The figures show no sign of torment, but are rather represented in a state of somnolent bliss, as though they have succumbed to all that is 'satanic' in Delville's occult view; sensual pleasure and materialism. The work is an apotropaic icon against the snares of the lower passions and the world of matter and sensuality generally. \n\nThe second Salon took place in March 1897 at Edmond Picard's arts venue, \"la Maison d'Art\". Delville's contributions were small and included his \"Orphée aux Enfers\", \"Parsifal\" and \"L’Oracle à Dodone\"; which are now, apart from \"Parsifal\", in private collections. At the time Delville was in Italy on his prescribed sojourn there after winning the coveted Prix de Rome. The show received largely positive reviews in the press and Delville's Salons were becoming more widely accepted, despite his aggressive polemics in the months prior to their establishment which hackled his contemporaries. What was noted as a feature of this Idealist art was its intellectual nature and the proclivity towards the expression of ideas.\n\nThe final \"Salon d'Art Idéaliste\" took place in March 1898 and was marked by the exhibition of Delville's great masterpiece, his \"l'Ecole de Platon\" (1898, Musée D'Orsay), which marked the culmination of his Idealist programme and widely celebrated amongst his contemporary critics, even those who were previously hostile to his art and aesthetic programme.\n\nIn 1895 Delville published his \"Dialogue entre nous\", a text in which he outlined his views on occultism and esoteric philosophy. Brendan Cole discusses this text in detail his book on Delville, pointing out that, though the Dialogue reflects the ideas of a number of occultists, it also reveals a new interest in Theosophy. In the late 1890s, Delville joined the Theosophical Society. He was probably introduced to Theosophy directly through his friendship with Edouard Schuré, the author of the widely influential book \"Les Grandes Initiés\". Schuré wrote the preface to Delville's work on Idealist Art, \"La Mission de l'Art\" (1900). Delville also came into close alliance with Annie Besant who inherited the leadership of the Theosophical movement. Besant gave a series of lectures in Brussels in 1899 titled \"La Sagesse Antique\". Delville reviewed her talks in an article published in \"Le Thyrse\" that year. It is probably from this point onwards that Delville became actively involved in the Theosophical Movements as such. Delville founded \"La Lumière\", a journal devoted to Theosophical ideas in 1899, and published articles from leading Theosophists of the day, including Besant. Delville became the first General Secretary of the Belgian branch of the Theosophical Society in 1911.\nDelville's art flourished after 1900 and he produced some of his greatest works during this period up to the First World War. He worked with undiminished strength and imagination and his paintings revealed a visionary sense of the transcendental inspired by his involvement in the Theosophical movement, seen typically in works such as his monumental \"L'Homme-Dieu\" (1903, Brughes: Groeninge Museum) and \"Prométhée\" (1907, Free University Brussels). His most striking achievement, however, is his series of five vast canvases that decorated the Cour d'Assises in the Palais de Justice on the theme of 'Justice through the Ages'. These works, monumental in conception and scale and no doubt amongst his finest, were unfortunately destroyed during the second World War as a result of German bombing of the Palais de Justice on 3 September 1944. The irony of this action in relation to the theme of this cycle of paintings cannot be overlooked. Small-scale replacements were installed during the reconstruction of the Palais after the War. The gigantic original central painting titled, \"La Justice, la Loi et la Pitié\", measured 11 metres by 4.5 metres. This worked was flanked by two works, \"La Justice de Moïse\" and \"La Justice chrétienne\" (both 4 by 3 metres). The two remaining panels represents Justice of the past and present: \"La Justice d'autrefois\" and \"La Justice moderne\".\n\nDelville hoped to secure a teaching place at the Academy in Brussels, but was offered instead a teaching position at the flourishing Glasgow School of Art in 1900. His tenure there was highly successful, and the works of the students he trained were celebrated at the annual exhibitions in London. When Delville returned to Brussels in 1907, many of his British students followed him to further their training under his tutelage in his private studio in rue Morris. At that time, Delville fulfilled his ambition to teach at the Brussels Academy and was appointed Professor of Life Studies, a post he held until his retirement in 1937.\n\nWhen War broke out, Delville, amongst many Belgians, was welcomed in Britain as exiles. He moved there with his entire family, including his wife and four younger children and settled in Golders Green in London. His two oldest sons, Elie and Raphaël Delville, were conscripted into the Belgian War Effort (both survived the conflict). Delville played an active role in London, through his writings, art and public addresses (he was a gifted orator) in support of the Belgians in exile and the conflict against the Germans. He contributed to the Belgian expatriate newspaper in London, \"L'Indépendence Belge\" and wrote several articles and poems virulently condemning German aggression. He was an active member of the philanthropic society for Belgian refugees, \"La Ligue des Patriotes de Belgique\", and was the president of \"La Ligue des Artistes belges\" that was responsible for the creation of the successful publication \"Belgian Art in Exile\" the sale of which raised money for Belgian charities in England. The work contains a great number of representative paintings and other works of art by contemporary Belgian artists. The volume was generally well received. \"The Sketch\" ran a supportive editorial in their January edition and gave informative information about the volume:\nBelgian Art in Exile is the title of a very attractive album of reproductions, mostly in colour, of paintings by exiled Belgian artists, with photographs of works by Belgian sculptors, which has been issued in aid of the Belgian Red Cross and other Belgian charitable institutions. The colour-plates, which are beautifully reproduced, show the high quality and great versatility of modern Belgian art. Particularly notable is a picture of a Moorish cavalry charge, by Alfred Bastien, who since he came to this country has done some fine work for the Illustrated London News. Among many other well-known Belgian artists represented are Albert Baertsoen, Jean Delville, Emile Claus, Herman Richir, Comte Jacques de Lalaing, and Paul Dubois. A fine painting by Frank Brangwyn – Mater Dolorosa Belgica – forms a pictorial introduction\", as the frontispiece. Maeterlinck contributes a eulogy of King Albert, and there are poems by Emile Verhaeren, Marcel Wyseur, and Jean Delville, who also writes an introduction. The volume is published by Colour (25, Victoria Street, S.W. at 5s. and (in cloth) 73. 6d., with a limited edition de luxe at £1. Both for itself and the cause it should command a wide sale.\n\nAt that time Delville was also an active Freemason and was involved in La Loge Albert 1er that reunited Belgian Freemasons in exile living in Britain. His time in exile also inspired several important paintings, including: \"La Belgique indomptable\" (1916), depicting a sword-wielding allegorical female figure holding off an attacking Germanic eagle,\"Les Mères\" (1919), depicting a group of mourning mothers surrounded by dead corpses of their fallen sons, and \"Sur l'Autel de la patrie\" (1918), a modern pieta depicting a female figure with the corpse of a bleeding dead soldier at her feet. His most notable work of this period is his \"Les Forces\" (completed in 1924), depicting two vast celestial armies confronting each other. The forces of light, represented on the right, are led by a Christ-like figure seated on a horse and a torch-bearing winged figure leading an army of angels into the fray against a battalion of dark forces streaming in from the left. The work is on open display in the Palais de Justice in the vast 'cour des pas perdus' and is grand in scale, measuring 5 metres by 8 metres.\n\nFrom an early point in his career Delville was interested in producing art that would be displayed in public spaces for the edification of all. For him, art was a means of uplifting the public, and to this end he despised art that was produced for an elite clique, sold by dealers for the benefit of collectors who saw in art no more than an investment opportunity. Delville's ideals were strongly aligned to the idea of a social purpose for art, about which he wrote extensively during his career. In his \"Mission de l'Art\" he wrote: 'If the purpose of Art, socially speaking, is not to spiritualise the weighted thinking of the public, then one has the right to ask oneself, what is truly its usefulness, or more precisely, its purpose'.\nAlthough he had already created several large artistic schemes that decorated public buildings, notably his panels for the Palais de Justice, his ambition formally to pursue this aim was finally realised in 1920 when he collaborated with several leading painters of his generation to create the \"Société de l'Art Monumental\" (Society for Monumental Art). The aim of the group was to bring together painters, artists and architects who would draw attention to the need for art specifically created for public buildings.\n\nAn important realisation of this aim was the decoration of the walls in the colonnades of the hemicycles flanking the Arcade of the Parc du Cinquantenaire. Five artists collaborated with Delville on this project: Constant Montald, , , and . The last two were friends of Delville's since his days at the Academy and had collaborated on many project before. Most of these artists had also exhibited in Delville's Idealist forums, \"Pour L'Art\" and the \"Salons d'Art Idéaliste\" during the 1890s.\n\nThe project went ahead under the patronage of King Albert I, and was paid for through a scheme of national subscription.\n\nThe overall theme of this major cycle of works was a patriotic commemoration of 'The Glorification of Belgium' following the Great War through allegorical images relating to War and peace. In 1924 Delville expressed his idea for the cycle as a 'vision of a frieze in mosaic unfurling its rhythm of lines and its harmony of colours between the columns of the hemicycle'\nEach artist prepared six individual works (cartoons) that were then adapted to the final mosaics which were three metres high and aligned to the top part of the wall. The total distance of all the mosaics was 120 metres. An overall harmony of all the individual panels was achieved by ensuring that the artists adhered to a few common rules of composition: using the same horizon line, using the same scale for the figures, and adhering to a limited palette of related colours. The specific theme to the left of the arcade is that of Belgium at peace. Works by Fabry, Vloors and Montald represented respectively: the material life, intellectual life and moral life. The specific theme to the right side represent heroic Belgium, with works by Delville, Ciamberlani and Dierickx representing respectively: Victory, the Tribute to Heroes and War.\n\nThe project was conceived between 1922 and 1926 and completed in 1932. The mosaics themselves were executed by Jean Lahaye and Emile Van Asbroeck of the company A Godchol.\n\nThis monumental creation was a vindication of Idealist trends in art presented in a public space and gave his artistic perspective a wider visibility amongst the general public.\n\nWorking towards the public good and alleviating the suffering of mankind was also a principle ideal of the Theosophists, an ideal to which Delville's subscribed throughout his life. Delville's Theosophical-socialist views were articulated in two articles his published before the War: \"Socialisme de demain\" (1912) and \"Du Principe sociale de l'Art\" (1913).\n\nFrom the 1920s onwards, Delville experienced a much more settled and successful career than ever before. With the highly successful completion of the two major public projects in the Palais de Justice and the Cinquantenaire, and his election as a member of the prestigious Belgian Royal Academy of sciences and letters in 1924, he seemed to have been drawn much closer into the Belgian establishment during these years. He maintained his post as 'Premier Professeur' at the Academy of Fine Art in Brussels until 1937 and continued to paint until crippling arthritis in his right hand forced him to give up the brush in 1947.\n\nHis ambition to create large-scale Idealist works of art was sustained right up to the end of his painting career after the Second World War; notable examples amongst which include his \"Les Forces\" (1924, 55 × 800 cm, Palais de Justice), \"Les Dernières Idoles\" (1931, 450 × 300 cm, private collection) and \"La Roue du Monde\" (1940, 298 × 231 cm, Antwerp: Royal Museum of Fine Art). He was still able to sustain a power of expression and a highly articulate finish to his works in his later years that was there from the very start. However, a change in his style took place amongst some of his works in the 1930s, (especially while he was resident in Mons). Characteristically they became more pared-down in their articulation of form and colour: Shapes became more stylised and geometric and his colours were more pallid, or 'pastel' in tone, lacking the energy, vibrant contrasts and rich tonalities that was characteristic of his work until then. His treatment of figures also became more stylised and he often articulated their facial features with characteristically 'almond'-shaped eyes, giving his figures an otherworldy appearance. Typical examples of this period include his \"Seraphitus-Seraphita\" (1932), \"Les Idées\" (1934), \"Le Dieu de la Musique\" (1937) and \"Pégase\" (1938).\n\nDelville remained a committed and passionate Theosophist until his death in 1953 and he maintained in one of his biographies that this always formed the foundation to this moral and artistic perspective throughout his later life. Regarding this important aspect of his intellectual and spiritual life, he wrote in 1944:\nEn réalité, la philosophie occulte occupe le fond de ma pensée depuis bien des années ! Je pense avoir lu à peu près tout ce qui fut publié d’important sur les problèmes de l’invisible. ... Depuis, j’ai beaucoup cherché, étudié sur la nature des phénomènes psychiques. L’Etude des sciences occultes est à la base de ma vie intellectuelle et morale.\nDelville died on his birthday, 19 January 1953.\n\n\nDelville wrote prolifically throughout his life outlining his Idealist aesthetic. His first main publication on the subject was his \"Mission de l'Art\" (1900). Delville's Idealist theory is a syncretic formulation of traditional Idealist thinking (in the tradition of Plato, Schopenhauer and Hegel) and contemporary esoteric philosophy.\nIn summary, Delville believed that art is the expression of the Ideal (or spiritual) in material form and is founded on the principle of Ideal Beauty, in other words Beauty that is the manifestation of the Ideal, or spiritual realm, in physical objects. Contemplating objects that manifest Ideal Beauty allows us to perceive, if only fleetingly, the spiritual dimension and we are transfigured as a result.\n\nDelville outlines this in a vivid passage in his \"La Mission de l'Art\" where he emphasises the expressive value of Idealist art, in other words, that it is not merely a question of engaging passively with the image, but it is also about feeling the 'energy' that it radiates, which uplifts and transforms the consciousness of the viewer, in a spiritual way. Idealism in art is, he writes, 'the introduction of Spirituality into Art'. For Delville, the Idea is an expression of the Ideal realm, and it is a living force within human experience that dwells within the transpersonal realm of human experience. He writes further that:\nThe Idea, in the metaphysical or esoteric sense, is Force, the universal and divine force which moves worlds, and its movement is the supreme rhythm whence springs the harmonious working of Life.\n\nWhere there is no thought, there is no life, no creation. The modern western world has become unconscious of this tremendous power of the Ideal, and Art inevitably has thus become degraded. This ignorance of the creative forces of thought has, nevertheless, obscured and diverted towards materialism all modern judgement. Materialism does not know \"how\" ideas and thoughts vibrate, and how these vibrations impinge on the consciousness of the individual.\n\nAnd yet these vibrations, though invisible to the greater part of mankind, are able to exercise an astounding influence over the mentality of human beings, and thus assist in their evolution. Before works of genius the human consciousness receives mental and spiritual vibrations, which are generated by the force of the idea reflected. The more elevated, pure and sublime a work is, the more the inner being, coming into contact with the ideal vibrations emanated from it, will be raised, purified, and made sublime. The artist who is not ideal, that is to say, artist who does not know that every form must be the result of an idea, and that every idea must have its form, the artist, in short, who does not know that Beauty is the luminous conception of equilibrium in forms, will never have any influence over the soul, because his works will be really without thought, that is, without life.\n\nThe Idea is the emotion of the Spirit as Emotion is the reflex of the Soul.\n\nDelville goes further by dividing his understanding of Beauty into three categories: I) Spiritual Beauty: the source of beauty in physical objects, ii) Formal beauty: the physical articulation of Beauty in works of art, and iii) Technical beauty: the specific execution of line, colour, light and shade, and composition to express Ideal beauty in physical objects and works of art. In French Delville referred to these terms as: \"La Beauté spirituelle\", \"La Beauté plastique\" and \"La Beauté technique\".\nDelville goes further to map his threefold conception of Beauty onto his esoteric conception of the threefold nature of reality, consisting of the Natural, Human and Divine realms, as well as the threefold nature of man as body (senses), soul (feeling) and mind (thought and spirituality). He writes:\nThe work of Idealist Art is therefore that which will harmonise in itself the three great Words of Life: the Natural, the Human and the Divine. To attain this degree of aesthetic balance, – which, I am happy to concede, is not within the reach of just anyone! – one must find within the work the purest idea on an intellectual level, the most beautiful form within the artistic realm, and the most perfect technique in terms of execution. Without an idea, a work misses its intellectual mission, without form, it misses its natural mission and, without technique, it misses its goal of perfection. … The veritable character of the work of Idealist Art can be identified from the balance reigning over its accomplishment, meaning that it does not let the essential terms of idea, art or technique prevail one over the other, but more likely according to relations proportional to their respective powers.\n\nDelville believed that the purest expression of Idealist art was to be found in the Classical Tradition of ancient Greek art and the High Renaissance. For him, Classical art was the purest expression of the spiritual in material form. Delville sought to reinterpret the Classical idiom in a contemporary context, to suite, in other words his specific Idealist style of art that he was formulating during the 1890s; not simply, in other words, to copy or imitate classical modes of art The expression of harmony and equilibrium, which he saw as an essential aspect of Classical art, were fundamental in the expression of the spiritual in natural forms. There is a mystical aspect to Delville's aesthetic, and idea of Ideal Beauty, when he wrote that:\nThe Beautiful, taken in its classical sense, is not an illusion. The Beautiful is the True manifested by the Idea in form. This is the highest goal that the artist must seek to attain … When the artist causes light to spring forth from darkness, beauty from ugliness, the pure from the impure, he reveals Truth to humanity, he reveals God. The Beautiful, the True, the Good are synonyms. It is the glory of Art to be able to make perceptible to human eyes the three mysteries which form a single one!\n\nDelville developed a distinct style in his painting, which is unmistakable. His finished drawing and paintings are highly articulate and precise in the way he renders forms. However, his works are not overbearingly detailed, as is often found in realist art, but he manages to capture the essence of the forms he articulates using the simplest means possible. This is especially so in his approach to figures. In his \"l'Amour des Ames\" he outlines the figures using long, curvaceous contours, and their anatomy is only lightly suggested using gentle contrasts in light and shade; the effect is the expression of great beauty without being overbearingly sensual: a technique often seen in Renaissance frescos. Delville had a great imagination for colour and its use for expressive purposes. His colours are often vivid, almost visionary; most clearly seen in his \"Trésors de Sathan\" which is bathed in an atmosphere of luminous golds and yellows. In his \"L'Ange des Splendeurs\" he captures the effect of iridescent, diaphanous gold in the angel's drapery contrasting distinctly with the heavy earthiness of the natural details (animals, spiders, vegetation) at bottom right hand side. His \"Ecole de Platon\" is a paradigm of serenity in his use of muted, cool colours and pastel shades to emphasise the intellectual idyll of Plato's \"Akademos\".\n\nDelville very seldom painted landscapes, still life or portraits for their own sake, but often incorporated these in his figure paintings. Almost all of Delville's paintings focus on the human form as the bearer of the drama of his works. He was a master of the articulation of human anatomy which he used to express vividly his Idealist technique and ideas. The various ways he articulates the human form is key to understanding his artistic programme that he unveiled in his paintings throughout his career. This is especially the case in the rendering of lithe and supple male and female figures in his \"Les Trésors de Sathan\", \"L'Amour des Ames\" and \"L'Ecole de Platon\", or the highly expressive drawn, sinewy almost emaciated forms in the lower part of his epic \"l'Homme-Dieu\" displaying the suffering and distress of the human condition; or in the highly muscular, Titanesque rendering of anatomy in his heroic figures in his \"Prométhée\" and \"Les Dernières Idoles\".\n\nFor a good selection of paintings with clear reproductions see this website: \"Jean Delville: Initiate of Spiritual Beauty\"\n\nPencil, pastel and coloured pencil on paper, 40 x 32.1 cm, Brussels: Royal Museum of Fine Art\nThough Delville frequently wrote about his ideas, he almost never discussed his paintings. He left the interpretations to the viewer, and as a result his best pictures have an air of mystery and intrigue. One of the most mysterious is his Portrait of Mrs. Stuart Merrill. This drawing, executed in chalks in 1892, is strikingly otherworldly. In it Delville depicts the young woman as a medium in trance, with her eyes turned upwards. Her radiating red-orange hair combines with the fluid light of her aura.\n\nThe hot colours which surround Mrs. Merrill's head appear to allude to the earthly fires of passion and sensuality. On the other hand, the book on which she rests her chin and long, almost spectral hands is inscribed with an upwards-pointing triangle. This represents Delville's idea of perfect human knowledge, achieved (as he says in his Dialogue), through magic, the Kabbalah and Hermeticism. As a number of authors have pointed out, the painting, with its references to occultism and wisdom seems to hint at initiation. If so, the woman's red aura might refer to her sensual side, which will become more spiritualised as she moves into a different stage of development.\n\nWhatever its interpretation, this very unusual portrait has had a strong effect on viewers. It can be seen as eerie and supernatural (Bade, Femme Fatale, 1979), or as \"a positively magical vision\" (Jullian, \"Dreamers of Decadence\", 1974). It is sometimes referred to as the Mona Lisa of the 1890s, and is also given the title La Mysteriosa . Today, few details are available about the sitter, and even her first name goes unmentioned in the literature. The most extensive information on her identity is given by Delville's son Olivier in his biography of the painter. It is not a first-hand account, however, as Olivier was born at least ten years after the picture was executed. According to him, Stuart Merrill (a Symbolist poet who published his works in Paris and Brussels) had a house near to the Delvilles in Forest at that time. Olivier adds that \"the young Mrs Merrill-Rion\" was a Belgian, and that Delville was struck by her strange beauty and depicted her with a mediumistic character. It is likely that Delville painted other portraits of Mrs Stuart Merrill and the 1893 drawing 'Medusa', in the same media is undoubtedly one of these.\n\nThe painting was not bought by the Merrills, and remained with the Delvilles until it was sold to a Californian private collector in the late 1960s. In 1998, it was acquired by the Brussels Museum of Fine Arts, and is now on display to the public.\n\nOil in canvas, 127 x 146 cm, Brussels: Museum of Fine Art.\n\nThis is undoubtedly one of Delville's most visionary images of the early 1890s. The work refers to Delville's interests in the idea of initiation and the spiritualisation of the soul. As seen in many of his works, Delville often plays on the tension between opposites: light and dark, spirit and matter, Nature and the Ideal, etc. These ideas are personified in this work in the duality between the androgynous Angel and the young androgynous youth who is ensnared in the natural or material realm. His lower torso is engulfed in serpents and surrounded by toads, spiders, butterflies and other life-forms of the natural world. The Angel, on the other hand is a vision of diaphanous gold, clothed in a dress that is more fluid than material, emanating a soft, but intense, light. Her face is of the exquisite beauty commonly seen in Renaissance portraiture, notably in the work of Leonardo, who Delville admired. The bright aureole that surrounds her face beaming light in all directions is a common signifier of her spiritual nature. Her proportions are odd, by human standards, and they were criticised by his contemporaries, but Delville understood that to humanise the angel would be to contradict her symbolic function in this work. She remains a being who is physically of her own, transcendental, realm. She points upwards indicating the path to the Ideal realm of spirit and beauty while the youth reaches towards her in an attempted gesture to release himself from the material snares that envelop him from below. There is an obvious tension here, as it is not entirely clear whether the youth will make it, or sink back into the deadening material realm from which he is emerging. The first step on the path of initiation and transcendence is to overcome and control the limitations of the illusory material dimension, and specifically to control the passions and desires, in order to clear the path for the transcendence of the soul. This painting is a totem of that moment in the initiatory drama that Delville expressed in many of his paintings and poems at the time.\n\nOil on canvas, 258 x 268 cm, Brussels: Museum of Fine Art\n\nDelville exhibited his \"Trésors de Sathan\" (\"Sathan's Treasures\") at the Salon de Gand in September 1895 while he was working on his entry for the Belgian Prix de Rome. It was then exhibited in Brussels for the first time in 1896 at Delville's first \"Salon d'Art Idéaliste\". This was one of Delville's first 'breakthrough' paintings and one of his most important works from his artistic period up to 1895.\n\nOn the whole, Delville's works generally deal with the theme of the duality between nature (human or otherwise) and the transcendental world. Delville was an Idealist, in other words, he believed in the reality of a transcendental or spiritual dimension as the basis of reality. Our perceptual material world is, in this world-view, seen merely an illusion that brings suffering and discontent. Our goal is to spiritualise our being and refine our material selves, which includes our desires and need for the fulfillment of material satisfaction. Without a spiritual context in mind, men and women simply become deadened materialistic entities always governed by their desires, passions, greed and ego-driven need for control and power over others. This is the realm of matter, or in Delville's cosmology, the realm of Sathan, who controls and governs our lower state of being. Without a spiritual goal in life, we are merely slaves to Sathan and are completely submissive to his power; we become his 'treasure' as is implied in the title of this painting. Here Delville depicts Sathan as a rather attractive figure, beguiling, powerful and seductive, dragging the hapless mass of men and woman to his undersea lair. Significantly the figures are not in a state of pain or agony, as is usually the case in Western depictions of Satan's underworld. Here they appear to be in a state of reverie and bliss, unconscious of their lives and the value of the spiritual reality of their existence, and succumbing, rather, entirely to the lure of gold and sensual pleasure; in other words, material greed and sensualism that Delville saw as a trap and a catastrophic diversion from humanity's true goal which is to spiritualise one's being and enter the higher realm of consciousness and spiritual bliss which he referred to as the 'Ideal'.\n\nThe theme of exercising control over one's lower nature, of erotic temptation and indulgence was believed by Delville and his esoteric contemporaries (especially Joséph Péladan) to represent the first stage on the path of initiation. This was first suggested in Edouard Schuré's influential work \"The Great Initiates\" and outlined in a passage reconstructing the Egyptian initiatory trials. He recounts how the final trial is set to resist erotic temptation personified in the form of an alluring female figure.\n\nDelville expressed these ideas in an article published in the contemporary journal \"Le Mouvement Littéraire\" in 1893:\nErotic fever has sterilised most minds. One ordinarily thinks of himself as virile because he satisfies a woman’s unquenched bestial desires. Well, that’s where the great shame of the cerebral degeneration of our time starts. The poet, the artist, the scientist are mostly attached to the spiritual functions rather than the emasculating animal functions. The real male is he whose mind can dominate the body and who only responds to solicitations of the flesh as his will allows. … if the works of the Sar, a virile man if ever there was one, energetically banish sexual conflicts, that is, are a consistent plea in favour of chastity, it is because he has studied the ravages of carnal love, because he has understood that one has to beware of the feelings of the heart, a heart in love being a dangerous accomplice of instinct. … Unfortunately, for the most part, we remain stubbornly ignorant of the fact that real virginity develops highly the powers of the soul, and that, to those who dedicate themselves to it, it imparts faculties unknown to the rest of the human race.\n\nThere are also frequent references to 'Sathan' in Delville's 1897 anthology of poems \"Frisson du Sphinx\", for example his 'Les Murmures de l’Ombre', 'Tête d’Ombre', 'La Tempête' and 'l’Etoile Noire'. This last vividly evokes the motif that runs throughout Delville's writings:\n\n\"L'ÉTOILE NOIRE\"\nDu plus profond enfer du mal et du néant\nl'on voit le noir éclat de l'astre satanique\ndarder sinistrement, comme en une panique,\nses néfastes rayons au coeur du mécréant.\n\nSathan brûle ce feu sombre des maléfices\npour fasciner les yeux coupables et damnés\net pour faire jaillir sur tous ceux qui sont nés\nle chaos infernal des ténèbres complices.\n\nMêlant son despotisme à son absurdité,\ncontre le Beau, l'Amour, le Ciel, la Vérité,\nc'est le mensonge haineux et la lourde ignorance.\n\nO ! vieil astre de mort, effroyable appareil,\nvous êtes la nuit froide et la morne impuissance,\ncar le sang clair du Christ est l'âme du soleil!\n\n\"The Dark Star\" (translation)\nOil on canvas, 260 x 605 cm, Paris: Musée D'Orsay\n\nIn this important painting, Delville invokes the serene beauty of the Classical world and its aesthetic and philosophical principles. Delville painted this work while he was in Italy on his artistic sojourn there after winning the coveted Belgian Prix de Rome. Delville was then, at last, able to study the classical works of the Renaissance and the ancient world that profoundly influenced his artistic ideas.\n\nThe scale of the painting is impressive, measuring 2.60 metres high by 6.05 metres long, and Delville certainly had in mind large-scale Academic History paintings which were the preserve of erudite artistic subjects painted in the classical tradition, which he sought to renew. The figures depicted are almost life size. The style of the painting is inspired by the Italian frescoes by Raphael and Michelangelo that Delville would have seen while in Rome; characterised by bold articuation of forms with a matte (as opposed to a glossy) finish. The painting was first exhibited at Delville's final \"Salon d'Art Idéaliste\" in Brussels in 1898. The work was universally praised as a masterpiece by his contemporaries. The leading avant-garde art journal \"L'Art Moderne\", which was frequently hostile towards Delville and his art, praised his work in the following: 'Jean Delville ... has created a Work! A superb work of art: The School of Plato, to which he refers as \"an essay in Fresco\" – Go and see it! It is of a calm, a serene, a grand and delicious Beauty ... Ideal, yes, truly ideal. The programme shows his worth and it is magnificent... It is beautiful, beautiful, beautiful!\n\nDelville was immersed in studying the esoteric tradition and the hidden philosophies that were popular at the time. This was a tradition that extolled the virtues of self-improvement and spiritual progress through initiation. Edouard Schuré already identified Plato as one of the 'Great Initiates', in other words, light bearers who guide humanity towards higher consciousness and deeper spiritual awareness during our earthly incarnation. Plato taught of the essential duality between the material and metaphysical dimensions; his gesture, pointing upwards and downwards alludes to this duality between macrocosm and microcosm. Attainment of the Ideal realm and the expression of its truths in physical form was the key notion in Delville's aesthetic philosophy. He wrote often that the goal of art should aspire towards expressing Absolute, or Spiritual Beauty in physical form. He saw Classical art as the purest expression of this goal and he sought a revival of this idea in art, reworking it in a way that was appropriate for his contemporary cultural era. For Delville, moreover, the human body, was the purest expression of Ideal and Spiritual Beauty. He therefore often resorted to the depiction of nude male and female figures in his art as vehicles for the expression of this Ideal; as is clearly seen in this work. Concerning the spiritual importance of the nude as a vehicle for the expression of a Spiritual ideal he wrote\nThe nude has the high quality of being synthetic and universal. … in evoking Mankind, it evokes Humanity and all the beauty of Life, not life as we modern beings understand it, comprising nerves, morbid fevers and agitation, but the great universal life, which enriches the spirit and the earth, makes stars and souls resplendent and makes space vibrate, which beats in substance as in essence, which rules and moves the Universe, the beings and the objects, mortal or immortal, in the infinite rhythm and the mystery of Eternity, divine macrocosm and human microcosm where Universal Beauty, made of Love, Wisdom and Light, shines and is reflected forever.\n\nThe men in this painting are conceived in an idealised androgynous form: a concept that Delville, following Péladan, developed to express the ideal of a non-erotic perfection of the human state that synthesises the male and female principle in an idea of wholeness and perfection, which emulates the original state of human perfection that precedes our split, dual experience of reality in our earthly incarnation.\n\nTempera and oil on canvas, 268 x 150 cm. Brussels: Musée communal des beaux-arts d'Ixelles.\n\nThis is undoubtedly one of Delville's most subtly articulated and beautiful images of the period. Delville depicts the union of souls, male and female, in a cosmic setting. This painting suggests a theme important to Delville and his contemporaries regarding the return to unity in the dual male and female principles of human experience that results in spiritual androgyny. Male energy and female energy is united to form a state of wholeness and complete unity of Being. It is a cosmic conception of the goal of existence, beyond opposites, polarity and discord. This state signifies a return to the original state of perfection and integration of opposites that unites us to the Cosmic mind; beyond time and space and the duality of physical and material existence. This spiritual union gives birth to the transcendent being; the cosmic Christ within. Delville often wrote of the nature of duality and the forces of opposites, as well as the need to bring these into harmony, in other words achieving Equilibrium. In fact, he understood the experience of opposition in nature (human as well as in the natural world) as an underlying 'law' relating to what he termed the 'Equilibrium in the Universal Order', with regard to which, he wrote:\n\nIn spite of a contrary appearance, all the forces, all the manifestations of nature influence each other with currents of negative polarity and positive polarity, undeniable astral influences. … The great contrasts of life, however, are responsible for all the misery, all the hardship; are they responsible for the production of Chaos?\n\nA huge mistake: The Great and the Small, the Strong and the Weak, the High and the Low, the Active and the Passive, the Full and the Empty, the Weighty and the Dense, Exterior and Interior, the Visible and the Invisible, the Beautiful and the Ugly, the Good and the Bad, Essence and Substance, Spirit and Matter are divergent forces which eternally constitute the great Equilibrium in the Universal Order. It is a Natural Law, and no philosophy, no dogma, no doctrine will ever prevail over It.\n\nThe setting of this work is important. Delville places the figures in an indeterminate, cosmic setting, suggesting that they are not figures that have human substance, but are rather symbols of the transcendent spiritual nature of man and woman. The ribbons of colour surrounding them suggests a fluid energy field upon which they are buoyed; an idea that Delville and his contemporaries often referred to as 'astral light' – an energy-force that animates living entities; much like the idea of 'the field' in quantum physics.\n\nDelville painted this work in Tempera, where pigments are mixed with egg white to create a luminous finish and a highly durable work of art. He was highly influenced by the artists of the Italian Renaissance who often used Tempera in their works, and which, to this day, retain their purity of colour and luminosity to a high degree. The close-up details reveal his technique of applying the paint in small strokes, rather than blend the colours on the palette, they are blended by the eye. To achieve this effect one has to be highly skilled as a draughtsman.\n\nIn his biography, Delville's son Olivier tells us that his father, determined to pass his ideals on to the world, was continually painting and writing. He supplemented this unreliable income by teaching art, but his busy professional life did not prevent him from applying his strongly held beliefs to his personal life. Olivier describes his father as a person of courage, perseverance, probity and intellect, as well as an upright family man who was strict with his six children.\n\nDelville is still not nearly as well known as some of his contemporaries of the Symbolist era. There are historical reasons for this. For instance, he never exhibited at the main exhibition societies in Brussels during the early part of his career, such as \"Les XX\" and \"La Libre Esthétique\". The reputations of many of his contemporaries, like Khnopff, Mellery and Ensor, were largely founded on their participation at these Societies, which promoted heavily their art through organised marketing campaigns, and by establishing a commercial network of dealers and collectors to invest in the art exhibited there. They were also very successful in making their art well known internationally. There was an overt commercial element associated with these societies in the way they created an aura about the art exhibited there as a desirable commodity. Delville shunned the commercialisation of art and the way it was manufactured as an elite commodity. Although he sold works at his own Societies, such as \"Pour l'Art\" and the \"Salons d'Art Idéaiste\", their purpose was mainly to create a forum for artists working in an idealist vein. Delville was mainly committed to using art as a force to transform society and to improve the lives of those around him. He wrote: 'there will be nothing to prevent art increasingly to become an educative force in society, conscious of its mission. It is time to penetrate society with art, with the ideal and with beauty. Today's society tends to fall increasingly into instinct. It is saturated with materialism, sensualism and ... commercialism'.\"\n\nDelville believed, rather, that a respiritulaisation of society would be a redeeming path to rescue it from the morbidity of materialism. Elsewhere he wrote: 'Idealism ... has a universalizing educational and social impact ... Idealism sees humanity in terms of the immense vitality of his ideal future. In order for the artist to become aware of this, it is necessary for him to purify and elevate himself. ... The role of modern idealism will be to draw the artistic temperament away from the deadly epidemics of materialism ... and finally to guide him towards the purified regions of an art that is the harbinger of future spirituality.'\n\nDelville remained desperately poor during the early part of his career and his condition was only occasionally relieved by the stipend associated with the Prix de Rome that he won as well as his employment at the Glasgow School of Art, and later the Ecole des beaux-arts. Delville never sold to dealers and only very seldom took on private commissions for portraits (a genre he would have excelled in). Most of his paintings were on a grand scale and he devised these mostly to be exhibited in public spaces, following his ideal of the social role of art. Thus, the poor reputation associated with Delville's art is in part probably related to the lack of any committed exposure and sustained marketing of his work, which was essential in forging the reputations of the early avant garde and afterwards. Delville also came from a working-class background which was a huge disadvantage in the contemporary bourgeois-dominated culture in Belgium. This would certainly have contributed to the erasure of his worth as an artist over time. And finally Delville was fiercely independent in his approach to promoting his ideas and artistic ideals, seldom bending to the will of what was popular or acceptable in conservative bourgeois circles that controlled and dominated the art market during his formative years. Mainstream critics and peers generally shunned his Art and ideals as a result. Despite his immense talent and vision, Delville remained a 'voice in the wilderness' during this time. This reputation persisted during the course of his life and afterwards as well.\n\nAnother great disadvantage related to Delville's reputation relates to the limited exposure of his major works in public museums, and the relative paucity of published material (until recently) concerning Delville's art and career. The Museum of Fine Art in Brussels houses, by far, more works than any public collection, but few of these are on public display. This is also the case in other centres in Belgium (Bruges and Antwerp, for example). Few of his works are to be seen in major museums outside Belgium; with the exception of his \"l'Ecole de Platon\" in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. Many of his smaller works have long since disappeared or have been destroyed, which leaves conspicuous lacunae in his catalogue of extant works. The loss of major paintings like his \"Cycle passionnel\" and \"La Justice à travers les âges\", amongst others also diminishes the impact of his known \"oeuvre\". Moreover, a great number of his works are in private collections and their whereabouts still needs to be determined. This all means that access to his works is extremely limited and they remain out of the 'public eye', and hence the collective imagination generally. Reproductions of some of his paintings and drawings are available on the Internet, but usually of poor quality which reduces their impact considerably. Finally, until very recently, there have been no major studies or monographs on the artist's work, which until now has left considerable gaps in our understanding of his life, art and ideas.\n\nDespite this, a resurgence of interest in his work and ideas appears to be taking place, notably with the recent important retrospective exhibition in Namur that brought together many important paintings and drawings, many of which have not been seen before in public since they were first exhibited in the nineteenth century. Several Belgian and English Art Historians, working in collaboration with Delville's heirs and estate, are also taking a renewed interest in Delville's work, revealing detailed aspects of his life and work for the first time through detailed studies and monographs on aspects of Delville's life and art (see 'Sources').\n\n\n\n\n\nOnline catalogue: \"Jean Delville: Maïtré de L'Idéal\" Catalogue of the exhibition in French (well illustrated).\n\nSwedish thrash metal band Hexenhaus used the painting \"Les Trésors de Sathan\" for the cover of their album \"A Tribute to Insanity\" (1988), while American death metal group Morbid Angel also used it for the cover of their second album, \"Blessed Are the Sick\" (1991).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876048", "title": "CLAP", "text": "CLAP\n\nCLAP may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876052", "title": "Patricia Shaw", "text": "Patricia Shaw\n\nPatricia Shaw may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1876055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876055", "title": "International Nurses Day", "text": "International Nurses Day\n\nInternational Nurses Day (IND) is an international day observed around the world on 12 May (the anniversary of Florence Nightingale's birth) of each year, to mark the contributions that nurses make to society.\n\nThe International Council of Nurses (ICN) has celebrated this day since 1965.\n\nIn 1953 Dorothy Sutherland, an official with the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, proposed that President Dwight D. Eisenhower proclaim a \"Nurses' Day\"; he did not approve it.\n\nIn January 1974, 12 May was chosen to celebrate the day as it is the anniversary of the birth of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing. Each year, ICN prepares and distributes the International Nurses' Day Kit. The kit contains educational and public information materials, for use by nurses everywhere.\n\nAs of 1998, 8 May was designated as annual National Student Nurses' Day.\n\nICN themes for International Nurses Day:\n\n\nThe Australian Nurse of the Year is announced at a ceremony at one of the state's capital cities. Additionally, in each of the Australian states and territories, various nursing award ceremonies are conducted during the week.\n\nIn 2007, 5000 nurses gathered in Yichun, East China's Jiangxi Province.\n\nSince 2012, Nurse Jobs Ireland (an Irish nurse recruitment agency) launch a week long pro-bono campaign to celebrate nurses on the 6–12 May every year. This week long celebration uses digital platforms such as Twitter and Facebook to promote the great work nurses do using the hashtag #CelebrateNurses. The public leave their positive comments and thanks on the \"Celebrate Nurses\" website where they are collated into an ebook which is shared in medical facilities throughout Ireland.\n\nSingapore celebrates Nurses Day on 1 August. Back in the 1800s, a thriving Singapore found itself in need of providing better healthcare and medical services to a growing population. While there were several hospitals, there was a lack of nurses to support the doctors. French nuns from the Convent of the Holy Infant Jesus were trained to become nurses to fulfil this need, as they were seen as the only educated European women in Singapore who could undertake this challenge. 1 August 1885 marks the beginning of the development of nursing in Singapore when these nuns began their nursing duties in the General Hospital at the Sepoy Lines in the Outram area.\n\nIn 2003, after the outbreak of highly contagious SARS, spread from but hidden by China, President Chen Shui-bian visited a hospital on International Nurses Day to express admiration for 3 nurses, infected with SARS and sacrificed, among other medical personnel fighting on the frontline. He conveyed wishes to nurses for their devotion to duty of caring and reminded hospital staff that they should adopt strict precautionary measures to protect themselves before contacting with patients.\nAt 2017 International Nurses Day celebration, the first female President Tsai Ing-wen conducted a \"passing of the torch\" ceremony with leaders of the Taiwan Union of Nurses Association and the Taiwan Nurses Association. She honored nurses recognized for outstanding professionalism and service as well as over 2,200 nurses at the event who have been working for over 25 years. President Tsai expressed deepest respect and gratitude for their contributions to the health of people in Taiwan, and stressed the government has responsibility to increase benefits available to nurses and achieve more reasonable nurse-to-patient ratios and ensure friendlier workplaces. She also praised Taiwan's long tradition of providing international medical aid with the participation of nurses and emphasized the need to interact with other countries to share experience in nursing care. She emphasized the nursing profession's concern for global health is a shared value for all nations.\n\nStarting in 1990, Thailand observes 21 October as National Nurses' Day (Wan Phayaban Haeng Chat). The date commemorates the birth of Srinagarindra the Princess Mother and was adopted 4 April 1990.\n\nEach year a service is held in Westminster Abbey in London. During the Service, a symbolic lamp is taken from the Nurses' Chapel in the Abbey and handed from one nurse to another, thence to the Dean, who places it on the High Altar. This signifies the passing of knowledge from one nurse to another. At St Margaret's Church at East Wellow in Hampshire, where Florence Nightingale is buried, a service is also held on the Sunday after her birthday.\n\nThe U.S. celebrates National Nursing Week each year from 6 May to 12 May (the birthday of Florence Nightingale). Canada celebrates National Nursing Week each year during the week that includes 12 May. The Canadian Minister of Health instituted National Nursing Week in Canada in 1985.\n\nIn the U.S., National Nurses Week was first observed from 11–16 October 1954 in honor of the 100th anniversary of Florence Nightingale's mission to Crimea. President Nixon later proclaimed a \"National Nurse Week\" in 1974. In 1982, President Reagan signed a proposal officially designating 6 May as \"National Recognition Day for Nurses,\" now known as National Nurses Day or National RN Recognition Day. In 1990, the American Nurses Association (ANA) expanded the holiday into the current National Nurses Week celebrated from 6 May to 12 May.\n\nIn 1997, at the request of the National Student Nurses' Association, the ANA designated 8 May as National Student Nurses Day. In 2003, the ANA designated the Wednesday within National Nurses Week as National School Nurse Day. The National Association of School Nurses, however, claims that National School Nurse Day has been recognized since 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876060", "title": "Headingley Stadium", "text": "Headingley Stadium\n\nHeadingley Stadium is a stadium complex in Headingley, Leeds, West Yorkshire, England, comprising two separate grounds, Headingley Cricket Ground and Headingley Rugby Stadium, linked by a two-sided stand housing common facilities. The grounds are the respective homes of Yorkshire County Cricket Club (CCC) and both Leeds Rhinos rugby league and Yorkshire Carnegie rugby union clubs. Initially owned by the Leeds Cricket, Football and Athletic Company, the complex is now owned by Yorkshire CCC, which jointly manages it with Leeds Rugby Limited, a joint venture of the two rugby clubs.\n\nFrom 2006 until 2017, the stadium was officially known as the Headingley Carnegie Stadium as a result of sponsorship from Leeds Metropolitan University, whose sports faculty is known as the Carnegie School of Sport Exercise and Physical Education. Since 1 November 2017, the stadium is known as the Emerald Headingley Stadium due to the purchase of the naming rights by Emerald Group Publishing.\n\nIn December 2005, Yorkshire County Cricket Club obtained a loan of £9 million from Leeds City Council towards the cost of purchasing the cricket ground for £12 million. Shortly afterwards, 98.37% of members who participated in a vote backed the deal. On 11 January 2006, the club announced plans to rebuild the stand next to the rugby ground with 3,000 extra seats, taking capacity to 20,000. The club also announced plans to redevelop the Winter Shed (North) stand on 25 August 2006 providing a £12.5 million pavilion complex.\n\nThe cricket ground sits to the Northern side of the complex. It opened in 1891 and has been used for Test matches since 1899. It is the main home ground of Yorkshire County Cricket Club and Yorkshire Vikings Twenty20 cricket team. The ground last hosted The Ashes in 2019. Since 2015 the cricket ground has been floodlit. The ground has a seated capacity of 18,350, executive facilities and a new media centre opened in 2010. All but the stand at the football ground end have been rebuilt since 2000, it is proposed to replace this stand in conjunction with redeveloping its other side facing the rugby ground.\n\nThe rugby ground sits to the Southern side of the complex. Historically a rugby league ground it now hosts both codes. It is home to Leeds Rhinos rugby league team and Yorkshire Carnegie rugby union club. The ground consists of three stands and an open terrace at one end, one stand is completely seated, and two mixed. It has a capacity of 21,500.\n\nIn 2019, a new modern Tetley South Stand was opened.\n\nYorkshire County Cricket Club have shown keen interest in redeveloping the northern side of the ground. This is a major inconvenience to Leeds Rugby Limited as they wish to redevelop their North Stand, which backs onto the Cricket Ground, any redevelopment of this stand cannot go ahead until Yorkshire Cricket are also willing to redevelop their side of the cricket pitch. If Headingley is to retain Test Ground Status it is likely that further improvements will need to be made to the ground. On 5 June 2014 Yorkshire CCC announced the \"Headingley Masterplan\". The phased redevelopment costing around £50 million will take place over the next 20 years.\n\nPhase One\nErection of four permanent floodlight pylons. The floodlights, which have light arrays in the shape of the Yorkshire Rose, were installed in 2015. The first full game to be played under them was the T20 match against Derbyshire Falcons on Friday 15 May 2015, but they were also called upon for the County Championship game against Warwickshire a few weeks earlier.\n\nPhase Two\nThe rebuild of the Football Ground End, in conjunction with Leeds Rugby, to incorporate a three-tiered seating area, which will accommodate 5,060 seats, enhanced corporate facilities and new permanent concession units.\n\nPhase Three\nTo incorporate an additional 915 seats to the upper tier of the North East Stand with the possibility of a cantilever roof from the side of the Carnegie Pavilion to the existing scoreboard.\n\nPhase Four\nThe development of a new Pavilion located in the North West area of the stadium complex. Built on five levels, the Pavilion will be adjacent to the existing Carnegie Pavilion. To include state-of-the-art corporate facilities, new dressing rooms for the players and coaching staff, Members’ Long Room and seating and the creation of a main entrance to the stadium on Kirkstall Lane.\n\nPhase Five\nThe erection of a translucent cantilever roof to cover the White Rose Stand on the western side of the ground.\n\nPhase Six\nLandscaping on the White Rose Stand and North East stand concourses.\nYorkshire County Cricket Club and Leeds Metropolitan University have collaborated in building the Headingley Carnegie Pavilion, which replaced 'The Shed' to the northern side of the Cricket Ground (which, dating from the early 1970s, was the oldest surviving structure). The new pavilion replaces 'The Winter Shed' and 'The Media Centre' at the Kirkstall Lane end of the ground, which had become obsolete, according to Yorkshire County Cricket Club, no longer meeting the requirements of modern broadcasting. The changing facilities are replaced by 'state of the art' changing facilities, designed specifically for cricket, while the new executive boxes will provide the expected level of service. Yorkshire County Cricket Clubs offices will also be relocated into the pavilion, which boasts environmentally friendly features such as a ground source heat pump and solar hot water heating.\n\nThe rugby ground has also been significantly rebuilt since 2006, when the Carnegie Stand at the east end was opened containing both standing and seated areas, private boxes and catering. In 2017 both the North and South Stands were torn down following Leeds' last home game of the season: the new South Stand will be a two-tier structure similar to the Carnegie Stand with an expanded terrace, while the North Stand's replacement will feature additional executive boxes and state-of-the-art facilities for players, staff and media, as well as thousands of new seats for the cricket ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876062", "title": "Spanish Brazilians", "text": "Spanish Brazilians\n\nSpanish Brazilians are Brazilians of full or partial Spanish ancestry.\n\nSpanish immigration was the third largest among immigrant groups in Brazil; about 750,000 immigrants entered Brazil from Spanish ports. How many Spaniards came to Brazil before independence are unknown. Brazilian censuses do not research \"ethnic origins\" or ancestry, which makes it very difficult to give accurate numbers of Brazilians of Spanish descent. Brazilians of Spanish descent can be estimated as being 15 million people or 20 million according to the Spanish government.\n\nMore than half of modern Brazil's territory was attributed to Spain by the Treaty of Tordesillas. However, Spain was unable to settle that region.\n\nDuring the dynastic union between Portugal and Spain (1580–1640), many Spaniards settled in Brazil, particularly in São Paulo. As a consequence, there are a large number of Brazilian descendants of these early settlers, especially since the early inhabitants of São Paulo explored and settled in other parts of Brazil. The descendants of Bartolomeu Bueno de Ribeira, born in Seville around 1555, who settled in São Paulo around 1583, marrying Maria Pires, are an example of this. Afonso Taunay, in his book dealing with early São Paulo, \"São Paulo in the XVI century\", mentions also Baltazar de Godoy, Francisco de Saavedra, Jusepe de Camargo, Martin Fernandes Tenório de Aguilar, Bartolomeu de Quadros, among others. In his genealogical account of the settling of São Paulo, Pedro Taques de Almeida Paes Leme, also mentions the three Rendon brothers, Juan Matheus Rendon, Francisco Rendon de Quebedo and Pedro Matheus Rendon Cabeza de Vaca, as well as Diogo Lara, from Zamora. Spaniards from Galicia also settled in Brazil during that time, like Jorge de Barros, for example. The family names Bueno, Godoy, Lara, Saavedra, Camargo, etc., tracing back to these early settlers, are quite popular throughout Southeast Brazil, Southern Brazil and the Center-West. Silva Leme, in his work \"Genealogia Paulistana\" (\"Paulistana Genealogy\"), addresses several of these families.\n\nThe expansion of Portuguese-Brazilian settlements into Spanish-claimed territory was a long and gradual process, which took the form of Portuguese-Brazilian expeditions and settlements led by the Bandeirantes. Except for the Missions, no Spanish settlements actually existed in the territory of future Brazil by the middle of the 18th century, when most of it was under Portuguese control. This de facto control was legally recognized in 1750 when sovereignty over the vast area – including the Missions – was transferred from Spain to Portugal by the Treaty of Madrid.\n\nWhile there is no historic evidence of Spanish settlements in the area that is now Rio Grande do Sul (other than São Gabriel, founded in 1800 and stormed by the Brazilian/Portuguese in 1801), some genetic research conducted on southern Brazilian gaúchos suggests that they may be mostly descended from mixed indigenous and Spanish ancestry rather than from Portuguese and indigenous ancestry. The study itself cautions that there may be difficulties with its identification of the respective Iberian (Portuguese and Spanish) contributions to the gaúcho population of southern Brazil (some caution is warranted because differentiation between Iberian Peninsula populations, as well as between them and their derived Latin American populations, at the Y-chromosome level, was not observed in other investigations).\n\nSpanish emigration peaked in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and it was concentrated to Argentina and Cuba. Between 1882 and 1930, 3,297,312 Spaniards emigrated, of whom 1,594,622 went to Argentina and 1,118,960 went to Cuba. Brazil only started to be an important destination for immigrants from Spain in the 1880s, and the country received the third largest number of immigrants from that country, after Argentina and Cuba.\n\nIt is estimated that since Brazil's independence (1822) some 750,000 Spaniards have entered Brazil. This figure represents between 12.5% and 14% of all foreigners entering Brazil since its independence and puts the Spaniards in the third place among immigrant nationalities in Brazil, but it possibly includes Portuguese emigrating on false Spanish passports, or Galicians who, while Spanish citizens, spoke a language similar to Portuguese; in fact, Portuguese immigrants in Rio de Janeiro are popularly known as \"galegos\" (Galicians). Spanish immigrants were among those who had a higher rate of permanent residence in Brazil, overtaken by the Japanese but above nationalities such as Portuguese, Italian or German. This may be due to the large number of families traveling with passage paid by the Brazilian government that left their native Spain to work on coffee plantations of the state of São Paulo. Most Spanish immigrants entered Brazil between 1880 and 1930, with the peak period between 1905 and 1919, when their annual entrances overcame those of Italians.\n\nIn the state of São Paulo, destination of the majority of Spanish immigrants (about 75% of the total), 60% were from Andalusia, had their travel by ship paid by the Brazilian government, emigrated in families and were taken to the coffee farms to replace African slave manpower.\n\nAfter São Paulo, the second largest contingent came to Rio de Janeiro, while other states such as Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná, Mato Grosso, Pará and Bahia received smaller groups. In all those states, immigrants from Galicia were the vast majority, at about 80%, and those were predominantly males who emigrated alone, settled in urban centers and paid for their travel by ship. Galician smallholders settled mainly in urban areas of Brazil. Starting in the early 20th century, most Spanish immigrants were Andalusian peasants who worked in the coffee plantations, mainly in rural areas of São Paulo State.\n\nThe profile of the Spanish immigrants during the period 1908–26 shows that 82.7% immigrated in families, 81.4% were farmers, only 2.2% were artisans or skilled workers and 16.3% were in category of \"others\". These data reflect that Spanish immigration was not very diversified and qualified and had a low mobility since it was subsidized by the Brazilian Government, so immigrants were not free to decide where to work. In this way, the vast majority of those who came to São Paulo were directly taken to the coffee farms without having the opportunity to settle rural communities as land owners, or work in urban jobs.\n\nIn Northeastern Brazil, people with light or blue eyes or light colored hair are often called \"galegos\" (Galicians), even if not of Galician descent, probably explained due to the fact Galicians came to Brazil among Portuguese colonizers. In Rio de Janeiro, the Galician immigrants were so present that Iberian and Portuguese immigrants were referred to as \"galegos\".\n\n\n\nThere is one Spanish international school in Brazil, Colégio Miguel de Cervantes in São Paulo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876070", "title": "Static Age", "text": "Static Age\n\nStatic Age is an album by the American horror punk band the Misfits, recorded in 1978. Though technically the band's debut album, it was not released in its entirety until 1996.\n\nIn August 1977 The Misfits released their debut single \"Cough/Cool\" on Blank Records, a label operated by the band's lead vocalist Glenn Danzig. Several months later Mercury Records issued a Pere Ubu record on their own Blank Records imprint, unaware that Danzig held a trademark on the name. The parties came to a settlement, with Danzig accepting thirty hours of studio time for his band in exchange for the rights to the Blank Records name. In January and February 1978 the Misfits, then consisting of Danzig, guitarist Franché Coma, bassist Jerry Only, and drummer Mr. Jim, recorded seventeen songs at C.I. Recordings in New York City with engineer and producer Dave Achelis. Due to time constraints, the band recorded the songs live in the studio with only a few takes and very few overdubs. Ultimately fourteen of the seventeen tracks produced during the sessions were assembled for the Misfits' anticipated debut album, to be titled \"Static Age\".\n\nHowever, the band were unable to find a record label interested in releasing the album. Instead, the Misfits released four of the new tracks (\"Bullet\", \"We Are 138\", \"Attitude\", and \"Hollywood Babylon\") as the \"Bullet\" single in June 1978 on Danzig's newly created label Plan 9 Records (the same four tracks, along with a remixed version of \"Last Caress\", were reissued on the \"Beware\" EP in January 1980). While on tour in Canada that October, guitarist Franché Coma abruptly quit the band, followed by drummer Mr. Jim at the tour's conclusion. With the band's future far from certain, the \"Static Age\" recordings were shelved indefinitely. Danzig recruited new members Bobby Steele and Joey Image and the Misfits shifted their style away from the traditional punk rock of the \"Static Age\" sessions to a more horror film-inspired direction. None of the remaining \"Static Age\" tracks were released during the early era of the band, though a re-recorded version of \"Teenagers from Mars\" appeared on the \"Horror Business\" single in 1979, and a live version of \"We Are 138\" appeared on the \"Evilive\" EP in 1982.\n\nAfter the band's breakup in 1983, Danzig overdubbed guitar and bass tracks on nine of the unreleased \"Static Age\" tracks (\"Static Age\", \"TV Casualty\", \"Hybrid Moments\", \"Come Back\", \"Some Kinda Hate\", \"Theme for a Jackal\", \"Angelfuck\", \"Spinal Remains\", and \"She\"), releasing these new versions on the 1985 \"Legacy of Brutality\" compilation album. \"Misfits\" followed in 1986, reissuing the tracks \"Bullet\" and \"Hollywood Babylon\" as well as the overdubbed version of \"She\". \"Collection II\" (1995) reissued \"We Are 138\" and \"Attitude\", the remixed version of \"Last Caress\", and the previously unreleased \"Return of the Fly\".\n\nWith the release of The Misfits box set in 1996, the complete original \"Static Age\" album saw the light of day for the first time, eighteen years after the songs were recorded. The box set included all three compilation albums as well as a disc with all fourteen \"Static Age\" tracks that had been mixed in 1978. The remaining three tracks, \"She\", \"Spinal Remains\", and \"In the Doorway\", were mixed by Alan Douches and Tom Bejgrowicz on February 24, 1997 at West West Side Music and included when \"Static Age\" was finally released as a standalone album that July. \"In the Doorway\" had never before been released, as it had remained unmixed on the master tapes for nineteen years. The album also included an unlisted eighteenth track consisting of a collage of studio banter and outtakes.\n\nSeveral of the songs on \"Static Age\" were based on horror films and American historical events from the 1960s and 1970s. \"Return of the Fly\" borrows its title from the 1959 film \"Return of the Fly\", and most of the song's lyrics consist of repetition of the film's title, actors, and characters: \"\"Return of the Fly, Return of the Fly/With Vincent Price/Helen Delambre, Helen Delambre/François, François/Cecile, Cecile\"\". \"Bullet\" references the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy, with sexually explicit lyrics directed at his wife Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis: \"\"Texas is an outrage when your husband is dead/Texas is an outrage when they pick up his head/Texas is the reason that the President's dead/You gotta suck, suck, Jackie, suck\"\". Although the subject of \"She\" is not mentioned in the lyrics, Misfits associate Eerie Von noted in The Misfits box set that the song was about Patty Hearst. The lyrics reference Hearst's participation in a San Francisco bank robbery in 1974: \"\"She walked out with empty arms, machine gun in her hand/She is good and she is bad, no one understands/She walked in in silence, never spoke a word/She's got a rich daddy, she's her daddy's girl\"\". \"Hollywood Babylon\" borrows its title from Kenneth Anger's 1959 book \"Hollywood Babylon\".\n\nEarly in his amateur career, Mike Diana, who would later become the first American artist to be convicted of obscenity in the United States, produced a 1988 comics magazine called \"Angelfuck\", which was named after the song on this album. \n\nThe indie rock band Texas Is the Reason later derived their name from the lyrics of \"Bullet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876077", "title": "Polo pony", "text": "Polo pony\n\nA polo pony is the term used for a horse used in the game of polo. They may be of any breed or combination of breeds, though many have a significant amount of Thoroughbred breeding. They are called \"ponies\", but that is a reference to their agile type rather than their size; almost all are horse-sized. They require considerable training and ongoing conditioning, and because each rider requires several horses in a single match, this can be a considerable expense. For competition, polo ponies have their manes roached and tails braided so that there is no danger of being tangled in the mallet.\n\nDepending on time and location, the height of polo ponies has varied from about in the sixteenth century to modern horses of and over. Today, most polo ponies stand around , although it is not unusual to see a horse over 16 hands. Although they are called \"ponies\", this is a reference to their agile type rather than their size. True pony breeds typically stand a maximum of .\n\nVarious breeds used include mountain ponies from the Himalayas, Manipur ponies from Manipur, Arabians and the ever-popular Thoroughbred and its crosses. In the United States, Thoroughbreds and Quarter Horses are often crossed to produce polo ponies, while in recent years crosses of Thoroughbreds and Criollo horses from Argentina have become popular. In Australia, Australian Stock Horses are the most common breed used in polo.\n\nPolo ponies need to be trained so that they are not afraid to bump into other horses, and not to shy at the ball or at mallets swinging near their heads. They need to be quick and agile so they can turn and follow the ball through its many movements. They also need to be in good physical condition; there are usually four to six chukkas per match, each chukka lasting seven and a half minutes, with the horse being on the move throughout. It is typical for a single player to have numerous horses available for each match, using a separate horse for each chukka, sometimes two. Thus there are significant costs of ownership and time required for exercise and conditioning of a polo string.\n\nPolo ponies have their manes hogged and their tails plaited up before a match, so that the polo mallet will not get tangled in them. Formerly, their tails would be docked and banged. Today, polo ponies in competition often have their dock trimmed or shaved, and the skirt of the tail is braided and folded up against the tailbone. The braid is tied off with a lock of hair excluded from the braid, taped, or tied off and taped.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876088", "title": "Falu Party", "text": "Falu Party\n\nThe Falu Party () a local political party in Falun, Sweden. Party leader is Ulf Elgemyr.\n\nIn 1998, FP got 10.9% of the votes and six seats in the municipal council. In 2002 it got 2441 votes (7.5%) and five seats.\n\n1998-2002 FP was part of a local six-party coalition governing the municipality, consisting of FP, Moderate Party, Centre Party, Christian Democrats, People's Party - Liberals and Swedish Senior Citizen Interest Party.\n\nExample of current demand of the party (from the party website):\n\n"}
{"id": "1876102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876102", "title": "Sierra de Guadalupe cave paintings", "text": "Sierra de Guadalupe cave paintings\n\nThe Sierra de Guadalupe cave paintings are a series of prehistoric rock art pictographs near Rancho La Trinidad, Mulegé in Baja California Sur, Mexico. The Sierra de Guadalupe, mountains west of Mulegé, contains the largest number of known prehistoric rock art sites in Baja California. \n\nThey form part of Central Baja California's 'great mural tradition' and are protected by Mexican law. The largest of several rock walls features the 'Trinidad deer', one of the best deer paintings in Baja California. The area also includes images of shamanistic figures, fish (including perhaps the only fish skeleton in Baja California) and other marine creatures, hand prints and female genitals.\n\nThe UNESCO World Heritage list includes the rock paintings of the Sierra San Francisco, including the Guadalupe paintings. The paintings are attributed to a group of people who lived in the area from 100 BC to 1300 AD. They are remarkably well preserved because of the dryness of the climate and the inaccessibility of the sites.\n\nThe most highly developed pre-Hispanic group in the region was that of a people known as the Guachimis, who were probably responsible for much of the cave paintings. Their territory extended from San Javier and La Purisima in the south of the reserve to the extreme northern end of the Baja California peninsula. Little is known about this group, apart from the fact that they probably originally came from further north.\n"}
{"id": "1876110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876110", "title": "Hotchkiss Mle 1914 machine gun", "text": "Hotchkiss Mle 1914 machine gun\n\nThe Mle 1914 Hotchkiss machine gun chambered for the 8mm Lebel cartridge became the standard machine gun of the French Army during the latter half of World War I. It was manufactured by the French arms company Hotchkiss et Cie, which had been established in the 1860s by American industrialist Benjamin B. Hotchkiss. The gas-actuated Hotchkiss system was first formulated in 1893 by Odkolek von Ujezda and improved into its final form by Hotchkiss armament engineers, American Laurence Benét and his French assistant Henri Mercié.\n\nThe Mle 1914 was the last version of a series of nearly identical Hotchkiss designs : the Mle 1897, Mle 1900 and the Mle 1909. The Hotchkiss Mle 1914 became the French infantry standard in late 1917, replacing the unreliable St. Étienne Mle 1907. The American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) in France also purchased 7,000 Mle 1914 Hotchkiss machine guns in 8mm Lebel, and used them extensively at the front in 1917 and 1918. Hotchkiss heavy machine guns, some being of earlier types, were also used in combat by Japan, Chile, Mexico, Spain, Belgium, Brazil, and Poland.\n\nThe Hotchkiss machine gun, a sturdy and reliable weapon, remained in active service with the French army until the early 1940s. By the end of 1918, 47,000 Hotchkiss machine guns had already been delivered to the French army alone. Including all international sales, the grand total of all Hotchkiss machine guns sold by the manufacturer in various calibers was well in excess of 100,000 units.\n\nThe Hotchkiss was based on a design by Captain Baron Adolf Odkolek von Ujezda of Vienna, first patented in July 1889 with further patents following in the following years, tested in 1893 in Saint-Denis, near Paris. The patents had been purchased in 1894–1895 by the firm of Benjamin Hotchkiss. Benjamin Hotchkiss was no longer alive at the time of the purchase, but the Odkolek design was further developed and greatly improved under the direction of American-born Laurence Vincent Benét. In 1898 an export model was offered for international sales by Hotchkiss and sold to Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico, Norway and Venezuela that year. With some useful changes, such as the addition of five cooling radiator rings on the barrel, the same basic design led to the Mle 1900. The gun was tested in 1901 by two Chasseur battalions and in 1903–1904 with cavalry units. The French Army bought another 50 Hotchkiss machine guns in 1906 for comparative trials but adopted the more complex Puteaux Mle 1905 (upgraded as the St. Étienne Mle 1907) to equip the infantry in 1907–1909. Nevertheless, 600 Mle 1900 machine guns were also purchased by the French military for use in overseas colonies\n\nAt the beginning of the World War I, the Manufacture d'armes de Saint-Étienne proved to be unable to produce enough St. Etienne machine guns. The French military forces chose to adopt the Hotchkiss Mle 1900 with some minor modifications, as the Mitrailleuse Automatique modèle 1914. The Hotchkiss gun is initially supplied to second-line troops but in 1916 front-line units began to use the Mle 1914. That year, a parliamentary committee of inquiry concluded that the Hotchkiss was more reliable than the St. Etienne and the production of the latter was stopped.\n\nThe Hotchkiss machine gun was gas actuated and air-cooled, in contrast to the Maxim gun which was recoil operated and water-cooled. The Hotchkiss machine gun barrel features five large rings which materially assisted natural cooling and retarded overheating. The gas cylinder under the barrel features a regulator piston which can be adjusted to the normal rate of fire of 450 rounds per minute. The Hotchkiss machine gun itself (excluding the tripod) has only 32 parts, including four coil springs, and no screws or pins whatsoever. All parts of the gun are constructed in such a manner that it is impossible to assemble them improperly. The Hotchkiss fired from an open bolt, like almost all modern machine guns, in order to avoid \"cook-offs\" – cartridges being prematurely ignited by the overheated chamber. Although the Hotchkiss machine gun was easy to feed continuously with a three-man team, each individual strip held only 24 rounds of 8mm Lebel ammunition. This feature proved to be one of the Hotchkiss's shortcomings, as the crew needed to reload the gun several times for every minute of firing, far more often than on every other machine gun of the same period (the Maxim used a 250-round continuous cloth belt). Each empty feed strip was ejected automatically after its last round had been fired, leaving the bolt open in the rear position. Then introducing a new loaded strip into the gun triggered the release forward of the bolt and firing resumed. The Hotchkiss strips performed well with a three-man crew, but their capacity was too small for a single gunner firing from the inside of a tank. This led to the adoption of a 250-round articulated metal belt in 1917. It was widely used in all French tanks of the period and in some military airplanes.\n\nBeginning in 1900, two basic tripod types were used prior to World War I, when the final and most effective third Hotchkiss tripod model (the Mle 1916) became adopted and widely distributed. A tripod that could be used for both the Hotchkiss and the St. Etienne machine guns was issued in 1915, the so-called \"Omnibus Tripod\". The French Hotchkiss had a rate of fire of approximately 450 rounds per minute of 8 mm Lebel ammunition, and a maximum effective range of 3,800 m (4,150 yd) with the \"Balle D\" bullet. Fire for effect was usually in successive bursts of 8 to 10 rounds. The gun could sustain continuous firing of about 120 aimed shots per minute almost indefinitely, except for occasional barrel changes (during continuous fire, approximately every 1,000 rounds) which were quick and easy to perform with a special wrench. The barrel could attain a temperature of about 400 °C, at which temperature it would be dark red in color. At this point the barrel dissipated heat as fast as it was generated. This only occurred after long continuous firing in a combat emergency situation. The most common complaint about the Hotchkiss was its weight: the gun and tripod weighed a total of 110 pounds. There were also complaints concerning the tripods, particularly the \"Omnibus\" tripods, which were perceived as too high above ground and too heavy.\n\nThe principal user of the Mle 1914 Hotchkiss machine gun was the French infantry during World War I and the early days of World War II. The Hotchkiss company delivered 47,000 Mle 1914 machine guns to the French Army between 1914 and the end of 1918. Several hundred were chambered in 11mm Gras for use against enemy balloons,as that was the smallest caliber of incendiary bullet; all other French examples were in 8mm Lebel. The second-largest user of the Hotchkiss was the American Expeditionary Force in France between 1917 and 1918, with the US purchasing and deploying 7,000 Hotchkiss machine guns during the war.\n\nThe Mle 1914 Hotchkiss was used by the Marine Nationale during the inter-war period, primarily on the twin Mle 1926 mount. It was replaced in service by the Hotchkiss Mle 1929 as it became available. During World War II some of these mountings were returned to service to try and compensate for the slow production of larger and more capable weapons, along with newer 7.5mm machine guns like the Darne.\nDuring the Boxer Rebellion, Japanese forces acquired a French Mle 1897. Japan acquired a license and began producing Hotchkiss Mle 1897 machine guns in 6.5x50mm Arisaka caliber. During the Russo-Japanese War, each Japanese division had 24 Hotchkiss machine guns. Being lighter than the Russian Maxims, the Hotchkiss performed well. The production evolved to become the Type 3 Heavy Machine Gun in 1914. The Type 92 Heavy Machine Gun, a scaled-up Type 3 chambered for 7.7mm, was also based on the Hotchkiss design.\n\nIn 1930 to 1935, the Republic of China bought 1,192 Hotchkiss Mle 1914 machine guns from France. The Chinese also copied this gun and used the German 7.92×57mm Mauser. After the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937, China ordered 1,300 more guns, but only 300 guns were delivered. It was also used during the Chinese Civil War.\n\nIn 1919–1920, Czechoslovakia bought 855 Mle 1914s from France and received another 89 from the Czechoslovak Legion in France. 985 Hotchkiss Mle 1914 machine guns were in service within the Czechoslovak Army at the end of 1920 and 929 were still recorded in 1938.\n\nPoland received its first Mle 1914 Hotchkiss machine guns together with the arrival of the Blue Army in 1919. During and after the Polish-Bolshevik War the Polish Army bought additional guns in France and by 1936 there were 2,620 guns in Polish service (used under the ckm wz. 14 - \"HMG Mk. 1914\"). In the mid-1920s the army ordered 1,250 guns of a slightly modified version rechambered to the standard 7.92×57mm Mauser calibre. However, the army found that the newly delivered machine guns, dubbed ckm wz.25 Hotchkiss were substandard: the barrel was prone to overheating and the accuracy was found to be too low.\n\nInstead of trying to renegotiate the contract with Hotchkiss, the Polish General Staff ordered large numbers of Ckm wz.30 machine guns instead and both 1914 and 1925 models of Hotchkiss were withdrawn from infantry service by 1936. Some were sold abroad; many were modified to arm the Renault FT tanks, TK-3 and TKS tankettes, and Samochód pancerny wz. 29 and wz. 34 armored cars. During the Invasion of Poland of 1939, the wz. 25 and wz. 14 machine guns were nevertheless used in combat by some Polish infantry units, notably the Border Defence Corps and National Defense.\n\nSpain bought the license of the Hotchkiss machine gun Model 1903, firing the 7×57mm Mauser ammunition. Adopted as the standard heavy machine gun of the Spanish Army, it was built at Oviedo. 2,000 were in service when the Civil War broke and they were widely used by the conflicting parties involved. This machine gun also saw action during the Ifni War in 1957-1958.\n\nHotchkiss machine guns firing 7 mm Mauser ammunition equipped both sides (government and rebels) during the Mexican Revolution (1911–1920). Furthermore, the Mle 1914 Hotchkiss in 8 mm Lebel was mounted in all French tanks and armored cars of World War I. Some examples of tanks that used the Mle 1914 Hotchkiss include the Schneider CA1, Saint-Chamond, Renault FT and Char 2C. Conversely, British tanks and armored cars were fitted with the distinctly different Mle 1909 light Hotchkiss (a.k.a. the \"Benét–Mercié\"). A recently published series of modern firing tests with vintage machine guns summarizes the Mle 1914 Hotchkiss as being: \"\"A heavy and rock-steady combination of gun and tripod, the world's first efficient air cooled machine gun is admirably reliable and accurate\"\" (Robert Bruce, 1997). These qualities provided the French military with an excuse to keep the Hotchkiss in active service far beyond its point of obsolescence and into World War II. The last recorded uses of the Hotchkiss by the French Army were in Indochina and Algeria, after World War II, to defend outposts in static positions. It is said to have been used by Communist forces in Korean and Vietnam Wars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876114", "title": "I Want to Break Free", "text": "I Want to Break Free\n\n\"I Want to Break Free\" is a song by the British rock band Queen, written by their bass guitarist John Deacon. It appears on the album \"The Works\" (1984), and was released in three versions: album, single and extended. It came to be included in most live concerts by the group, in several videos and in The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert where it was sung by Lisa Stansfield.\n\nThe song is largely known for its music video for which all the band members dressed in drag, a concept proposed by Roger Taylor, which parodied the long-running ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\". The second part of the video included a composition rehearsed and performed with the Royal Ballet and choreographed by Wayne Eagling. Whereas the parody was acclaimed in the United Kingdom where cross-dressing is a popular trope in British comedy, it was considered controversial in the United States.\n\nAfter its release in 1984, the song was well received in Europe and South America and is regarded as an anthem of the fight against oppression. The single reached only number 45 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, but reached number three in the UK and was certified silver with over 200,000 copies sold. It also topped the charts of Austria, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The song features on the band's compilation album, \"Greatest Hits II\".\n\nThe song was written in 1983 by John Deacon and released in April in 1984. The main idea of the song lies in its title, which is repeated through the text. A love theme is also present as the protagonist \"has fallen in love\", \"can't get over the way you love me like you do\" and \"doesn't want to live alone\". Most of the song follows the traditional 12 bar blues progression in E major. It has three verses with one bridge, no chorus and relatively little section repetition. There are three versions of the song: album, single and extended.\n\nThe album version is 3 minutes 20 seconds long. Its first 6 seconds repeat the basic rhythm played with the drums (Ludwig), an acoustic guitar (Gibson), a bass guitar (Fender) and an electric guitar (Fender Telecaster). This rhythm continues through most of the song, stopping only for its first line. The first verse ends at 0:37 and is followed by a very similar second verse, which is however shorter by one line. A stacked guitar accompaniment (Red Special) appears at the end of the second verse (1:03), and between 1:15 and 1:17 it is replaced by a synthesizer. A synthesizer solo starts at 1:33 and is assisted by a guitar. The last verse starts in the second minute, it additionally features a synthesizer and a Fender Stratocaster guitar. The song pauses at the final line \"I've got to break free\", followed by the fade out. This version was released on the album \"The Works\" and on some singles.\n\nThe regular single version lasts 4 minutes 21 seconds and differs from the album version by the 40-second introduction and a longer synthesizer solo which starts at 2:33. The introduction is played on an electronic keyboard and is assisted by cymbals, drums and a guitar (Red Special). For the the single introduction is added to the album version creating a 3 minutes 43 seconds edit.\n\nThe extended version lasts 7 minutes 16 seconds and features longer introduction and ending. It lasts until 6:04, and the remaining minute contains fragments of other songs from \"The Works\". The extended version was mostly distributed as 12-inch vinyl records and then reissued on the CD of \"The Works\" in 1991.\n\nBesides \"The Works\", the song was featured in the albums \"Greatest Hits II\", \"Box of Tricks\", \"Greatest Hits\" (1992 US 'Red' edition) and \"Absolute Greatest\" and in the box-sets \"The Complete Works\" and \"The Platinum Collection\".\n\nThe song became the second single from the album \"The Works\", after the song \"Radio Ga Ga\". The single was released on 2 April 1984 on 7-inch and 12-inch records and later as 3-inch and 5-inch CDs.\n\nThe 7-inch records were distributed in 16 countries. In most countries the other side of the disk contained the album version of the song \"Machines (or 'Back to Humans')\", in the US and Canada there was an instrumental version of this song, and in Brazil the other side featured the song \"It's a Hard Life\". The label also depended on the country: Capitol Records in the US and Canada, Toshiba EMI in Japan, and EMI in other countries. In UK, US, Portugal and South Africa several records of the song were sold at the same time, differing only by covers. There were special editions, such as a record with empty side B in UK. The song title Argentina song on was \"Quiero Ser Libre\".\n\nIn all countries except for US the A side contained the extended version of the song, side B featured \"Machines\" and the disk had EMI label. In the US, side B had either an instrumental version of \"Machines\" or the album version of \"I Want to Break Free\" and the label was from Capitol Records.\n\nThe single was also distributed on the 3-inch and 5-inch CDs. In the UK the 3-inch CD featured \"I Want to Break Free\" (album version), \"Machines\" and \"It's a Hard Life\" and had a Parlophone Records label. In Germany, the 5-inch CD had an EMI label and contained \"I Want to Break Free\" and \"It's a Hard Life\", as well as the video of \"I Want to Break Free\".\n\nSingle covers contained pictures of the group from the cover of the album \"The Works\". In countries where the single went in four different versions, each version had a picture of one Queen member, otherwise four images were placed together. The inscription \"Queen. I Want to Break Free\" was red, white, gold or black and the frame was red or white. The German 5-inch CD had the cover for the single of \"Radio Ga Ga\". The reverse side was the same – a photo of the group on a red background, except for CDs which had a white background and no pictures.\n\nThe single was received very positively over most of the world except for North America. In April 1984, it became number three in the United Kingdom, and was within the top 10 in many European and Latin American countries, but only peaked at number 45 on the US charts. The single was certified platinum in the UK. MTV and some other US stations' minimal airing of the video played a role in the low US ranking. The video was included in 1991 on VH1's \"My Generation\" two-part episode devoted to Queen hosted by guitarist Brian May. According to May in an interview about Queen's \"Greatest Hits\", whereas the video was understood and taken as a joke in the UK, the US audience failed to see the soap-opera connection and might have interpreted the video as an open declaration of transvestism and Mercury's bisexuality. According to Taylor, MTV \"was a very narrow-minded station then. It just seemed to be all fucking Whitesnake\". In Canada, the video was in regular rotation on MuchMusic, Canada's answer to MTV.\n\nIn some other countries, such as South Africa and in South America, the song was highly praised because it was seen as an anthem of the fight against oppression, whereas the reaction to the video was mixed. Illustrative in this regard was the live performance of the song in Rio de Janeiro in 1985. When Mercury appeared in front of an audience of 325,000 and started singing \"I Want to Break Free\", stones were thrown at him. He quickly realised that his female outfit was the reason and removed his wig and false breasts, which calmed down the audience. This incident puzzled and disappointed Mercury.\n\nAfter the release of \"The Works\", the song was performed at almost all of Queen's live concerts. Spike Edney usually played the synthesizer introduction, after which Mercury appeared on stage, often in the outfit worn in the video – dark bobbed wig, pink blouse and false breasts – which he would remove later during the song. Brian May played the guitar solo on his Red Special. Some lines were sung by the audience, and \"God knows\" was chanted by the whole group. Live recordings of the song appeared on the concert albums \"Live Magic\", \"Live at Wembley '86\" and \"Return of the Champions\". In addition, the song was performed at several concerts which were then included in Queen's videos such as \"Queen at Wembley\", \"\", \"The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert\" and \"Return of the Champions\".\n\nLisa Stansfield led the song in The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert. She appeared on stage dressed as a housewife with a vacuum cleaner, as in the original video. The song was also performed in many concerts of the project Queen + Paul Rodgers, where Paul Rodgers took vocals, Danny Miranda played the bass guitar and Spike Edney was at the keyboard.\n\nFollowing in the tradition of cross-dressing in British comedy, the music video for \"I Want to Break Free\" sees the members of Queen appear in a suburban house dressed as women, a parody of the characters from \"Coronation Street\". Mercury, as a housewife, vacuums the floor and sings the first verse. He opens a door leading to a dark space, where the group appear surrounded by figures wearing miner's helmets. Mercury dances to a glowing box and reappears with several dancers dressed in spotted leotards, and perform a dance. In the house, Mercury sings and goes upstairs. The group appear in the dark space again.\n\nThe video opens with a scene of typical British residential streets in the morning, intercut with shots of a teasmade waking Brian May's character up. The terraced houses are located in Leeds, in the neighbourhood Harehills. The roof of a terrace, most likely between \"Sandhurst Terrace\" and \"Dorset Rd\" can be seen in the opening shot. In the second scene the camera pans along a terrace and stops at the house where the action supposedly happens. It is located on \"41 Dorset Mount\" in real life and has a slightly different floor plan than the set used in the video. A part of the \"Dorset Mount\" street name plate can be seen on its wall just a second before Brian May gets out of bed.\n\nThe \"I Want To Break Free\" music video was directed by David Mallet. It was shot on 22 March and 4 May 1984 at Limehouse Studios and cost about £100,000.\n\nThe video spoofs the ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\", as proposed by Roger Taylor: \"We had done some really serious, epic videos in the past, and we just thought we'd have some fun. We wanted people to know that we didn't take ourselves too seriously, that we could still laugh at ourselves. I think we proved that.\"\n\nThe video depicts Mercury as a housewife, loosely based on Bet Lynch, who wants to \"break free\" from his life. Although Lynch was a blonde, Mercury thought he would look too silly as a blonde and chose a dark wig. He wears a black wig, pink earrings, pink blouse with a sizeable false breast under it, black leather miniskirt, knee-high and heeled shoes. During the trials Mercury realised that he could not walk freely in high-heeled shoes and settled on 2-inch ones. May plays another, more relaxed housewife based on Hilda Ogden. Deacon appears as a conservative \"grandma\", while Taylor plays a schoolgirl, who like Mercury wants a different life.\n\nThe composition was choreographed by Wayne Eagling, a friend of Mercury who had helped him with the choreography of the \"Bohemian Rhapsody\". Eagling was then a leader of the Royal Ballet which was involved in the video (one of the dancers was Jeremy Sheffield). Mercury shaved his moustache to portray Vaslav Nijinsky as a faun in the ballet \"L'après-midi d'un faune\". The shooting took much practice, especially the conveyor rolling part. According to Eagling, despite being a natural performer on stage, Mercury could not stand performing any choreographed act himself, which is why he was mostly picked up and moved around in the ballet part of the video. The rehearsals with the Royal Ballet were organised by Eagling secretly from his superiors, something that placed him in serious trouble when discovered later.\n\n\nStarting in July 2004, a remixed one-minute version of the song was featured in a Coca-Cola C2 video advertisement.\n\nIn 2017, the song featured in the third episode of the fourth series of the British television show \"Sherlock\", named \"The Final Problem\". As James Moriarty enters the island of Sherrinford, getting out of a helicopter, he is shown listening to the song.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876116", "title": "Ruinaulta", "text": "Ruinaulta\n\nRuinaulta is a canyon created by the Anterior Rhine between Ilanz/Glion and Reichenau in the debris of the Flims Rockslide just upstream of its confluence with the Posterior Rhine at Reichenau in the Grisons, eastern Switzerland. It is sometimes known as the \"Rhine Gorge\", or sometimes rather ironically called \"Swiss Grand Canyon\". Protected by cliffs several hundred metres high, the area is forested and a haven for wildlife. It is a popular location for rafting.\n\nThe gorge is largely inaccessible by road, but is traversed by the Disentis to Chur line of the Rhaetian Railway. It is accessible from the Valendas-Sagogn, Versam-Safien and Trin stations that lie within the gorge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876132", "title": "Hedemora Party", "text": "Hedemora Party\n\nHedemora Party () is a local political party in Hedemora, Sweden. It was founded in March 2002 by a group of former Social Democrats. The split was caused by the accusation that the local branch in Långshyttan controlled the entire party municipality, and thus the entire municipality. In municipal elections the same year the party got 474 votes (5.3%) and two seats in the municipal council. It got its strongest support in the centre of the municipality, and much less in surrounding areas such as Långshyttan, Vikmanshyttan and Dala-Husby.\n\nAfter the elections HP formed part of a six-party governing coalition, unseating decades of Social Democratic rule in the municipality. Coalition partners were Moderate Party, Centre Party, Christian Democrats, People's Party - Liberals and Green Party.\n\nIn the 2006 election, Hedemora Party lost support and got 191 votes (2.1%). They remain in the municipal council but with only one seat.\n"}
{"id": "1876141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876141", "title": "Exsultet", "text": "Exsultet\n\nThe Exsultet (spelled in pre-1920 editions of the Roman Missal as \"Exultet\") or Easter Proclamation, in Latin Praeconium Paschale, is a lengthy sung proclamation delivered before the paschal candle, ideally by a deacon, during the Easter Vigil in the Roman Rite of Mass. In the absence of a deacon, it may be sung by a priest or by a cantor. It is sung after a procession with the paschal candle before the beginning of the Liturgy of the Word. It is also used in Anglican and various Lutheran churches, as well as other Western Christian denominations.\n\nSince the 1955 revision of the Holy Week rites, the Roman Missal explicitly gives the title \"Praeconium\" to the \"Exsultet\", as it already did implicitly in the formula it provided for blessing the deacon before the chant: \"ut digne et competenter annunties suum Paschale praeconium\". Outside Rome, use of the paschal candle appears to have been a very ancient tradition in Italy, Gaul, Spain and, perhaps, from the reference by St. Augustine (De Civ. Dei, XV, xxii), in Africa. The \"Liber Pontificalis\" attributes to Pope Zosimus its introduction in the local church in Rome. The formula used for the \"Praeconium\" was not always the \"Exsultet\", though it is perhaps true to say that this formula has survived, where other contemporary formulae have disappeared. In the \"Liber Ordinum\", for instance, the formula is of the nature of a benediction, and the Gelasian Sacramentary has the prayer \"Deus mundi conditor\", not found elsewhere, but containing the remarkable \"praise of the bee\"—possibly a Vergilian reminiscence—which is found with more or less modification in all the texts of the \"Praeconium\" down to the present. The regularity of the metrical cursus of the Exsultet would lead us to place the date of its composition perhaps as early as the fifth century, and not later than the seventh. The earliest manuscript in which it appears are those of the three Gallican Sacramentaries: -- the Bobbio Missal (7th century), the Missale Gothicum and the Missale Gallicanum Vetus (both of the 8th century). The earliest manuscript of the Gregorian Sacramentary (Vat. Reg. 337) does not contain the Exsultet, but it was added in the supplement to what has been loosely called the Sacramentary of Adrian, and probably drawn up under the direction of Alcuin.\n\nAs it stands in the liturgy, it may be compared with two other forms, the blessing of palms on Palm Sunday, and the blessing of the baptismal font at the Easter Vigil. The order is, briefly:\n\nIn pre-1970 forms of the Roman Rite the deacon or, if there is no deacon, the priest himself, puts off his violet vestments and wears a white or gold dalmatic for the entry into the church with the paschal candle and the singing or recitation of the Exsultet, resuming the violet vestments immediately afterwards. In the later form, white vestments are worn throughout. The affixing, in the pre-1955 form of the Roman Rite, of five grains of incense at the words \"incensi hujus sacrificium\" was removed in Pope Pius XII's revision.\n\nThe chant is usually an elaborate form of the well-known recitative of the preface. In some uses a long bravura was introduced upon the word \"accendit\", to fill in the pause, which must otherwise occur while, in the pre-1955 form of the rite, the deacon is lighting the candle. In Italy the Praeconium was sung from long strips of parchment, gradually unrolled as the deacon proceeded. These \"Exsultet Rolls\" were decorated with illuminations and with the portraits of contemporary reigning sovereigns, whose names were mentioned in the course of the \"Praeconium\". The use of these rolls, as far as is known at present, was confined to Italy. The best examples date from the tenth and eleventh centuries.\n\nEnglish text\nExult, let them exult, the hosts of heaven,\nexult, let Angel ministers of God exult,\nlet the trumpet of salvation\nsound aloud our mighty King's triumph!\n\nBe glad, let earth be glad, as glory floods her,\nablaze with light from her eternal King,\nlet all corners of the earth be glad,\nknowing an end to gloom and darkness.\n\nRejoice, let Mother Church also rejoice,\narrayed with the lightning of his glory,\nlet this holy building shake with joy,\nfilled with the mighty voices of the peoples.\n\n(Therefore, dearest friends,\nstanding in the awesome glory of this holy light,\ninvoke with me, I ask you,\nthe mercy of God almighty,\nthat he, who has been pleased to number me,\nthough unworthy, among the Levites,\nmay pour into me his light unshadowed,\nthat I may sing this candle's perfect praises).\n\n(\"Deacon:\" The Lord be with you.\n\"People:\" And with your spirit.)\n\"Deacon:\" Lift up your hearts.\n\"People:\" We lift them up to the Lord. \n\"Deacon:\" Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.\n\"People:\" It is right and just. \n\nIt is truly right and just,\nwith ardent love of mind and heart\nand with devoted service of our voice,\nto acclaim our God invisible, the almighty Father,\nand Jesus Christ, our Lord, his Son, his Only Begotten.\n\nWho for our sake paid Adam's debt to the eternal Father,\nand, pouring out his own dear Blood,\nwiped clean the record of our ancient sinfulness.\n\nThese, then, are the feasts of Passover,\nin which is slain the Lamb, the one true Lamb,\nwhose Blood anoints the doorposts of believers.\n\nThis is the night,\nwhen once you led our forebears, Israel's children,\nfrom slavery in Egypt\nand made them pass dry-shod through the Red Sea.\n\nThis is the night\nthat with a pillar of fire\nbanished the darkness of sin.\n\nThis is the night\nthat even now throughout the world,\nsets Christian believers apart from worldly vices\nand from the gloom of sin,\nleading them to grace\nand joining them to his holy ones.\n\nThis is the night\nwhen Christ broke the prison-bars of death\nand rose victorious from the underworld.\n\nOur birth would have been no gain,\nhad we not been redeemed.\nO wonder of your humble care for us!\nO love, O charity beyond all telling,\nto ransom a slave you gave away your Son!\n\nO truly necessary sin of Adam,\ndestroyed completely by the Death of Christ!\n\nO happy fault\nthat earned for us so great, so glorious a Redeemer!\n\nO truly blessed night,\nworthy alone to know the time and hour\nwhen Christ rose from the underworld!\n\nThis is the night\nof which it is written:\nThe night shall be as bright as day,\ndazzling is the night for me,\nand full of gladness.\n\nThe sanctifying power of this night\ndispels wickedness, washes faults away,\nrestores innocence to the fallen, and joy to mourners,\ndrives out hatred, fosters concord, and brings down the mighty.\n\nOn this, your night of grace, O holy Father,\naccept this candle, a solemn offering,\nthe work of bees and of your servants' hands,\nan evening sacrifice of praise,\nthis gift from your most holy Church.\n\nBut now we know the praises of this pillar,\nwhich glowing fire ignites for God's honour,\na fire into many flames divided,\nyet never dimmed by sharing of its light,\nfor it is fed by melting wax,\ndrawn out by mother bees\nto build a torch so precious.\n\nO truly blessed night,\nwhen things of heaven are wed to those of earth,\nand divine to the human.\n\nTherefore, O Lord,\nwe pray you that this candle,\nhallowed to the honour of your name,\nmay persevere undimmed,\nto overcome the darkness of this night.\nReceive it as a pleasing fragrance,\nand let it mingle with the lights of heaven.\nMay this flame be found still burning\nby the Morning Star:\nthe one Morning Star who never sets,\nChrist your Son,\nwho, coming back from death's domain,\nhas shed his peaceful light on humanity,\nand lives and reigns for ever and ever. \nAmen.\nLatin text\nExsúltet iam angélica turba cælórum:\nexsúltent divína mystéria:\net pro tanti Regis victória tuba ínsonet salutáris.\n\nGáudeat et tellus, tantis irradiáta fulgóribus:\net ætérni Regis splendóre illustráta,\ntótius orbis se séntiat amisísse calíginem.\n\nLætétur et mater Ecclésia,\ntanti lúminis adornáta fulgóribus:\net magnis populórum vócibus hæc aula resúltet.\n\n[Quaprópter astántes vos, fratres caríssimi,\nad tam miram huius sancti lúminis claritátem,\nuna mecum, quæso,\nDei omnipoténtis misericórdiam invocáte.\nUt, qui me non meis méritis\nintra Levitárum númerum dignátus est aggregáre,\nlúminis sui claritátem infúndens,\ncérei huius laudem implére perfíciat.]\n\n[\"V/\" Dóminus vobíscum.\n\"R/\" Et cum spíritu tuo.]\n\"V/\" Sursum corda.\n\"R/\" Habémus ad Dóminum.\n\"V/\" Grátias agámus Dómino Deo nostro.\n\"R/\" Dignum et iustum est.\n\nVere dignum et iustum est,\ninvisíbilem Deum Patrem omnipoténtem\nFiliúmque eius unigénitum,\nDóminum nostrum Iesum Christum,\ntoto cordis ac mentis afféctu et vocis ministério personáre.\n\nQui pro nobis ætérno Patri Adæ débitum solvit,\net véteris piáculi cautiónem pio cruóre detérsit.\n\nHæc sunt enim festa paschália,\nin quibus verus ille Agnus occíditur,\ncuius sánguine postes fidélium consecrántur.\n\nHæc nox est,\nin qua primum patres nostros, fílios Israel\nedúctos de Ægypto,\nMare Rubrum sicco vestígio transíre fecísti.\n\nHæc ígitur nox est,\nquæ peccatórum ténebras colúmnæ illuminatióne purgávit.\n\nHæc nox est,\nquæ hódie per univérsum mundum in Christo credéntes,\na vítiis sæculi et calígine peccatórum segregátos,\nreddit grátiæ, sóciat sanctitáti.\nHæc nox est,\nin qua, destrúctis vínculis mortis,\nChristus ab ínferis victor ascéndit.\n\nNihil enim nobis nasci prófuit,\nnisi rédimi profuísset.\nO mira circa nos tuæ pietátis dignátio!\nO inæstimábilis diléctio caritátis:\nut servum redímeres, Fílium tradidísti!\n\nO certe necessárium Adæ peccátum,\nquod Christi morte delétum est!\n\nO felix culpa,\nquæ talem ac tantum méruit habére Redemptórem!\n\nO vere beáta nox,\nquæ sola méruit scire tempus et horam,\nin qua Christus ab ínferis resurréxit!\n\nHæc nox est, de qua scriptum est:\nEt nox sicut dies illuminábitur:\net nox illuminátio mea in delíciis meis.\n\nHuius ígitur sanctificátio noctis fugat scélera, culpas lavat:\net reddit innocéntiam lapsis et mæstis lætítiam.\nFugat ódia, concórdiam parat et curvat impéria.\n\nIn huius ígitur noctis grátia, súscipe, sancte Pater,\nlaudis huius sacrifícium vespertínum,\nquod tibi in hac cérei oblatióne solémni,\nper ministrórum manus\nde opéribus apum, sacrosáncta reddit Ecclésia.\n\nSed iam colúmnæ huius præcónia nóvimus,\nquam in honórem Dei rútilans ignis accéndit.\nQui, lícet sit divísus in partes,\nmutuáti tamen lúminis detrimenta non novit.\n\nAlitur enim liquántibus ceris,\nquas in substántiam pretiósæ huius lámpadis\napis mater edúxit.\n\nO vere beáta nox,\nin qua terrénis cæléstia, humánis divína iungúntur!\n\nOrámus ergo te, Dómine,\nut céreus iste in honórem tui nóminis consecrátus,\nad noctis huius calíginem destruéndam,\nindefíciens persevéret.\nEt in odórem suavitátis accéptus,\nsupérnis lumináribus misceátur.\n\nFlammas eius lúcifer matutínus invéniat:\nille, inquam, lúcifer, qui nescit occásum.\nChristus Fílius tuus,\nqui, regréssus ab ínferis, humáno géneri serénus illúxit,\net vivit et regnat in sæcula sæculórum.\n\n\"R/\" Amen.\n\nUntil 1955, the Exsultet ended with a long prayer for the (Holy Roman) Emperor: \n\nOnly the head of the Holy Roman Empire could be prayed for with this formula, and the resignation in 1806 of the last emperor, Francis II of Austria, the prayer was in practice not used. The prayer now ended with the immediately preceding petition, for the members of the Church:\n\nAfter Pope Pius IX's \"Imperii Galliarum\" of 10 September 1857, Emperor Napoleon III of France would be prayed for from 1858 to 1870, not by adding \"necnon gloriosissimo Imperatore nostro N.\" to this ending, which became:\n\nIn 1955 Pope Pius XII added a phrase to the prayer for the members of the Church and definitively removed the prayer for the Holy Roman Emperor, replacing it with a generic prayer for the civil authorities inspired by the prayer for the Emperor:\n\nThis was removed in the 1970 revision, but remains in use in the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite, ending with the formula:\n\nThe following is an example of an Anglican text of the Exsultet, taken from the \"Book of Common Prayer\" of the Episcopal Church in the United States. The paschal candle is placed in its stand. Then the deacon, or other person appointed, standing near the candle, sings or says the Exsultet, as follows (the sections in brackets may be omitted):\n\nRejoice now, heavenly hosts and choirs of angels, \nand let your trumpets shout Salvation \nfor the victory of our mighty King.\n\nRejoice and sing now, all the round earth, \nbright with a glorious splendor, \nfor darkness has been vanquished by our eternal King.\n\nRejoice and be glad now, Mother Church, \nand let your holy courts, in radiant light, \nresound with the praises of your people.\n\n(All you who stand near this marvelous and holy flame, \npray with me to God the Almighty \nfor the grace to sing the worthy praise of this great light; \nthrough Jesus Christ his Son our Lord,\nwho lives and reigns with him, \nin the unity of the Holy Spirit, \none God, for ever and ever. Amen.)\n\nDeacon: The Lord be with you.\n\nAnswer: And also with you.\n\nDeacon: Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.\n\nAnswer: It is right to give him thanks and praise.\n\nDeacon:\nIt is truly right and good, always and everywhere, with our whole heart and mind and voice, to praise you, the invisible,\nalmighty, and eternal God, and your only-begotten Son,\nJesus Christ our Lord; for he is the true Paschal Lamb, who\nat the feast of the Passover paid for us the debt of Adam's sin,\nand by his blood delivered your faithful people.\n\nThis is the night, when you brought our fathers, the children\nof Israel, out of bondage in Egypt, and led them through the\nRed Sea on dry land.\n\nThis is the night, when all who believe in Christ are delivered\nfrom the gloom of sin, and are restored to grace and holiness\nof life.\n\nThis is the night, when Christ broke the bonds of death and hell, \nand rose victorious from the grave.\n\n(How wonderful and beyond our knowing, O God, is your\nmercy and loving-kindness to us, that to redeem a slave, you\ngave a Son.\n\nHow holy is this night, when wickedness is put to flight, and\nsin is washed away. It restores innocence to the fallen, and joy\nto those who mourn. It casts out pride and hatred, and brings\npeace and concord.\n\nHow blessed is this night, when earth and heaven are joined\nand man is reconciled to God.)\n\nHoly Father, accept our evening sacrifice, the offering of this\ncandle in your honor. May it shine continually to drive away\nall darkness. May Christ, the Morning Star who knows no\nsetting, find it ever burning—he who gives his light to all\ncreation, and who lives and reigns for ever and ever. Amen.\n\nIt is customary that the Paschal Candle burn at all services from\nEaster Day through the Day of Pentecost.\n\nThe following is an example form of the Lutheran Exsultet, taken from the \"Lutheran Service Book\". This version, or a similar translation, may be used in various Lutheran denominations.\n\n[After the candle bearer places the paschal candle in its stand, the cantor, deacon, or assisting minister turns to face the people and chants the Exsultet.]\n\n[The following exchange between the presiding pastor and the congregation takes place.]\n\n[The presiding pastor then chants or speaks the conclusion of the Exsultet.]\n\nThe version authorized by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and published in \"Evangelical Lutheran Worship\" (2006) retains the wording about the candle and the bees:\n\nThe text of the Easter Proclamation contained in \"The United Methodist Book of Worship\" is chanted by a deacon after the procession into the church with the Paschal Candle:\n\n"}
{"id": "1876144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876144", "title": "Authority Zero", "text": "Authority Zero\n\nAuthority Zero is an American punk rock band from Mesa, Arizona formed in 1994. The band's style is rooted in reggae and skate punk, with Spanish/Portuguese influences. They have released seven albums to date,two DVDs and nine singles. The band regularly tours North America, Europe and Japan.\n\nAuthority Zero was started in 1994 and consisted of two guitarists Bill Marcks, Jerry Douglas (also performing vocals) and drummer J.W. Gordon, all from Westwood High School. This trio put a few songs together without lyrics or basslines until the summer of 1995. When that summer rolled around, Douglas was expecting the yearly visit of his friend Jason DeVore, from Wyoming. Douglas introduced his long-time friend to Marcks who asked if he wanted to be their singer.\n\nMarcks was impressed with DeVore's ability to \"write catchy songs in fifteen minutes with really sticky hooks\". The two quickly enlisted Jeremy Wood on bass, who actually taught Marcks and Douglas how to play the guitar. His experience with lead guitar and musical theory separated his bass playing from others'. Not just a \"follow along,\" his baselines were independent and yet fluid with the music. However, because of Gordon's commitment to the air force, his position as drummer soon had to be replaced. Classmate, skateboarder, and drummer Daniel Garcia fit this empty stool like a missing puzzle piece. He brought a new charge and tempo that evolved Authority Zero's music into a faster, more complex, punk rock style. Eventually, however, differences and family obligations led to Garcia's exit from the group.\n\nMarcks, Douglas, DeVore, and Wood finally came upon Los Angeles native Jim Wilcox formerly of Welter/The New Militia and he completed the Authority Zero's lineup. Douglas also left the group and joined the air force.\n\nAfter releasing a local EP that sold very well, Authority Zero released their debut album \"A Passage In Time\" in 2002 on Lava Records. The album featured a blend of genres including punk rock and reggae, with obvious Spanish and Portuguese influences. \"A Passage In Time\" included the hits \"One More Minute\" and \"Over Seasons\".\n\nThe success of \"A Passage In Time\" propelled the band into new popularity. Authority Zero appeared on many tours, such as Warped Tour, the No Use for a Name/The Starting Line tour, and Sum 41's \"Sum on Your Face\". The band has also toured with the likes of Everclear, Guttermouth and H2O.\n\nIn 2004, Authority Zero released \"Andiamo\", again on Lava Records. \"Andiamo\" means literally \"We go\" in Italian, but can also be read as \"And I am Zero\", the title of their live DVD released following \"Andiamo\". The album again featured a blend of genres and Spanish/Portuguese influences. \"Andiamo\" is somewhat politically charged, evident in the songs \"Revolution\", \"A Thousand Years of War\", and the cover of the song \"Mexican Radio\", originally written by Wall of Voodoo (the version that appears on \"Andiamo\" has lyric changes in order to make a statement against the 2003 invasion of Iraq). In the summer of 2006, Authority Zero released a live acoustic compilation album titled Rhythm and Booze on Suburban Noize Records.\n\nThe band's next album, entitled \"12:34\" was released on January 30, 2007. The track \"Courage\" was released as a single. The band toured with Rehab on the \"Lack of Luxury\" 2007 tour.\n\nOn December 30, 2008, Bill Marcks left the band to spend more time with his family. Bill Marcks currently plays guitar in the band Cero Viejo with former Authority Zero bassist Jeremy Wood.\n\nAuthority Zero released its fourth studio album titled \"Stories of Survival\" on June 22, 2010, and is currently managed by Hardline Entertainment.\n\nAuthority Zero set out in 2011 on the \"Swan\" tour in support of a new album by Unwritten Law. According to sources within the band, they parted ways with Zach Vogel. He was replaced, by Brandon Landelius, a guitar player from The Mag Seven\n\nAuthority Zero's veteran drummer Jim Wilcox left the band in January 2012 to focus on Blue Collar Prophet his D.J. outfit.\n\nOn March 1, 2012, the band announced Sean Sellers of Good Riddance and The Real McKenzies would be their full-time replacement behind the drums.\n\nAuthority Zero has finished recording their new album, titled \"The Tipping Point\", due for release on April 2, 2013, on Hardline Entertainment.\n\nOn Tuesday March 5, 2013 Jeremy Wood has announced (via Facebook) that he has stepped down as bassist for the band again, citing personal differences, and the urge to spend more time with family, as well as explore his roots in the local music scene. Jeremy Wood now plays bass with his new band Cero Viejo ('Old Zero' in Spanish) with former Authority Zero guitarist Bill Marcks. \n\nDuring the band's March 7 listening party with Phoenix area online radio station KUKQ, Jason DeVore announced that Mike Spero will be taking over on bass full-time for the band.\n\nThe band released their latest album \"The Tipping Point\" April 2, 2013. Authority Zero embarked on a European tour April 4, starting with dates in Russia before playing more conventional Europe dates.\n\nIn May 2015 the band recorded a live record as a 20th anniversary event at Club Red in Mesa, AZ. The band included songs that spanned over the length of its 20-year history. It will be the band's first full band live album.\n\nOn July 21 while headlining The Summer Sickness tour with CounterPunch and Rubedo, Authority Zero's tour van and trailer were stolen in San Antonio, Texas. The van and trailer were recovered a few days later, but was damaged and the trailer had been emptied- more than $50,000 dollars of music equipment and merchandise was stolen. Authority Zero pushed on and decided to finish the tour with help from CounterPunch lending them their gear.\n\nDuring 2015 updates from DeVore seem to hint at a new Authority Zero record. On his Instagram he has included pictures of the band in a rehearsal space demoing songs, and writing.\n\nAfter joining the band in 2011, Brandon Landelius announced on Nov. 4, 2015 that following the Canadian tour he will no longer be continuing with the band.\n\nOn December 2, 2016, the band announced on their Facebook page that they have entered the Blasting Room to complete their sixth record. In April 2017, album art and title, \"Broadcasting to the Nations,\" was announced on the official Authority Zero website. Along with the release of the album art, the band released the first single \"Bayside.\" Then on June 2, 2017, it was officially released.\n\nCurrent members\n\nFormer members\n\nTimeline\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876145", "title": "Roorback", "text": "Roorback\n\nRoorback is the ninth studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released in 2003, through SPV Records.\n\nThe songs \"Mind War\" and \"Bullet the Blue Sky\" were released as singles and music videos. The digipak version (released everywhere except the United States) contains the \"Revolusongs\" EP and the video for \"Bullet the Blue Sky\". The album title refers to the \"Roorback forgery\".\n\nSales were down from their previous albums featuring Derrick Green on vocals. However, \"Roorback\" received positive reviews and managed to place on \"Billboard\"s Independent Music Chart at #17, with first week sales of 4,000. SoundScan reported on March 20, 2007 that \"Roorback\" has sold over 75,000 units worldwide.\n\nAllmusic's Alex Henderson gave the album 4 stars out of 5 and said that \"unrest and political corruption are recurring themes on \"Roorback\"\", and \"the songs that Sepultura wrote paint a consistently bleak and troubling picture of the world\". Adrien Begrand from PopMatters called \"Roorback\" \"their strongest effort in years\" and \"their most consistent and energized album since \"Roots\"\".\n\nOn the digipack CD version, Outro ends at 1:22. There is silence from 1:23 - 8:22. Starting at 8:23 is a hidden track.\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1876147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876147", "title": "Military history of India", "text": "Military history of India\n\nThe predecessors to the contemporary Army of India were many: the sepoy regiments, native cavalry, irregular horse and Indian sapper and miner companies raised by the three British presidencies. The Army of India was raised under the British Raj in the 19th century by taking the erstwhile presidency armies, merging them, and bringing them under the Crown. The British Indian Army fought in both World Wars.\n\nThe armed forces succeeded the following India's independence in 1947. After World War II, many of the wartime troops were discharged and units disbanded. The reduced armed forces were partitioned between India and Pakistan. The Indian armed forces fought in all three wars against Pakistan and a war with the People's Republic of China. India also fought in the Kargil War with Pakistan in 1999, the highest altitude mountain warfare in history. The Indian Armed Forces have participated in several United Nations peacekeeping operations and are presently the second largest contributor of troops to the peacekeeping force.\n\nFortified towns have been excavated from Indus Valley Civilisation with thick and tall walls. Banawali is among the earliest sites in the world where moats have been discovered. These forts also feature square and round bastion and contain a citadel constructed at an elevated height. Sites such as Mohenjo Daro and Dholavira exhibit some outstanding examples of Bronze Age Indian fortifications with their thick tall walls, with the walls made of burned bricks at some places solid mud-brick embankment have been discovered which run for twenty five feet (7.5 meters) without reaching the bottom. Sites such as Desalpar, Dholavira's have yielded massive stone fortifications and the acropolis is extensively fortified with tall standing walls and furnished with ramparts and gateways.\n\nAn excavation at Sinauli's necropolis has yielded copper swords, helmets and chariots, dating from 2000-1800 BC, which suggests the presence of a warrior class of people in the region during the Copper-Bronze Age (3300 BC–1200 BC).\n\nAn Indus seal depicting a soldier firing a composite bow was unearthed in Shortugai, Afghanistan, which indicates that Indus people were already familiar with it long before they were depicted in ancient Indian reliefs. Another copper seal from Mohenjo Daro shows a horned hunter holding a composite bow.\nThe Rigvedic tribes of Indo-Aryans were led by their kings (\"raja\") and engaged in wars with each other and other tribes. They used bronze weapons and horse-drawn spoke-wheeled chariots described prominently in the Rigveda. The main share from the booty obtained during cattle raids and battles went to the chief of the tribe. The warriors belonged to the Kshatriya varna.\n\nThe Vedas and other associated texts dating to the post-Rigvedic (Iron Age) Vedic period (ca. 1100–500 BC) contain the earliest written references to armies in India. The earliest known application of war elephants dates to this period; the animals are mentioned in several Vedic Sanskrit hymns.\n\nThe two great epics of India, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, center on conflicts between the emerging Mahajanapadas and refer to military formations, theories of warfare and esoteric weaponry. They discuss standing armies that used in war chariots, war elephants and even flying machines. The Ramayana describes in great detail the fortifications of Ayodhya. The Mahabharata describes various military techniques such as Chakravyuha used in the Kurukshetra War.\n\nThe expansionist King Bimbisara conquered Anga in what is now West Bengal and strengthened the military of Magadh's capital, Rajagriha. Ajatashatru built a new fort at Pataliputra, Magadh's new capital, to launch an attack on Licchavis across the Ganges River. Jain texts tell that he used two new weapons; catapults and a covered chariot with swinging mace that has been compared to modern tanks.\n\nThe Nanda dynasty originated from the region of Magadha in ancient India during the 4th century BC. At its greatest extent, the empire ruled by the Nanda Dynasty extended from Bengal in the east, to Punjab in the west and as far south as the Vindhya Range.\n\nIn 327 BC Alexander the Great began his foray into Punjab. King Ambhi, ruler of Taxila, surrendered the city to Alexander. Alexander fought an epic battle against the Indian king Porus in the Battle of Hydaspes (326). After winning, Alexander decided to turn back and end his campaign due to pressure from his generals and troops who were tired and fatigued because of constant battle.\n\nAccording to Megasthenes, who served as an ambassador from the Seleucid Empire, Chandragupta Maurya built an army consisting of 30,000 cavalry, 9,000 war elephants, and 600,000 infantry. Chandragupta conquered much of Indian subcontinent, establishing an empire from the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal. He then defeated the Seleucid Empire of Greece under Seleucus I Nicator to conquer the regions to the west of the Indus River. He then turned south, taking over much of what is now Central India. His military was administered by six chairs, one for each of the four arms of the army (infantry, cavalry, elephants, and chariots), one chair for the navy, and one for logistics and supply.\n\nInfantry at this time was most commonly armed with a longbow made of bamboo and a single- or double-handed broadsword probably similar to the khanda. Other foot soldiers could be armed with a large animal hide tower shield and a spear or javelins. Cavalry carried spears. Elephants were mounted, sometimes allegedly with howdahs, which may be an Indian invention by archers or javelin throwers, with a mahout around the animal's neck. Chariots by this time were in definite decline, but remained in the army due to their prestige.\n\nIn 185 BCE, the last Mauryan ruler was assassinated by Pushyamitra Shunga, the Commander-in-Chief of the Mauryan armed forces.\n\nWar and conflict characterized the Shunga period. They are known to have warred with the Kalingas, Satavahanas, the Indo-Greeks, and possibly the Panchalas and Mathuras.\n\nExtent of the Shunga Empire's wars with the Indo-Greek Kingdom figure greatly in the history of this period. From around 180 BCE the Indo-Greek ruler Demetrius I of Bactria conquered the Kabul Valley and is theorized to have advanced into the trans-Indus. The Indo-Greek Menander I is credited with either joining or leading a campaign to Pataliputra with other Indian rulers; however, very little is known about the exact nature and success of the campaign. The net result of these wars remains uncertain.\n\nPushyamitra is recorded to have performed two Ashvamedha Yagnas and Shunga imperial inscriptions have extended as far as Jalandhar. Scriptures such as the Divyavadhana note that his rule extended even farther to Sialkot, in the Punjab. Moreover, if it was lost, Mathura was regained by the Shungas around 100 BCE (or by other indigenous rulers: the Arjunayanas (area of Mathura) and Yaudheyas mention military victories on their coins (\"Victory of the Arjunayanas\", \"Victory of the Yaudheyas\"), and during the 1st century BCE, the Trigartas, Audumbaras and finally the Kunindas also started to mint their own coins). Accounts of battles between the Greeks and the Shunga in Northwestern India are also found in the Mālavikāgnimitram, a play by Kālidāsa which describes a battle between Greek cavalrymen and Vasumitra, the grandson of Pushyamitra, on the Indus river, in which the Indians defeated the Greeks and Pushyamitra successfully completed the Ashvamedha Yagna.\n\nThe Indo-Greeks and the Shungas seem to have reconciled and exchanged diplomatic missions around 110 BCE, as indicated by the Heliodorus pillar, which records the dispatch of a Greek ambassador named Heliodorus, from the court of the Indo-Greek king Antialcidas, to the court of the Shunga emperor Bhagabhadra at the site of Vidisha in central India.\n\nClassical Indian texts on archery in particular and martial arts in general are known as Dhanurveda. Several classics of the genre date from this period.\n\nAccording to some interpretations of the Puranas, the Satavahana family belonged to the Andhra-jati (\"tribe\") and was the first Deccanese dynasty to build an empire in daksinapatha (southern region). The Satavahanas (also called Andhra and Shalivahan) rose to power in modern Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra around 200 BCE and remained in power for about 400 years. Almost the whole of present-day Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Goa, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh came under Satavahana rule. Their first capital was Koti Lingala, as well as Paithan, then called Pratishthan.\n\nSimuka, the dynasty's founder, conquered Maharashtra, Malwa and part of Madhya Pradesh. His successor and brother Kanha (or Krishna) further extended his kingdom to the west and the south. He was succeeded by Satakarni I, who defeated the Shunga dynasty of North India. His successor, Gautamiputra Satakarni, defeated the invading Indo-Scythians, Indo-Parthians and Indo-Greeks. His empire extended up to Banavasi in the south, and included Maharashtra, Konkan, Saurashtra, Malwa, west Rajasthan and Vidharbha. Later, Satavahana rulers lost some of these territories. Satavahana power revived briefly under Yajna Sri Satakarni but declined after his death.\n\nThe Mahameghavahana dynasty was an ancient ruling dynasty of Kalinga after the decline of the Mauryan Empire. The third ruler of the dynasty, Khārabēḷa, conquered much of India in a series of campaigns at the beginning of the common era. Kaḷingan military might was reinstated by Khārabēḷa. Under Khārabēḷa's generalship, the Kaḷinga state had a formidable maritime reach with trade routes linking it to the then-Simhala (Sri Lanka), Burma (Myanmar), Siam (Thailand), Vietnam, Kamboja (Cambodia), Borneo, Bali, Samudra (Sumatra) and Yawadvipa (Java). Khārabēḷa led many successful campaigns against states of Magadha, Anga, Satavahanas and the South Indian regions of Pandyan Empire (modern Andhra Pradesh) and expanded Kaḷinga as far as the Ganges and the Kaveri.\n\nThe Kharavelan state had a formidable maritime empire with trading routes linking it to Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Borneo, Bali, Sumatra and Java. Colonists from Kalinga settled in Sri Lanka, Burma, as well as the Maldives and Maritime Southeast Asia. Even today Indians are referred to as Keling in Malaysia because of this.\n\nThe main source of information about Khārabeḷa is his famous seventeen line rock-cut Hātigumphā inscription in a cave in the Udayagiri hills near Bhubaneswar, Odisha. According to the inscription, he attacked Rajagriha in Magadha, thus defeating the Indo-Greek king Demetrius I of Bactria to retreat to Mathura.\n\n\"Siva-Dhanur-veda\" discusses the military of the Gupta Empire. The Guptas relied heavily on armoured war elephants; horses were used little if at all. The use of chariots had declined heavily by the time of the Guptas, as they had not proved very useful against the Greeks, Scythians, and other invaders. Guptas utilised heavy cavalry clad in mail armour and equipped with maces and lances, who would have used shock action to break the enemy line. They also employed infantry archers. Their longbow was composed of bamboo or metal and fired a long bamboo cane arrow with a metal head; iron shafts were used against armoured elephants. They also sometimes used fire arrows. Archers were frequently protected by infantry equipped with shields, javelins, and longswords. The Guptas also maintained a navy, allowing them to control regional waters.\nSamudragupta seized the kingdoms of Ahichchhatra and Padmavati early in his reign. Later, he took the Kota kingdom and attacked the tribes in Malvas, the Yaudheyas, the Arjunayanas, the Maduras and the Abhiras. He also subjugated the remnants of the Kushan Empire. By his death in 380, he had conquered over twenty kingdoms.\n\n4th century CE Sanskrit poet Kalidasa, credits Chandragupta II with having conquered about twenty one kingdoms, both in and outside India. After finishing his campaign in the East and West India, he proceeded northwards, subjugated the Parasikas, then the Hunas and the Kambojas tribes located in the west and east Oxus valleys respectively. of the Indian subcontinent; the Gupta empire was the most powerful empire in the world during his reign, at a time when the Roman Empire in the west was in decline.\n\nSkandagupta faced with invading Indo-Hephthalites or White Huns, from the northwest. Skandagupta had warred against the Huns during the reign of his father, and was celebrated throughout the empire as a great warrior. He crushed the Huns invasion in 455, and managed to keep them at bay; however, the expense of the wars drained the empire's resources and contributed to its decline\n\nEmperor Harsha (606–647) ruled the Empire of Harsha covering northern India for over forty years. His father, a king of Thanesar, had gained prominence by successful wars against the Huns. Harsha had plans to conquer the whole of India, and carried on wars for thirty years with considerable success. By 612 he had built up a vast army with which he conquered nearly all North India up to the Narmada river. In 620 he invaded the Deccan Plateau but was repelled by Pulakeshin II.\n\nIn South India, the Chalukyas and the Pallavas gained prominence. The Chalukya ruler Pulakeshin II's expansionism started with minor campaigns against the Alupas, Gangas and others. He defeated the Pallava king Mahendravarman and conquered the Cheras and the Pandyas. His greatest military success, the defeat of Harshavardhana (also known as Harsha), depleted his treasury, forcing him to end his expansionist campaigns.\n\nThe Pallava king Narasimhavarman vowed to avenge Mahendravarman's defeat by Pulakeshin II. He invaded Vatapi with an army headed by his general Paranjothi. He defeated the Chalukyas, killing Pulakeshin II in 642. Clashes between the Chalukyas and the Pallavas continued for a century, until the Chalukya king Vikramaditya II won a decisive victory against the Pallavas in 740. The Rashtrakutas overthrew the Chalukya empire in 750. During the 970s, Tailapa II overthrew the Rashtrakutas and recovered most of the Chalukya Empire, except for Gujarat. The Chalukyas of this period are known as the Kalyani Chalukyas, as Kalyani was their capital. They clashed intermittently with the Cholas.\n\nThe Cholas were the first rulers of the Indian subcontinent to maintain a navy and use it to expand their dominion overseas. Vijayalaya Chola defeated the Pallavas and captured Thanjavur. In the early 10th century the Chola king Parantaka I defeated the Pandyan king Maravarman Rajasimha II and invaded Sri Lanka. The Rashtrakuta ruler Krishna III defeated and killed Parantaka I's son Rajaditya in about 949.\n\nUttama Chola reigned 970–85. Inscriptions tell that at least from his time, Chola warriors wore waist coats of armour. Hence, one regiment was called \"Niyayam-Uttama-Chola-tterinda-andalakattalar\". Paluvettaraiyar Maravan Kandanar served as a general under Uttama and his predecessor, Sundara.\n\nRajaraja Chola began his military career with the conquest of the Cheras in the Kandalur War. He captured the Pandya ruler Amara Bhujanga, the town of Vizhinjam, and a part of Sri Lanka. In the 14th year of his reign (998–999) he conquered the Gangas of Mysore, the Nolambas of Bellary and Eastern Mysore, Tadigaipadi, Vengi, Coorg, the Pandyas and the Chalukyas of the Deccan. During the next three years, he subdued Quilon and the northern kingdom of Kalinga with the help of his son Rajendra Chola I. Rajendra later completed the conquest of Sri Lanka, crossed the Ganges, and marched across Kalinga to Bengal. He sent out a great naval expedition that occupied parts of Java, Malaya, and Sumatra. The Cholas were brought down by the Hoysalas from the west and Pandyas from the south.\n\nThe Arab scholar Sulaiman described the Emperor of the Rashtrakuta dynasty as one of the 4 great Kings of the World in the 9th century.\nIn middle of 9th century, the Palas under Devapala attacked the Gurjara-Pratiharas. Led by Mihir Bhoja, the Pratiharas and their allies defeated Narayan Pala.\n\nThere were many battles between the Gurjar Pratiharas under Bhoj and the Rashtrakutas under Krishna II with mixed results. When the Rashtrakuta king Indra III attacked Kanauj, Mahipala I, Mihir Bhoj's successor, fled; he later returned.\n\nAl-Masudi wrote that in 915, during Mahipala's rule, the Pratiharas were at war with the Muslims in the west and the Rashtrakutas in the south, and that the Gurjar Pratiharas had four armies of about 80,000 men each.\n\nIn 712, an Arab general, named Muhammad bin Qasim Al-Thaqafi (Arabic: محمد بن قاسم) (c. 31 December 695 – 18 July 715), attacked and conquered Sindh kingdom which is mainly situated in Indus valley area (after partition, now in modern-day Pakistan); by the time Sindh was ruled by Raja Dahir of Rai Dynasty and this dynasty was at war with Arabs. Though they defeated several Arab invasions before 712 CE, this time being deprived of local Buddhist people's support, Sindh was captured and the first step of Islamic foundation in India was created. Chach Nama (), written by Kàzí Ismáíl briefly discusses the events. However, the south Indian Emperor Vikramaditya II of the Chalukya dynasty and the Pratiharas defeated the Arabs during the Caliphate campaigns in India(738 CE) when they tried to move eastward.\n\nIndian inscriptions confirm this invasion but record the Arab success only against the smaller states in Gujarat. They also record the defeat of the Arabs at two places. The southern army moving south into Gujarat was defeated at Navsari by the south Indian Emperor Vikramaditya II of the Chalukya dynasty who sent his general Pulakeshin to defeat the Arabs. [2] The army that went east, reached Avanti whose ruler Gurjara Pratihara [3] Nagabhata I utterly defeated the invaders. Arab forces failed to make any substantial gains in India and in the Caliphate campaigns in India (730 CE), their army was severely defeated by the Indian kings. As a result, Arabs' territory got restricted to Sindh in modern Pakistan.\n\nIn the early 11th century, Mahmud of Ghazni conquered the Rajput Hindu Shahi kingdom in the North-west frontier in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and his raids into northern India weakened the Pratihara kingdom, which was drastically reduced in size and came under the control of the Chandelas. Mahmud sacked some temples across northern India, including the temple at Somnath in Gujarat, but his permanent conquests were limited to the Punjab. The early 11th century also saw the reign of the polymath king Raja Bhoj, the Paramara ruler of Malwa.\n\nThe Delhi Sultanate, under the Khalji dynasty, repelled several invasions by the Mongol Empire. Zafar Khan, a general serving Alauddin Khalji, defeated the Mongols near Jalandhar in 1297. In 1299, Zafar Khan fought back a Mongol army of 200,000 soldiers but was killed in the process. Its last sultan, Ibrahim Lodi, died fighting the forces of Babur in the first battle of Panipat in 1526, ending the sultanate and paving the way for the foundation of the Mughal Empire\n\nAfter Babur's victory over Ibrahim Lodi, the Mewar ruler Rana Sanga led a combined Rajput army of 20,000 intending to defeat Babur and capture Delhi. The Mughals had superior artillery, which prevailed against the Rajput cavalry yet Mughals won only when Tomar general betrayed Rana Sanga, resulting in his defeat by Babur at the Battle of Khanua (16 March 1527). During the reign Rana Sanga's son Rana Udai Singh II, Babur's grandson Akbar conquered Chittor, the capital of Mewar.\n\nIn the Battle of Haldighati (21 June 1576) between Akbar and Rana Pratap Singh, the Mughal army of 80,000 was headed by a Rajput, Raja Man Singh, and Akbar's son Salim. The Rajput army's strength was 20,000. Rana Pratap reluctantly retreated with the help of his estranged brother Shakti Singh. His legendary horse Chetak was killed in the battle. Later, Rana Pratap organized a small army of Bhil tribals funded by a Gurjar businessman called Bhamashah and started a guerrilla war against Akbar. He retook large parts of Mewar but could not retake Chittor.\n\nSultan Muzaffar Shah I, the Governor of Gujarat, established the Muzaffarid dynasty in 1391. It expanded rapidly and peaked under Sultan Mahmud I, who lost the Battle of Diu to the Portuguese in 1509.\n\nRuled by the Zamorin, the small Hindu Nair kingdom of Calicut (Malabar) welcomed the Portuguese in 1498 as traders but then fought several naval wars with Portugal in the 16th century. The office of Muslim naval chief in Calicut was known as the Kunhali Marakkar.\n\nThe Italian traveler Niccolo de Conti wrote of the Emperor of the Vijayanagara Empire as the most powerful ruler of India in the 15th century.\nIn 1509, the Bahamani Sultan declared war against the Vijayanagara Empire. His large coalition army was defeated by Krishnadevaraya in a battle in which the Sultan was wounded. In 1510, Krishnadevaraya launched a counteroffensive against the Sultan at Kovelaconda; Yusuf Adil Shahi of Bijapur died in the battle. In 1512, Krishnadevaraya captured Raichur and Gulbarga after defeating Barid-i-Mamalik, the titular head of the Bahmani Sultanate, who escaped to Bidar. Later, Bidar also fell to Krishnadevaraya, who restored the Bahmani Sultan to his throne under the terms of their peace treaty.\n\nBetween 1512 and 1514, Krishnadevaraya subjugated the Palaigar of Ummattur, who had rebelled against his brother. During this campaign, the Gajapati of Odisha attacked Vijayanagara and occupied two northeast provinces: Udayagiri and Kondavidu. Krishnadevaraya recaptured these lands between 1513 and 1518.\n\nOn 26 January 1565, the neighboring kingdoms of Ahmednagar, Berar, Bidar, Bijapur and Golconda came together to treacherously defeat the Vijayanagar decisively in the Battle of Talikota. The surviving Vijaynagar forces fled with a large treasury to re-establish their headquarters at Vellore Fort in Tamil Nadu and Chandragiri (Andhra Pradesh) near Tirupathi. It would be here that the British would seek a land grant to establish the English East India Company Fort St. George in Madras.\n\nLater, the Vijayanagara's southern Telugu governors, in present-day Tamil Nadu, became independent. They became the Gingee Nayaks in Gingee Fort, the Tanjore Nayaks, and the Nayaks of Madurai.\n\nAhom Kingdom (1228–1826) was a kingdom and tribe which rose to prominence in present-day Assam early in the thirteenth century. They ruled much of Assam from the 13th century until the establishment of British rule in 1838. The Ahoms brought with them a tribal religion and a language of their own, however they later merged with the Hindu religion. From thirteenth till seventeenth century, repeated attempts were made by the Muslim rulers of Delhi to invade and subdue Ahoms, however the Ahoms managed to maintain their independence and ruled themselves for nearly 600 years.\n\nThe Mughal Empire, one of the states Age of the Islamic Gunpowders began in 1526 with the overthrow of Ibrahim Lodi and encompassed most of South Asia by the late 17th and early 18th centuries. Allied with the Maharaja, it extended from Bengal in the east to Kabul in the west, Kashmir in the north to the Kaveri basin in the south, a territory of over at its height. Its population at that time has been estimated at between 110 and 130 million. In the year 1540, then Mughal Emperor Humayun was defeated by Sher Shah Suri, and forced to retreat to Kabul. Suris and their adviser, the Hindu Emperor Hem Chandra Vikramaditya, also called Hemu, ruled North India from 1540 to 1556. Hemu established a 'Hindu' Empire briefly from Delhi in 1556.\n\nThe \"classic period\" of the Empire started in 1556 with the accession of Akbar the Great and ended with the death of Emperor Aurangzeb in 1707, although the dynasty continued for another 150 years. During this period, the Empire was marked by centralized administration and active culture. Following 1725 the empire declined rapidly, weakened by wars of succession; famine and local revolts fueled by it; the growth of religious intolerance; the rise of the Maratha Empire; and finally British colonialism. The last Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah II, whose rule was restricted to the city of Delhi, was imprisoned and exiled by the British after the Indian Rebellion of 1857.\n\nIn 1674, Shivaji Bhosale carved an independent Maratha zone around Pune, Maharashtra, from the Bijapur Sultanate and, with that began the emergence of the Marathas as the most important power in India that filled the vacuum created by the decline of the Mughal Empire. Shivaji established an effective civil and military administration. After a lifetime of conquest and guerrilla warfare with the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, Shivaji died in 1680, leaving behind a kingdom of great but ill-defined extent. This was followed by a period of instability ending with Aurangzeb's death.\n\nShivaji was the second king in Indian history to maintain an active navy. Kanhoji Angre, the first Maratha naval chief under Shivaji's grandson Shahuji, controlled illegal entries into Maratha territory by Dutch, English and Portuguese commercial ships on the Western coast of India in the early 18th century. He remained undefeated until his death in 1729.\n\nAlthough the descendants of Shivaji continued to rule, the office of the Peshwa, or the Prime Minister, became the focus of Maratha power and patronage. The Peshwas were the effective rulers of the Maratha state and oversaw the period of greatest Maratha expansion, brought to an end by the Maratha's defeat by an Afghan army at the Third Battle of Panipat in 1761. The Marathas recovered their position as the dominant power in India by 1772 until the last Peshwa, Baji Rao II, was defeated by the British in the Third Anglo-Maratha War. With the defeat of the Marathas, no native power represented a threat for the British any longer. The end of the last Anglo-Maratha War marked the era of British paramountcy over India.\n\nThe Marathas also developed a potent Navy circa 1660s, which at its peak, dominated the territorial waters of the western coast of India from Mumbai to Savantwadi. It would engage in attacking the British, Portuguese, Dutch, and Siddi Naval ships and kept a check on their naval ambitions. The Maratha Navy dominated till around the 1730s, was in a state of decline by 1770s, and ceased to exist by 1818.\n\nKing Marthanda Varma inherited the small feudal state of Venad in 1723 and built it into Travancore, one of the most powerful kingdoms in southern India. Marthanda Varma led the Travancore forces during the Travancore-Dutch War of 1739–46, which culminated in the Battle of Colachel. The defeat of the Dutch by Travancore is considered the earliest example of an organised power from Asia overcoming European military technology and tactics. Marthanda Varma went on to conquer most of the petty principalities of the native rulers who had allied with the Dutch against him.\n\nDuring Dharma Raja's reign, Tipu Sultan invaded Travancore, but commander-in-chief Raja Kesavadas led Travancore to victory despite being outnumbered. This attack led to Travancore joining the British against Tipu in the Third Battle of Carnatic. Pazhsi Raja, Velu Thampi Dalava and Paliath Achan, later leaders of Travancore, fought the British East India Company but lost. Travancore became a British ally in 1805 following a treaty between Colonel Charles Macaulay and Diwan Velu Tampi.\n\nThe first iron-cased and metal-cylinder rockets were developed by the Mysorean army of the South Indian Kingdom of Mysore in the 1780s. The Mysoreans successfully used these iron-cased rockets against the larger forces of the British East India Company during the Anglo-Mysore Wars.\n\nMaharaja Ranjit Singh was a Sikh ruler of the sovereign country of Punjab and the Sikh Empire. His father Maha Singh led Sukerchakia, a misl within the Sikh Confederacy. Born in 1780 in Gujranwala, Ranjit Singh succeeded his father at the age of 12. He united the Sikh factions into the Sikh Empire and took the title \"Maharaja\" on 13 April 1801, to coincide with Baisakhi. Lahore was his capital from 1799. In 1802 he conquered Amritsar, a holy city of the Sikh religion. In 1822 Ranjit Singh hired European mercenaries for the first time to train a part of his troops. He modernized his army, creating a military force whose power delayed the eventual British colonization of Punjab. The result was a powerful and heavily armed state. The Battle of Jamrud in 1837 was a major setback for Ranjit Singh: his general Hari Singh Nalwa was killed, the Khyber Pass was established as the western limit of the Sikh Empire's influence.\n\nRanjit Singh died in 1839, and his empire crumbled under internal strife and poor governance by his heirs. On the east of his realm Gulab Singh extended Sikh authority in the Himalayas until stopped by the Qing Empire in the Sino-Sikh war (1841–1842). After the First Anglo-Sikh War (1845–46), Punjab effectively ceased to be an independent state. The British Empire annexed the Sikh Empire following the Second Anglo-Sikh War (1848–49).\n\nThe British Indian Army was raised to guard the factories of the British East India Company. Following the fall of French Pondichéry in 1793, this was divided into Presidency armies of Bengal, Madras and Bombay in 1795. The Dutch trained the Nair Brigade, the military of Travancore.\nDuring the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857–58, some units of the Bengal Native Infantry and Cavalry revolted against the British East India Company. The rebels received less support than they had expected from members of the Bombay and Madras Armies. A number of atrocities took place, among them the Siege of Cawnpore. The mutiny ultimately failed because of lack of resources and coordination among the rebels. Reprisals by the victorious British Army, assisted by Sikh and Afghan regulars and irregulars, were ruthless.\n\nFollowing the Sepoy Mutiny, British rule in India was reorganised under the British Raj, made up of areas directly administered by the United Kingdom and princely states under the paramountcy of the British Crown. Under terms of treaties with the Crown, these princely states were allowed some local autonomy in exchange for protection and representation in international affairs by the United Kingdom. The Raj included present-day India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh.\n\nAfter 1857, the Presidency Armies were abolished in favour of a reconstituted British Indian Army under the control of the British Crown and the Viceroy. Many units were disbanded or reorganised, and new units of Sikhs, Gurkhas, and irregular horsemen were introduced. The majority of the Madras Native Infantry and Cavalry had their class compositions changed to North Indian tribes, considered more \"martial\" than the darker, shorter \"thambis\" who made up the majority of the Madras Presidency Army. Indian sepoys were banned from serving as officers or in the artillery corps. Recruiting focused more on Sikhs and Gurkhas, whom the British viewed as loyal. New caste-based and religion-based regiments were formed.\n\nThe British Indian Army consisted of members of all the major religious groups in India: Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, and Muslims. The number of Sikhs in the army grew steadily with time as British commanders came to believe they were more loyal and martial, an impression reinforced by their conduct during the Sepoy Mutiny. The Sikhs, for their part, aligned with the British to prevent a resurgence of Mughal rule; Sikhs had been persecuted under the Mughal Empire.\n\nThe Indian Air Force was established in 1932.\n\nDuring World War I, over 800,000 volunteered for the army, and more than 400,000 volunteered for non-combat roles, compared with the pre-war annual recruitment of about 15,000 men. The Army saw action on the Western Front within a month of the start of the war, at the First Battle of Ypres where Khudadad Khan became the first Indian to be awarded a Victoria Cross. After a year of front-line duty, sickness and casualties had reduced the Indian Corps to the point where it had to be withdrawn. Nearly 700,000 Indians fought the Turks in the Mesopotamian campaign. Indian formations were also sent to East Africa, Egypt, and Gallipoli.\n\nIndian Army and Imperial Service Troops fought during the Sinai and Palestine Campaign's defence of the Suez Canal in 1915, at Romani in 1916 and to Jerusalem in 1917. India units occupied the Jordan Valley and after the Spring Offensive they became the major force in the Egyptian Expeditionary Force during the Battle of Megiddo and in the Desert Mounted Corps' advance to Damascus and on to Aleppo. Other divisions remained in India guarding the North-West Frontier and fulfilling internal security obligations.\n\nOne million Indian troops served abroad during the war. In total, 74,187 died, and another 67,000 were wounded. The roughly 90,000 soldiers who lost their lives fighting in World War I and the Afghan Wars are commemorated by the India Gate.\n\nIn 1939, the British Indian Army's strength was about 189,000, with about 3,000 British officers and 1,115 Indian officers. The army was expanded greatly to fight in World War II: by 1945, the strength of the Army had risen to about 2.5 million, with about 34,500 British officers and 15,740 Indian officers. The Army took part in campaigns in France, East Africa, North Africa, Syria, Tunisia, Malaya, Burma, Greece, Sicily and Italy. Particularly significant contributions came in the campaigns in Abyssinia and North Africa, against the Italians; at El Alamain and in Italy, against the Germans; and in the Burma Campaign against Japan. The army ultimately suffered 179,935 casualties: 24,338 killed, 64,354 wounded, 11,762 missing, and 79,481 taken [Prisoner of war].\n\nDuring the war, Indian nationalist expatriates in Southeast Asia and the Japanese Army formed the Indian National Army (INA) to fight for Indian independence from Britain. For manpower, it relied on the approximately 45,000 Indian troops of the Indian Army whom the Japanese captured when Singapore fell in February 1942. Subhas Chandra Bose was parachuted in to lead the INA in 1943, and he greatly expanded the INA to include the mainly Tamil civilian Indian community in Malaya. He also negotiated a combat role for the INA from the reluctant Japanese, who were more inclined to use it intelligence and propaganda work. In 1944, INA units participated in the Japanese Army's offensives against British positions in the Arakan and the Imphal Plain. Not being a military man Bose – or \"Netaji\" (\"respected leader\") naively believed that Indian soldiers of the Indian Army who deployed against the INA would flock to its standard. But these Indian troops stood fIrm, and actually defeated the INA. Despite this, Bose insisted that the INA be given an independent sector on the Irrawaddy in February 1945. Despite the desperate efforts of some INA troops, their sector was overrun, and desertions became commonplace. Militarily, the INA was finished. After the war, however, it made a political impact, due to the British decision to publicly court-martial three INA commanders. This was a miscalculation, because Indian nationalist politicians, who had previously come out against the INA, now whipped up popular sentiment for the release of the INA accused. Realizing their error, the British acquiesced. In this way, the INA was another sign that the Raj's days were numbered.\n\nAt the end of the war in 1945, the Indian Army's officer corps included Indian Medical Service officer Hiraji Cursetji as its sole Indian major-general, one IMS brigadier, three Indian brigadiers in combatant arms and 220 other Indian officers in the temporary or acting ranks of colonel and lieutenant-colonel. From October 1945, the granting of regular commissions in the Indian Armed Forces was restricted to Indians, though provisions were made for the continued secondment of British officers for as long as was deemed necessary. In 1946, sailors of the Royal Indian Navy mutinied on board ships and in shore establishments, which had an impact across India. By early 1947, all three branches of the Indian Armed Forces had underwent large-scale demobilisation of over 1.25 million service personnel.\n\nWith Indian independence now a certainty and with a new Labour government recently elected in the UK, the Indianization of the armed forces continued to progress, though by June 1947, two months before Independence, the Indian Army had only 14 Indian officers at the rank of brigadier serving in combatant arms, with no Indian flag, general or air officers in the combat arms of the armed services.\n\nThe Republic of India has fought four wars with Pakistan and one border war with China.\n\nThis is also called the First Kashmir War. The war started in October 1947 when Pakistan feared that the Maharajah of the princely state of Kashmir and Jammu would accede to India. Following partition, states were left to choose whether to join India or Pakistan or to remain independent. Jammu and Kashmir, the largest of the princely states, had a predominantly Muslim population ruled by the Hindu Maharaja Hari Singh. Tribal forces with support from the army of Pakistan attacked and occupied parts of the princely state forcing the Maharajah to sign the Agreement to the accession of the princely state to the Dominion of India to get Indian military aid. The UN Security Council passed the Resolution 47 on 22 April 1948. The fronts solidified gradually along what came to be known as the Line of Control. A formal cease-fire was declared at 23:59 on the night of 1 January 1949. India gained control of about two-third of the state (including Kashmir valley, Jammu and Ladakh) whereas Pakistan gained roughly a third of Most neutral assessments, agree that India was the victor of the war as it was able to conquer about two-third of the Kashmir including Kashmir valley, Jammu and Ladakh.\n\nAfter the war with Pakistan, India turned its attention to the independent Hyderabad State. India perceived the nearby independent Muslim state and potential Pakistani ally as a threat. In a five-day operation, India reconquered and annexed Hyderabad.\n\nIn 1961 tension rose between India and Portugal over the Portuguese-occupied territory of Goa, which India claimed for itself. After Portuguese police cracked down violently on a peaceful, unarmed demonstration for union with India, the Indian government decided to reconquer. A lopsided air, sea, and ground campaign resulted in the speedy surrender of Portuguese forces. Within 36 hours, 451 years of Portuguese colonial rule was ended, and Goa was annexed by India. Portuguese losses were 31 killed, 57 wounded, and 3,306 captured. Indian losses were 34 killed and 51 wounded.\n\nIndia fought a month-long border war against China in 1962. Neither nation deployed air or naval resources during a conflict heavy with mountain combat. China ended the war by declaring a unilateral ceasefire and withdrew their forces to the pre-war positions.\n\nThe defeat prompted India to make major changes in its military. The Department of Defence Production was established to create an indigenous defence production base, which would be self-reliant and self-sufficient. Since 1962, 16 new ordnance factories have been built under the program.\n\nThis war started following Pakistan's Operation Gibraltar, which was designed to infiltrate forces into Jammu and Kashmir to precipitate an insurgency against rule by India. India retaliated by launching a full-scale military attack on West Pakistan. The seventeen-day war caused thousands of casualties on both sides and also witnessed the largest tank battle since World War II. The hostilities between the two countries ended after a ceasefire was declared following diplomatic intervention by the Soviet Union and USA and the subsequent issuance of the Tashkent Declaration. Though ruled to be militarily inconclusive, both India and Pakistan claimed victory. Most neutral assessments, however, agree that India had the upper hand over Pakistan when the ceasefire was declared. As Pakistan lost more territory than it gained during the war and failed to achieve its goal of capturing Kashmir, many impartial observers have viewed the result as a defeat for Pakistan and an Indian strategic victory.\n\nThe 1967 Sino-Indian skirmish also known as the Cho La incident (110 October 1967) was a military conflict between India and China in the Himalayan Kingdom of Sikkim, then an Indian protectorate. The Chinese People's Liberation Army infiltrated Sikkim on 1 October 1967, but was repulsed by the Indian Army by 10 October. During the Cho La and Nathu La incidents, Indian losses were 88 killed in action and 163 wounded, while Chinese casualties were 340 killed in action and 450 wounded.\n\nThe end of the battle saw the Chinese Army forced to leave Sikkim after being defeated by Indian troops.\n\nThis war was unique in the way that it did not involve the issue of Kashmir, but was rather precipitated by the crisis created by the political battle between Sheikh Mujib, Leader of East Pakistan and Yahya-Bhutto, leaders of West Pakistan brewing in erstwhile East Pakistan culminating in the declaration of Independence of Bangladesh from the state system of Pakistan. Following Operation Searchlight and the 1971 Bangladesh atrocities, about 10 million Bengalis in East Pakistan took refuge in neighbouring India.\nIndia intervened in the ongoing Bangladesh liberation movement. After a large scale pre-emptive strike by Pakistan, full-scale hostilities between the two countries commenced.\n\nPakistan attacked at several places along India's western border with Pakistan, but the Indian Army successfully held their positions. The Indian Army quickly responded to the Pakistan Army's movements in the west and made some initial gains, including capturing around of Pakistan territory (land gained by India in Pakistani Kashmir, Pakistani Punjab and Sindh sectors but gifted it back to Pakistan in the Simla Agreement of 1972, as a gesture of goodwill). Within two weeks of intense fighting, Pakistani forces in East Pakistan surrendered to the joint command of Indian and Bangladeshi forces following which the People's Republic of Bangladesh was created. This war saw the highest number of casualties in any of the India-Pakistan conflicts, as well as the largest number of prisoners of war since the Second World War after the surrender of more than 90,000 Pakistani military and civilians. In the words of one Pakistani author, \"Pakistan lost half its navy, a quarter of its air force and a third of its army\".\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, Pakistan began organising tourist expeditions on the Siachen Glacier, disputed territory with India. Irked by this development, in April 1984 India initiated successful Operation Meghdoot during which it gained control over all of the Siachen Glacier. India has established control over all of the long Siachen Glacier and all of its tributary glaciers, as well as the three main passes of the Saltoro Ridge immediately west of the glacier—Sia La, Bilafond La, and Gyong La. According to \"TIME\" magazine, India gained more than of territory because of its military operations in Siachen. It still maintains a military base there. Pakistan tried in 1987 and in 1989 to re-take the glacier but was unsuccessful. The conflict ended with Indian Victory. Ceasefire since 2003.\n\nCommonly known as the Kargil War, or Operation Vijay in India, this conflict between the two countries was mostly limited. During early 1999, Pakistani troops infiltrated across the Line of Control (LoC) and occupied Indian territory mostly in the Kargil district. India responded by launching a major military and diplomatic offensive to drive out the Pakistani infiltrators. Two months into the conflict, Indian troops had slowly retaken most of the ridges that were encroached by the infiltrators. According to official count, an estimated 75%–80% of the intruded area and nearly all high ground was back under Indian control.\nFearing large-scale escalation in military conflict, the international community, led by the United States, increased diplomatic pressure on Pakistan to withdraw forces from remaining Indian territory.\nFaced with the possibility of international isolation, the already fragile Pakistani economy was weakened further. The morale of Pakistani forces after the withdrawal declined as many units of the Northern Light Infantry suffered heavy casualties. The government refused to accept the dead bodies of many officers, an issue that provoked outrage and protests in the Northern Areas. Pakistan initially did not acknowledge many of its casualties, but Nawaz Sharif later said that over 4,000 Pakistani troops were killed in the operation and that Pakistan had lost the conflict.\nBy the end of July 1999, organized hostilities in the Kargil district had ceased and Kargil War finally came to end with a decisive Indian military and diplomatic victory.\n\nIn March 1966, Mizo rebels in Assam declared independence and attacked government offices and military posts. The uprising was suppressed weeks later, and eventually Mizoram was made a separate state of India.\n\nA Sino-Indian skirmish known today as the Chola incident took place in October 1967. The People's Liberation Army made a brief incursion into Sikkim but retreated within 48 hours.\n\nIn June 1984, then-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi ordered an attack on Sikh separatists belonging to the Khalistan movement who had holed up in the Golden Temple in Amritsar. The operation resulted in 500–1,500 civilian deaths and heavy damage to the Akal Takht.\n\nThe Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) carried out a mission in northern and eastern Sri Lanka in 1987–1990 to disarm the Tamil Tigers per the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord. It was a difficult battle for the Indian Army, which was not trained for an unconventional war. After losing approximately 1,200 in personnel and several T-72 tanks, India ultimately abandoned the mission in consultation with Sri Lankan government. In what was labeled as \"Operation Pawan\", the Indian Air Force flew about 70,000 sorties to and within Sri Lanka.\n\nIn November 1988, the Maldives Government appealed India for military help against a mercenary invasion. On the night of 3 November, the Indian Air Force airlifted the Para Special forces from Agra and flew them non-stop over 2,000 km to Maldives. The paracommandos landed at Hulule, secured the airfield, and restored government rule at Malé within hours and without bloodshed.\n\nAlso known as Bangladeshi-India border war, this brief war started on 15 April when Bangladeshis captured the disputed village of Pyrdiwah. The clashes lasted for about 5 days when the India and Bangladeshi forces took their original positions and the war ended in status quo ante bellum.\n\nIndia has well developed missile capabilities with roots in the Indian Space Program. The Integrated Guided Missile Development Program (IGMDP) was formed in 1983 with the aim of achieving self-sufficiency in missile development and production. Presently it comprises six core missile programs:\n\nCurrently the DRDO is developing Surya (missile), an advanced series of ICBM that the government reports would have a range of more than 10,000 km. This would put its range on par with advanced missiles in the United States, Russia, and Israel. India is the fourth country in the world to develop a successful missile defence shield, the Indian Ballistic Missile Defense Program.\n\nIn 1974, India tested a nuclear weapon with a yield of up to 15 kilotons. The test was codenamed Smiling Buddha. On 11 and 13 May 1998, India conducted a total of five underground nuclear tests and declared itself a nuclear state.\n\nThe Indian military ranks second in terms of number of troops after China. The paramilitary unit of the Republic of India is the world's largest paramilitary force at over one million strong. Eager to portray itself as a potential superpower, India began an intense phase of upgrading its armed forces in the late 1990s. India focuses on developing indigenous military equipment rather than relying on other countries for supplies. Most of the Indian naval ships and submarines, military armoured vehicles, missiles, and ammunition are indigenously designed and manufactured.\n\nIn 1997, India agreed to participate in the development of Russia's \"Prospective Air Complex for Tactical Air Forces\" program. One of the primary objectives of the program was to develop a 5th generation fighter aircraft; the Su-47 prototype flew its first successful test flight in 1997. The BrahMos, a supersonic cruise missile jointly developed with Russia, was successfully test fired in 2001. India is also collaborating with Israel to develop Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.\n\nIndia has focused recently on purchasing the technology behind military equipment rather than equipment itself. Recent examples include purchases of Sukhoi Su-30 MKI multi-role fighter aircraft and T-90 main battle tanks from Russia and diesel-powered Scorpene submarines from France. In 2004, India purchased US$5.7 billion worth of military equipment from other countries, making it the developing world's leading arms purchaser.\n\nOn 28 April 2000, ammunition worth was destroyed in a fire at the Bharatpur ammunition depot. Another fire at the Pathankot sub-depot resulted in loss of ammo worth . On 24 May 2001, another blaze at the Birdhwal sub-depot destroyed ammunition worth .\n\nIndia's highest awards for military conduct in a time of war are, in descending order, the Param Vir Chakra, Maha Vir Chakra, and Vir Chakra. The peacetime equivalents are respectively the Ashoka Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra. The latter two awards were formerly known as \"Ashoka Chakra, Class II\" and \"Ashoka Chakra, Class III\" respectively. The peacetime awards have occasionally been bestowed on civilians. For meritorious service, the awards are the Param Vishisht Seva Medal, the Athi Vishisht Seva Medal, and the Vishisht Seva Medal.\n\n\n\nOfficial war histories written by the History Division, Ministry of Defence, Government of India:\n\niversity of Illinois, 15 October 2009\n"}
{"id": "1876149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876149", "title": "Leksand Party", "text": "Leksand Party\n\nLeksand Party () was a local political party in Leksand, Sweden. Party president is Jimmy Karlsson.\n\nIn 1998 LP got 3.4% of the votes and two seats in the municipal council. In 2002 it got 360 votes (3.8%) and retained its two seats.\n"}
{"id": "1876159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876159", "title": "Geology of India", "text": "Geology of India\n\nThe geology of India is diverse. Different regions of India contain rocks belonging to different geologic periods, dating as far back as the Eoarchean Era. Some of the rocks are very deformed and altered. Other deposits include recently deposited alluvium that has yet to undergo diagenesis. Mineral deposits of great variety are found in the Indian subcontinent in huge quantity. Even India's fossil record is impressive in which stromatolites, invertebrates, vertebrates and plant fossils are included.\nIndia's geographical land area can be classified into the Deccan Traps, Gondwana and Vindhyan.\n\nThe Deccan Traps covers almost all of Maharashtra, a part of Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh marginally. During its journey northward after breaking off from the rest of Gondwana, the Indian Plate passed over a geologic hotspot, the Réunion hotspot, which caused extensive melting underneath the Indian Craton. The melting broke through the surface of the craton in a massive flood basalt event, creating the Deccan Traps. It is also thought that the Reunion hotspot caused the separation of Madagascar and India.\n\nThe Gondwana and Vindhyan include within its fold parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. The Gondwana sediments form a unique sequence of fluviatile rocks deposited in Permo-Carboniferous time. The Damodar and Sone river valleys and Rajmahal hills in eastern India contain a record of the Gondwana rocks.\n\nThe Geological Survey of India has published the List of National Geological Monuments in India.\n\nThe Indian Craton was once part of the supercontinent of Pangaea. At that time, what is now India's southwest coast was attached to Madagascar and southern Africa, and what is now its east coast was attached to Australia. During the Jurassic Period about 160 Ma (ICS 2004), rifting caused Pangaea to break apart into two supercontinents, namely Gondwana (to the south) and Laurasia (to the north). The Indian Craton remained attached to Gondwana, until the supercontinent began to rift apart about in the early Cretaceous, about 125 million years ago (ICS 2004). The Indian Plate then drifted northward toward the Eurasian Plate, at a pace that is the fastest known movement of any plate. It is generally believed that the Indian Plate separated from Madagascar about 90 Million years ago (ICS 2004), however some biogeographical and geological evidence suggests that the connection between Madagascar and Africa was retained at the time when the Indian Plate collided with the Eurasian Plate about 50 Million years ago (ICS 2004). This orogeny, which is continuing today, is related to closure of the Tethys Ocean. The closure of this ocean which created the Alps in Europe, and the Caucasus range in western Asia, created the Himalaya Mountains and the Tibetan Plateau in South Asia. The current orogenic event is causing parts of the Asian continent to deform westward and eastward on either side of the orogen. Concurrently with this collision, the Indian Plate sutured on to the adjacent Australian Plate, forming a new larger plate, the Indo-Australian Plate.\n\nThe earliest phase of tectonic evolution was marked by the cooling and solidification of the upper crust of the earth's surface in the Archaean Era (prior to 2.5 billion years) which is represented by the exposure of gneisses and granites especially on the Peninsula. These form the core of the Indian Craton. The Aravalli Range is the remnant of an early Proterozoic orogen called the Aravali-Delhi Orogen that joined the two older segments that make up the Indian Craton. It extends approximately from its northern end to isolated hills and rocky ridges into Haryana, ending near Delhi.\n\nMinor igneous intrusions, deformation (folding and faulting) and subsequent metamorphism of the Aravalli Mountains represent the main phase of orogenesis. The erosion of the mountains, and further deformation of the sediments of the Dharwarian group (Bijawars) marks the second phase. The volcanic activities and intrusions, associated with this second phase are recorded in the composition of these sediments.\n\nEarly to Late Proterozoic(2.5 to 0.54 billion years) calcareous and arenaceous deposits, which correspond to humid and semi-arid climatic regimes, were deposited the Cuddapah and Vindhyan basins. These basins which border or lie within the existing crystalline basement, were uplifted during the Cambrian (500 Ma (ICS 2004)). The sediments are generally undeformed and have in many places preserved their original horizontal stratification. The Vindhyans are believed to have been deposited between ~1700 and 650 Ma (ICS 2004).\n\nEarly Paleozoic rocks are found in the Himalayas and consist of southerly derived sediments eroded from the crystalline craton and deposited on the Indian platform.\n\nIn the Late Paleozoic, Permo-Carboniferous glaciations left extensive glacio-fluvial deposits across central India, in new basins created by sag/normal faulting. These tillites and glacially derived sediments are designated the Gondwanas series. The sediments are overlain by rocks resulting from a Permian marine transgression (270 Ma (ICS 2004)).\n\nThe late Paleozoic coincided with the deformation and drift of the Gondwana supercontinent. To this drift, the uplift of the Vindhyan sediments and the deposition of northern peripheral sediments in the Himalayan Sea, can be attributed.\n\nDuring the Jurassic, as Pangea began to rift apart, large grabens formed in central India filling with Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous sandstones and conglomerates.\n\nBy the Late Cretaceous India had separated from Australia and Africa and was moving northward towards Asia. At this time, prior to the Deccan eruptions, uplift in southern India resulted in sedimentation in the adjacent nascent Indian Ocean. Exposures of these rocks occur along the south Indian coast at Pondicherry and in Tamil Nadu.\n\nAt the close of the Mesozoic one of the greatest volcanic eruptions in earth's history occurred, the Deccan lava flows. Covering more than area, these mark the final break from Gondwana.\n\nIn the early Tertiary, the first phase of the Himalayan orogeny, the Karakoram phase occurred. The Himalayan orogeny has continued to the present day.\n\nGreater India or the Greater India Basin means the Indian Plate plus a postulated northern extension which was squashed out of easy recognizability in the Indian–Asia collision. The term was used before plate tectonic theory, but the term has seen increased usage since the 1970s.\n\nThe Indian plate and the Eurasian Plate have converged up to ± . The upper crustal shortening is documented from the geological record of Asia and the Himalaya as up to approximately less. Much of the lost area was pushed under Asia to form the Tibetan highland. \n\n\nA considerable area of peninsular India, the Indian Shield, consists of Archean gneisses and schists which are the oldest rocks found in India. The Precambrian rocks of India have been classified into two systems, namely the Dharwar system and the Archaean system.\n\nThe rocks of the Dharwar system are mainly sedimentary in origin, and occur in narrow elongated synclines resting on the gneisses found in Bellary district, Mysore and the Aravalis of Rajputana. These rocks are enriched in manganese and iron ore which represents a significant resource of these metals. They are also extensively mineralised with gold most notably the Kolar gold mines located in Kolar. In the north and west of India, the Vaikrita system, which occurs in Hundes, Kumaon and Spiti areas, the Dailing series in Sikkim and the Shillong series in Assam are believed to be of the same age as the Dharwar system.\n\nThe metamorphic basement consists of gneisses which are further classified into the Bengal gneiss, the Bundelkhand gneiss and the Nilgiri gneiss. The Nilgiri system comprises charnockites ranging from granites to gabbros.\n\nRocks of the earliest part of the Cambrian Period are found in the Salt range in Punjab and the Spiti area in the central Himalayas and consist of a thick sequence of fossiliferous sediments. In the Salt range, the stratigraphy starts with the Salt Pseudomorph zone, which has a thickness of and consists of dolomites and sandstones. It is overlain by magnesian sandstones with a thickness of , similar to the underlying dolomites. These sandstones have very few fossils. Overlying the sandstones is the Neobolus Shale, which is composed of dark shales with a thickness of . Finally there is a zone consisting of red or purple sandstones having a thickness of to called the Purple Sandstone. These are unfossiliferous and show sun-cracks and worm burrows which are typical of subaerial weathering. The deposits in Spiti are known as the Haimanta system and they consist of slates, micaceous quartzite and dolomitic limestones. The Ordovician rocks comprise flaggy shales, limestones, red quartzites, quartzites, sandstones and conglomerates. Siliceous limestones belonging to the Silurian overlie the Ordovician rocks. These limestones are in turn overlain by white quartzite and this is known as Muth quartzite. Silurian rocks which contain typical Silurian fauna are also found in the Vihi district of Kashmir.\n\nDevonian fossils and corals are found in grey limestone in the central Himalayas and in black limestone in the Chitral area. The Carboniferous is composed of two distinct sequences, the upper Carboniferous Po, and the lower Carboniferous Lipak. Fossils of brachiopods and some trilobites are found in the calcareous and sandy rocks of the Lipak series. The Syringothyris limestone in Kashmir also belongs to the Lipak. The Po series overlies the Lipak series, and the Fenestella shales are interbedded within a sequence of quartzites and dark shales. In many places Carboniferous strata are overlaid by grey agglomeratic slates, believed to be of volcanic origin. Many genera of productids are found in the limestones of the Permo-Triassic, which has led to these rocks being referred to as \"productus limestone\". This limestone is of marine origin and is divided into three distinct lithostratigraphic units based on the productus chronology: the Late Permian Chideru, which contains many ammonites, the Late — Middle Permian Virgal, and the Middle Permian Amb unit.\n\nIn the Triassic the Ceratite beds, named after the ammonite ceratite, consist of arenaceous limestones, calcerous sandstones and marls. The Jurassic consists of two distinct units. The Kioto limestone, extends from the lower the middle Jurassic with a thickness to . The upper Jurassic is represented by the Spiti black shales, and stretches from the Karakoram to Sikkim. Cretaceous rocks cover an extensive area in India. In South India, the sedimentary rocks are divided into four stages; the Niniyur, the Ariyalur, the Trichinopoly(a district in the Madras Presidency, covering present-day districts of Tiruchirappalli, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur), and the Utatur stages. In the Utatur stage the rocks host phosphatic nodules, which constitute an important source of phosphates in the country. In the central provinces, the well developed beds of Lameta contain fossil records which are helpful in estimating the age of the Deccan Traps. This sequence of basaltic rocks was formed near the end of the Cretaceous period due to volcanic activity. These lava flows occupy an area of . These rocks are a source of high quality building stone and also provide a very fertile clayey loam, particularly suited to cotton cultivation.\n\nIn this period the Himalayan orogeny began, and the volcanism associated with the Deccan Traps continued. The rocks of this era have valuable deposits of petroleum and coal. Sandstones of Eocene age are found in Punjab, which grade into chalky limestones with oil seepages. Further north the rocks found in the Simla area are divided into three series, the Sabathu series consisting of grey and red shales, the Dagshai series comprising bright red clays and the Kasauli series comprising sandstones. Towards the east in Assam, Nummulitic limestone is found in the Khasi hills. Oil is associated with these rocks of the Oligo-Miocene age. Along the foothills of the Himalayas the Siwalik molasse is composed of sandstones, conglomerates and shales with thicknesses of to and ranging from Eocene to Pliocene. These rocks are famous for their rich fossil vertebrate fauna including many fossil hominoids.\n\nThe alluvium which is found in the Indo-Gangetic plain belongs to this era. It was eroded from the Himalayas by the rivers and the monsoons. These alluvial deposits consist of clay, loam, silt etc. and are divided into the older alluvium and the newer alluvium. The older alluvium is called Bhangar and is present in the ground above the flood level of the rivers. Khaddar or newer alluvium is confined to the river channels and their flood plains. This region has some of the most fertile soil found in the country as new silt is continually laid down by the rivers every year.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent has a history of devastating earthquakes. The major reason for the high frequency and intensity of the earthquakes is that the Indian plate is driving into Asia at a rate of approximately 47 mm/year. Geographical statistics of India show that almost 54% of the land is vulnerable to earthquakes. A World Bank & United Nations report shows estimates that around 200 million city dwellers in India will be exposed to storms and earthquakes by 2050. National Disaster Management Authority says that 60% of Indian landmass is prone to earthquake and 8% susceptible to cyclone risks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876161", "title": "Kho kho", "text": "Kho kho\n\nKho Kho is a popular tag game invented in Maharashtra, India. It is played by teams of 12 nominated players out of fifteen, of which nine enter the field who sit on their knees (chasing team), and 3 extra (defending team) who try to avoid being touched by members of the opposing team. It is one of the two most popular traditional tag games in the Indian subcontinent, the other being Kabaddi. \nThe sport is widely played across South Asia and has a strong presence in South Africa and England. \nKho-kho is a traditional Indian sport, a form of tag, that is one of the oldest forms of outdoor sport, dating back to prehistoric India. It is played most often by school children in India and is a competitive game.\n\nThe name comes from (), the word kho is imitative of the sound invoked while playing the game.\n\nThe origin of Kho-Kho is very difficult to trace, but many historians believe that it is a modified form of 'Run Chase', which in its simplest form involves chasing and touching a person. Originating in Maharashtra, Kho-Kho in ancient times was played on 'raths' or chariots and was known as Rathera.\n\nThe present appearance of the game was an adoption from the time of World War I in 1914. But at that time, there were neither any dimensions of the playground nor the poles which demarcate the central line. The time factor was also missing.\n\nThe Deccan Gymkhana club of Pune, Maharashtra so named and baptized by the great Indian leader Lokmanya Tilak & Bhai Narorkar drafted the first-ever rules and regulations which symbolized the metamorphosis of the game soon to follow. This initial stage marked the limitation of the playground and yet sadly lacked the poles demarking the central line in the field. Instead, less experienced players were posted squatting at the ends of the latter and chasers ran around them to return to the midfield.\n\nBut, even then the game caught the imagination of the experts in the field. The experts took no time to realize that the game demands the highest degree of quick and brisk movements, very high grade of nerve reflexes and tremendous stamina which are characteristic of a supreme athlete. The game requires all motor qualities alike speed, endurance, flexibility, agility, strength and neuromuscular coordination. As per merit, it is appreciated by press, media and spectators.\n\nThe game with its fast pace, so fascinated the spectators that the Governor of Bombay Presidency H.E. Lord Willingdon also admired the merits and potentials of the game. The years 1923-24 saw the foundation of the Inter School Sports Organization, and Kho Kho was introduced to develop at the grassroots and consequently popularize the sport. The move certainly showed the results and the game of Kho Kho mainly owes it to the efforts taken by the Deccan Gymkhana and Hind Vijay Gymkhana.\n\nIn the year 1938, Kho Kho moved one step forward when Akhil Maharashtra Sharirik Shikshan Mandal organized zonal sports at Akola which attracted tremendous response from the budding enthusiasts as well as organizers. The team size was restricted to 9 players per team and sport was played without the poles. At the beginning of the match, players used to take 3 rounds of the court from post to post and then started the match. This needed yet another few reforms which were adopted in 1943 as well as 1945.\n\nKho kho was exhibited in Sweden and Denmark in the year 1949 but it didn’t leave any effect on the spectators (foreigner). After coming back in 1949, the poles were featured in the game. Also, the 3 rounds at the beginning of the game were reduced to one round from pole to pole. In 1951, even the one round was eliminated. In the year 1955, Akhil Bharatiya Kho Kho Mandal was established and the first ever All India Kho Kho Championship was organized at Vijay Wada, Andhra Pradesh in 1959-60 under the auspices of Kho Kho Federation of India. The years 1960-61 featured Women’s Championship for the first time in Kohlapur, Maharashtra.\n\nIndividual prizes were introduced in the year 1963. Vishwanath Mayekar won the first Man of the Tournament named \"Ekalavya Award\". The Woman of the Tournament \"Rani Laxmibai Award\" was claimed by Usha Anantham of Mysore.\n\nThe years 1969-1970 featured the Junior age group competitions at Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. Youth under 18 Years and Boys under 16 Years of age were two new categories introduced where the best youth player of the tournament was honoured by \"Abhimanyu Award\". Junior Girls under 16 Years tournament was held in 1974 at Dewas, Madhya Pradesh, where two more categories Sub-Junior Boys under 14 Years and Girls under 12 Years also commenced. The best Sub-Juniors Boy & Girls was awarded \"Bharat Award\" and \"Veer Bala Award\" respectively. In 1970, Arjuna Award was awarded to Shri Sudhir Parab from Gujarat.\n\nIn the year 1982, Kho Kho Federation of India organized Men’s and Women’s Yearly Championship as Federation Cup. Kho Kho was featured in the Asian Games, 1982 for the first time in New Delhi. It was appreciated by Asian countries. After looking at its grand success Sports Authority of India and Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Govt. of India deputed their coaches all over the country to develop the sport of Kho Kho scientifically at grass root level.\n\nLooking back at its success, it was one of the main featured during 12th South Asian Games, 2016 held at Guwahati, Assam from 5 to 9 February 2016. It happened just because of the sincere efforts of Shri Rajeev Mehta, President, KKFI & Secretary General, IOA. The participating countries were Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal and host country India. This tournament was well organized under the leadership of Shri. M. S. Tyagi, Competition Director (Kho Kho). All the Asian countries appreciated and ensured of introducing the sport in their respective countries. 1st Asian Championship took place at Calcutta, West Bengal in 1996 followed by the 2nd Asian Championship in the year 2000 at Dhaka, Bangladesh. The 3rd Asian Championship was held in the month of April 2016 at Indore, Madhya Pradesh. The participating countries were Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, Korea and host country India. The test series was played between India and England in January–February, 2017 at different venues in India namely Mumbai, Rajasthan and New Delhi.\n\nIn 1999, \"The Asian Kho Kho Federation\" was established during the 3rd edition of the South Asian Games. Member countries included India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Maldives. The 1st Asian Championship was held at Kolkata in 1996 and the second championship at Dhaka, Bangladesh. India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal, Japan, Thailand were participants of this championship.\n\nIn 2013, the 'Kho Kho Federation of England' was formed by Brij Haldania, who had played competitively for Rajasthan before settling down in United Kingdom. With the aim of developing the game to an international level, he built relationships with M.S Tyagi (Kho-Kho Federation of India), Sudhanshu Mittal (Asian Kho-Kho Federation) and Rajeev Mehta (Indian Olympic Association). With the collaborative efforts of these individuals, the sport has reached new heights. In 2018, the 'International Kho-Kho Federation' was formed to govern and guide the sport of Kho-Kho globally.\nA match consists of two innings with each inning consisting of chasing and running turns of 9 minutes each. One team sits on their knees in the middle of the court, 8 in a row, with adjacent members facing opposite directions. The runners play in the field, three at a time and the team that takes the shortest time to touch all the opponents in the field, wins. There is a pole on each end of the field and the runner is allowed to go between two sitting players, but the chaser is not allowed to turn back while running or go between the players i.e. the chaser must run in the same direction unless he chooses to touch either end pole and run in the opposite direction. He may cross over to the other side when he is reversing directions by going around the pole.\n\n1. The runner or the chaser is decided by toss.\n\n2. A match consists of two innings of chasing and defending turns, which is each of 9 minutes.\n\n3. The captain of chasing side may end the turn before allotted time.\n\n4. The side that scores more wins a match.\n\n5. When a defender is out, he should enter the sitting box from the lobby.\n\n6. Incomplete match for unavoidable reasons should be played in the same session with the same players and officials. The score of the completed turn should be counted. For incomplete turn, the match will start afresh. The entire match should be replayed from the\nbeginning if the incomplete match is not played in the same session.\n\nA Kho kho playing field is rectangular. It is in length nio. In the middle of these two rectangles, there are two wooden poles. The central lane's dimensions are 24 m x 30 cm. There are eight cross lanes which lie across the central lane, whose dimensions are 16 m x 35 cm. It makes the small rectangles and each of them are 16 m x 2.3 m (the two rectangles of near by the wooden poles are 2.55 m wide), at right angles to the central lane and divided equally into two parts of each by the central lane. At the end of the central lane, the free zone tangent to the post-line, two smooth wooden posts are fixed, 120 cm - 125 cm high from the ground, and their circumference is 28.25 - 31.4 cms. The equipment used in Kho kho are poles/post, strings, metallic measuring tape, lime powder, wire nails, two watches, types of rings having inner circumference of 28.25 and 31.4 cms, score shots (like a whistle, for instance), and equipment to record the results. However, for unofficial games, only lime powder (or any substitute) may be used as long as the cross lanes, centre lane and field boundaries are clearly distinguished. The strings, as well as the rings, are for the sole purpose of properly demarcating the same.\n\nThere are usually two referees standing on the opposite sides of the rectangular field. Both carry a stopwatch and each of them is responsible for giving a decision on their opposite side of the field (because they can watch the game play in front of them more clearly than when it is on their same side).\n\n\nThe rules of the game were framed in the beginning of the 20th century.\n"}
{"id": "1876167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876167", "title": "The Clairvoyant (1935 film)", "text": "The Clairvoyant (1935 film)\n\nThe Clairvoyant (US title: The Evil Mind) is a 1935 British drama film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Claude Rains, Fay Wray, and Jane Baxter. Based on the novel of the same name by Ernst Lothar, it was made at Islington Studios. The film's sets were designed by the German art director Alfred Junge. Bryan Edgar Wallace contributed to the screenplay.\n\nMaximus (Claude Rains), \"King of the Mind Readers\", performs an English music hall mind-reading act with the help of his wife, Rene (Fay Wray), using a secret code. One night, he sees the beautiful Christine Shawn (Jane Baxter) in the audience, and his act becomes reality. He is able to tell what is in a sealed letter without Rene's assistance.\n\nMaximus does not think much of it, until he and Christine meet by chance on a train and he foresees an impending crash. He pulls the emergency cord to stop the train, but nobody believes him. He, his family and Christine disembark, and a few minutes later the train crashes. Christine tells her father, who owns a newspaper. He publishes the story, making Maximus famous.\n\nMaximus realizes that his power only works when Christine is near. As they spend more time together, Christine falls in love with him and Rene becomes jealous. Maximus' mother (Mary Clare) believes that no good can come of this new gift, but Maximus pays little attention, enjoying his well-paid success.\n\nAnother of his well-publicized predictions comes true: a 100-to-1 long shot wins The Derby. He chooses to ignore his own prophecy of his mother's death; when it comes true, he is so distraught that he decides to follow her wishes and abandon his ability. He feels compelled to act, however, when he foresees a great mining disaster. He is unable to convince the mining company to evacuate the mine. When the disaster occurs, hundreds are killed and more are missing and presumed dead.\n\nHe is publicly accused of causing the accident and is brought to trial. The prosecution claims that Maximus himself caused both tragedies, by delaying the train and by panicking the miners into making a mistake. Maximus predicts in the courtroom that the missing miners will be found alive. When this becomes true, he is released. Maximus decides to give up his gift and he and Rene slip away into obscurity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876173", "title": "Mario and the Magician", "text": "Mario and the Magician\n\nMario and the Magician () is a novella written by German author Thomas Mann in 1929.\n\n\"Mario and the Magician\" is one of Mann's most political stories. Mann openly criticizes fascism, a choice which later became one of the grounds for his exile to Switzerland following Hitler's rise to power. The magician, Cipolla, is analogous to the fascist dictators of the era with their fiery speeches and rhetoric. The story was especially timely, considering the tensions in Europe when it was written. Stalin had just seized power in Russia, Mussolini was urging Italians to recapture the glory of the Roman Empire, and Hitler with his rhetoric was quickly gaining steam in Germany. The end of the story represents Mann's changing political views; he moved from staunch support of the Kaiser during his early life to a belief in progressive, democratic values in Europe and a desire to rid the continent of fascist influences.\n\nThe narrator describes a trip by his family to the fictional seaside town of Torre di Venere, Italy. It becomes unpleasant, partly because he finds the Italian people to be too nationalistic. The family attends a performance by a magician and hypnotist named Cipolla, who uses his mental powers in a \"fascist\" way to control his audience. Cipolla may well represent the mesmerizing power of authoritarian leaders in Europe at the time —he is autocratic, misuses power, and subjugates the masses in an attempt to counterbalance his inferiority complex by artificially boosting his self-confidence. Cipolla's assassination by Mario, a native of Torre di Venere, is not a tragedy but a liberation for the audience.\n\nThe story/novel has been adapted several times for the operatic stage.\nStephen Oliver's adaptation was premiered in 1988 at the Battignano Festival. 1989 saw a one-act opera by the Hungarian composer János Vajda to a libretto by Gábor Bókkon. A recording was issued in 1990 on the Hungaroton label.\n. A three-hour-long opera adaptation by composer Harry Somers with lyrics by Rod Anderson premiered 19 May 1992 at the Elgin Theatre, Toronto. \"Mario and the Magician\" was adapted into an English opera by librettist J. D. McClatchy and composer Francis Thorne. It was first performed in 2005 by the Center for Contemporary Opera in the auditorium of Hunter College. A recording of this production was released on compact disc by Albany Records in 2006. The original cast included Justin Vickers as Mario, Larry Small, Jessica Grigg, Wendy Brown, Beata Safari, Sankofa Sarah Wade, Jim Gaylord, Eric Jordan, Isai Jess Muñoz, Leandra Ramm, Richard Cassell, Jason Cammorata and Nathan Resika. There is also a 1994 film with Klaus Maria Brandauer as Cipolla and Julian Sands as the patriarch, directed by Brandauer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876176", "title": "Gandhi Jayanti", "text": "Gandhi Jayanti\n\nGandhi Jayanti is an event celebrated in India to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. It is celebrated annually on 2 October, and it is one of the three national holidays of India. The UN General Assembly announced on 15 June 2007 that it adopted a resolution which declared that 2 October will be celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence.\n\nGandhi Jayanti is celebrated yearly on 2 October. It is one of the official declared national holidays of India, observed in all of its states and territories.\n\nGandhi Jayanti is marked by prayer services and tributes all over India, including at Gandhi's memorial Raj Ghat in New Delhi where he was cremated. Popular activities include prayer meetings, commemorative ceremonies in different cities by colleges, local government institutions and socio-political institutions. Painting and essay competitions are conducted and best awards are granted for projects in schools and the community encouraging a non-violent way of life as well as celebrating Gandhi's effort in the Indian independence movement. Gandhi's favourite \"Bhajan\" (Hindu devotional song), \"Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram\", is usually sung in his memory. Statues of Mahatma Gandhi throughout the country are decorated with flowers and garlands, and some people avoid drinking alcohol or eating meat on the day. Public buildings, banks and post offices are closed.\n\nOn Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birthday, he was paid different tributes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876177", "title": "Bopartiet", "text": "Bopartiet\n\nBopartiet a local political party in Ludvika, Sweden. The party was founded in 1985. In its initial election programme it had two main demands:\n\nIn the municipal elections 2002 it got 1092 votes (7%) and three seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876187", "title": "Revolusongs", "text": "Revolusongs\n\nRevolusongs is an EP of cover songs released by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura in 2003 through SPV Records. It was exclusively released in Brazil and Japan.\n\nThe EP contains seven cover songs. The cover of U2's \"Bullet the Blue Sky\" was released as a single, but as a part of their next album, \"Roorback\". \"Revolusongs\" was later included as a bonus disc on the digipak and vinyl LP editions of \"Roorback\", minus the final song and video tracks.\n\nThe album received good reviews, but due to its limited release, it did not have very good sales, selling over 15,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876197", "title": "Mora Party", "text": "Mora Party\n\nMora Party () was a local political party in Mora, Sweden. It was founded in 1993.\n\nIn 1998 FP got 4% of the votes and two seats in the municipal council. In 2002 it got 399 votes (3.4%) and lost one of its seats. The present sole councilor of the party is Ingvar \"Nille\" Niilimaa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876203", "title": "Pluto Shervington", "text": "Pluto Shervington\n\nPluto Shervington, also known as Pluto (born Leighton Shervington; 13 August 1950 in Kingston, Jamaica), is a reggae musician, singer, engineer and producer.\n\nShervington began his career in the early 1970s as a member of the showband Tomorrow's Children. Inspired by the success of Ernie Smith's \"Duppy or a Gunman\" and Tinga Stewart's \"Play de Music\", both delivered in heavy patois, he recorded \"Ram Goat Liver\" in a similar style. The follow-up single, \"Dat\" – about a Rastafarian trying to buy pork (without naming it aloud), contrary to his faith, so that he can afford marijuana – achieved considerable chart success internationally in 1976, reaching the number 6 spot in the UK Singles Chart. Trojan Records capitalized on this success by reissuing his first single, which peaked just outside the top 40 in the UK.\n\nShervington moved to Miami, Florida, in the early 1980s. He continued to record, and reached the UK top 20 again when \"Your Honour\" originally recorded in 1975 but never previously released, was re-issued in early 1982 together with a new recording \"No Honour Among Tiefs\" . Shervington often performs live in Miami, and periodically returns to his homeland for performances. he plays solo at Bahama Breeze in Kendall, Florida, and every other Sunday at Black Point Marina in Cutler Bay with a five piece band. Pluto appeared at the St. Kitts Music Festival on Friday 22 June 2007, sharing the bill with Steel Pulse and Sean Paul, among others.\n\nIn addition to his work as a singer, Shervington gained a reputation as a talented bass guitarist, and as a recording engineer, notably engineering Little Roy's 1974 album, \"Tafari Earth Uprising\".As of 2018 Shervington was performing solo multiple times a week at the Bahama Breeze restaurant in Miami when not on tour. \n\n\n\nList of reggae musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "1876206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876206", "title": "CEPOS", "text": "CEPOS\n\nCentre for Political Studies, also known as CEPOS, is an independent association which works as a classical liberal/free-market conservative think-tank in Denmark. It is a strongly right-leaning and highly political association.\n\nInspired by institutions such as The Brookings Institution, American Enterprise Institute, Heritage Foundation, Adam Smith Institute, Institute of Economic Affairs etc., CEPOS was founded on March 11, 2004 by a number of high-profile representatives of Danish academia, business, media, and the arts, including former Defence Minister Bernt Johan Collet, who became Chairman of the Board.\n\nOther prominent co-founders include former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, university professors Nicolai Juul Foss, Jesper Lau Hansen, Bent Jensen, and Peter Kurrild-Klitgaard. Also included are well-known journalists Bent Blüdnikow and Samuel Rachlin and cultural personalities such as Bent Fabricius-Bjerre and Michael Laudrup. Martin Ågerup was hired in 2005 as the think-tank's CEO.\n\nDuring the summer of 2004, the new Board managed to bring in the necessary grants and contributions from foundations, corporations, and individual sponsors. At a meeting on October 2, 2004, the founders confirmed their decision to establish the think-tank, CEPOS. The official opening of CEPOS took place on March 10, 2005 at Hotel D'Angleterre.\n\nCEPOS is dedicated to preserving and strengthening what they see as the foundations of a free and prosperous society by supporting tax-cuts, limited government, and private enterprise as well as vital cultural and political institutions. The research of CEPOS claim to support a civil society consisting of free and responsible individuals and to foster policies, institutions and culture that is supportive of a free market economy, the rule of law, and a civil society consisting of free and responsible individuals.\n\nThe think tank is recognized by the Danish state as an official research institution, a title only given to institutions that produce knowledge of equal quality to that of Danish universities. It is a known advocate of school choice, a more open immigration policy, lower taxes and less regulation, and a known opponent of increased public surveillance, anti-terrorism laws that curtail civil liberties and criminalizing what they see as \"victimless crime\". CEPOS produces both academic research and policy analyses on a wide range of issues, including education, immigration, legal reform, taxation, regulation and the public sector. It hosts numerous conferences each year and has attracted high-level speakers, including Robert Barro, George Borjas, Nobel laureate Edward Prescott, Nobel laureate Gary Becker, Nigel Lawson and many others.\n\nCEPOS has been described as a leading and serious voice in the Danish debate on taxation, regulation, and welfare, as well as on schools, education and integration. It is frequently quoted in the media, with over 5000 media clips amassed over its years in operation, and was described by the Danish business magazine Berlingske Nyhedsmagasin in 2007 as being \"in charge of the public debate\".\n\nCEPOS is the Danish participant in the Economic Freedom of the World Project as well as the International Property Rights Index.\n\nIn 2006, CEPOS launched CEPOS University, a free course taught by university professors, industry leaders and former statesmen in the underlying philosophical, sociological and economic ideas behind classical liberalism, and the various theories behind the free market. Admission is highly competitive.\n\nCEPOS has repeatedly been criticized for downplaying the effects of climate change and its consequences for both the environment and the global economy. In Danish science magazine Videnskab.dk researchers have accused CEPOS of utilizing a type of deflective climate scepticism to stall serious climate action. \n\nCEPOS is a five-time winner of the highly prestigious Atlas Economic Research Foundation and John Templeton Foundation awards given to the best think tanks around the world. It was awarded the 2006 Templeton Freedom Award, given an Honorable Mention in the 2007 Templeton Freedom Award Grant and received the 2007 Templeton Freedom Prize for Initiative in Public Relations. It was awarded second place in the 2008 Sir Anthony Fisher International Memorial Award for the best book published by a think tank and won the 2009 Fisher Venture Grant Award.\n\nIn the \"2014 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report\" (Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program, University of Pennsylvania), CEPOS was placed number 52 (of 80) in the \"Top Think Tanks in Western Europe\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1876207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876207", "title": "Springfield Indians", "text": "Springfield Indians\n\nThe Springfield Indians were a minor professional ice hockey franchise, originally based in West Springfield, Massachusetts and later Springfield, Massachusetts. The Indians were founding members of the American Hockey League. They were in existence for a total of 60 seasons from 1926 to 1994, with three interruptions. The Indians had two brief hiatuses from 1933 to 1935, and from 1942 to 1946. The team was known as the Syracuse Warriors from 1951 to 1954; in addition, the team was named the Springfield Kings from 1967 to 1975. The Indians won seven Calder Cup championships, one while known as the Kings in 1971.\n\nThe Indians had their start in the Canadian-American Hockey League in 1926. The \"Can-Am\", as it was called, was founded in Springfield and the Indians were one of the five initial franchises. The team was named after the Indian Motorcycle Company which was at the time, headquartered in Springfield. It was run at the time by Lester Patrick and the National Hockey League's New York Rangers, and future NHL stars such as Charlie Rayner, Earl Seibert (who after his playing days were through would be the Indians' longtime coach), Cecil Dillon and Ott Heller saw their start in Springfield uniforms. The Indians played in the Can-Am League until the 1932–33 season, having to fold thirteen games into the season. In 1935–36, Lucien Garneau transferred his Quebec Beavers franchise to Springfield, resurrecting the Indians name; the team was now associated with the NHL's Montreal Canadiens.\n\nThe Great Depression caused cutbacks all around, and the Can-Am merged with the International Hockey League to form the International-American Hockey League, which changed its name to the American Hockey League, having lost its last Canadian franchises, in 1941.\n\nBut before that time, the man who cast his shadow over the team for four decades, Boston Bruins superstar defenseman Eddie Shore, purchased the team in 1939. Industriously, he split games between the Bruins and the Indians, even going so far as to provoke a trade to the Amerks to make the train commute easier. He retired from the NHL after that season, but played for Springfield for two more seasons. Shore's often-controversial but ever-colorful management style would permeate the team for the next 36 years and provide generations of hockey players and fans with anecdotes.\n\nDespite early stars like Shore, Fred Thurier, Frank Beisler and Pete Kelly, success eluded the Indians on the ice. However, in the 1941–42 season, the Indians finished in first place.\n\nDisaster struck in the following season. With World War II, the United States army requisitioned the Eastern States Coliseum, Springfield's home arena, for the war effort, leaving the Indians homeless. Shore loaned Indians players to the Buffalo Bisons for the duration, returning the players to Springfield for the 1946–47 season. However, on ice success continued to elude the team, and despite the presence of stars such as Harry Pidhirny and Jim Anderson the franchise failed to have a winning record for over a decade more, including a temporary franchise relocation as the Syracuse Warriors from 1951–54.\n\nDuring those three seasons, Shore fielded a Springfield team in the low-minor Eastern Amateur Hockey League and later the Quebec Hockey League using the Indians name. Led by future Boston Bruins goaltender Don Simmons, scoring leader Vern Pachal, and player–coach Doug McMurdy, the EAHL Indians finished 3rd and 1st their two seasons in the loop, but finished in last place in 1954 in the QHL, the only team in the loop ever located outside of the province of Quebec.\n\nMeanwhile, disappointed with attendance in Syracuse, Shore moved the AHL franchise back to Springfield – disbanding the QHL team – for good for the 1955 season. The team's few superlatives for the rest of the decade included the 1955 season – during which Ross Lowe won the only league MVP award in franchise history and Anderson was named rookie of the year – and All-Star Team citations to Eldie Kobussen at center in 1948, Billy Gooden in 1951, Lowe, Gordon Tottle and Don Simmons in 1955, Gerry Ehman and Cal Gardner in 1958, and Pidhirny in 1959.\n\nMatters turned around in dramatic fashion for the 1959–60 season. Behind an affiliation with the Rangers bringing stars Bill Sweeney and goaltender Marcel Paille over from Providence, and an immensely deep team with star forwards Pidhirny, Anderson, Ken Schinkel, Bruce Cline, Brian Kilrea, and defensemen Ted Harris, Kent Douglas, Noel Price and Bob McCord, the Indians led the league in the regular season three straight years and won three straight Calder Cups, losing only five playoff games in that span. Sweeney won the league scoring title three years in a row, Paille the best goaltending record two years running, and Springfield defensemen won the best defenseman award two years running. The 1959–1962 Indians were the most dominant team the AHL has ever seen; no team before or since has ever won three Calder Cups in a row or finished first in the regular season three years in a row. The stands in the old Coliseum were filled night after night. The Indians of that time were so dominant that it was often said they could have made a good account of themselves in the NHL.\n\n1959–60: Sweeney finished second in league scoring behind Fred Glover of Cleveland with 96 points, Floyd Smith finished third and Bruce Cline ninth. The Indians led the league with a 43–23–6 record, and defeated Rochester four games to one in the finals for the franchise's first Calder Cup. Sweeney was named to the First All-Star Team at center, Paille to the Second Team at goal, McCord to the Second Team at defense, Smith to the Second Team at left wing, and Parker MacDonald to the Second Team at right wing.\n\n1960–61: Indians led the league with a 49–22–1 record, a mark unsurpassed until the 1973 season. The magnificent offense scored 344 goals, nearly a hundred more than any other team. Sweeney led the league in scoring, while Cline placed third, Kilrea fourth, Bill McCreary Sr. fifth and Anderson seventh in a show of offensive dominance unique in the history of the AHL, while Paille led the league in goaltending. The Indians became the second team in league history to go undefeated in the playoffs, sweeping the Cleveland Barons and the Hershey Bears. Paille was named to the First All-Star Team, as was Cline at right wing, McCord was awarded the Eddie Shore Award as the league's best defenseman, and Sweeney and Anderson were named to the Second Team.\n\n1961–62: Indians led the league with a 45–22–3 record. Sweeney defended his scoring title, while Kilrea placed fourth and Anderson tenth, and Paille led the league in goaltending once more. Springfield defeated Buffalo four games to one in the finals to win its record third Calder Cup in a row. Douglas won best defenseman honors, Sweeney and Paille repeated as First Team All-Stars, and McCord and Smith were named to the Second Team again.\n\nAlthough Sweeney led the league in scoring in 1963 for a third time, the party was over for the Indians. While they still had a winning record and an offense that led the league, the Rangers had moved Paille to Baltimore, and the team missed the playoffs that year in a tight divisional race. They continued to miss the playoffs for most of the rest of the Sixties.\n\nIn the meantime, Eddie Shore's oft-capricious and notoriously miserly ownership style caused increasing friction with his players, who staged wildcat strikes in 1966 and 1967. Representing them, a young lawyer named Alan Eagleson gained prominence, and went on to form the National Hockey League Players' Association (NHLPA).\n\nThe following season the Kings had the benefit of a league lacking powerful teams—only Baltimore and Cleveland had winning records. The team just squeaked into the playoffs with a 29–35–8 record, winning a one-game playoff with the Quebec Aces to do it. However, they caught fire in the playoffs. Led by future NHL star center Butch Goring and Hockey Hall of Fame goaltender Billy Smith, the Kings steamrolled through the postseason with a sparkling 11–1 record. They upended Cleveland in the second round before sweeping a shellshocked Providence Reds squad to win their fourth Calder Cup. The 1971 Kings were, and remain, the team with the poorest regular season record ever to win the Calder Cup.\n\nThe following year Goring and Smith were gone, and the franchise spent two more years in the wilderness. Matters didn't improve even after the Kings moved to the brand-new Springfield Civic Center in 1972. But in the 1974–75 season, Shore enjoyed his final hurrah. Taking full control of the team once more, Shore changing its name midseason back to the Indians and reverted to the old blue-white-red uniforms, all to popular acclaim. With a cast of no-names and a record only three games over .500, the club won its fifth Calder Cup championship (becoming only the second fourth place team ever to do so), beating the New Haven Nighthawks four games to one in the finals. An elderly Shore sold the team after the next season, ending an era inextricably linking his name to Springfield hockey.\n\nThe next fourteen years were hard ones for the once-proud franchise. Springfield went through a dizzying array of NHL affiliations, while no coach stayed longer than a single season. The revolving door did their on-ice record no good. Over that stretch, the Indians recorded only two winning seasons and only made the playoffs four times, winning but four playoff games. There were only sporadic bright spots; a scoring title from minor-league great Bruce Boudreau in 1988, quality seasons from future NHLers Charlie Simmer and Mario Lessard in 1978, and a league-leading season in goal in 1983 from Bob Janecyk.\n\nIn 1990 fortunes changed once more, in an affiliation with the New York Islanders. A gallant squad coached by ex-NHL defensive whiz Jim Roberts sneaked into the playoffs in the final week in part due to veteran minor-league goaltender Rick Knickle's (signed when injuries both in Springfield and Long Island sidelined the Indians' top three goaltenders) eight game undefeated streak, and on May 18, 1990, the team knocked off the heavily favored Rochester Americans in six games in the finals for the franchise's sixth Calder Cup. Future NHL goaltender Jeff Hackett won the playoff MVP, inspirational leader Rod Dallman provided tons of grit, while names such as Marc Bergevin, Tom Fitzgerald, team captain Rob DiMaio, Jeff Finley and Bill Berg were heard from by NHL fans for many years to come.\n\nIn the middle of a dispute over leasing at the Springfield Civic Center, the Indians' home for much of the previous two decades, the team's affiliation changed again to the Hartford Whalers. The fans were very angry at the loss of their favorites, especially since their replacements came mostly from a Binghamton Whalers team recording the worst record in league history. However, the 1990–91 new look Indians proved their naysayers wrong. Behind Roberts' veteran coaching, they rampaged to the second best record in the league behind a powerful offense led by future NHLer Terry Yake, James Black, Chris Tancill and Michel Picard (who led the league with a franchise-record 56 goals), and a rock solid defense led by captain John Stevens and Bergevin, who had been acquired by the Whalers in an early-season trade. In so doing, the team won the North Division regular season title, the Indians' first division title since the Cup-winning squad of 1962. Goaltender Kay Whitmore won the playoff MVP as Springfield defended their title against Rochester. The victory would be the Springfield franchise's seventh and final Calder Cup championship.\n\nRoberts and several stars were promoted to Hartford the following fall, and while the Indians repeated for the final time as division champions in 1992 (and in winning their seventh straight playoff series in the preliminary round of the playoffs, setting a new league record), (since tied by the Hershey Bears), they never again gained the finals nor thereafter had a winning record. In 1993 the Indians made the conference finals before being devastated by the eventual champion Cape Breton Oilers. They made the playoffs again in 1994, but were eliminated in the first round by the Adirondack Red Wings.\n\nAs it turned out, this was the last game the Indians would play in Springfield. In the fall of 1994, the franchise was bought by out-of-town interests and moved to Worcester, Massachusetts, to become the Worcester IceCats. With good will from a league with central offices across the river in West Springfield and support from league president Jack Butterfield and vice-president Gordon Anziano (both former Indians executives), longtime Indians general manager Bruce Landon secured a new franchise from the league and started play that season as the Springfield Falcons. He was also able to land an affiliation with the Whalers, thus allowing the new team to retain most of the Whalers-owned players that had played as the Indians in the previous season. Springfield has thus fielded a team in the AHL and its predecessors for all but seven years since 1926, and continuously since 1954. The only city with a longer unbroken run in the AHL is Hershey, where the Bears have played continuously since joining the AHL in 1938.\n\nThe original franchise moved to Peoria, Illinois, for the 2005–06 AHL season, where it played for eight years as the Peoria Rivermen. After the 2012–13 season, the Rivermen moved to Utica, New York, as the Utica Comets. The Comets and the Hartford Wolf Pack (whose lineage dates back to another AHL charter member, the Providence Reds), are the oldest minor league hockey franchises still in existence. The only professional hockey franchises that are older are the Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins of the NHL.\n\nThe final Springfield Indian playing any significant time with the franchise active in the NHL was Rob DiMaio, who last played in the 2006 preseason with the Dallas Stars; the final Indians playing significant time with the franchise active in professional hockey were Michel Picard and Terry Yake, active respectively in the Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey and the Swiss Nationalliga B through the end of the 2009 season. The last player who ever wore an Indians jersey active in professional hockey was Robert Petrovicky, who played 46 games in Springfield, last active in 2016 with HK Dukla Trenčín of the Slovak Extraliga.\n\nList of Springfield Indians alumni later inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.\nList of Springfield Indians alumni later inducted into the AHL Hall of Fame.\nList of Springfield Indians alumni that played more than 100 games in Springfield, and also played at least a hundred games in the National Hockey League and/or World Hockey Association or were otherwise notable hockey executives. ‡ – denotes a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\n\nThese are the top ten point-scorers in franchise history.\n\n\"Note: Pos = Position; GP = Games Played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points\n\n\n\"First place finishes in bold.\"\n\nDefeated Quebec Aces 4–3 in a single tiebreaker game to determine final playoff position.\n\n\"Playoff champions in bold.\"\n\nDefeated Quebec Aces 4–3 in a single tiebreaker game to determine final playoff position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876208", "title": "Älvdalen Party", "text": "Älvdalen Party\n\nThe Älvdalen Party () is a local political party in Älvdalen, Sweden. In 1998, the party received 9.3 percent of the votes and five seats in the municipal council. In 2002, it garnered 345 votes (8.5 percent) and three seats.\n"}
{"id": "1876213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876213", "title": "Giresun", "text": "Giresun\n\nGiresun (), formerly Cerasus (Κερασοῦς), is the provincial capital of Giresun Province in the Black Sea Region of northeastern Turkey, about west of the city of Trabzon.\n\nGiresun was known to the ancient Greeks as \"Choerades\" or more prominently as Kerasous or Cerasus (), the origin of the modern name.\n\nThe name Kerasous corresponds to κερασός (kerasós) \"cherry\" + -ουντ (a place marker). Thus, the Greek root of the word \"cherry\", κερασός (kerasós), predates the name of the city, and the ultimate origin of the word cherry (and thus the name of the city) is probably from a Pre-Greek substrate, likely of Anatolian origin, given the intervocalic σ in Κερασοῦς and the apparent cognates of it found in other languages the region.\n\nAnother theory derives Kerasous from κέρας (keras) \"horn\" + -ουντ (a place marker), for the prominent horn-shaped peninsula that the city is situated on (compare with the Greek name for the horn-shaped Golden Horn waterway in Istanbul, Κέρας (Keras) \"Horn\"). The toponym would have later mutated into \"Kerasunt\" (sometimes written \"Kérasounde\" or \"Kerassunde\"), and the word \"cherry\" (as well as its cognates found in other local languages) was derived from the name of the city itself, rather than the other way around.\n\nPharnaces I of Pontus renamed the city Pharnacia after himself after he captured the city in 183 BCE, and it was called by that name as late as the 2nd century CE. According to A. H. M. Jones, the city officially reverted to its original name, Kerasous, in 64 CE.\n\nThe Greek name Kerasous was Turkified into Giresun after Turks gained permanent control of the region in the late 15th century.\n\nThe English word \"cherry\", French \"cerise\", Spanish \"cereza\", Persian گیلاس (gilas) and Turkish \"kiraz\", among countless others, all come from Ancient Greek κερασός \"cherry tree\". According to Pliny, the cherry was first exported from Cerasus to Europe in Roman times by Lucullus.\n\nThe surrounding region has a rich agriculture, growing most of Turkey's hazelnuts as well as walnuts, cherries, leather and timber, and the port of Giresun has long handled these products. The harbour was enlarged in the 1960s and the town is still a port and commercial centre for the surrounding districts, but Giresun is not large, basically one avenue of shops leading away from the port.\n\nLike everywhere else on the Black Sea coast it rains (and often snows in winter) and is very humid throughout the year, with a lack of extreme temperatures both in summer and winter. As a result, Giresun and the surrounding countryside is covered by luxuriant flora. As soon as you get beyond the city buildings you get into the hazelnut growing area and the high pastures (\"yayla\") further in the mountains are gorgeous.\n\nGiresun has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfa), like most of the eastern Black Sea coast of Turkey, with warm and humid summers and cool and damp winters. Giresun has a high and evenly distributed precipitation throughout the year. Precipitation is heaviest in autumn and spring.\n\nSnowfall is quite common between the months of December and March, snowing for a week or two, and it can be heavy once it snows.\n\nThe water temperature is cool in winter and warm in summer and fluctuates between 8° and 29 °C throughout the year.\n\nGiresun's history goes back to the late 6th century BC, when it was founded by Greek colonists from Sinope, 110  km east of the homonymous city founded by Pharnaces I of Pontus, using citizens transferred from Kotyora (modern Ordu), circa 180 BCE. The name of the city is first cited in the book Anabasis by Xenophon as Kerasus. Historic records reveal that the city was dominated by the Miletians, Persians, Romans, Byzantines and Empire of Trebizond. The older parts of the city lie on a peninsula crowned by a ruined Byzantine fortress, sheltering the small natural harbour. Nearby is Giresun Island, in ancient times called \"Aretias\", the only major Black Sea island in Turkish territory. According to legend, the island was sacred to the Amazons, who had dedicated a temple to the war god Ares here. Even today, fertility rites are performed there every May, usually involving the famed boulder named the Hamza Stone on the east side of the island, now shrouded as a popular practice but in reality a 4,000-year-old celebration.\n\nCerasus in late antiquity became a Christian bishopric, and the names of several of its bishops are preserved in the acts of church councils: Gregorius at the Council of Ephesus in 431, Gratianus at the Council of Chalcedon in 451, Theophylactus at the Third Council of Constantinople in 680, Narses at the Trullan Council in 692, Ioannes at the Second Council of Nicaea in 787, and Simeon at the Photian Council of Constantinople in 879. An episcopal seal records a Leo of the 9th century, and a Michael was transferred from here to the see of Ancyra at the time of Michael Caerularius. It was the seat of a Greek Orthodox metropolitan until 1703, when the city was placed under the metropolitan of Trebizond. Accordingly, it is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see. The Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople also considers Cerasus (Kerasous), together with Chaldia and Cheriana, as a titular metropolitanate in Turkey.\n\nDuring the medieval period, Kerasunt was part of the Byzantine Empire and later the second city of the Empire of Trebizond ruled by the Komnenian dynasty. Alexios II Komnenos, Emperor of Trebizond, defeated the Turkmen \"Koustoganes\" at Kerasunt in September 1302; to secure his victory, Alexios II built a fortress which overlooks the sea. From 1244 onwards the Seljuk Turks moved into the area, pursued at times by the Mongol hordes until in 1461, subsequent to the fall of Constantinople, the whole of this coast was brought within the Ottoman Empire by Sultan Mehmet II. It was briefly occupied by Emirate of Hacıemiroğlu (Emirate of Chalybia) between 1398-1400. Local traditions claim that Kerasunt held out for many months after the fall of Trebizon in 1461, then surrendered on terms that the Christian inhabitants could remain and retain their arms, but were required to maintain a boat for the use of the Turks on a nearby river.\n\n4.2 km east-northeast of Kerasus is a fortified island called Ares (Αρητιας νήσος or Αρεώνησος). According to the poetic account of Apollonius of Rhodes, it was here that the Argonauts encountered both the Amazons and a flock of vicious birds. The Greeks of the island held out against the Ottomans for 7 years after the fall of Trebizond (modern Trabzon) in 1461.\n\nHistorically, Giresun was known for producing hazelnut. As of 1920, hazelnuts covered 460 square miles of the area.\n\n\nGiresun is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876218", "title": "Fred Foy", "text": "Fred Foy\n\nFrederick William Foy (March 27, 1921December 22, 2010) was an American radio and television announcer and actor, who used Fred Foy as his professional name. He is best known for his narration of \"The Lone Ranger\". Radio historian Jim Harmon described Foy as \"\"the\" announcer, perhaps the greatest announcer-narrator in the history of radio drama.\"\n\nShortly after graduating from high school in 1938, Foy began in broadcasting with a part-time position at WMBC, a 250-watt independent station in Detroit. He moved to WXYZ in 1942, but World War II interrupted his radio career.\n\nHe was inducted August 28, 1942, entering the American armed forces September 11, 1942. Attached to the 14th Special Service Company, Sergeant Fred Foy became the American voice on Egyptian State Broadcasting, delivering news and special programs to the Allied Forces in Cairo. He handled the distribution throughout the Middle East of American recordings, in addition to local broadcasts of \"Command Performance\", \"Mail Call\", \"Personal Album\", \"Radio Bric-a-Brac\" and \"Front Line Theatre\". He also announced \"The American Forces Programme\". For \"Stars and Stripes\" he did \"American News Letter\", a weekly summary of news from America, plus sport flashes and items from various theatres of war. For Cairo cinemas, he announced \"Headline News of the Day\". Foy helped stage and announce USO sponsored programs, including a Jack Benny broadcast from Cairo to New York and an Andre Kostelanetz concert with Lily Pons.\n\nFoy scripted his own shows, including \"Up To Scratch\", a lively program of the current hit tunes, and \"Shows on Parade\", which he hosted. When he wrote and directed \"Christmas Overseas\", broadcast from the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, in the Holy Land it received top honors from Washington. Featuring Christmas music by the Franciscan Boys’ Orphanage Choir, the program opened with a Christmas story offering reasons for fighting the War. Working with \"Stars and Stripes\", he created and announced a program airing World Series play-by-play to GIs. He also scripted, directed and acted with the American Red Cross during the 1945 War Fund Campaign. Foy received a commendation for voluntarily remaining at his post during the hours from August 10, 1945 until final August 15 confirmation of the Japanese surrender, making the latest news available at all times during the news emergency prior to the surrender. He was discharged on January 3, 1946 at Camp Atterbury in Indiana.\n\nAfter the war, Foy returned to WXYZ in Detroit. He took over the position of announcer and narrator for radio's \"The Lone Ranger\" beginning July 2, 1948 and continuing until the series ended on September 3, 1954. He understudied the title role and stepped into the part on March 29, 1954 when Brace Beemer had laryngitis. His long run as announcer and narrator of \"The Lone Ranger\" made the Foy's distinctive voice a radio trademark. He was also heard on radio's \"The Green Hornet\" and \"Challenge of the Yukon\".\n\nHis stentorian delivery of the program's lead-in thrilled his audience for years and helped the program achieve even greater popularity and status. Most radio historians agree that Foy’s \"Lone Ranger\" introduction is the most recognized opening in American radio:\n\nIn 1955, Foy reprised his famous \"Return with us now...\" opening narration for \"The Lone Ranger\" television series (1949–57) in syndication (Actor Gerald Mohr did the opening narration in the original network run). In 1961, Foy joined the ABC announcing staff in New York. For ABC Television he spent five years as announcer and on-camera commercial spokesman for \"The Dick Cavett Show\". He was also the announcer for \"The Generation Gap\" and other network quiz shows. For ABC Radio he narrated the award-winning news documentary, \"Voices in the Headlines\", as well as serving as host and narrator for the ABC's radio drama series, \"Theatre 5\" (1964–65). He narrated network documentary specials in tribute to Sir Winston Churchill, John F. Kennedy, Herbert Hoover and others. As spokesman for national advertisers, Foy represented Colgate, General Motors and Sinclair. Foy, who was also heard doing newscasts on WABC radio in New York, stayed with ABC until 1985.\n\nFred Foy was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in March 2000 and received the Golden Boot Award from the Motion Picture and Television Fund in August 2004.\n\nFoy performed his \"Return with us now...\" \"Lone Ranger\" opening narration live at the Hollywood Bowl in August 2000, with the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra and conductor John Mauceri. In 1986, he wrote his autobiography, \"Fred Foy from XYZ to ABC: A Fond Recollection\", and he has also released a 45-minute CD/cassette of memories, \"Meanwhile, Back at the Ranch\".\n\nFred Foy died on December 22, 2010 of natural causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876221", "title": "Municipal List", "text": "Municipal List\n\nMunicipal List () was a local political party in Älvdalen, Sweden.\n\nThe party was founded as \"Särnalistan\" (Särna List), to work for the interest of Särna village within the geographically large municipality. But to the surprise of the party itself, in the 2002 election a fourth of its vote came from outside of Särna. Thus following in April 2005 it took the name \"Kommunlistan\" in order to reflect its ambitions as a party for the entire municipality.\n\nIn elections it got 408 votes (9.8%) and three seats.\n"}
{"id": "1876222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876222", "title": "Sick Boy (wrestler)", "text": "Sick Boy (wrestler)\n\nRobert Scott Vick (born March 20, 1973) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling from 1997 to 1999 under the ring name Sick Boy, where he was a member of Raven's Flock.\n\nAfter training at the WCW Power Plant, he made his professional debut on the March 31, 1997 episode of \"Nitro\" under the ring name Lance Ringo, where he lost to Diamond Dallas Page.\n\nSeveral months later, Vick competed on the November 24 episode of \"Nitro\" as Sick Boy, where he was also revealed to be a member of Raven's Flock. His third match of his career was a loss to Chris Benoit. Sick Boy received his first title match as he competed against Page for the United States Heavyweight Championship on the January 29, 1998 episode of \"Thunder\", but was unsuccessful in winning the title. He faced Page in a rematch for the title on the February 17 episode of \"Saturday Night\", but was again unsuccessful. He then continued to wrestle in many feuds with Chris Benoit, Diamond Dallas Page, Steve McMichael, Bill Goldberg and others.\n\nSick Boy would then be used as a jobber for several months afterwards, and remained with the Flock until its disbanding on September 13 at Fall Brawl. In 1999, Vick dropped the grungy attire associated with the Flock and adopted wrestling trunks in addition to dyeing his hair blond. On the July 22 episode of \"Thunder\", he wrestled his last match for the company as he faced Rick Steiner in a match for the World Television Championship, but was unsuccessful in winning the title.\n\nIn October 1999, Vick signed a booking contract with the World Wrestling Federation. He appeared on Heat and Metal until his release. According to WWE Producer Bruce Prichard on his podcast, Vick was originally scheduled to appear in the infamous Katie Vick storyline when he was to be called up to RAW, hence why the Katie character's last name was \"Vick\". However, after a series of underwhelming and disappointing matches, Vince McMahon decided to give the storyline to Kane and Triple H during their feud for the World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, Sick Boy and Lodi reunited to win the WrestleForce Tag Team Championship from The Bravado Brothers. The Flock lost the titles against The Bravado Brothers on February 8, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876231", "title": "Apuseni Mountains", "text": "Apuseni Mountains\n\nThe Apuseni Mountains (, ) is a mountain range in Transylvania, Romania, which belongs to the Western Romanian Carpathians, also called \"Occidentali\" in Romanian. Their name translates from Romanian as Mountains \"of the sunset\" i.e. \"western\". The highest peak is the Bihor Peak () at 1849 metres. The Apuseni Mountains has about 400 caves.\n\nThe Apuseni Mountains do not present an uninterrupted chain of mountains, but possess many low and easy passes towards the Crișana and the Great Hungarian Plain. Going from south to north the principal groups are: the Munții Metaliferi (\"Ore Mountains\") with the basaltic masses of the Detunata () near Abrud; the Bihor Mountains, with numerous caverns, with the highest peak the Bihorul (); to the east of this group are the Muntele Mare (highest peak ), to the southwest of Cluj-Napoca; the northernmost chain is the Seș and Meseș Mountains.\n\n\n\"Criş Mountains (Munţii Crişului, )\" :\n\n\"Seş-Meseş Mountains (Munţii Seş-Meseşului)\":\n\n\"Bihor Massif (\"Masivul Bihor\", ):\n\n\"Mureş Mountains (\"Munţii Mureşului\", ):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876233", "title": "Milan Mladenović", "text": "Milan Mladenović\n\nMilan Mladenović (Serbian Cyrillic: Милан Младеновић; 21 September 1958 – 5 November 1994) was a Serbian musician best known as the frontman of the Yugoslav art rock band Ekatarina Velika.\n\nBorn to Serbian father Spasa from Kruševac and Croatian mother Danica from Makarska, Milan's first years were spent in Zagreb, PR Croatia, where his father, an officer in the Yugoslav People's Army, was stationed at the time. Consequently, Milan grew up wherever it was that his dad's job took the family. In total, it ended up being three cities. \n\nWhen he was six, Milan's family moved to Sarajevo where he spent a notable part of his childhood. \n\nEventually in 1970, they moved to Belgrade just short of his 12th birthday. Once in Belgrade, Milan attended the Eleventh Belgrade Gymnasium in the Lekino Brdo neighbourhood while simultaneously entering the circle of young people involved with music and arts.\n\nWith schoolmate Gagi Mihajlović, Mladenović formed a band called Limunovo drvo (Lemon Tree) that dabbled in melodic hard rock. The group changed lineups frequently, displaying a pretty limited creative potential until the arrival of bassist Dušan Kojić Koja and drummer Ivan Vdović Vd. Soon afterwards, they adopted a new musical direction (new wave) and changed the name to Šarlo akrobata. During this time Milan was musically very much fond of and inspired by Elvis Costello, Paul Weller, and Andy Partridge of XTC.\n\nŠarlo akrobata released only one album, \"Bistriji ili tuplji čovek biva kad...\" in July 1981 and broke up soon afterward due to creative differences between Milan and Koja. The record is considered to be one of the best and most important albums of the Yugoslav new wave music scene.\n\nIn late 1981 Milan and his former bandmate from Limunovo drvo Gagi Mihajlović (guitar) hooked up again to form Katarina II. In 1982 Margita Stefanović (keyboards), Bojan Pečar (bass) and Ivan Vdović Vd joined the band. After the self-titled, new wave coloured debut album, Vd and Gagi left the band. Since Gagi claimed ownership of the \"Katarina II\" name, the band was forced to take another one. They eventually settled on Ekatarina Velika and released a self-titled album in 1985. The album was widely critically acclaimed and brought them wider attention. Their next album \"S' vetrom uz lice\" launched them to the very top of the Yugoslav music scene, where they stayed for a long time, releasing a series of successful records. The concerts were jam packed and finally their music even made it on the state radio.\n\nIn 1992, Mladenović joined other Serbian musicians to form Rimtutituki project dedicated to the anti-war campaign. They released one single titled \"Slušaj 'vamo\". In the spring of 1994, Mladenović recorded and released an album called \"Angel's Breath\" in Brazil together with his old friend Suba (Mitar Subotić).\n\nIn August 1994, Mladenović discovered that he had pancreatic cancer. He died on November 5 in Belgrade, FR Yugoslavia and was buried at Novo groblje cemetery.\n\nThree streets in the capital cities of former Yugoslav republics bear Mladenović's name. A street in the Belgrade neighborhood Zemun Polje was named after him in 2004, a street in the Podgorica neighborhood Zabjelo in 2007, as well as a street in Zagreb (Croatia) in 2012.\n\nSince 14 July 2011 the forecourt of the Belgrade Youth Center bears the name \"Milan Mladenović Place\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876235", "title": "Folkhemmet i Hofors-Torsåker", "text": "Folkhemmet i Hofors-Torsåker\n\nFolkhemmet i Hofors-Torsåker is a local political party in Hofors, Sweden. The party was formed ahead of the 2002 elections. Pär Åslund founded the party after having been expelled from the Green Party. It got 379 votes (6.3%) and two seats in the municipal council. The councillors of the party were Broor Sundin and Pär Åslund.\n\nIn their second election in 2006 they got 721 votes (12.01%) and became the second biggest party in the municipal council with four seat (as many as the Moderate Party, though the Moderates got only 11.43%) The first seat for Folkhemmet was once again claimed by Pär Åslund with 241 personal votes. The second seat for Folkhemmet was once again claimed by Broor Sundin, who got 47 personal votes, which was not enough to matter. The third seat is filled by Kent Olsson, and the fourth by Mikael Larsson.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party lost their majority in this election, but will remain in power as the parties of the Alliance for Sweden refuse to cooperate with Folkhemmet. The reason is some less well thought comments from the fifth name on Folkhemmet's list of council candidates, and the first reserve for Folkhemmet in the council, Anitha Näsström. Anitha Näsström, who is a shopowner, has had numerous problems with immigrants stealing her merchandise, and has in anger posted a sign in her shopwindow considering how well advised it is for the town to accept more foreign refugees when they cannot properly handle those who are already present.\n"}
{"id": "1876241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876241", "title": "Bernt Johan Collet", "text": "Bernt Johan Collet\n\nBernt Johan Holger Collet (born 23 November 1941) is a Danish politician and farmer. He is the eldest son of Chamberlain and Master of the Royal Hunt, M. Sc. (Econ), Harald Collet and landscape architect Else Collett.\n\nHe served as Defense Minister in the Cabinet of Poul Schlüter II. Today, he is Chairman and CEO of Collet & Co. and serves as a Chamberlain at Her Majesty’s Court and is Master of the Royal Hunt. In 2004, Bernt Johan Collet co-founded the Danish think-tank Center for Political Studies (CEPOS). He serves as Chairman of the Board of CEPOS.\n\nCollet graduated from Herlufsholm kostskole in 1960. He served in the Royal Lifeguards from 1960 and has since 1964 served as First Lieutenant of the reserve. He trained at Naesgaard Agricultural College and at large estates 1962-1965. In 1967 he graduated from the Business School of Copenhagen. In the years 1969-1971 he worked with General Mills, Inc., U.S.A.\n\nIn 1967, he took over the family estate, Lundbygaard and has run it since 1971 along with his work in industry, retail trade and a number of organizations.\n\nCollet was elected to the Danish Parliament in 1981 and served there until 1990. During his time in parliament he was appointed spokesman for the Conservative People's Party on business affairs and on agricultural affairs. In the period 1984-1987 he was the Conservative leader in the Parliament’s Finance Committee, and he was a member of the EU Committee 1982-1987. He served as Minister of Defense 1987-1988 and 1988-1990 as Chairman of the Parliament’s Committee for Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries. In 1988 he was a member of the Nordic Council. In 1989 Mr. Collet was a Danish delegate to the United Nations and in 1990 he was appointed international observer of the first democratic elections in Romania. In 1990 Mr. Collet resigned his posts in the Danish Parliament to return to his work in business.\n\nHe held the position as chairman of Herlufsholm boarding school 1990-1994, and 1998-2004 he was a member of the Board of Trustees of Copenhagen Business School. Among other things he is the chairman of the Association of Danish Business Graduates (20,000 members) and the Nordic and International associations.\n\nBernt Johan Collet is married to psychologist, phil. cand. Catharina Collet. She is the European vice chairman of Europa Nostra, an organization that promotes conservation of the buildings’ and landscapes’ heritage of Europe.\n\nCollet is the co-author of \"The History of Denmark 1945-82\", published 1984.\n\nIn 2010 Collet was accused of converting 11 different protected prehistoric sites into farmland, but the case against him was dropped as the entrepreneur was held responsible . Again in 2012, Ministry of Culture (Denmark) reported Collet to the police for damaging a prehistoric gravesite from the Stone Age. In the 2014 court case Collet was eventually acquitted, however the ministry reestablished the grave at his expense. In 2017 he lost an appeal case in Denmark's Eastern High Court, which however lowered the cost imposed for reconstruction of the grave by approx. 20 pct.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876246", "title": "Bill Hammond", "text": "Bill Hammond\n\nWilliam (Bill) Hammond (born 1947 in Christchurch) is a New Zealand artist.\n\nHammond attended the School of Fine Arts at the University of Canterbury from 1966 to 1969, and has worked as a full-time painter since 1981 (in between times working as a toymaker). His paintings feature two common themes: references to popular music and gaunt creatures with avian heads and human limbs.\n\nHis best known work is probably the painting \"Waiting for Buller\" (1993 ), which refers to the ornithologist Walter Lawry Buller.\n\nHammond lives and works in Lyttelton, New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876254", "title": "Mark McVeigh", "text": "Mark McVeigh\n\nMark McVeigh (born 26 January 1981) is a former professional Australian rules footballer for the Essendon Football Club in the Australian Football League. He has also served an assistant coach of the Greater Western Sydney Giants.\n\nAfter having a slow start with a season high of 15 Disposals and 4 Marks, in his second season he suffered an injury and missed most of Essendons games. In McVeigh's third season however, it was clear that the game had grown on him as he stood up as an up-and-coming youngster. After playing 23 games in his third year of playing including the Grand Final against the Brisbane Lions in which Essendon lost, McVeigh had some promising stats with a consistent 11 – 18 in over half of every game he played. McVeigh also went on to play the next 3 seasons in stellar form with Essendon who reached 3 consecutive semi-finals in which McVeigh played in all.\n\nIn the next 3 seasons McVeigh was a stand out performer for Essendon, with a high disposal & efficiency rate he was one of the club's main contributors and eventually was to become a part of the Leadership group and a role model to his younger rookies. With disposals in the high 20s and a career high of 36 disposals, McVeigh was determined to get Essendon back on track. In 2008 McVeigh suffered an injury which sidelined him for almost half the season, nevertheless he claimed 13 Brownlow votes to his name in only 14 games, McVeigh finished in the top 20.\n\nOn 17 October 2009 McVeigh married his longtime girlfriend, Leanne Tucker. They have a daughter, Ariana, born in March 2011. Mark also had a niece, Luella (the daughter of Sydney's Jarrad McVeigh), born on 25 July 2011 but she died from heart complications barely a month later. Following Essendon's seven-point victory over , its first over the side since 2004, Mark 'blew a kiss towards to the heavens' in her memory. Essendon's players wore black armbands in the match.\n\nMcVeigh retired from professional Australian Rules Football on 29 August 2012. Injuries to his hip, knee and hamstring restricted McVeigh to only three games during the 2012 season. McVeigh stated, \"It's a decision that I've been to-ing and fro-ing with for about eight weeks. But I've been very fortunate to part ways with the club on really good terms,\" during a press conference at Windy Hill. McVeigh shared the role of Vice-Captain of the Essendon Football Club with David Hille for most of his career. McVeigh played a total of 232 games and kicked 107 goals during his successful career at Essendon.\n\nIn 2013, following his retirement, McVeigh began a media career with the Seven Network and SEN 1116. He also began taking developmental coaching roles in New South Wales and Canberra. He coached the Under-16 and Under-18 NSW/ACT Rams teams in the national championships, and took a head coaching role at the Giants Academy, then transitioned into an assistant coaching role at the Greater Western Sydney Giants from 2015, serving as the defensive coach.\n\nOn 12 January 2016, McVeigh was named as one of 34 past and present Essendon players found guilty over their use of illegal supplements during the 2012 AFL season. As a result, McVeigh was suspended from involvement in football for twenty-four months, which (due to back-dating and time served in provisional suspensions) saw him suspended until November 2016. The terms of the suspension meant that McVeigh was unable to continue assistant coaching role during 2016.\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1999\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2000\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2001\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2002\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2003\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2004\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2005\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2006\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2007\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2008\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2009\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2010\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2011\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 2012\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 232\n! 107\n! 94\n! 2290\n! 1025\n! 3315\n! 755\n! 628\n! 0.5\n! 0.4\n! 9.9\n! 4.4\n! 14.3\n! 3.3\n! 2.7\n\n"}
{"id": "1876255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876255", "title": "Platoon sergeant major", "text": "Platoon sergeant major\n\nPlatoon sergeant major (PSM) was an appointment in the British Army in the short-lived rank of warrant officer class III (WOIII), created in 1938. The platoon sergeant major, and his cavalry counterpart, the troop sergeant major, were part of a project giving experienced non-commissioned officers command of units formerly reserved for commissioned officers (platoons and troops). With the outbreak of World War II, National Service filled the Army with enough young men suitable for commissioning, so the project was stood down; no promotions were made to the rank after 1940 and most existing WOIIIs were commissioned as lieutenants.\n"}
{"id": "1876262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876262", "title": "Usage share of web browsers", "text": "Usage share of web browsers\n\nThe usage share of web browsers is the proportion, often expressed as a percentage, of visitors to a group of web sites that use a particular web browser.\n\nMeasuring browser usage in the number of requests (page hits) made by each user agent can be misleading.\n\nNot all requests are generated by a user, as a user agent can make requests at regular time intervals without user input. In this case, the user's activity might be overestimated. Some examples:\n\n\nIt is also possible to underestimate the usage share by using the number of requests, for example:\n\n\nWebsites often include code to detect browser version to adjust the page design sent according to the user agent string received. This may mean that less-popular browsers are not sent complex content (even though they might be able to deal with it correctly) or, in extreme cases, refused all content. Thus, various browsers have a feature to \"cloak\" or \"spoof\" their identification to force certain server-side content.\n\n\nNet Applications, in their NetMarketShare report, uses unique visitors to measure web usage. The effect is that users visiting a site ten times will only be counted once by these sources, while they are counted ten times by statistics companies that measure page hits.\n\nNet Applications uses country-level weighting as well. The goal of weighting countries based on their usage is to mitigate selection area based sampling bias. This bias is caused by the differences in the percentage of tracked hits in the sample, and the percentage of global usage tracked by third party sources. This difference is caused by the heavier levels of market usage.\n\nStatistics from the United States government's Digital Analytics Program (DAP) do not represent world-wide usage patterns. DAP uses raw data from a unified Google Analytics account.\n\nThe following tables summarize the usage share of all browsers for the indicated months. All of Apple Inc.'s platforms use the Safari browser, including macOS and iOS systems with the WebKit engine. Therefore, for the \"all browsers\" stats, Safari's percentage is counting all of these users.\n\nMore detailed statistics are:\n\nAccording to StatCounter web use statistics (a proxy for all use), in the week from 7–13 November 2016, \"mobile\" (meaning smartphones) alone (without tablets) overtook desktop for the first time and by the end of the year smartphones were in the majority. Since 27 October, the desktop hasn't shown a majority, even on weekdays.\n\nPreviously according to StatCounter press release, the world has turned into a desktop-minority; , there was about 49% of desktop usage for that month. The two biggest continents, Asia and Africa, have been a mobile-majority for a while, and Australia is by now desktop-minority too. A few countries in Europe and South America have also followed this trend of being mobile-majority.\n\nIn March 2015, for the first time in the US the number of mobile-only adult internet users exceeded the number of desktop-only internet users with 11.6% of the digital population only using mobile compared to 10.6% only using desktop; this also means the majority, 78%, use both desktop and mobile to access the internet. \n\nStatCounter statistics are directly derived from hits (not unique visitors) from 3 million sites using StatCounter totaling more than 15 billion hits per month. No weightings are used.\n\nThis site counts the last 15,000 page views from each of approximately 80,000 websites.\nThis limits the influence of sites with more than 15,000 monthly visitors on the usage statistics.\nW3Counter is not affiliated with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).\n\nNet Applications bases its usage share on statistics from 40,000 websites having around 160 million unique visitors per month. The mean site has 1300 unique visitors per day.\n\nWikimedia traffic analysis reports are based on server logs of about 4 billion page requests per month, based on the user agent information that accompanied the requests. These server logs cover requests to all the Wikimedia Foundation projects, including Wikipedia, Wikimedia Commons, Wiktionary, Wikibooks, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikinews, Wikiversity and others.\n\nNote: Wikimedia has recently had a large percentage of unrecognised browsers, previously counted as Firefox, that are now assumed to be Internet Explorer 11 fixed in the February 2014 and later numbers. And February 2014 numbers include mobile for Internet Explorer and Firefox (not included in Android). Chrome did not include the mobile numbers at that time while Android does since there was an \"Android browser\" that was the default browser at that time.\n\n92% of sites monitored by StatOwl serve predominantly United States market.\n\n\"AT Internet Institute\" was formerly known as \"XiTi\".\n\nMethod: Only counts visits to local sites in 23 European countries and then averages the percentages for those 23 European countries independent of population size.\n\n\"TheCounter.com\" identifies sixteen versions of six browsers (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Netscape, and Konqueror). Other browsers are categorised as either \"Netscape compatible\" (including Google Chrome, which may also be categorized as \"Safari\" because of its \"Webkit\" subtag) or \"unknown\". Internet Explorer 8 is identified as Internet Explorer 7. Monthly data includes all hits from 2008-02-01 until the end of the month concerned. More than the exact browser type, this data identifies the underlying rendering engine used by various browsers, and the table below aggregates them in the same column.\n\n<br>GVU WWW user survey (January 1994 to October 1998)\n<br>EWS Web Server at UIUC (1996 Q2 to 1998)\n<br>ZD Market Intelligence (US, January 1997 to January 1998)\n<br>Zona Research (US, Jan 1997 to Jan 1998)\n<br>AdKnowledge (January 1998 to June 1998)\n<br>Dataquest (1995 to 1997)\n<br>International Data Corporation (US, 1996 to 1997)\n\n"}
{"id": "1876263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876263", "title": "Law enforcement officer", "text": "Law enforcement officer\n\nA law enforcement officer (LEO), or peace officer in North American English, is a public-sector employee whose duties primarily involve the enforcement of laws. The phrase can include police officers, municipal law enforcement officers, special police officers, customs officers, state troopers, special agents, secret agents, special investigators, border patrol officers, immigration officers, court officers, probation officers, parole officers, arson investigators, auxiliary officers, game wardens, sheriffs, constables, corrections, marshals, deputies, detention officers, correction officers, and public safety officers (at public institutions). Security guards are civilians and therefore not law enforcement officers, unless they have been granted powers to enforce particular laws, such as those accredited under a community safety accreditation scheme such as a Security Police Officer. \n\nModern legal codes use the term \"peace officer\" (or in some jurisdictions, \"law enforcement officer\") to include every person vested by the legislating state with law enforcement authority—traditionally, anyone \"sworn, badged, and armable\" who can arrest, or refer such arrest for a criminal prosecution. Hence, city police officers, county sheriffs' deputies, state troopers and in some states corrections officers are usually vested with the same authority within a given jurisdiction. Contract security officers may enforce certain laws and administrative regulations, which may include detainment or apprehension authority, including arresting. Peace officers may also be able to perform all duties that a law enforcement officer is tasked with, but may or may not be armed with a weapon.\n\nIn Canada, the Criminal Code (R.S., c. C-34, s. 2.) defines a \"peace officer\" as:\n\nSection (b) allows for designation as a peace officer for a member of the Correctional Service of Canada under the following via the \"Corrections and Conditional Release Act\":\n\nAlso, provincial legislatures can designate a class of officers (i.e. Conservation Officers, Park Rangers and Commercial Vehicle Safety and Enforcement) to be peace officers.\n\nUnder the \"Code Of Criminal Procedure\" a peace officer includes all police officers, a Divisional Assistant Government Agent and a Grama Niladharis appointed by a Government Agent (GA) in writing to perform police duties or keep the peace. A peace officer has the power to arrest a person without a warrant or an order from a magistrate under certain circumstances such as;\n\n\nDuring the British colonial administration of Ceylon, when uniformed policing by the Ceylon Police Force in rural areas of the island was limited, the local government agent would appoint individuals from wealthy influential families deemed loyal to the crown as a Peace Officers with police powers to keep the peace. This was an influential post, the holder had much control over the people of the area. Commonly a Native Headman (Ralahami) was appointed as the Peace Officer to maintain law and order in rural villages. \n\nFollowing the formation of the State Council of Ceylon in 1931, one of its members, H. W. Amarasuriya, called for an inquiry into the headman system. A commission was formed made up of retired civil servants and lawyers headed by H.M. Wedderburn. The commission reported on reforming the headman system or replacing it with transferable District Revenue Officers. The headman system was abolished as an administrative system, with the titles of Mudaliyar (Mudali - මුදලි) and Muhandiram retained by the government to be awarded as honors. This practice remained until the suspension of Ceylonese honors in 1956 by S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike. The minor headman positions where retained, surviving well into the 1970s when the post of Vidane was replaced with the transferable post of Grama Niladhari (Village Officer).\n\nU.S. Law Enforcement Officers include (but may not be limited to) the following:\n\n\nArizona Revised Statutes defines a peace officer in Title 13, Section 105, as \"any person vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and make arrests and includes a constable.\" Title 1, Section 215(27) enumerates those who are peace officers in the State of Arizona. It includes:\n\n\nArizona Revised Statutes 41-1823 states that except for duly elected or appointed sheriffs and constables, and probation officers in the course of their duties, no person may exercise the authority or perform the duties of a peace officer unless he is certified by the Arizona peace officers standards and training board.\n\nSections 830 through 831.7 of the California Penal Code\nlist persons who are considered peace officers within the State of California. Peace officers include, in addition to many others,\n\n\nMost peace officers have jurisdiction throughout the state, but many have limited powers outside their political subdivisions. Some peace officers require special permission to carry firearms. Powers are often limited to the performance of peace officers' primary duties (usually, enforcement of specific laws within their political subdivision); however, most have power of arrest anywhere in the state for any public offense\nthat poses an immediate danger to a person or property.\n\nA private person (i.e., ordinary citizen) may arrest another person for an offense committed in the arresting person's presence, or if the other person has committed a felony whether or not in the arresting person's presence (Penal Code § 837), though such an arrest when an offense has not occurred leaves a private person open to criminal prosecution and civil liability for false arrest. A peace officer may:\n\nPersons are required to comply with certain instructions given by a peace officer, and certain acts (e.g., battery) committed against a peace officer carry more severe penalties than the same acts against a private person. It is unlawful to resist, delay, or obstruct a peace officer in the course of the officer's duties (Penal Code § 148<nowiki>[a][1]</nowiki>).\n\nNew York State grants peace officers very specific powers under NYS Criminal Procedure Law, that they may make warrantless arrests, use physical and deadly force, and issue summonses under section 2.20 of that law.\n\nThere is a full list of peace officers under Section 2.10 of that law. Below are some examples.\n\n\nTexas Statutes, Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 2.12, provides:\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "1876270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876270", "title": "CX717", "text": "CX717\n\nCX717 is an ampakine compound created by Christopher Marrs and Gary Rogers in 1996 at Cortex Pharmaceuticals. It affects the neurotransmitter glutamate, with trials showing the drug improves cognitive functioning and memory.\n\nIn 2005 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) accepted Cortex Pharmaceuticals' Investigational New Drug (IND) application to initiate pilot Phase II clinical trials in the United States.\n\nAlso, in 2005, the United States Department of Defense funded a study to look into CX717 and the physiological effects of sleepiness. The study found that rhesus monkeys performed faster and better after receiving the drug, and it counteracted the effects of sleep deprivation.\n\nHowever, a 2006 study funded by DARPA found that CX717 did not improve cognitive performance in humans subjected to simulated night shift work.\n\nIn early March 2006 Cortex reported that, in a small pilot Phase II study, CX717 had demonstrated positive clinical and statistical results on the primary endpoint, the ADHD rating scale and the sub-scales related to attention and hyperactivity which are used for the approval of all currently available ADHD treatments. According to a Cortex Pharmaceuticals press release, \"Consistent with all previous studies involving over 220 patients and healthy adults, this study demonstrated that CX717 was safe, well tolerated, and produced no increase in heart rate, blood pressure or other cardiovascular side effects\".\n\nIn April 2007 Cortex Pharmaceuticals submitted two large data packages to the FDA regarding CX717. One data set went to the FDA's Division of Neurology Drug Products for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, while the other went to the Division of Psychiatry Products where the company filed a second CX717 IND for the treatment of ADHD. According to a Cortex Pharmaceuticals press release, the submitted data package \"provides clear evidence that the specific histopathological changes seen in animal toxicology studies, which previously caused the FDA to put CX717 on clinical hold, is a postmortem fixation artifact and is not found in the tissue of the animal when it is still living\".\n\nRoger G Stoll PhD, Chief Executive Officer of Cortex, stated, \n“When CX717 was removed from clinical hold on October 6, 2006 by the Neurology Division a dose was permitted for continuing a study in patients with Alzheimer's disease, but that dose was too low to permit the assessment of the drug in patients with ADHD. Further information was needed to better understand the cause of the histopathological changes. We now have a substantial data base which clearly documents the fact that the histological changes of concern occur postmortem when the fixative solution is used to prepare the slides of the tissue specimens.”\nHowever, in October 2007 the FDA denied Cortex's IND application for a Phase IIb study of CX717 for treatment of ADHD, based on the same animal toxicology results. Cortex responded by inactivating the application, although it will \"continue its plans to develop CX717 for the acute treatment of respiratory depression (RD) and continue its study of CX717 in its Alzheimer’s disease PET scan study. Cortex believes that the IND application previously filed with the Division of Neurology Products of the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease will not be affected by the actions of the DPP.\" The company hopes that after the use of the compound in treating a high-risk acute condition is approved and well-established, the risks of longer-term use at higher doses, such as for treatment of ADHD, will be shown to be less than the FDA had concluded.\n\nThe relatively poor oral bioavailability and blood–brain barrier penetration of CX-717 ultimately led to Cortex abandoning development of the 800 mg oral formulation of CX-717 for ADHD, although research into its action in the brain continues. However the unexpected discovery of the strong respiratory stimulant effects of the ampakine drugs on the pre-Botzinger complex of the brain has led to continued development of an intravenous formulation of CX-717 for use alongside opioid analgesics, along with an oral formulation of CX-1739, which is around 3-5x more potent than CX-717 and has better oral bioavailability, and is being trialled for treatment of sleep apnea. Further research has investigated the neurological mechanisms behind the anti-respiratory depressant effects of CX-717, and demonstrated that it can be used in humans alongside opioid drugs to reduce this side effect without affecting analgesia.\n\nOther AMPAkine drugs from Cortex Pharmaceuticals such as CX-546 and CX-614 have already been researched for use in treating Alzheimer's disease and ADHD. These drugs were reasonably effective at reducing the symptoms of Alzheimer's and it was hoped that they could also slow the progression of the disease, but both CX-546 and CX-614 have poor bioavailability, and are only active at very high doses of 1000 mg or more. CX-717 and CX-1739 are newer and more potent drugs in the same series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876271", "title": "The Sophtware Slump", "text": "The Sophtware Slump\n\nThe Sophtware Slump is the second studio album by American indie rock band Grandaddy. It was released in May 2000 by record label V2. It is seen by some as a concept album about problems concerning modern technology in society. The album was released to critical acclaim.\n\nThe album was written and recorded by frontman Jason Lytle alone in a remote farmhouse. He has been quoted as saying: \"I just remember everything out there was dusty. Humidity and dust\", and described having made the recordings \"in my boxer shorts, bent over keyboards with sweat dripping off my forehead, frustrated, hungover and trying to call my coke dealer\".\n\nThe album's title \"The Sophtware Slump\" is a reference to a sophomore slump, a term given to an artist's second album which is seen to fail to live up to the first.\n\n\"Jed the Humanoid\" concerns an android named Jed, and is a eulogy for the robot, who drinks himself to death. Regarding Jed, who also appears in \"Jed's Other Poem (Beautiful Ground)\" and had appeared earlier in the song \"Jeddy 3's Poem\" from the 1999 EP \"Signal to Snow Ratio\", Lytle noted: \"I used Jed as my therapy vehicle, I guess... I was attempting to approach the subject of drinking, and possibly the fact that you may perhaps drink a little bit too much. [...] Humour has always been way up there at the top of my list of dealing with anything that could be considered serious. Sometimes you don't wanna be smacked in the face with certain bits of reality like that.\" A music reviewer for The Guardian, Dorian Lynskey, called it \"the saddest robot song ever written.\"\n\nThe album's penultimate song, \"Miner at the Dial-a-View\", originates from a 1989 home demo, with Lytle noting: \"After a certain point, when the Earth has been tapped of all its resources, they start mining other planets. And there's these machines – they're a lot like, y'know, the tabletop poker games that you find in bars now – and the idea is to add coins to it, and you can punch in the latitude and longitude of places on earth, and revisit wherever you want. And [the narrator]'s actually revisiting his house, and he's seeing the girl that he's got back home is hanging out with some other guy, and he misses home.\"\n\n\"The Sophtware Slump\" was released on May 29, 2000. It reached No. 36 on the UK Albums Chart in its first week of release, re-entering the chart in 2001, peaking at number 63. By February 2001 the album had sold 20,000 copies in the US and almost 80,000 worldwide. By 2006 it had sold 107,000 copies. Three singles were released from the album: \"The Crystal Lake\", released the same day, which charted at number 38 on the UK Singles Chart; \"He's Simple, He's Dumb, He's the Pilot.\"; and \"Hewlett's Daughter\", which charted at number 71 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe album was reissued in 2011 with a second disc of bonus material containing B-sides, EP tracks, outtakes and demos.\n\n\"The Sophtware Slump\" was released to widespread critical acclaim.\n\nThe \"CMJ New Music Monthly\" noted Jason Lytle's \"new infatuation with technology, expertly juxtaposed with his almost spiritual connection to the West's wide-open spaces and bird-filled skies\", and stated that \"Lytle expresses sympathy for the lost souls and machines of the high-tech dot-com landscape throughout the album\". \"The New York Times\" called the album \"a heart-achingly beautiful requiem for a culture in which progress and technology have led to alienation and disposability\". AllMusic called it \"Grandaddy's most impressive work yet\". The \"Daily Telegraph\" said the album was one of the highlights of 2000, describing it as \"a work of rare and precious qualities. A collection of emotional, richly melodic songs that deal with modern man's uneasy relationship with technology\". Steve Taylor, in his book \"The A to X of Alternative Music\", viewed \"The Sophtware Slump\" as \"clean, lush and less understated\" than the band's previous work, describing \"The Crystal Lake\" as \"a perfectly executed pop song\".\n\nThe indie music magazine \"Under the Radar\" ranked \"The Sophtware Slump\" fifteenth in its list of the best albums of the 2000s.\n\nRegarding the album's acclaim and legacy, Jason Lytle noted: \"I would record \"The Sophtware Slump\" over again. The fact that this album has gotten this sort of acclaim only reconfirms to me what a load of shit this business is. An album about trees and computers that came out right after \"OK Computer\"? I don't get it... but I do.\" In a 2011 review of the album's deluxe edition, Mike Powell of \"Pitchfork\" wrote: \"If Radiohead captured a feeling of pre-millenial tension, \"The Sophtware Slump\" captured the feeling of disappointment that came afterward — the feeling that life was going to be more or less the same as it had been, only now we'd have to live with the fact that we once thought it'd be so different: the feeling of January 2, 2000.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876278", "title": "Fuzz Club", "text": "Fuzz Club\n\nThe Fuzz Club was an indie rock night hosted by University of Sheffield Union of Students, which ran from 1999 to 2009. It claimed to be the biggest students union rock night in the UK outside London. \n\nThe night ran weekly on Thursdays throughout termtime and hosts new bands; sometimes local, sometimes national. The club provided a variety of music from heavy rock in the \"Bleach\" room to indie in the main fuzz room.\n\nFuzz Club was part of the circuit for new bands trying to make a name for themselves. In recent years, it had hosted Keane, The Long Blondes, Editors, The Zutons, The Killers, Bloc Party, The xx, La Roux, Future of the Left, British Sea Power, 65daysofstatic, Ida Maria, Hot Chip, Florence and the Machine and The Others.\n\nThe club night ran since 1999 and initially alternated with \"Bleach\", a heavier rock night, which instead became resident in the Fuzz Club's second room - essentially part of Fuzz Club.\n\nAt the end of the academic year 2008/09, the Fuzz Club is ended, with the last night held on 11 June 2009. The night has now been replaced with Live Wire, opening 23 September 2010.\n\n\nSheffield University Students Union Entertainments Department founded The Fuzz Club working in conjunction with student volunteers known as The Entertainments Committee."}
{"id": "1876286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876286", "title": "Lithuanian Riflemen's Union", "text": "Lithuanian Riflemen's Union\n\nThe Lithuanian Riflemen's Union or LRU (), also referred to as šauliai ( for \"rifleman\"), is a paramilitary non-profit organisation supported by the State. The activities are in three main areas: military training, sport and culture.\n\nThe Lithuanian Riflemen's Union was established in Kaunas on 27 June 1919 as a shooting section within the Lithuanian Sport Union. Several historic events determined the establishment of the Union – the Lithuanian State had just declared independence and was asserting it in the wars against the Bolsheviks, the Western Russian Volunteer Army and the Polish forces.\n\nVladas Putvinskis and Matas Šalčius were the most important activists behind the idea to form a Union, and Putvinskis became the first Commander of the LRU and its main ideologue. Both of them came up with the idea to form a paramilitary group at almost the same time, but the scope that they envisioned was different.\nIn 1919 Matas Šalčius together with Antanas Vienuolis-Žukauskas, Faustas Kirša and other employees at the Press Office decided to form an organisation that would be able to protect Kaunas city; they intended to call it the Steel Battalion. At the same time another initiative was launched by a group headed by Putvinskis, and they prepared a statute for the organisation. Their aim was to support Lithuanian military in the entire Lithuanian territory. In June 1919, the Press Office employees invited Putvinskis to their meeting. Putvinskis joined the organisation that was being created and became one of the most active members.\n\nThere were many famous and important Lithuanians among the founders of the Union, including writers Antanas Vienuolis-Žukauskas, Juozas Tumas-Vaižgantas and Balys Sruoga, poet Faustas Kirša, painter Antanas Žmuidzinavičius, zoologist Tadas Ivanauskas and many others. In the beginning, only civilians participated in the LRU, but later on soldiers and officers started to actively join its ranks. This reflects the main aim of the organisation – to unite civilians who want to support the military.\n\nThe ideology and the guiding principles of the LRU were influenced by earlier similar organisations: Sokol in Czechoslovakia, Suojeluskunta in Finland, and a paramilitary organisation of Switzerland. Putvinskis stated that “the Riflemen's Union is an organisation of free citizens, who are volunteering their time and efforts for the sake of protecting their homeland.ˮ\n\nAfter its establishment in 1919, the LRU quickly expanded throughout Lithuania; many guerilla fighters from the recent wars joined in. In the beginning, the organisation was divided into sections covering the entire Lithuanian territory, and the sections had riflemen units. In 1925 an administrative reform was carried out, dividing the organisation into regiments, in line with the administrative division of Lithuania into districts. In 1936 a separate regiment was created for rail-road workers and their family members.\n\nThe LRU had three main areas of activities in 1919-1940 – culture, sport and military training. The riflemen's units had orchestras, theatres, libraries and sport clubs. The union published weekly magazine \"Trimitas\". The riflemen were required to educate themselves and to participate in educating the society. To help with that they aimed at building riflemen centres in all cities and towns, where the union was active. The centres were to be dedicated to the needs of the nation. Centres were built in Utena, Tauragė, Alytus and some other cities and towns. The centres served as meeting and training places for riflemen, as well as housing their clubs and administration and hosting cultural activities.\n\nThe organisation received a unique legal basis, in 1921, 1924 and 1935 laws on the LRU were passed that defined the activities of the organisation and its functions in the State. The laws aimed at restricting the autonomy of the LRU and to tie it as closely as possible to the Ministry of Defence and the Military. In 1935 the LRU became directly subordinate to the Chief of Defence (See the List of governments of Lithuania in 1918-1940). The law abolished dual leadership – previously the organisation was led by the Chairman of the Central Board, elected by riflemen, and by the LRU Commander, appointed by the Minister of Defence. Thus the riflemen were fully integrated in the defensive structure of the country, and the district military commanders became the commanders of riflemen regiments.\n\nBy 1940 the LRU had become one of the most popular and largest organizations in the country, with about 62,000 members. Both men and women were active in the organisation. The LRU had units of university students, including student corporations Saja and Živilė. Many famous politicians (Antanas Smetona, Rapolas Skipitis, Mykolas Sleževičius, Juozas Urbšys), artists and other members of the cultural elite (Antanas Žmuidzinavičius, Unė Babickaitė-Graičiūnienė also known as Une Bay, Antanas Vienuolis-Žukauskas, Petras Vaičiūnas), scientists (Tadas Ivanauskas, Augustinas Janulaitis, Liudas Vailionis, Antanas Graugrokas) were active in the union. Even though the majority of members originated from the farmer class, the main principles of the Union were also appealing to other classes.\nMembers of the organization are registered in the journal\n\nOn 15 June 1940, the Soviet Union occupied Lithuania, and the riflemen, like the rest of the military, were ordered not to resist. Aleksandras Barauskas, a rifleman and a border guard, was killed by Red Army soldiers in the early morning of June 15. The new Soviet People's Government of Lithuania immediately took steps to liquidate the union. Its commander, Colonel Pranas Saladžius, was dismissed on 19 June 1940, and the Chief of Defence division General Vincas Vitkauskas, who was cooperating with the Soviets, ordered the riflemen to hand over their arms to the military on 25 June 1940. On 13 July 13, 1940 a Soviet order to liquidate the union was issued. In subsequent months, a number of the most active riflemen were arrested as \"enemies of the people\" and sent to various Gulag camps. In June 1941, the Soviets started a mass deportation that targeted \"anti-Soviet elements\", including the riflemen. Among those deported were LRU's commander Colonel Pranas Saladžius, honorary commander of the women's section Emilija Putvinskienė, commander of the Utena Regiment Lt. Col. Pranas Bronevičius, head of the culture section Vincas Daudzvaras, and others.\n\nRemaining riflemen began forming anti-Soviet groups and played a role in the uprising of 23 June 1941, but there is no specific data on how many members participated in it.\n\nOn the 22 June 1941, Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union and also occupied the Baltic states. Initially treated as 'liberators' the situation later became one of 'passive resistance' against the Nazis. During the Nazi occupation, ex-riflemen formed several underground organisations, such as Laisvės šauliai (Freedom's Riflemen), aimed at restoring Lithuania's independence.\n\nBetween July 1941 and August 1944, some members of the Sauliu Sajunga [Riflemen’s Association] (see Collaboration with the Axis Powers#Lithuania) volunteered to serve the Germans and were involved in the Ponary massacre, the execution of tens of thousands of Jews, Poles, and Soviet prisoners of war in forests close to the village of Paneriai, near Vilnius.\n\nWhen the Soviets returned in mid-1944, many riflemen joined the Lithuanian partisans and fought a guerrilla war against the Soviet Union. Two out of eight guerrillas who signed the declaration of the Union of Lithuanian Freedom Fighters on 16 February 1949, were ex-riflemen: Leonardas Grigonis-Užpalis and Juozas Šibaila-Merainis. Some other ex-riflemen were also prominent among the guerrillas, including Juozas Vitkus-Kazimieraitis, Zigmas Drunga-Mykolas Jonas, Dominykas Jėčys-Ąžuolis, Vladas Montvydas-Žemaitis.\n\nThe first attempts to restore the LRU were made still during the occupation when the movement for reform started. On 1 June 1989, during a protest in Kaunas by a club of former exiles and the Democrat party, the restoration of the LRU was officially announced. On 20 September 1989, the activists gave an oath in Kelmė, at the grave of Putvinskis, the founder and ideologue of the LRU. That day is considered to be the day of the restoration of the LRU in Lithuania.\n\nThe members of the restored Lithuanian Riflemen's Union were active in the movement for reform, they were especially active in guarding the Lithuanian Parliament and other State buildings during the January Events in 1991 and later. On 13 January 1991, two members of Vilnius riflemen regiment were killed: Ignas Šimulionis and Darius Gerbutavičius. On May 19, at a border crossing point in Krakūnai a riflemen and a border guard Gintaras Žagunis was shot to death.\n\nCurrently the LRU is divided into ten riflemen regiments (šaulių rinktinė):\n\n\nAfter Lithuania re-established independence in 1990, the organization was restored but it has not regained its former popularity or influence. Current membership of the Lithuanian Riflemen's Union is 11,000 (in the interwar period it was 62,000). 50% of members are Young Riflemen (11–18 years old), 40% are Combat Riflemen (18 years old until death) and the remaining are Non-combat Riflemen.\n\nThe LRU greatly values its traditions, so the activities are similar to what they were in the past: there are sport and culture activities, the LRU journal Trimitas is published, the members are encouraged to take interest in the history of the country. \nAccording to the law on the Lithuanian Riflemen's Union, any Lithuanian citizen who is over 11 and speaks the official language can join the Union. The members are divided into two groups:\n\n1. Young riflemen – youth, 11–18 years old. All young riflemen give an honorary pledge when joining the Union. The young riflemen receive training based on a 4 level programme. On each level they study Lithuanian history, receive training in leadership, as well military training. At the end of the level they pass an examination, and get a certificate and a sign. Starting in 2002, young riflemen summer camps, as well as summer courses and the international training camp \"Žalgiris\", are organised every summer.\n\n2. Riflemen – persons over 18, who give a rifleman's oath. The riflemen are preparing for armed and unarmed resistance. The LRU Command also has an Honorary Guard company, a sport and technology club and a LRU orchestra. Riflemen belonging to the fighting units guard various locations in Lithuania.\n\nThe LRU operates according to a law on LRU, adopted by the Lithuanian parliament in 2010, and a Statute approved by the Ministry of Defence. The highest ruling body of the Union is the Conference of Members. It decides on the most important matters of the Organisation, adopts decisions and approves the Commander of the LRU who is selected by the Minister of Defence. The current Commander of the LRU is reserve col. lt. Liudas Gumbinas, who started his term in July 2014.\n\nThe LRU actively cooperates with the governmental institutions: the Lithuanian military, Police department, Fire and Rescue Department, Lithuanian State Border Guard Service and others.\n\nThe LRU also includes a riflemen student corporation SAJA. The word “sajaˮ is a Lithuanian neologism, coined by riflemen students for the word “corporationˮ, when they created the first student riflemen corporation in Vytautas Magnus University in 1934. In 2007 a club for riflemen students was established, and on 19 May 2010 it became the Lithuanian riflemen student corporation SAJA.\n\nThe corporation aims to promote the riflemen union in universities, to unite riflemen students. The corporation has sections in Vilnius, Kaunas and Klaipėda. Members participate in the activities of the LRU, help in organizing the summer camps for young riflemen, cooperate with other university organisations.\n\nIn Chicago, on 7 March 1954, the riflemen who had fled Lithuania due to World War II declared the re-establishment of the LRU, under the name of the National Guard of Lithuania in Exile. The main activists included Mantautas, Pūtvytė-Mantautienė, Valatkaitis, Kalmantas and others. Sections of the organisation were active in the United States, the UK, Canada, and Australia.\n\nCurrently, the National Guard of Lithuania in Exile forms an integral part of the LRU. It is headed by Julius Butkus and is active in the United States and Canada.\n\nLRU Commanders-in-Chief were:\n\nLRU Chairmen were:\n\nFrom the very beginning the symbol of the organisation has been a double cross (Vytis cross) on a shield. This is one of the oldest heraldic symbols used in Lithuania. It is also called the Jagiellonian cross because it was used by the Polish King and the Grand Duke of Lithuania Jogaila. During the Lithuanian Wars of Independence Vytis cross became a state military award. The current statute of the LRU states that the symbol of the Union is a golden (yellow) double cross, set in a stylised frame of golden (yellow) oak leaves.\n\nIn 1919-1940 the riflemen received member badges with numbers. There was also a separate badge for supporters. The badges were worn not only on uniforms but also on civil clothing. The rifleman's badge is a white darkened metal shield, with a contour of a double cross inside. The height of the badge is 47 mm, and the width is 27 mm. The sign is attached by a metal wrench. A miniature of a rifleman's badge is 20 mm high and 12 mm wide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876288", "title": "Sumday", "text": "Sumday\n\nSumday is the third studio album by American indie rock band Grandaddy, released on May 13, 2003 by record label V2.\n\nThe album achieved commercial success in the UK, and was well received by music critics.\n\nAround about the time of the album's release, frontman Jason Lytle commented that the album \"represents the closest I've been to singing in the first person, writing passionately\".\n\n\"Sumday\" was released on May 13, 2003 by record label V2.\n\nThe album is the group's highest charting in the UK, peaking at No. 22. By 2006, the album had sold 110,000 copies.\n\nThree singles were released from the album: \"El Caminos in the West\", which reached No. 48 on the UK Singles Chart; \"Now It's On\", which reached No. 23; and \"I'm on Standby\".\n\nAn expanded version of the album was released five months later, with a bonus disc of songs recorded live at the Glastonbury Festival in 2003 (tracks 1–6) as well as three tracks taken from The Black Sessions in Paris (tracks 7–9).\n\nThe album was well received by music critics.\n\n\"PopMatters\" viewed the album as one where Lytle had decided to \"tone down on the experimentation, and concentrate on developing some terrific melodies\", calling it \"really the next logical step for the band\". He commented on similarities to the Alan Parsons Project (\"Now It's On\"), ELO (\"The Go in the Go-for-It\") and John Lennon (\"Lost on Yer Merry Way\"), and noted an improvement in Lytle's songwriting. The \"CMJ New Music Report\" made it their 'essential release' in May 2003, calling it a \"genuinely wholehearted work\", and in their end-of-year review placed it at No. 7 in their list of the top albums of the year. Jim DeRogatis, in his book \"Turn on Your Mind: Four Decades of Great Psychedelic Rock\", viewed the melodies as \"even more effervescent and more memorable\" than on \"The Sophtware Slump\". Sophie Best of \"The Age\" called it \"another sprawling sonic Grandaddy adventure, shimmering with wistful sincerity and rural-tinged psychedelia\". \"NME\" gave it a grade of 8/10, writing that the songs sound \"pretty much like Neil Young if he'd heard an Aphex Twin record\". Robert Christgau of \"The Village Voice\" gave the album a one-star honorable mention rating and cited \"The Group Who Couldn't Say\" and \"Stray Dog and the Chocolate Shake\" as highlights.\n\nA less favourable review came from Heather Phares of \"AllMusic\", who described the record as being \"bland and complacent\", opining that it failed to live up to the expectations of \"The Sophtware Slump\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876294", "title": "The Natural Economic Order", "text": "The Natural Economic Order\n\nThe Natural Economic Order (, in short \"NWO\"; published in Bern in 1916) is considered Silvio Gesell's most important book. It is a work on monetary reform and land reform. It attempts to provide a solid basis for economic liberalism in contrast to the 20th-century trend of collectivism and planned economy.\n\nThe work was translated into English by Philip Pye in 1929.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876302", "title": "Repressor", "text": "Repressor\n\nIn molecular genetics, a repressor is a DNA- or RNA-binding protein that inhibits the expression of one or more genes by binding to the operator or associated silencers. A DNA-binding repressor blocks the attachment of RNA polymerase to the promoter, thus preventing transcription of the genes into messenger RNA. An RNA-binding repressor binds to the mRNA and prevents translation of the mRNA into protein. This blocking of expression is called repression.\n\nIf an inducer, a molecule that initiates the gene expression, is present, then it can interact with the repressor protein and detach it from the operator. RNA polymerase then can transcribe the message (expressing the gene). A corepressor is a molecule that can bind to repressor and make it bind to the operator tightly, which decreases transcription. A repressor that binds with a corepressor is termed an \"aporepressor\" or \"inactive repressor\". One type of aporepressor is the trp repressor, an important metabolic protein in bacteria.\n\nThe above mechanism of repression is a type of a feedback mechanism because it only allows transcription to occur if a certain condition is present: the presence of specific inducer(s). Within the eukaryotic genome are regions of DNA known as silencers. These DNA sequences bind to repressors to partially or fully repress the expression of a gene. Silencers can be located several bases upstream or downstream from the actual promoter of the gene. Repressors can also have two binding sites: one for the silencer region and one for the promoter. This causes chromosome looping, allowing the promoter region and the silencer region to come to close proximity.\n\n\"lacZYA\" transcribes the proteins needed for lactose breakdown. \"lacI\" synthesizes the repressor of the \"lacZYA\" gene. The gene \"lacI\" is situated immediately upstream of \"lacZYA\" but is transcribed from a different promoter. The \"lacI\" gene synthesizes LacI repressor protein. The LacI repressor protein represses \"lacZYA\" by binding to the operator sequence \"lacO\".\n\nThe \"lacZYA\" repressor is constitutively expressed. It is always bound to the operator region of the promoter, which interferes with the ability of RNA polymerase (RNAP) to begin transcription of the \"lacZYA\" operon. In the presence of the inducer allolactose, the repressor changes conformation and falls off the operator. RNAP is then able to bind to the promoter and begin transcription of the \"lacZYA\" gene.\n\nAn example of a repressor protein is the methionine repressor MetJ. MetJ interacts with DNA bases via a ribbon-helix-helix (RHH) motif. MetJ is a homodimer consisting of two monomers, which each provides a beta ribbon and an alpha helix. Together, the beta ribbons of each monomer come together to form an antiparallel beta-sheet which binds to the DNA operator (\"Met box\") in its major groove. Once bound, the MetJ dimer interacts with another MetJ dimer bound to the complementary strand of the operator via its alpha helices. AdoMet binds to a pocket in MetJ that \"does not\" overlap the site of DNA binding.\n\nThe Met box has the sequence AGACGTCT which is a palindrome (it shows dyad symmetry) allowing the same sequence to be recognised on either strand of the DNA. The junction between C and G in the middle of the Met box contains a pyrimidine-purine step that becomes positively supercoiled forming a kink in the phosphodiester backbone. This is how the protein checks for the recognition site as it allows the DNA duplex to follow the shape of the protein. In other words, recognition happens through indirect readout of the structural parameters of the DNA, rather than via specific base sequence recognition.\n\nEach MetJ dimer contains two binding sites for the cofactor S-Adenosyl methionine (SAM) which is a product in the biosynthesis of methionine. When SAM is present, it binds to the MetJ protein, increasing its affinity for its cognate operator site, which halts transcription of genes involved in methionine synthesis. When SAM concentration becomes low, the repressor dissociates from the operator site, allowing more methionine to be produced.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876303", "title": "761st Tank Battalion (United States)", "text": "761st Tank Battalion (United States)\n\nThe 761st Tank Battalion was an independent tank battalion of the United States Army during World War II. The 761st was made up primarily of African-American soldiers, who by federal law were not permitted to serve alongside white troops. The U.S. military did not officially desegregate until after World War II. The 761st were known as the Black Panthers after their unit's distinctive insignia; their motto was \"Come out fighting\". The battalion received a Presidential Unit Citation for its actions. In addition, a large number of individual members also received medals, including one Medal of Honor, 11 Silver Stars and about 300 Purple Hearts. They have been called \"one of the most effective tank battalions in World War II\".\n\nImmediately before and during World War II, U.S. military leaders had reservations about using African American soldiers in combat. General Lesley J. McNair, the commander of Army Ground Forces, successfully argued that \"colored\" units should be employed in combat. At McNair's suggestion, the U.S. Army began to experiment with segregated combat units in 1941; the program was supported by, and given national exposure in, \"Life\" magazine.\nThe 761st was constituted on 15 March 1942, and activated 1 April 1942, at Camp Claiborne, Louisiana. The battalion began training in M5 Stuart light tanks. They learned how to maneuver, mount, dismount, and maintain the vehicle's 37 mm main gun and .30 caliber machine guns. Final training was at Fort Hood, Texas, where they were upgraded to the M4 Sherman medium tank, which had a 75 mm main gun, two .30 caliber machine guns, a .50 caliber machine gun, and a two-inch smoke mortar.\n\nMost of the black tankers had to train in installations located in deep Southern states such as Kentucky, Louisiana, and Texas. In the days before the civil rights advances made in the 1960s, black people were still treated harshly in the South and often considered an inferior race there. The men of the 761st trained for almost two years, conscious of the fact that white units were being sent overseas after much less training.\n\nBlack soldiers of that time and place were subject to many racist crimes perpetrated by white soldiers, including a bloody riot between members of a neighboring segregated tank battalion and white MPs in Alexandria, Louisiana on 10 January 1942. Several members of the 761st vowed to retaliate. They commandeered six tanks and a half-track but were persuaded to stand down by Lieutenant Colonel Bates who promised to straighten the situation out.\n\nThe most famous member of the 761st was First Lieutenant Jack Robinson. During the 761st's training, a white bus driver told Robinson to move to the back of the bus: Robinson refused. Battalion commander Lieutenant Colonel Paul L. Bates refused to consider the court-martial charges put forward by the arresting military policemen. The post commander transferred Robinson to the 758th Tank Battalion, whose commander was willing to sign the insubordination court-martial order. Robinson was acquitted of all charges. After the war, he was instrumental in desegregating professional baseball.\n\nGeneral Ben Lear, commander of the U.S. Second Army, rated the unit \"superior\" after a special review and deemed the unit \"combat ready.\" After a brief deployment to England, the 761st landed in France via Omaha Beach on 10 October 1944. The unit arrived (with six white officers, thirty black officers, and 676 black enlisted men) and was assigned to General George Patton's US Third Army at his request, attached to the 26th Infantry Division.\n\nThe unit saw action in Northern France from October 1944, it fought in the Battle of the Bulge, later proceeding to the Rhineland, and spent the final months of the war on German soil.\n\nAs the 761st was about to enter combat, General George S. Patton reviewed the battalion and made a speech to the men which offered a guarded vote of confidence in their abilities:Men, you're the first Negro tankers to ever fight in the American Army. I would never have asked for you if you weren't good. I have nothing but the best in my Army. I don't care what color you are as long as you go up there and kill those Kraut sonsofbitches. Everyone has their eyes on you and is expecting great things from you. Most of all your race is looking forward to your success. Don't let them down and damn you, don't let me down! They say it is patriotic to die for your country. Well, let’s see how many patriots we can make out of those German sonsofbitches.\n\nHowever, like most American military officers of the era, Patton expressed his doubts about using black men in combat. On returning to headquarters following the review, he remarked, \"They gave a good first impression, but I have no faith in the inherent fighting ability of the race.\" He only put this sentiment aside and accepted the 761st when he desperately needed all the ground power he could get. Even after the war, Patton was not inclined to reform his perception of black soldiers. In \"War As I Knew It\", he relates the interaction described above, and comments, \"Individually they were good soldiers, but I expressed my belief at the time, and have never found the necessity of changing it, that a colored soldier cannot think fast enough to fight in armor.\"\n\nPatton biographer Carlo D'Este explained that \"on the one hand he could and did admire the toughness and courage\" of some black soldiers, but his writings can also be frequently read as \"disdaining them and their officers because they were not part of his social order.\" Historian Hugh Cole pointed out that Patton was also the first American military leader to integrate rifle companies \"when manpower got tight.\" Retired NBA Hall-of-Famer Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, co-author of \"Brothers in Arms: The Epic Story of the 761st Tank Battalion, WWII's Forgotten Heroes\", agreed that although Patton was a bigot the fact remains that he did lend his name to the advancement of blacks in the military at the time, unlike most other military officers (Patton did prevent a black soldier from being lynched while serving as commander of a fort in El Paso before the war). Most of the veterans of the 761st that Abdul-Jabbar interviewed stated they were proud to have served under a general widely considered one of the most brilliant and feared Allied military leaders of World War II.\n\nDuring the Battle of the Bulge, German soldiers who had raided American warehouses were reported to have disguised themselves as Americans guarding checkpoints in order to ambush American soldiers. Patton solved this problem by ordering black soldiers, including the 761st, to guard the checkpoints, and gave the order to shoot any white soldiers at the checkpoints who acted suspiciously.\n\nThe battalion first saw combat on 7 November 1944, fighting through towns such as Moyenvic, Vic-sur-Seille, often at the leading edge of the advance. The fighting that 761st engaged in at Morville-lès-Vic was particularly brutal. The unit endured 183 days of continuous operational employment.\n\nThe 761st Tank Battalion suffered 156 casualties in November 1944; 24 men killed, 81 wounded, and 44 non-battle losses. The unit also lost 14 tanks evacuated and another 20 damaged in combat. In December, the battalion was rushed to the aid of the 101st Airborne Division at Bastogne. As part of the effort to drive the Germans from the vicinity of Bastogne, the battalion fought to capture the city of Tillet, less than 15 km west of the town in early January 1945. Supporting the elements of the 87th Infantry Division with just 11 tanks, the battalion take control of the city from the 113th Panzer Brigade through 2 days of combat, losing 9 tanks in the process.\n\nAfter the Battle of the Bulge, the unit opened the way for the U.S. 4th Armored Division into Germany during an action that breached the Siegfried Line. The 761st smashed through dozens German cities and towns in their rapid advance through the Reich. In the final days of the war in Europe, the 761st was one of the first American units to reach Steyr, Austria, at the Enns River, where they met with the 1st Ukrainian Front of the Soviet Red Army. On May 4, 1945, the 761st, along with the 71st Infantry Division, liberated the Gunskirchen concentration camp; the German guards had fled not long before.\n\nThe 761st was deactivated 1 June 1946 in Germany. They have been called \"one of the most effective tank battalions in World War II.\" In all, the battalion earned about 300 Purple Hearts.\n\nFor unusual heroism in serving with Company A of the 761st, the Medal of Honor was awarded posthumously to Staff Sergeant Ruben Rivers in 1997.\n\nOfficial Citation:\nFor extraordinary heroism in action during the 15–19 November 1944, toward Guebling, France. Though severely wounded in the leg, Sergeant Rivers refused medical treatment and evacuation, took command of another tank, and advanced with his company in Guebling the next day. Repeatedly refusing evacuation, Sergeant Rivers continued to direct his tank's fire at enemy positions through the morning of 19 November 1944. At dawn, Company A's tanks began to advance towards Bougaktroff [\"sic\", correct name is Bourgaltroff], but were stopped by enemy fire. Sergeant Rivers, joined by another tank, opened fire on the enemy tanks, covering company A as they withdrew. While doing so, Sergeant River's tank was hit, killing him and wounding the crew. Staff Sergeant Rivers' fighting spirit and daring leadership were an inspiration to his unit and exemplify the highest traditions of military service.\n\nTank commander Sergeant Warren G. H. Crecy came to the aid of his men on 10 November 1944, and fought through enemy positions until his tank was destroyed; he eliminated the enemy position that had knocked out his tank by commandeering a vehicle armed with only a .30-caliber machine gun. He then killed the German forward observers who were directing artillery fire on the US positions.\n\nAfter manning a replacement tank, Crecy's new vehicle lost traction in heavy mud and he was forced to exit the tank under fierce machine gun, antitank, and artillery fire to free it. When attacked by German infantry, he had to abandon his salvage efforts to man the tank's .50-caliber machine gun, stopping the advancing enemy and forcing them to withdraw.\n\nDescribed as a baby-faced, \"quiet, easy-going, meek-looking fellow\", Crecy had destroyed an antitank position and a number of German machine gun positions armed only with a machine gun and without regard for his personal safety, under heavy fire. His men reportedly experienced difficulty getting the machine gun away from him after the action.\n\nCrecy was nominated for the Medal of Honor and received a battlefield commission, eventually retiring with the rank of major. His heroic actions earned him the title \"Baddest Man in the 761st\" from his comrades.\n\nAfter decades of racial tensions in the United States began to ease, the battalion was belatedly awarded the Presidential Unit Citation by President Jimmy Carter on 24 January 1978, for their World War II service. The 761st Tank Battalion's award became official on 10 April 1978 by the Department of the Army under .\n\nReturning soldiers of African-American units (the 761st had been the first of many segregated combat units, including the 92nd Infantry Division and the famous Tuskegee Airmen) often did not receive a warm welcome home as most white units did. Their unequal treatment was a source of much disappointment and discouragement. However, the distinguished service of many black combat units helped convince the government, now under President Harry S. Truman, to finally desegregate the US Armed Forces soon after the war ended.\n\nOn 24 November 1947, the 761st was reactivated (as an integrated unit) at Fort Knox, Kentucky, and assigned to the Regular Army, where it served until again inactivated on 15 March 1955.\n\nA monument dedicated to the 761st Tank Battalion was unveiled at Fort Hood, Texas, during a ceremony attended by surviving veterans on 10 November 2005, as a permanent tribute to soldiers who had served and continued to serve throughout the world for liberty, honor, and democracy. The monument features four black granite tablets surrounding a life-size marble sculpture of a 761st Tank Battalion fighter kneeling atop a black granite pedestal engraved with a tank on the front and a panther on the back.\n\nThe monument is located on 761st Tank Battalion Drive.\n\n\nCountries: France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, and Austria.\n\n\nTrezzvant Anderson's book, \"Come Out Fighting: The Epic Tale of the 761st Tank Battalion, 1942–1945\", was published in 1945.\n\nIn 1992, a documentary titled \"\" was produced. The documentary depicted the battalion's liberation of concentration camps during 1945, but was criticized for misidentifying the precise units and camps involved. There was speculation that the movie was intended to reduce tensions between the Jewish and African-American communities.\n\nIn 2007, executive producer Steven A. White released an independent, feature length, high-definition documentary on the 761st Tank Battalion. The film, entitled \"761st\" was written, produced, and directed by Pete Chatmon and produced by 761st Tank Battalion unit historian, Wayne Robinson. It features interviews with eleven combat veterans of the 761st and is narrated by Andre Braugher.\n\nSeveral of the later episodes of The History Channel series \"Patton 360\" featured 761st veteran William McBurney who related his experiences with the battalion in the Lorraine Campaign, the Battle of the Bulge, and in the ultimate conquest of the German homeland.\n\nA 1993 episode of \"Law & Order\" titled \"Profile\" featured a 72-year-old assault victim played by Joe Seneca who credited his experiences with the 761st for saving his life.\n\nIn an episode of \"The Cosby Show\", Cliff Huxtable and some male friends are discussing their military experiences and one of them describes in detail his World War II exploits as a member of the 761st Tank Battalion.\n\nActor Morgan Freeman and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar are co-producing a new movie about the 761st, based on Jabbar's and co-writer Anthony Walton's 2004 book, \"Brothers in Arms\". On 15 December 2006, Freeman discussed the film and working with Will Smith, and possibly Denzel Washington, on it in the near future.\n\nThe 1991 novel \"Seven Six One\" by \"G.F. Borden\" was based on the experiences of the 761st Tank Battalion in Europe.\n\nIn the science fiction novel, \"The Light of Men\" (2008) by Andrew Salmon, the 761st liberate the fictional concentration camp of \"Gutundbose\" in which the story is set.\n\nIn the 1981 police mystery \"Chiefs\", written by Stuart Woods, and the CBS mini-series of the same name, the 761st is mentioned as the unit of the ill-fated black mechanic Marshall Parker, killed after being arrested on false pretenses by Sonny Butts and Charley Ward, beaten and shot. Later, it is revealed as having been the unit of the new black police chief of Delano, Georgia, Tucker Watts, who was once, much earlier, known as Willie Cole, whose father had murdered Delano's first chief of police, Will Henry Lee.\n\nThe character of Ronsel Jackson in the 2017 film Mudbound is a veteran of the 761st Tank Battalion.\n\nAuthor Brenda Woods will release a novel in 2019 called \"The Unsung Hero of Birdsong, USA.\" The novel is about a white boy named Gabriel who befriends a black man named Meriwether who was a member of the 761st Tank Battalion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876313", "title": "Ivan Ribar", "text": "Ivan Ribar\n\nIvan Ribar (; 21 January 1881 – 2 February 1968) was a Croatian politician who served in several governments of various form of Yugoslavia. Ideologically a Pan-Slavist and communist, Ribar was a prominent member of the Yugoslav partisans, who resisted the Nazi occupation of Yugoslavia.\n\nRibar was born in Vukmanić (part of Karlovac) and held a PhD in law. He worked as an attorney in Zagreb, Đakovo and Belgrade.\n\nRibar lost his entire family during World War II: his two sons, Jurica and Ivo, and his wife, Antonija. Both Jurica and Ivo were killed in action in 1943 fighting for the Partisans, while Ribar's wife was executed by the Germans in 1944. Ivo Lola Ribar, his younger son, was in charge of the Young Communist League of Yugoslavia (SKOJ) during the war, and was proclaimed posthumously a People's Hero of Yugoslavia.\nIn politics, he was: President of the Parliamentary Assembly of Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (1920–22) President of Executive Committee, Anti-Fascist Council for the National Liberation of Yugoslavia (26 October 1942 – 4 December 1943), Chairman of the Presidium of the Provisional People's Assembly (4 December 1943 – 5 March 1945), Chairman of the Presidium of the National Assembly (29 December 1945 – 14 January 1953)\n\nFrom the proclamation of a republic in 1945 until 1953, Ribar was the \"de jure\" head of state of Yugoslavia; his chairman's post was equivalent to that of president. In 1953, Communist Party leader and Prime Minister Josip Broz Tito, the country's \"de facto\" leader since 1945, was elected to the new post of President of the Republic.\n\nIvan Ribar spent his last years in Zagreb, where he died in 1968, aged 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876325", "title": "Shanmugam Murugesu", "text": "Shanmugam Murugesu\n\nShanmugam \"Sam\" Murugesu () (c.1967 – 13 May 2005) was the Singaporean National Jet Ski Champion in 1995. He was executed for bringing cannabis into Singapore.\n\nShanmugam was very active in the Singaporean community. As a young man, he served in the Singaporean Army for 8 years, when a tank accident cost him his position there. He then turned to a passion for water sports, and was the Singaporean National Jet Ski champion. He went on to represent Singapore at the 1995 IJSBA World Finals in Lake Havasu City, USA. His leg was broken when his jet ski was rammed by another competitor, and his desire to support his extended family took precedence over racing. He also suffered a severe hand injury while working as a mechanic. His love of the ocean led him to teach sailing and work for the Singapore Sports Council for four years. He also worked as a taxi driver and window cleaner.\n\nIn 2003, Shanmugam was arrested while crossing the Singapore/Malaysia border with 1.03kg (2.2 lbs) of cannabis. This carries the death penalty in Singapore, and he was hanged in 2005. He did not have any previous convictions except for a minor traffic offense. He was thirty-eight years old.\n\nShanmugam was survived by his mother, twin sons, father, brother, sister, niece, and 2 nephews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876331", "title": "The Ninth Day", "text": "The Ninth Day\n\nThe Ninth Day is a 2004 German historical drama film directed by Volker Schlöndorff and starring Ulrich Matthes and August Diehl. It was released by Kino International.\n\nThe film is about a Catholic priest from Luxembourg who is imprisoned in Dachau concentration camp, but released for nine days. The story is based on a portion of \"Pfarrerblock 25487\" (), the diary of Father Jean Bernard (1907–1994), which was translated into English by Deborah Lucas Schneider as \"Priestblock 25487: A Memoir of Dachau\" ().\n\nHenri Kremer, a Catholic priest from Luxemburg, is imprisoned in Dachau. He experiences the horrors of the camps, including the crucifixion of some of his fellow prisoners, when one day he is given an unexpected leave of nine days. He returns to his native city, where the young SS officer Gebhardt tells him that he should convince his bishop to cooperate with the Nazis. Gebhardt, himself a former candidate for the priesthood, tries to convince the priest that the role of Judas is just what God wants from him. Kremer is confronted with a hard decision: Should he betray his Church or should he return to the concentration camp?\n\n"}
{"id": "1876332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876332", "title": "Imagawa Sadayo", "text": "Imagawa Sadayo\n\n, also known as , was a renowned Japanese poet and military commander who served as tandai (\"constable\") of Kyūshū under the Ashikaga bakufu from 1371 to 1395. His father, Imagawa Norikuni, had been a supporter of the first Ashikaga \"shōgun\", Ashikaga Takauji, and for his services had been granted the position of constable of Suruga Province (modern-day Shizuoka Prefecture). This promotion increased the prestige of the Imagawa family (a warrior family dating from the Muromachi period, which was related by blood to the Ashikaga shoguns) considerably, and they remained an important family through to the Edo period.\n\nDuring his early years Sadayo was taught Buddhism, Confucianism and Chinese, archery, and the military arts such as strategy and horse-back riding by his father (governor of the Tōkaidō provinces Tōtōmi and Suruga), along with poetry, which was to become one of his greatest passions. In his twenties he studied under Tamemoto of the Kyogoku school of poetry, and Reizei Tamehide of the Reizei school. At some point, he was appointed to head the boards of retainers and coadjudicators. He had taken religious vows when the Ashikaga bakufu called upon him to travel to Kyūshū and assume the post of constable of the region in 1370 after the failure of the previous constable to quell the rebel uprisings in the region, largely consisting of partisans of the Souther Court supporting one of the rebellious Emperor Go-Daigo's sons, Prince Kanenaga. By 1374–1375, Sadayo had crushed the rebellion, securing for the Bakufu northern Kyūshū, and ensuring the eventual failure of the rebellion and the consequent success of the Bakufu Shogunate.\n\nSadayo's skill as a strategist was obvious, and he moved rapidly through northern Kyūshū with a great deal of success, bringing the region under his control by October 1372. This was an impressive achievement considering Prince Kanenaga had been fortifying his position in this region for more than a decade. Kanenaga was not defeated outright however, and went on the defensive, leading to a stalemate that lasted through to 1373, when Kanenaga's general, Kikuchi Takemitsu, died, leaving his military with no strong leader. Sadayo seized the opportunity and planned a final attack.\n\nSadayo met with three of the most powerful families on Kyūshū to gain their support in the attack, those families being the Shimazu, the Ōtomo and the Shōni. Things seemed to be going well until Sadayo suspected the head of the Shoni family of treachery and had him killed at a drinking party. This outraged the Shimazu clan, who had originally been the ones to convince the Shōni to throw their lot in with Sadayo, and they returned to their province of Satsuma to raise a force against Sadayo. This gave Prince Kanenaga time to regroup, and he forced Sadayo back North, prompting Sadayo to request assistance from the Bakufu.\n\nSadayo to take matters into his own hands, but was aided by his son Yoshinori and his younger brother Tadaaki. Sadayo continued to push the loyalists forces until their resistance ended with Prince Kanenaga's death in 1383. The death of Shimazu clan chieftain Ujihasa in 1385 also helped ease tensions between Sadayo and the Shimazu for a time.\n\nIn 1395 both the Ōuchi and Ōtomo families conspired against Sadayo, informing the Bakufu that he was plotting against the \"shōgun\", in a move that was likely an attempt to restore the post of constable to the family that had held it prior to Sadayo, the Shibukawa family. Sadayo was relieved of his post and returned to the capital. Sadayo had, in addition, acted fairly independently in his negotiations with the Shimazu, the Ōtomo and the Shōni, and also in negotiations with Korea; this recall was prompted by all three causes being used against him by his enemies in the Shogun's court.\n\nIn 1400 Sadayo was once again questioned by the Bakufu, this time in relation to the Imagawa's province of Tōtōmi's failure to respond to a levy issued by the Bakufu—a negligence interpretable as treason and rebellion. This charge saw Sadayo stripped of his post as constable of Suruga and Tōtōmi provinces, and gave him reason to believe he might be assassinated. With this in mind he fled the capital for a time, though was later pardoned and returned to the capital, spending the rest of his days pursuing religious devotions and poetry until his death in 1420.\n\nSadayo began composing poetry from an early age: by the age 20, he had a poem included in an imperial anthology (the \"Fūga Wakashū\" or \"Collection of Elegance\"; Earl Miner gives the specific entry as XV: 1473). His teacher was Reizei no Tamehide (d. 1372). His poems were displayed to more effect in his fairly popular and influential travel diary, \"Michiyukiburi\" (\"Travellings\"). It was this travel diary that in large part won Sadayo a place as a respected critic of poetry: he felt that poetry should be a direct expression of personal experience, a fact that can be seen from his own poems.\n\nEven though Sadayo is better known for his criticism of the more conservative poetry styles, the Nijo school in particular, and his tutoring of Shōtetsu (1381–1459), who would become one of the finest waka poets of the fifteenth century, than he is for his own output, it nonetheless provides a glimpse into the mind of this medieval scholar and his travels.\n\nSadayo was active in the poetic disputes of that day, scoring a signal victory over the Nijō adherents close to the Ashikaga Shogunate at the time with 6 polemical treatises on poetry he wrote between 1403 and 1412, defending the Reizei's poetic doctrine and their cause (despite Ryōshun's renga poetry's debt to Nijō Yoshimoto's (1320–1388) examples and rules of composition). Ryōshun used a number of quotations to bolster his case, including notably a quote of Fujiwara no Teika's, which was that all of the \"ten styles\" (Teika had defined ten orthodox poetic styles, such as \"yoen\", a style concerned with \"ethereal beauty\", \"yūgen\", the demon-quelling style, or the one the Nijo championed to the exclusion of the other 9, \"ushin\") were licit for poetic use and experimentation, and not merely the Nijō's \"ushin\". With the aid Ryōshun afforded him, Fujiwara no Tanemasa's politicking eventually succeeded in converting the Shogun, ending the matter- until the rival Asukai poetic clan revived the dispute, that is.\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "1876333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876333", "title": "Be Your Own Pet", "text": "Be Your Own Pet\n\nBe Your Own Pet (also known as BYOP) was a four-piece punk/garage rock group from Nashville, Tennessee, United States.\n\nThe band was signed to XL in the UK since 2005 and were later signed with Thurston Moore's label, Ecstatic Peace in the US. Be Your Own Pet originally released early singles and EPs with Nashville-based Infinity Cat Records.\n\nAll of the members of Be Your Own Pet are involved in various other musical projects. Jonas Stein and John Eatherly play together in a band called Turbo Fruits, along with their friend Max Peebles. Their debut album was released in 2006 in the UK and they also played at the Reading and Leeds Festivals in the summer of 2006. Nathan Vasquez plays in a band called Deluxin. Jemina Pearl also has side projects: although no longer a member of Cheap Time, she is notably a member of Rare Form. Former member Jamin Orrall plays in JEFF the Brotherhood, along with his brother Jake Orrall. Jake Orrall was never a member of Be Your Own Pet, although he is often mistakenly believed to have been.\n\nOn August 1, 2008, the band announced on their website that after finishing a small tour of England, they would be breaking up. The band posted the following message on their website; \"\"To all of our fans, we are sad to bring you the news that our upcoming shows in the UK are going to be our last as a band. We thank you for all your love and support these past few years. It's been a blast, but the time has come for the four of us to go our separate ways.\"\"\n\nDuring both the Dingwalls and Liverpool Carling Academy shows, there have been reports of \"official looking cameras\" in between the crowd and stage. Their final show as a band was at Dingwalls in London in August 2008.\n\nJemina Pearl released her debut album \"Break It Up\" on October 6, 2009 by Ecstatic Peace Records. The album is co-written by John Eatherly and has guest appearances from Thurston Moore, Iggy Pop, Dave Sitek and Derek Stanton.\n\nAs of 2012, Jemina Pearl was performing out of Nashville in another garage-punk band called The Ultras S/C, alongside Ben Swank and Chet Weise.\n\nJonas Stein focused on his side project, Turbo Fruits, which he formed before the split of Be Your Own Pet and had previously included BYOP drummer John Eatherly. Turbo Fruits released several albums after Be Your Own Pet's disbanding.\n\nJohn Eatherly is now the drummer of the Virgins, and has played drums with bands such as Smith Westerns, Emma Louise, and more. He is currently a member of the band Public Access TV, in which he sings, plays guitar, and writes songs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876338", "title": "William Mathias", "text": "William Mathias\n\nWilliam Mathias CBE (1 November 1934 – 29 July 1992) was a Welsh composer.\n\nMathias was born in Whitland, Carmarthenshire. A child prodigy, he started playing the piano at the age of three and began composing at the age of five. At Aberystwyth University Mathias was a member of the Elizabethan Madrigal Singers and wrote 'Gloria in Excelsis Deo' for them in 1954. He studied at the Royal Academy of Music under Lennox Berkeley, where he was elected a Fellow in 1965. In 1968, he was awarded the Bax Society Prize of the Harriet Cohen International Music Award. He was professor of music and head of department in the University of Wales, Bangor, from 1970 until 1988.\n\nHis compositions include large scale works, including an opera, \"The Servants\" (1980), three symphonies and three piano concertos. Much of his music was written for the Anglican choral tradition, most famously the anthem \"Let the people praise Thee, O God\" written for the July 1981 royal wedding of the Prince and Princess of Wales, which had a television audience of an estimated 1 billion people worldwide.\n\nMathias wrote his \"Sinfonietta\" – initially called \"Dance Suite\" – for the Leicestershire Schools Symphony Orchestra (LSSO) in late 1966, and it received its first performance at Leicester De Montfort Hall during the 1967 Schools Festival. It was also included in the orchestra's tour programme for Denmark and Germany later in the year. The LSSO made the first commercial recording of \"Sinfonietta\" for the Pye Golden Guinea label in July 1967 under the direction of the composer (see external links below).\n\nHe founded the North Wales International Music Festival in St Asaph in 1972 and directed it until his death, aged 57, in 1992.\n\nHe is buried outside St Asaph Cathedral, at St Asaph, Denbighshire, North Wales.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876349", "title": "Frihetliga Ljusdalsbygden", "text": "Frihetliga Ljusdalsbygden\n\nFrihetliga Ljusdalsbygden was a joint candidature of \"Frihetliga Kommunalfolket\" (a syndicalist outfit) and \"Rädda Ljusdalsbygden\" (environmentally oriented splinter group of VPK) in Ljusdal, Sweden. FLB contested the 2002 municipal elections and got 551 votes (5.0%) and two seats. FLB has however broken down after the elections, and both groups work separately again.\n\nOf the two elected councilors, Artur Berg is from FKF and Jonny Mill from RLB.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876356", "title": "Architectural lighting design", "text": "Architectural lighting design\n\nArchitectural lighting design is a field within architecture, interior design and electrical engineering that is concerned with the design of lighting systems, including natural light, electric light, or both, to serve human needs.\n\nThe aim of lighting design is the human response, to see clearly and without discomfort. The objective of architectural lighting design is to further the design of architecture or the experience of buildings and other physical structures.\n\nGas lighting was economical enough to light streets in major cities starting in the early 1800s, and was also used in some commercial buildings and in the homes of wealthy people. The gas mantle boosted the luminosity of utility lighting and of kerosene lamps. The next major drop in price came about with the incandescent light bulb powered by electricity.\n\nArchitectural lighting design focuses on three fundamental aspects of the illumination of buildings or spaces. The first is the aesthetic appeal of a building, an aspect particularly important in the illumination of retail environments. Secondly, the ergonomic aspect: the measure of how much of a function the lighting plays. Thirdly is energy efficiency, ensuring that light is not wasted by over illumination which occurs either by illuminating vacant spaces unnecessarily or by providing more light than needed for the aesthetics or the task. Cultural factors also need to be considered; for example, bright lights was a mark of wealth through much of Chinese history.\n\nFor colors based on black-body theory, blue occurs at higher temperatures, while red occurs at lower, cooler, temperatures. This is the opposite of the cultural associations attributed to colors, in which red represents hot, and blue cold.\n\nLighting fixtures come in a wide variety of styles for various functions. The most important functions are as a holder for the light source, to provide directed light and to avoid visual glare. Some are very plain and functional, while some are pieces of art in themselves. Nearly any material can be used, so long as it can tolerate the excess heat and is in keeping with safety codes.\n\nAn important property of light fixtures is the luminous efficacy or wall-plug efficiency, meaning the amount of usable light emanating from the fixture per used energy, usually measured in lumen per watt. A fixture using replaceable light sources can also have its efficiency quoted as the percentage of light passed from the \"bulb\" to the surroundings. The more transparent the lighting fixture is, the higher efficacy. Shading the light will normally decrease efficiency but increase the directionality and the visual comfort probability.\n\nThe PH-lamps are a series of light fixtures designed by Danish designer and writer Poul Henningsen from 1926 onwards. The lamp is designed with multiple concentric shades to eliminate visual glare, only emitting reflected light, obscuring the light source.\n\nPhotometric studies (also sometimes referred to as \"layouts\" or \"point by points\") are often used to simulate lighting designs for projects before they are built or renovated. This enables architects, lighting designers, and engineers to determine whether a proposed lighting setup will deliver the amount of light intended. They will also be able to determine the contrast ratio between light and dark areas. In many cases these studies are referenced against Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) or CIBSE recommended lighting practices for the type of application. Depending on the type of area, different design aspects may be emphasized for safety or practicality (i.e. such as maintaining uniform light levels, avoiding glare or highlighting certain areas). A specialized lighting design application is often used to create these, which typically combine the use of two-dimensional digital CAD drawings and lighting simulation software.\n\nColor temperature for white light sources also affects their use for certain applications. The color temperature of a white light source is the temperature in kelvins of a theoretical black body emitter that most closely matches the spectral characteristics of the lamp. An incandescent bulb has a color temperature around 2800 to 3000 kelvins; daylight is around 6400 kelvins. Lower color temperature lamps have relatively more energy in the yellow and red part of the visible spectrum, while high color temperatures correspond to lamps with more of a blue-white appearance. For critical inspection or color matching tasks, or for retail displays of food and clothing, the color temperature of the lamps will be selected for the best overall lighting effect. Color may also be used for functional reasons. For example, blue light makes it difficult to see veins and thus may be used to discourage drug use.\n\nThe color temperature of a light source is the temperature of an ideal black-body radiator that radiates light of comparable hue to that of the light source. Color temperature is a characteristic of visible light that has important applications in lighting, photography, videography, publishing, manufacturing, astrophysics, horticulture, and other fields. In practice, color temperature is only meaningful for light sources that do in fact correspond somewhat closely to the radiation of some black body, i.e., those on a line from reddish/orange via yellow and more or less white to blueish white; it does not make sense to speak of the color temperature of, e.g., a green or a purple light. Color temperature is conventionally stated in the unit of absolute temperature, the kelvin, having the unit symbol K.\n\nFor lighting building interiors, it is often important to take into account the color temperature of illumination. For example, a warmer (i.e., lower color temperature) light is often used in public areas to promote relaxation, while a cooler (higher color temperature) light is used to enhance concentration in offices.\n\nCCT dimming for LED technology is regarded as a difficult task, since binning, age and temperature drift effects of LEDs change the actual color value output. Here feedback loop systems are used for example with color sensors, to actively monitor and control the color output of multiple color mixing LEDs.\n\nThe color temperature of the electromagnetic radiation emitted from an ideal black body is defined as its surface temperature in kelvins, or alternatively in \"mireds\" (micro-reciprocal kelvin). This permits the definition of a standard by which light sources are compared.\n\nTo the extent that a hot surface emits thermal radiation but is not an ideal black-body radiator, the color temperature of the light is not the actual temperature of the surface. An incandescent lamp's light is thermal radiation, and the bulb approximates an ideal black-body radiator, so its color temperature is essentially the temperature of the filament.\n\nMany other light sources, such as fluorescent lamps, or LEDs (light emitting diodes) emit light primarily by processes other than thermal radiation. This means that the emitted radiation does not follow the form of a black-body spectrum. These sources are assigned what is known as a correlated color temperature (CCT). CCT is the color temperature of a black-body radiator which to human color perception most closely matches the light from the lamp. Because such an approximation is not required for incandescent light, the CCT for an incandescent light is simply its unadjusted temperature, derived from the comparison to a black-body radiator.\n\nFor simple installations, hand-calculations based on tabular data can be used to provide an acceptable lighting design. More critical or optimized designs now routinely use mathematical modeling on a computer.\n\nBased on the positions and mounting heights of the fixtures, and their photometric characteristics, the proposed lighting layout can be checked for uniformity and quantity of illumination. For larger projects or those with irregular floor plans, lighting design software can be used. Each fixture has its location entered, and the reflectance of walls, ceiling, and floors can be entered. The computer program will then produce a set of contour charts overlaid on the project floor plan, showing the light level to be expected at the working height. More advanced programs can include the effect of light from windows or skylights, allowing further optimization of the operating cost of the lighting installation. The amount of daylight received in an internal space can typically be analyzed by undertaking a daylight factor calculation.\n\nThe Zonal Cavity Method is used as a basis for both hand, tabulated, and computer calculations. This method uses the reflectance coefficients of room surfaces to model the contribution to useful illumination at the working level of the room due to light reflected from the walls and the ceiling. Simplified photometric values are usually given by fixture manufacturers for use in this method.\n\nComputer modeling of outdoor flood lighting usually proceeds directly from photometric data. The total lighting power of a lamp is divided into small solid angular regions. Each region is extended to the surface which is to be lit and the area calculated, giving the light power per unit of area. Where multiple lamps are used to illuminate the same area, each one's contribution is summed. Again the tabulated light levels (in lux or foot-candles) can be presented as contour lines of constant lighting value, overlaid on the project plan drawing. Hand calculations might only be required at a few points, but computer calculations allow a better estimate of the uniformity and lighting level.\n\n\n\nTypes of electric lighting include:\n\nDifferent types of lights have vastly differing efficiencies and color of light. \n\nThe most efficient source of electric light is the low-pressure sodium lamp. It produces, for all practical purposes, a monochromatic orange/yellow light, which gives a similarly monochromatic perceprtion of any illuminated scene. For this reason, it is generally reserved for outdoor public lighting usages. Low-pressure sodium lights are favoured for public lighting by astronomers, since the light pollution that they generate can be easily filtered, contrary to broadband or continuous spectra.\n\nThe modern incandescent light bulb, with a coiled filament of tungsten, was commercialized in the 1920s developed from the carbon filament lamp introduced in about 1880. As well as bulbs for normal illumination, there is a very wide range, including low voltage, low-power types often used as components in equipment, but now largely displaced by LEDs\n\nThere is currently interest in banning some types of filament lamp in some countries, such as Australia planning to ban standard incandescent light bulbs by 2010, because they are inefficient at converting electricity to light. Sri Lanka has already banned importing filament bulbs because of high use of electricity and less light. Less than 3% of the input energy is converted into usable light. Nearly all of the input energy ends up as heat that, in warm climates, must then be removed from the building by ventilation or air conditioning, often resulting in more energy consumption. In colder climates where heating and lighting is required during the cold and dark winter months, the heat byproduct has at least some value.\n\nFluorescent lamps consist of a glass tube that contains mercury vapour or argon under low pressure. Electricity flowing through the tube causes the gases to give off ultraviolet energy. The inside of the tubes are coated with phosphors that give off visible light when struck by ultraviolet energy. have much higher efficiency than Incandescent lamps. For the same amount of light generated, they typically use around one-quarter to one-third the power of an incandescent.\n\nSolid state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) became widespread as indicator lights since the 1970s. With the invention of high-output LEDs by Shuji Nakamura, LEDs are now in use for general lighting applications. \n\nInitially, due to relatively high cost per lumen, LED lighting was most used for lamp assemblies of under 10 W such as flashlights. Development of higher-output lamps was motivated by programs such as the U.S. L Prize, culminating in the commercial availability of LED lamps suitable to replace incandescent and fluorescent lamps. \n\nLED technology is useful for lighting designers because of its low power consumption, low heat generation, instantaneous on-and-off control, and in the case of single color LEDs, continuity of color throughout the life of the diode and relatively low cost of manufacture. See Light Emitting Diode full article for more on the technology itself. See LED lamps for more on the general use of LEDs in lighting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876364", "title": "Aybak", "text": "Aybak\n\nIzz al-Din Aybak () (\"epithet:\" al-Malik al-Mu'izz Izz al-Din Aybak al-Jawshangir al-Turkmani al-Salihi, Arabic: الملك المعز عز الدين أيبك التركماني الجاشنكير الصالحى) was the first of the Mamluk sultans of Egypt in the Turkic Bahri line. He ruled from 1250 until his death in 1257.\n\nAybak (\"\", \"moon\"; \"baig\", \"commander\") was an Emir/commander of Turkic origin who served with other Turkmens in the court of the Ayyubid sultan as-Salih Ayyub and therefore was known among the Bahri Mamluks as Aybak al-Turkmani. He raised to the position of Emir (commander) and worked as a \"Jashnkir\" (taster of the sultan's food and drink, or cupbearer) and used the rank of a Khawanja (Sultan's accountant).\n\nAfter the death of as-Salih Ayyub during the Frankish invasion of Damietta in 1249 and the murder of his heir and son Turanshah in 1250, Shajar al-Durr, the widow of as-Salih Ayyub, with the help and support of the Mamluks of her late husband, seized the throne and became the Sultana of Egypt. The Ayyubids lost control over Egypt.\n\nBoth the Ayyubids in Syria and the Abbasid Caliph al-Musta'sim in Baghdad defied the Mamluk move in Egypt and refused to recognize Shajar al-Durr as a Sultana but the Mamluks in Egypt renewed their oath to the new Sultana, and she appointed Aybak to the important position of Atabeg (commander in chief).\n\nFeeling uneasy when the Syrian Emirs refused to pay homage to Shajar al-Durr and granted Damascus to an-Nasir Yusuf the Ayyubid emir of Aleppo, Shajar al-Durr married Aybak then abdicated and passed the throne to Aybak after she ruled Egypt for 80 days, starting on May 2, 1250.\n\nAybak, from the end of July 1250 the new sultan of Egypt, was given the royal name al-Malik al-Muizz. Until then, Aybak relied foremost on four Mamluks: Faris ad-Din Aktai, Baibars al-Bunduqdari, Qutuz and Bilban al-Rashidi.\n\nAybak's formal rule ended after just five days. To consolidate his position of Aybak, and attempting to satisfy their opponents in Syria and Baghdad, the Bahri Mamluks installed the 6-year-old al-Ashraf Musa, who was one of the Syrian branch of the Ayyubid family as a Sultan and announced that Aybak is merely a representative of the Abbasid Caliph in Baghdad. In addition, and to display his loyalty to his deceased Ayyubid master as-Salih Ayyub, Aybak organised a funeral ceremony for as-Salih and buried him in the tomb which as-Salih had built for himself before his death near his madrasah in the district of Bain al-Qasrain in Cairo. Nevertheless, the actual power in Egypt was still exercised by Aybak, who had returned to his position of atabak (atabeg).\n\nAn-Nasir Yusuf sent his forces to Gaza to conquer Egypt and overthrow Aybak but his forces were defeated by Emir Faris ad-Din Aktai in October 1250. Then he led a huge army and clashed with Aybak's army near Al-Salihiyya, not far from Cairo, but at the end of the battle he was forced to flee to Damascus while his son Turanshah, his brother Nosrat ad-Din and al-Malik al-Ashraf the Emir of Aleppo were among the prisoners caught by Aybak's army. Aybak's triumphs over the Ayyobids of Syria consolidated his position as a ruler of Egypt. Through negotiation and mediation of the Abbasid Caliph, Aybak freed the Ayyubid prisoners and gained control over southern Palestine including Gaza and Jerusalem and the Syrian coast. Feeling secure by his victories and his agreement with the Ayyubids, Aybak imprisoned the young Ayyubid co-sultan Musa and appointed Qutuz as vice-sultan in 1252.\n\nIn 1253 a serious rebellion led by Hisn al-Din Thalab in Upper and Middle Egypt was crushed by Aktai, the leader of the Bahri Mamluks. By defeating the Ayyubid forces of an-Nasir Yusuf and the crushing of the rebellion of Thalab the power of Emir Aktai and his Mamluks increased and they began to form a new threat to the authority of Aybak. When Aktai asked Aybak to allow him to live inside the citadel with his future wife who was the sister of al-Malik al-Mansour, the Emir of Hama, Aybak became convinced that Aktai and his Mamluks had the intention to overthrow him and, thus, he decided to get rid of them.\n\nIn 1254, in a conspiracy with Qutuz and a few Mamluks, Aybak invited Aktai to the citadel and had him murdered. Watching the head of Aktai thrown out from the citadel, the Bahriyya Mamluks, among them Baibars al-Bunduqdari and Qalawun al-Alfi, fled during the night to Damascus, al-Karak and the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm. Aybak plundered the properties of the Bahriyya Mamluks and retracted Alexandria which Aktai controlled as own domain since 1252. Those who could not flee were either imprisoned or executed. As soon as he finished with Aktai and his Bahriyya Mamluks, Aybak dethroned the child co-sultan al-Ashraf Musa and sent him back to his aunts' house, which was his home before they had made him a co-sultan. Now Aybak was the absolute and sole ruler of Egypt and parts of Syria, but shortly afterwards he settled a new agreement with an-Nasir Yusuf, which limited his power to Egypt only.\n\nIn 1255 a new rebellion led by his namesake Izz al-Din Aybak al-Afram arose in upper Egypt and forces of an-Nasir Yusuf arrived to the Egyptian border, this time accompanied by the Bahriyya Mamluks who had fled to Syria, including Baibars al-Bunduqdari and Qalawun al-Alfi.\n\nBeing in need to form an alliance with an ally who could help him against the threat of the Mamluks who had fled to Syria, Aybak decided in 1257 to marry the daughter of Badr ad-Din Lu'lu', the emir of Mosul. Shajar al-Durr, who already had disputes with Aybak felt betrayed by the man who she made sultan, and had him murdered after he had ruled Egypt seven years. On the day of his death he was about 60 years old and had a few sons, among them Nasir ad-Din Khan and al-Mansur Ali.\n\nAybak's 11-year-old son Ali was installed by his loyal Mamluks (Mu'iziyya Mamluks), who were led by Qutuz. The new sultan took the royal name al-Malik al-Mansur Nour ad-Din Ali with Qutuz as a vice-sultan.\n\nAybak was not liked nor respected by the Egyptians though he was remembered by the historian as a courageous and generous Sultan.\n\nAybak ruled in a turbulent time. In addition to his conflicts with an-Nasir Yusuf in Syria and Emir Aktai and his Mamluks in Egypt, there were threats from external forces, namely the Crusaders and Louis IX of France who were in Acre waiting for a chance to score a success against the Muslims after their humiliating defeat in Egypt in 1250, and the Mongols led by Hulagu who were starting to raid the eastern borders of the Islamic world.\n\nBefore their deaths, Aybak and Shajar al-Durr firmly established the Mamluk dynasty that would ultimately repulse the Mongols, expel the European Crusaders from the Holy Land, and would remain the most powerful political force in the Middle East until the coming of the Ottomans.\n\nAibak built a Madrasah in Cairo known by the name al-Madrasah al-Mu'izzyah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876369", "title": "Linda Barnes (writer)", "text": "Linda Barnes (writer)\n\nLinda Barnes (born December 6, 1949) is an American mystery writer.\n\nLinda Barnes was born and raised in Detroit, and graduated cum laude from the School of Fine and Applied Arts at Boston University. After college, Barnes became a drama teacher and director at Chelmsford and Lexington, Massachusetts schools. While teaching drama, Barnes wrote two plays, the award-winning \"Wings\" and \"Prometheus\", and went on to write highly successful mystery novels.\n\nLinda Barnes lives near Boston with her husband and has one son.\n\nBarnes is best known for her series featuring Carlotta Carlyle, a 6'1\" redheaded detective from Boston. Carlotta Carlyle is in the tradition of the hard-boiled female detectives created by Sue Grafton and Sara Paretsky.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876376", "title": "Frog Went a-Courting", "text": "Frog Went a-Courting\n\n\"Frog Went a-Courtin (Roud 16; ) is an English-language folk song. Its first known appearance is in Wedderburn's \"Complaynt of Scotland\" (1548) under the name \"The Frog cam to the Myl dur\", though this is in Scots rather than English. There is a reference in the London Company of Stationers' Register of 1580 to \"A Moste Strange Weddinge of the Frogge and the Mouse.\" There are many texts of the ballad; however the oldest known musical version is in Thomas Ravenscroft's \"Melismata\" in 1611.\n\nFrog rides to ask Miss Mouse to marry him. She is willing but must ask permission of Uncle Rat. In other versions such as \"King Kong Kitchie Kitchie Ki-Me-O\" by Chubby Parker, Frog fights and kills Miss Mouse's other suitors (an owl, bat and bumblebee) after they interrupt his proposal. Uncle Rat's permission received, the two work out details of the wedding. Some versions end with a cat, snake or other creature devouring the couple and wedding guests. Sometimes Frog gets away, but is later swallowed by a duck. See \"\" at Wikisource for one version of the lyrics.\n\nUsually, the final verse states that there's a piece of food on the shelf, and that if the listener wants to hear more verses, they have to sing it themselves.\n\nThe notes on this song in Cazden et al. (pp. 524–532) constitute probably the best succinct summary available on variants of this piece.\n\nSpaeth has a note claiming that the original version of this was supposed to refer to François, Duke of Anjou's wooing of Elizabeth I of England; however, this was in 1579 and the original Scottish version was already published. If the second known version (1611, in Melismata, also reprinted in Chappell) were the oldest, this might be possible — there are seeming political references to \"Gib, our cat\" and \"Dick, our Drake.\" But the Wedderburn text, which at least anticipates the song, predates the reign of Queen Elizabeth by nine years, and Queen Mary by four. If it refers to any queen at all, it would seemingly have to be Mary Stuart. Evelyn K. Wells, however, in the liner notes to the LP \"Brave Boys; New England traditions in folk music\" (New World Records 239, 1977), suggests that the original may have been satirically altered in 1580 when it was recorded in the register of the London Company of Stationers, as this would have been at the height of the unpopular courtship.\n\nAccording to Albert Jack in his book \"Pop Goes the Weasel, The Secret Meanings of Nursery Rhymes\" (pp. 33–37, copyright 2008), the earliest known version of the song was published in 1549 as \"The Frog Came to the Myl Dur\" in Robert Wedderburn's \"Complaynt of Scotland\". He states that in 1547 the Scottish Queen Consort, Mary of Guise, under attack from Henry VIII, sought to marry her daughter Princess Mary (later Mary Queen of Scots), \"Miss Mouse\" to the three-year old French Prince Louis, the \"frog\". The song resurfaced a few years later, with changes, when another French (frog) wooing caused concern—that of the Duke of Anjou and Queen Elizabeth I in 1579. Elizabeth even nicknamed Anjou, her favorite suitor, \"the frog\".\n\nAnother theory traces the song to Suffolk: \"Roley, Poley, Gammon and Spinach\" refer to four families of Suffolk notables, Rowley, Poley, Bacon and Green.\n\nThe song has been heard by many people (as \"Froggie Went a-Courtin) in the 1955 \"Tom and Jerry\" cartoon \"Pecos Pest\", which uses a version arranged and performed by Shug Fisher, in character as \"Uncle Pecos.\" In \"Pecos Pest\", Jerry's Uncle Pecos stays with him while getting ready for a television appearance, and continues to pluck Tom's whiskers to use as guitar strings throughout the cartoon. It is an improvised version with many lyrics that are unintelligible, and many changed. For example, he stutters and gives up when he tries to say \"hickory tree\" and says \"way down yonder by the ...\", stammers out the names of several types of trees, finally settling (ironically) on \"eucalyptus\". He also mentions while continuing the music \"That's the hard part right in there, n-n-n-n-nephew!\" and \"there's a yodel in thar somewhar, but it's a little too high f'r me.\"\n\nSome refer to this song as \"Crambone\", as it is repeated at the end of many lines and said more clearly than the other words in this version. For example, the line is \"Froggie went a-courtin' he did ride/Crambone\". Fisher, in character as Pecos, delivers the coda with a glottal stutter on the letter \"c\". Woody Guthrie's version used \"Hey-hey\", and Bob Dylan's version used \"uh-huh\" in the same way after several lines.\n\nOther examples in film and TV include:\n\n\nThe song has been recorded by Almeda Riddle, Woody Guthrie, Pete Seeger, and many others. Folk singer Burl Ives performed perhaps the most well-known and kid-friendly version, in which Frog and Miss Mousie are wed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876381", "title": "Micro Maniacs", "text": "Micro Maniacs\n\nMicro Maniacs (FoxKids.com Micro Maniacs Racing in North America) is a racing video game developed by Codemasters for PlayStation and Game Boy Color. It is a spin-off to the Micro Machines games, the main difference being that players control tiny characters where a few racetracks feature the use of vehicles. The North American version was sponsored by Fox Kids, and so the game's name was changed there.\n\n\"Micro Maniacs\" is set in a time where the Earth's resources are being depleted and the very planet is at risk. However a scientist named Dr. Minimizer has an idea: using a device he calls \"The Minimizer Ray\", he will shrink the planet's population to 1/360 of its original size, and so create a world more suitable to our current status. If this is to be successful, the doctor needs to create a supersoldier: somebody who can prepare the planet for us when we are eventually minimized. In order to do this, the doctor enlists the help of 12 volunteers for an experiment. The experiment consists of racetracks that are considered various dangerous environments as to ascertain the suitable skills for the supersoldier.\n\nAs opposed to previous games in the series, players control these small volunteers more than vehicles, the main difference is that the volunteers are able to jump and use individual abilities. The volunteers (or characters) are each slightly different. None are particularly realistic, but their unusual characteristics allow the characters to make use of various power-ups. These are used to attack your opponents in a race, and include things like black holes, atomic blasts, and laser mines.\n\nSimilar to the other games in the \"Micro Machines\" series, each course is based in a different environment, like a bathroom, a kitchen, a laboratory, a garage, and a bedroom. The goal is to race through the level and be the first to cross the finish line. Each course is marked out with a substance in the environment. These are related to the level in question, and include things like toothpaste, fish food and baked beans. Some courses require the use of vehicles like jet-skis, bees, motor scooters and skateboards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMark Nix of IGN gave the game a score of 7.5/10. He praised the gameplay and variety, and said \"there is still no better reason to own a multitap than Codemaster's [\"sic\"] Micro series\".\n"}
{"id": "1876382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876382", "title": "FB MAG", "text": "FB MAG\n\nThe MAG-95 is a Polish 9mm semi-automatic pistol. Originally designed by Marian Gryszkiewicz, it was manufactured at the Łucznik Arms Factory (\"Fabryka Broni Łucznik\") in Radom. An improved model was MAG-98, and currently is MAG-08. With the MAG-95 pistol the designers abandoned their previous design practices based on the use of the 9×18mm Makarov cartridge and instead utilized a Western-influenced approach involving the 9×19mm Parabellum cartridge and some of the latest safety and other design techniques. The MAG-95 incorporates most of the user facilities to which shooters in the West have become accustomed, but which have been absent from most Eastern Bloc pistols until recently. The PR-15 Ragun pistol is development of MAG.\n\nIn 1993, they started work on the new pistol, at the Łucznik Arms Factory in Radom, Poland. It was intended primarily for the Polish Army, to replace both the obsolete P-64 and the P-83 Wanad pistols. The obvious caliber choice was the more powerful, NATO standard 9×19mm Parabellum (9mm Luger), to replace the old 9×18mm Makarov. Since the Army had not worked out technical conditions for a pistol by then, the factory worked them out on its own, and decided to design a pistol of a classic construction, utilizing the experience of the world's best designs. The lead designer was Marian Gryszkiewicz. The gun was designed by late 1993. In 1994 prototypes were tested, and an information series appeared in 1995. The pistol's operation principle is the Short recoil operation, with a mechanism similar to that of the Browning HP.\n\nIn 1995 the pistol was evaluated by the Polish Army. It had advantages over a competitor, the WIST-94, such as better reliability, durability and safety (better protection against accidental discharge, when dropped). However, the MAG model was rejected by the Army, because it did not meet technical specifications, that were set in late 1993, exceeding mass (800g) and dimensional criteria (190x135x33 mm).\n\nIn 1996 a lighter variant, the MAG-98, was designed with an aluminum frame (initially designated MAG-96), but despite the fact that the Army showed interest, it was still too heavy, by 75g, and had the same dimensions. So the competitor, the WIST-94, was accepted into ordnance in 1999. In the following years, the MAG was produced for the Polish Border Guard and Prison Guard (\"Straż Więzienna\") and for the civilian market, though in small series (the market for civilian guns in Poland was very small due to restrictive gun laws). The Polish Police tested the gun, but others pistols (the Glock pistol and Walther P99) won public procurements organized by the Polish Police due to their lower price.\n\nThe last produced variant was the MAG-98C, for sport shooting, with a 20-round magazine and adjustable sights. Also, a small series (up to 100 pistols) was made for the U.S. market, with a 10-round magazine. The production ceased in 2000, when the manufacturer went bankrupt.\n\nThe pistol has a good reputation among users: It is considered a precise, well balanced and durable weapon. Its mass leads to good stability during firing. It was simpler and cheaper than the WIST-94 and, in addition, some Army users preferred the MAG as a personal sidearm.\n\nIn 2008, the new variant MAG-08 was introduced, with a Picatinny rail and minor other improvements, developed by the manufacturer's successor, Fabryka Broni Łucznik. As of 2008, it has not yet been widely distributed.\n\nThe MAG-95 pistol relies to a large extent on design features from the later Browning designs, and others, combining features from several weapons into one pistol. The locking system is the widely used dropping barrel and cam action of the Browning series. This is combined with a double-action trigger mechanism combined with a hammer decocking lever which allows the external hammer to be lowered in safety when a round is chambered. Only a positive 50 N pull on the trigger will allow the hammer to recock for firing the round. The barrel is chrome plated to prolong its life and to permit easier cleaning. The MAG-95 is suitable for use by both right and left-handed users and is designed for two-handed operation. It is claimed that the pistols are well balanced to produce greater accuracy when rapid firing. The box magazine contains 15 rounds; optional 20 and 10-round magazines are available. Other options include a laser target indicator to be mounted in front of the trigger guard. The standard finish is a matte black lacquer coating but a bright or matte chrome finish is optional. The MAG-98 incorporates a buffer while the MAG-98c, also with a buffer, is primarily a sporting pistol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876392", "title": "Cotati", "text": "Cotati\n\nCotati may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876394", "title": "Cystocele", "text": "Cystocele\n\nA cystocele, also known as a prolapsed bladder, is a medical condition in which a woman's bladder bulges into her vagina. Some may have no symptoms. Other may have trouble starting urination, urinary incontinence, or frequent urination. Complications may include recurrent urinary tract infections and urinary retention. Cystocele and a prolapsed urethra often occur together and is called a cystourethrocele. Cystocele can negatively affect quality of life.\nCauses include childbirth, constipation, chronic cough, heavy lifting, hysterectomy, genetics, and being overweight. The underlying mechanism involves weakening of muscles and connective tissue between the bladder and vagina. Diagnosis is often based on symptoms and examination.\nIf the cystocele causes few symptoms, avoiding heavy lifting or straining may be all that is recommended. In those with more significant symptoms a vaginal pessary, pelvic muscle exercises, or surgery may be recommended. The type of surgery typically done is known as a colporrhaphy. The condition becomes more common with age. About a third of women over the age of 50 are affected to some degree.\n\nThe symptoms of a cystocele may include:\n\nA bladder that has dropped from its normal position and into the vagina can cause some forms of incontinence and incomplete emptying of the bladder.\n\nComplications may include urinary retention, recurring urinary tract infections and incontinence. The anterior vaginal wall may actually protrude though the vaginal introitus (opening). This can interfere with sexual activity. Recurrent urinary tract infections are common for those who have urinary retention. In addition, though cystocele can be treated, some treatments may not alleviate troubling symptoms, and further treatment may need to be performed. Cystocele may affect the quality of life, women who have cystocele tend to avoid leaving their home and avoid social situations. The resulting incontinence puts women at risk of being placed in a nursing home or long term care facility.\n\nA cystocele occurs when the muscles, fascia, tendons and connective tissues between a woman's bladder and vagina weaken, or detach. The type of cystocele that can develop can be due to one, two or three vaginal wall attachment failures: the midline defect, the paravaginal defect, and the transverse defect. The midline defect is a cystocele caused by the overstretching of the vaginal wall; the paravaginal defect is the separation of the vaginal connective tissue at the arcus tendineus fascia pelvis; the transverse defect is when the pubocervical fascia becomes detached from the top (apex) of the vagina. There is some pelvic prolapse in 40–60% of women who have given birth. Muscle injuries have been identified in women with cystocele. These injuries are more likely to occur in women who have given birth than those who have not. These muscular injuries result in less support to the anterior vaginal wall.\n\nSome women with connective tissue disorders are predisposed to developing anterior vaginal wall collapse. Up to one third of women with Marfan syndrome have a history of vaginal wall collapse. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in women is associated with a rate of 3 out of 4.\n\nRisk factors for developing a cystocele are:\n\nConnective tissue disorders predispose women to developing cystocele and other pelvic organ prolapse. The tissues tensile strength of the vaginal wall decreases when the structure of the collagen fibers change and become weaker.\n\nThere are two types of cystocele. The first is distension. This is thought to be due to the overstretching of the vaginal wall and is most often associated with aging, menopause and vaginal delivery. It can be observed when the rugae are less visible or even absent. The second type is displacement. Displacement is the detachment or abnormal elongation of supportive tissue.\n\nThe initial assessment of cystocele can include a pelvic exam to evaluate leakage of urine when the women is asked to bear down or give a strong cough (Valsalva maneuver), and the anterior vaginal wall measured and evaluated for the appearance of a cystocele. If a woman has difficulty emptying her bladder, the clinician may measure the amount of urine left in the woman's bladder after she urinates called the postvoid residual. This is measured by ultrasound. A voiding cystourethrogram is a test that involves taking x-rays of the bladder during urination. This x-ray shows the shape of the bladder and lets the doctor see any problems that might block the normal flow of urine. A urine culture and sensitivity test will assess the presence of a urinary tract infection that may be related to urinary retention. Other tests may be needed to find or rule out problems in other parts of the urinary system. Differential diagnosis will be improved by identifying possible inflammation of the Skene's glands and Bartholin glands.\n\nA number of scales exist to grade the severity of a cystocele.\n\nThe pelvic organ prolapse quantification (POP-Q) assessment, developed in 1996, quantifies the descent of the cystocele into the vagina. The POP-Q provides reliable description of the support of the anterior, posterior and apical vaginal wall. It uses objective and precise measurements to the reference point, the hymen. Cystocele and prolapse of the vagina from other causes is staged using POP-Q criteria can range from good support (no descent into the vagina) reported as a POP-Q stage 0 or I to a POP-Q score of IV which includes prolapse beyond the hymen. It also used to quantifies the movement of other structures into the vaginal lumen and their descent.\n\nThe Baden–Walker Halfway Scoring System is used as the second most used system and assigns the classifications as mild (grade 1) when the bladder droops only a short way into the vagina; (grade 2) cystocele, the bladder sinks far enough to reach the opening of the vagina; and (grade 3) when the bladder bulges out through the opening of the vagina.\n\nCystocele can be further described as being apical, medial, lateral, or mediolateral.\n\nApical cystocele is located upper third of the vagina. The structures involved are the endopelvic fascia and ligaments. The cardinal ligaments and the uterosacral ligaments suspend the upper vaginal-dome. The cystocele in this region of the vagina is thought to be due to a cardinal ligament defect.\n\nMedial cystocele forms in the mid-vagina and is related to a defect in the suspension provided by to a sagittal suspension system defect in the uterosacral ligaments and pubocervical fascia. The pubocervical fascia may thin or tear and create the cystocele. An aid in diagnosis is the creation of a 'shiny' spot on the epithelium of the vagina. This defect can be assessed by MRI.\n\nLateral cystocele forms when both the pelviperineal muscle and its ligamentous–fascial develop a defect. The ligamentous– fascial creates a 'hammock-like' suspension and support for the lateral sides of the vagina. Defects in this lateral support system results in a lack of bladder support. Cystocele that develops laterally is associated with an anatomic imbalance between anterior vaginal wall and the arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis – the essential ligament structure.\n\nCystocele may be mild enough not to result in symptoms that are troubling to a woman. In this case, steps to prevent it from worsening include:\n\nTreatment options range from no treatment for a mild cystocele to surgery for a more extensive cystocele. If a cystocele is not bothersome, the clinician may only recommend avoiding heavy lifting or straining that could cause the cystocele to worsen. If symptoms are moderately bothersome, the doctor may recommend a pessary, a device placed in the vagina to hold the bladder in place and to block protrusion. Treatment can consist of a combination of non-surgical and surgical management. Treatment choice is also related to age, desire to have children, severity of impairment, desire to continue sexual intercourse and other diseases that a woman may have.\n\nCystocele is often treated by non-surgical means:\n\nThe surgery to repair the anterior vaginal wall may be combined with other procedures that will repair the other points of pelvic organ support such as anterior-posterior repair and anterior colporrhaphy. Treatment of cystocele often accompanies the more invasive hysterectomy. Since the failure rate in cystocele repair remains high, additional surgery may be needed. Women who have surgery to repair a cystocele have a 17% of needing another operation within the next ten years.\n\nThe surgical treatment of cystocele will depend on the cause of the defect and whether it occurs at the top (apex), middle, or lower part of the anterior vaginal wall. The type of surgery will also depend on the type of damage that exists between supporting structures and the vaginal wall. One of the most common surgical repairs is colporrhaphy. This surgical procedure consists of making a longitudinal folding of the vaginal tissue, suturing it into place and creating a stronger point of resistance to the intruding bladder wall. Surgical mesh is sometimes used to strengthen the anterior vaginal wall. It has a 10–50% failure rate. In some cases a surgeon may choose to use surgical mesh to strengthen the repair.\n\nDuring surgery, the repair of the vaginal wall consists of folding over and then suturing the existing tissue between the vagina and bladder to strengthen it. This tightens the layers of tissue to promote the replacement of the pelvic organs into their normal place. The surgery also provides more support for the bladder. This surgery is done by a surgeon specializing in gynecology and is performed in a hospital. Anesthesia varies according to the needs of each woman. Recovery may take four to six weeks. Other surgical treatment may be performed to treat cystocele. Support for the vaginal wall is accomplished with the paravaginal defect repair. This is a surgery, usually laproscopic, that is done to the ligaments and fascia through the abdomen. The lateral ligaments and supportive structures are repaired, sometimes shortened to provide additional support to the vaginal wall.\n\nSacrocolpopexy is a procedure that stabilizes the vaginal vault (the uppermost portion of the vagina) and is often chosen as the treatment for cystocele, especially if previous surgeries were not successful. The procedure consists of attaching the vaginal vault to the sacrum. It has a success rate of 90%. Some women choose not to have surgery to close the vagina. This surgery, called colpocleisis, treats cystocele by closing the vaginal opening. This can be an option for women who no longer want to have vaginal intercourse.\n\nIf an enterocele/sigmoidocele, or prolapse of the rectum/colon, is also present, the surgical treatment will take this concurrent condition into account while planning and performing the repairs. Estrogen that is administered vaginally before surgical repair can strengthen the vaginal tissue providing a more successful outcome when mesh or sutures are used for the repair. Vaginal thickness increases after estrogen therapy. Another review on the surgical management of cystocele describes a more successful treatment that more strongly attaches the ligaments and fascia to the vagina to lift and stabilize it.\n\nPost surgical complications can develop. The complications following surgical treatment of cystocele are: \n\n\nAfter surgery, a woman is instructed to restrict her activities and monitor herself for signs of infection such as an elevated temperature, discharge with a foul odor and consistent pain. Clinicians may recommend that sneezing, coughing, and constipation are to be avoided. Splinting the abdomen while coughing provides support to an incised area and decreases pain on coughing. This is accomplished by applying gentle pressure to the surgical site for bracing during a cough.\n\nRecurrent surgery on the pelvic organs may not be due to a failure of the surgery to correct the cystocele. Subsequent surgeries can be directly or indirectly relating to the primary surgery. Prolapse can occur at a different site in the vagina. Further surgery after the initial repair can be to treat complications of mesh displacement, pain, or bleeding. Further surgery may be needed to treat incontinence.\n\nOne goal of surgical treatment is to restore the vagina and other pelvic organs to their anatomically normal positions. This may not be the outcome that is most important to the woman being treated who may only want relief of symptoms and an improvement in her quality of life. The International Urogynecological Association (IUGA) has recommended that the data collected regarding the success of cystocele and pelvic organ repairs include the presence or absence of symptoms, satisfaction and Quality of Life. Other measures of a successful outcome should include perioperative data, such as operative time and hospital stay. Standardized Healthcare Quality of Life should be part of the measure of a successful resolution of cystocele. Data regarding short- and long-term complications is included in the recommendations of the IUGA to better assess the risk–benefit ratio of each procedure. Current investigations into the superiority of using biological grafting versus native tissue or surgical mesh indicates that using grafts provides better results.\n\nA large study found a rate of 29% over the lifetime of a woman. Other studies indicate a recurrence rate as low as 3%.\n\nIn the US, greater than 200,000 surgeries are performed each year for pelvic organ prolapse and 81% of these are to correct cystocele. Cystocele occurs most frequently compared to the prolapse of other pelvic organs and structure. Cystocele is found to be three times as common as vaginal vault prolapse and twice as often as posterior vaginal wall defects. The incidence of cystocele is around 9 per 100 women-years. The highest incidence of symptoms occurs between ages of 70 and 79 years. Based on population growth statistics, the number of women with prolapse will increase by a minimum of 46% by the year 2050 in the US. Surgery to correct prolapse after hysterectomy is 3.6 per 1,000 women-years.\n\nNotable is the mention of cystocele in many older cultures and locations. In 1500 B.C. Egyptians wrote about the “falling of the womb”. In 400 B.C. a Greek physician documented his observations and treatments:\n\n\"After the patient had been tied to a ladder-like frame, she was tipped upward so that her head was toward the bottom of the frame. The frame was then moved upward and downward more or less rapidly for approximately 3–5 min. As the patient was in an inverted position, it was thought that the prolapsing organs of the genital tract would be returned to their normal position by the force of gravity and the shaking motion.\"\n\nHippocrates had his own theories regarding the cause of prolapse. He thought that recent childbirth, wet feet, 'sexual excesses', exertion, and fatigue may have contributed to the condition. Polybus, Hippocrates's son-in-law, wrote: \"a prolapsed uterus was treated by using local astringent lotions, a natural sponge packed into the vagina, or placement of half a pomegranate in the vagina.\" In 350 A.D., another practitioner named Soranus described his treatments which stated that the pomegranate should be dipped into vinegar before insertion. Success could be enhanced if the woman was on bed rest and reduced intake of fluid and food. If the treatment was still not successful, the woman's legs were tied together for three days.\n\nIn 1521, Berengario da Carpi performed the first surgical treatment for prolapse. This was to tie a rope around the prolapse, tighten it for two days until it was no longer viable and cut it off. Wine, aloe, and honey were then applied to the stump.\n\nIn the 1700s, a Swiss gynecologist, Peyer, published a description of a cystocele. He was able to describe and document both cystocele and uterine prolapse. In 1730, Halder associated cystocele with childbirth. During this same time, efforts began to standardize the terminology that is still familiar today. In the 1800s, the surgical advancements of anesthesia, suturing, suturing materials and acceptance of Joseph Lister's theories of antisepsis improved outcomes for women with cystocele. The first surgical techniques were practiced on female cadavers. In 1823, Geradin proposed that an incision and resection may provide treatment. In 1830, the first dissection of the vagina was performed by Dieffenbach on a living woman. In 1834, Mendé proposed that dissecting and repair of the edges of the tissues could be done. In 1859, Huguier proposed the amputation of the cervix was going to solve the problem for elongation.\n\nIn 1866, a method of correcting a cystocele was proposed that resembled current procedures. Sim subsequently developed another procedure that did not require the full-thickness dissection of the vaginal wall. In 1888, another method of treating anterior vaginal wall Manchester combined an anterior vaginal wall repair with an amputation of the cervix and a perineorrhaphy. In 1909, White noted the high rate of recurrence of cystocele repair. At this time it was proposed that reattaching the vagina to support structures was more successful and resulted in less recurrence. This same proposal was proposed again in 1976 but further studies indicated that the recurrence rate was not better.\n\nIn 1888, treatments were tried that entered the abdomen to make reattachments. Some did not agree with this and suggested an approach through the inguinal canal. In 1898, further abdominal approaches were proposed. No further advances have been noted until 1961 when reattachment of the anterior vaginal wall to Cooper's ligament began to be used. Unfortunately, posterior vaginal wall prolapse occurred in some patients even though the anterior repair was successful.\n\nIn 1955, using mesh to support pelvic structures came into use. In 1970, tissue from pigs began to be used to strengthen the anterior vaginal wall in surgery. Beginning in 1976, improvement in suturing began along with the surgical removal of the vagina being used to treat prolapse of the bladder. In 1991, assumptions about the detailed anatomy of the pelvic support structures began to be questioned regarding the existence of some pelvic structures and the non-existence of others. More recently, the use of stem cells, robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery are being used to treat cystocele.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876395", "title": "Nutrinova", "text": "Nutrinova\n\nNutrinova is a global manufacturer of food constituents. It was formerly a division of Hoechst until 1997 when it was taken over by Celanese and adopted its current name.\n\nThe company is headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany. It is a wholly owned affiliate of Celanese.\n\nNutrinova is the discoverer and producer of Acesulfame potassium (\"Sunett\") sugar substitute. It is the world's largest producer of sorbic acid and related sorbates, which are used as preservatives. It is also a producer of dietary fibre products.\n"}
{"id": "1876397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876397", "title": "Keikhosrow Shahrokh", "text": "Keikhosrow Shahrokh\n\nKeikhosrow Shahrokh ()\n(1864 in Kerman, Iran – 1939) was the mastermind and designer of the mausoleum for Persian poet Ferdowsi at his burial site in the city of Tus. He is often credited with sparking the Persian nationalist movement which took place under the Pahlavi dynasty. Shahrokh helped reinstate Aryan pride in Iran through excavations of ancient relics near the Iranian city of Kerman. During his tenure in Iran's Revival Party he bolstered Iranian nationalism with numerous speeches and rallies across Shiraz, Kerman, and Tehran. As elected representative of the Zoroastrian community, he was an active member of the Iranian parliament. He is best known for his role in the 1925 transition of the official calendar from the Islamic calendar of Hejri Ghamarei to the Iranian civil calendar, also known as \"Hejri shamsi\". \n\nShahrokh often credited his pride of Persian descent to his hometown of Kerman which avoided miscegenation over thousands of years due to natural barriers such as the Lut desert and nearby mountains. Shahrokh was distantly related to Dinshah Irani, the Indian lawyer and benefactor of the Zoroastrian communities of both India and Iran. Shahrokh and Irani shared a late 18th-century ancestor, most of whose children migrated to India, and from which Dinshah Irani's family descended. Shahrokh was a scion of another branch, descending from the elder son - who had remained in Iran - of that ancestor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876401", "title": "Elastinen", "text": "Elastinen\n\nKimmo Ilpo Juhani Laiho (born 1981), better known by his stage name Elastinen (meaning \"elastic\" in Finnish), is a Finnish rap musician and also known as one of the founders and is the CEO of the Finnish independent rap label Rähinä Records. Together with his colleague Iso H (Big H), he founded the Finnish rap duo Fintelligens. He has also released five solo albums.\n\nBorn and raised in Helsinki, Elastinen began taking guitar lessons when he was seven years old. At the age of 11 he started dancing and has been a member of famous break-dance groups as IMC and Savage Feet. Inspired by a hiphop-cassette, given by his elder-brother, \"Ela\" wrote his first rap-lyrics when he was 15. He joined an anti-racist musical \"Colorblind\" and met Iso H.\n\nIn summer 1997, Elastinen and Iso H founded Fintelligens. Elastinen was only 18 when they got their first record-deal.\n\nEla graduated from Sibelius Academy, a music school in 2000. Same year Fintelligens released debut album \"Renesanssi\" with one-third produced by Elastinen. Renesanssi certified gold. In autumn 2001, Elastinen and Iso H released their second album, \"Tän Tahtiin\". Also partly produced by him, it was in its turned certified gold.\n\nElastinen was then called in 2002 to do his military service at Santahamina. But he used his freetime performing shows with Iso H. Fintelligens released third studio album in November. \"Kokemusten Summa\" went gold. The album was entirely produced by Elastinen.\n\nIn 2004 Elastinen released his solo debut \"Elaksis Kivi\". In 2006 he finished his second album \"Anna Soida\". The first single, the album's title track, was a hit. \"Anna a\" was released in 2006. His third album, \"E.L.A.\", was released in November 2007. First single from the album, \"Ovet Paukkuu\", was No. 1 on NRJ-Finland and had heavy rotation also on Finnish MTV and The Voice. He followed this with \"Joka päivä koko päivä\" in 2013, which peaked at number 4, and \"Elastinen feat.\" in 2016, which debuted at number 1. \"Elastinen feat.\" was preceded by a TV series featuring Elastinen collaborating with a different musician each episode.\n\nOther songs\nFeatured in\n\n"}
{"id": "1876407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876407", "title": "Cottageville", "text": "Cottageville\n\nCottageville may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1876413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876413", "title": "War Veteran", "text": "War Veteran\n\n\"War Veteran\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was first published in \"If\" magazine in March 1955.\n\nThe plot concerns an old man who claims to have travelled back in time from a future in which Earth has lost a devastating war to its own Martian and Venusian colonies. The man turns out to be a synthetic human, designed to trick the Earth people into believing they could never win the war, forcing them to make peace. This type of android is a forerunner of the type appearing in Dick's novel \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" and its film adaptation.\n\nA similar, supposedly time-displaced \"war veteran\" character appears in Dick's novel \"The Zap Gun\".\n"}
{"id": "1876415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876415", "title": "Inter arma enim silent leges", "text": "Inter arma enim silent leges\n\nInter arma enim silent lēgēs is a Latin phrase meaning \"For among [times of] arms, the laws fall mute,\" but it is more popularly rendered as \"In times of war, the law falls silent.\"\n\nThis aphorism was likely first written in these words by Cicero in his published oration \"Pro Milone\", but Cicero's actual wording was \"Silent enim lēgēs inter arma\". \n\nAt the time that Cicero used the phrase, mob violence was common. Armed gangs led by partisan leaders controlled the streets of Rome; nevertheless such leaders were elected to high offices.\n\nAmongst other Latin writers Jerome uses the expression in Letter 126.\n\nAbraham Lincoln's request for an opinion on the suspension of the right to \"habeas corpus\" during the American Civil War resulted eventually in the following decision, in \"Ex parte Merryman\" (1861), of Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, as a judge of the United States circuit court for the District of Maryland:\n\nThe United States' government explicitly referred to this maxim within its argument in the case \"Ex parte Milligan\", when it remarked (with an additional reference to Cicero) that \"these [amendments of the Bill of Rights], in truth, are all peace provisions of the Constitution and, like all other conventional and legislative laws and enactments, are silent amidst arms, and when the safety of the people becomes the supreme law.\"\n\nThe erosion of citizens' rights during World War II were upheld in the Supreme Court case \"Hirabayashi v. United States\" (1943), which held that the application of curfews against members of a minority group were constitutional when the nation was at war with the country from which that group originated. \"Yasui v. United States\" was a companion case decided on the same day.\n\nIn its more modern usage, the phrase has become a watchword about the erosion of civil liberties during wartime. In the immediate wake of the September 11 attacks, the maxim was aired and questioned in the media of the United States, with renewed force. The implication of the saying, as currently used, is in debate whether civil liberties and freedoms are subservient to a wartime nation's duty of self-defense. \n\nIn 1998 Chief Justice William Rehnquist, in \"All the Laws but One: Civil Liberties in Wartime\" suggested that \"the least justified of the curtailments of civil liberty\" were unlikely to be accepted by the courts in wars of the future: \"It is neither desirable nor is it remotely likely that civil liberty will occupy as favored a position in wartime as it does in peacetime. But it is both desirable and likely that more careful attention will be paid by the courts to the basis for the government's claims of necessity as a basis for curtailing civil liberty. ... The laws will thus not be silent in time of war, but they will speak with a somewhat different voice.\"\n\nIn 2004, Justice Antonin Scalia used this phrase to decry the plurality decision in \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" which, in his view, upheld the detention of a US citizen as an enemy combatant without charge or suspension of \"habeas corpus\".\n\nThe phrase was used as the title for of the science fiction TV series \"\". In it, the character uses the phrase to justify a morally dubious act of espionage committed during a war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876423", "title": "Constituencies of Singapore", "text": "Constituencies of Singapore\n\nConstituencies in Singapore are electoral divisions which may be represented by single or multiple seats in the Parliament of Singapore. Constituencies are classified as either Single Member Constituencies (SMCs) or Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs). SMCs are single-seat constituencies but GRCs have between four and six seats in Parliament.\n\nGroup Representation Constituencies (GRCs) are a type of electoral constituency unique to Singaporean politics. GRCs are multi-member constituencies which are contested by teams of candidates from one party - or from independents. In each GRC, at least one candidate or Member of Parliament must be from a minority race: either a Malay, Indian or Other.\n\nIn 1988, the ruling People's Action Party (PAP) amended the Parliamentary Elections Act to create GRCs. The current Act enables the President, acting on the advice of the Prime Minister, to create a GRC from three to six electoral wards. In creating GRCs the President is advised by the Elections Department. The initial maximum size for GRCs was three candidates, but this has subsequently been increased. In the 1991 Singaporean general election, the maximum number of candidates was raised from three to four. In 1997 the maximum number of candidates was further raised to six.\n\nGRCs operate with a plurality voting system, voting by party slate, meaning that the party with the largest share of votes wins all seats in the GRC. (This means that even with a one-vote plurality or majority, the winning team gets to win the whole GRC.) All Singaporean GRCs have had a PAP base.\n\nThe official justification for GRCs is to allow minority representation. Former Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong argued that the introduction of GRCs was necessary to ensure that Singapore's Parliament would continue to be multiracial in its composition and representation. Opposition parties have criticized GRCs as making it even more difficult for non-PAP candidates to be elected to Parliament. The money required to contest a GRC is considerable as each candidate is required to pay a S$16,000 deposit. This means that contesting a GRC is very costly for opposition parties. The presence of Cabinet Ministers in GRCs is often believed to give the PAP a considerable advantage in the contesting of a GRC. The PAP has used this tactic to its advantage on several occasions. Rather than stand in an uncontested GRC, in 1997, then-Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong shifted his candidacy to where the PAP believed they were most vulnerable, which was the Cheng San GRC. The opposition has charged the government with gerrymandering due to the changing of GRC boundaries at very short notice (see below section on electoral boundaries).\n\nCritics have noted that Joshua Benjamin Jeyaratnam won the 1981 Anson by-election in a Chinese-majority constituency, and that since the GRC system was implemented, minority representation in Parliament has actually declined.\n\nThe boundaries of electoral constituencies in Singapore are decided by the Elections Department, which is under the control of the Prime Minister's Office. Electoral boundaries are generally announced close to elections, usually a few days before the election itself is announced. There have been accusations of gerrymandering regarding the redrawing of electoral boundaries and the dissolving of constituencies that return a high percentage of votes for parties other than the ruling PAP.\n\nOne of the cases that is often cited as evidence for gerrymandering in Singapore is the case of the Cheng San Group Representation Constituency (GRC). In the 1997 Singaporean general election, the Cheng San GRC was contested by the PAP and the Workers' Party of Singapore (WP). The final results were close, with the PAP winning by 53,553 votes (54.8%) to the WP's 44,132 votes (45.2%). Cheng San GRC had since dissolved thereafter following the 2001 General Elections. Despite the disadvantages assumed by the opposition party in Singapore, the Workers' Party of Singapore would later be successful in taking over a GRC (Aljunied GRC) during the 2011 General Elections, and would later hold on for another term in the subsequent election in 2015 despite winning a tight margin of less than 2%.\n\nAs of the revision of the electorates on 28 August 2017, there were a total of 2,516,608 voters, inclusive of overseas votes. In the most recent General Elections held on 11 September 2015, there were a total of 2,462,926 voters, inclusive of overseas votes.\nAs of the revision of the electorates on 15 April 2020, the number of electors in the latest Registers of Electors is 2,594,740.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876431", "title": "David McDermut", "text": "David McDermut\n\nDavid A. McDermut (about 1820 – April 18, 1863) was an officer in the Union Navy during the American Civil War.\n\nA native of New York, McDermut was appointed midshipman on November 8, 1841, and attained the rank of lieutenant commander on July 16, 1862. During the Civil War, he served in \"Potomac\" and \"Marion\" before assuming command of \"Cayuga\" on December 2, 1862. He commanded \"Cayuga\" until April 18, 1863, when he was killed in action against Confederate forces near Sabine Pass.\n\nTwo ships have been named USS \"McDermut\" for him.\n"}
{"id": "1876440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876440", "title": "Hammamet, Tunisia", "text": "Hammamet, Tunisia\n\nHammamet ( \"\") is a town in Tunisia. Thanks to its beaches, it is a popular destination for swimming and water sports and is the primary tourist destination in Tunisia. It is located in the south-eastern section of Cap Bon and is part of the Governorate of Nabeul.\n\nThe reported number of inhabitants varies from 100,000 to 400,000 and the population quadruples due to tourists' arrival in the summer.\n\nIt is particularly known for jasmine, which is the namesake of the tourist resort of Yasmine Hammamet. All over Hammamet, souvenirs crafted from jasmine can be found.\n\nAround Hammamet, suburbs are being built as migrants from the southern region of the country come to find employment. As a popular tourist destination, the city is economically important to Tunisia.\n\nThe 2005 World Scout Conference was held in Hammamet.\n\nIn the 1st century, there was a settlement here known as Pupput. It was a town (now in the suburbs of Hammamet) that became a Roman colony in the 2nd century. In the 13th century, walls around town were built and medina of Hammamet was built in the 15th century. Then it came under Spanish and Turkish rule.\n\nIn 1601 it was the object of a successful Spanish attack. At that time the Spanish name for the place was \"La Mahometa\". Alonso de Contreras participated and tells the story in his autobiography. Three hundred men took seven hundred prisoners, mostly women, and children because most of the men in the town had fled.\n\nOn 14 August 1605 there was another Spanish attack in which Contreras also participated but this time the result was disastrous for the attackers. It was carried out by six galleys, four from Malta, six from Sicily carrying Spanish and other Christian troops. The initial taking of the town was successful as the Spanish managed to climb the walls and open the gates but then there was an unexpected call to retreat - it could not be later determined where or how it originated. In the confusion, the retreat fell into disorder and the Spanish were massacred at the beach by a much smaller number of Moors. There were 1200 men gathered at the beach trying to get back to their ships but the wind had changed and conditions were difficult. The leader of the expedition, Adelantado de Castilla, lost his life as he tried to swim out to the Spanish ships and as the captain in charge of his skiff fled and ignored his calls for help. That captain was later court-martialed and, when it became clear he would be sentenced to death, his own brother poisoned him. This story and more details can be found in Contreras' autobiography.\n\nIn World War II, it became one of the headquarters of the Nazi general Erwin Rommel. Festival international d'Hammamet was established in 1964.\n\nFormer Italian prime minister Bettino Craxi moved to Hammamet in 1994 as a fugitive. He died and was buried there in 2000.\n\n\nThe climate is very much like the climate in Sousse it borders a Hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa) and a Hot semi-arid climate (BSh) due to such dry ground and hot temperatures in the summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876441", "title": "Coulterville", "text": "Coulterville\n\nCoulterville may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1876447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876447", "title": "Consilium de Emendanda Ecclesia", "text": "Consilium de Emendanda Ecclesia\n\nThe Consilium de Emendanda Ecclesia was a report commissioned by Pope Paul III on the abuses in the Catholic Church in 1536.\n\nThe commission appointed to review the abuses in the church was presided over by Gasparo Cardinal Contarini and consisted of eight additional cardinals: Girolamo Aleandro, Tommaso Badia, Giovanni Pietro Carafa (the later Pope Paul IV), Gregorio Cortese, Federigo Fregoso, Gianmatteo Giberti, Reginald Pole, and Jacopo Sadoleto. Their finished report was read to Paul III on 9 March 1537. It dealt mainly with the fiscal abuses of the papacy.\n\nPaul III accepted the recommendations but did not commit himself to any immediate changes. The confidential report was published illegally in 1538 and enjoyed a wide circulation. Martin Luther published a German version, completed with sarcastic side margins. Johannes Sturm approached the \"Consilium\" more seriously, applauding the effort made by the Catholic Church to abolish some of its most pressing abuses, but showing great concern whether the church could revitalize itself without giving greater importance to the Gospel.\n\nThe \"Consilium de emendanda ecclesia\" was never put into effect, although many of the proposed changes were implemented in later reforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876448", "title": "Henry Laub", "text": "Henry Laub\n\nHenry Laub (9 March 1792 – 10 September 1813) was an officer in the United States Navy during the War of 1812.\n\nBorn in York, Pennsylvania, Laub was appointed midshipman 1 October 1809 under Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry. Wounded in the early part of the Battle of Lake Erie, 10 September 1813, he was carried below but struck by a round shot that crashed through the cockpit, killing him instantly. Congress expressed deep regret at his loss, commended his gallantry, and ordered that a sword be presented to his nearest male relative.\n\nTwo ships have been named USS \"Laub\" for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1876449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876449", "title": "Thrasher (wrestler)", "text": "Thrasher (wrestler)\n\nGlenn Ruth (born June 13, 1969) is an American professional wrestler, better known by the ring name, Thrasher. For much of his career he has teamed with Mosh, most famously as The Headbangers, a pair of metal-heads known for their outrageous costumes such as nose rings and kilts. Thrasher is best known for his stints in the World Wrestling Federation between 1990 and 2000, where he held the WWF World Tag Team Championship and WWF Hardcore Championship.\n\nRuth grew up in South Jersey. He trained as a wrestler under Larry Sharpe and debuted in 1990 as The Spider. He later became Sharpe's assistant and helped train wrestlers including Big Show and his future tag team partner Mosh at Sharpe's \"Monster Factory\" professional wrestling school. Ruth made a number of appearances for the World Wrestling Federation in the early 1990s including a losing effort against Marty Jannetty on the second ever episode of Raw, competing under his given name as an enhancement talent.\n\nRuth debuted in the World Wrestling Federation in August 1990 under his real name. He wrestled several matches for the promotion until leaving in November 1990, making several appearances on \"WWF Superstars\" and \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\".\n\nWrestling as \"The Spiders\", Thrasher and Mosh returned to the WWF on the September 24, 1996 episode of \"WWF Superstars\", losing to The Smoking Gunns. In November 1996, they resumed wrestling as \"The Headbangers\". At the outset of 1997, The Headbangers briefly began wearing nun outfits and wrestling as \"The Flying Nuns\" and \"The Sisters of Love\", with Thrasher wrestling as \"Sister Angelica\" and Mosh as \"Mother Smucker\". They were briefly managed by Brother Love.\n\nThe Headbangers captured the vacant WWF World Tag Team Championships on September 7, 1997 by defeating three other teams in a four team tag match at . They lost the titles to The Godwinns on October 5 of that same year.\n\nThe Headbangers split in 1999 when Ruth suffered a knee injury and Warrington began pursuing a singles career, but reformed in late 1999 on the October 10 edition of Sunday Night Heat when Ruth came to Warrington's aid during a domestic violence angle, which saw him vilified by other wrestlers and officials alike for a number of weeks. Ruth had presented video footage of Warrington's (kayfabe) girlfriend Marianna Komlos putting on makeup to make it seem as if Warrington had been abusing her. The police officers arresting Warrington then uncuffed him and arrested Komlos for her lies. Shortly thereafter the two began appearing regularly as a team again, but were now heels and inexplicably came to the ring wearing cone brassieres which they wore while they wrestled.\n\nIn 2000, Ruth took part in the match for the Hardcore Championship at WrestleMania 2000. He held the title for 37 seconds, pinning Joey Abs and then being pinned by Pete Gas. After the Headbangers split for the second time and Warrington went on to team with D'Lo Brown, Ruth continued to wrestle in singles competition mainly on WWF Jakked before being sent to WWF's Power Pro Wrestling developmental territory in Memphis. He was released from the WWF in December 2000.\n\nThrasher and Mosh made an unannounced return to the WWF (since renamed WWE) on the 30 August 2016 episode of \"WWE SmackDown\", losing to Heath Slater and Rhyno in the first round of a tournament for the newly-created WWE SmackDown Tag Team Championship. They made two further appearances on \"SmackDown\" in November 2016.\n\nAfter his release from the WWF, Ruth continued to wrestle until 2002 in independent promotions before retiring from professional wrestling.\n\nIn 2011, The Headbangers reformed and have been wrestling on the independent circuit once again. In June 2012, Thrasher and Mosh debuted in Ring of Honor as The Guardians of Truth, a masked tag team managed by Truth Martini. As of 2014, Thrasher now wrestles for independent promotion Championship Wrestling Entertainment in Port St. Lucie, FL. On November 14, 2014, Thrasher defeated Chico Adams to become the CWE Heavyweight Champion.\n\nRuth is married with four children.\n\nUpon retiring from professional wrestling in 2002, Ruth began working in restaurant management and marketing. Ruth is currently the General Manager of a Papa John's in Coral Springs, Florida.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876451", "title": "Laholm Party", "text": "Laholm Party\n\nLaholm Party () a local political party in Laholm, Sweden. LP is one of many local parties that surged after the downfall of New Democracy. LP was founded in 2002 by Elver Åkesson, the last person in Sweden to be elected as a municipal councillor of behalf of New Democracy, Bertil Johansson and Svend Nielsen.\n\nIn the 2002 municipal elections LP got 382 votes (2.8%) and one seat in the municipal council.\n\nParty president is Jan Norrman since December 2004. Norrman succeeded Åkesson, who resigned as party president and municipal councilor after accusations of misuse of party funds. Åkesson's seat in the council was taken over by Bertil Johansson.\n\nIn the 2006 municipal elections the party got 647 votes (4.6%) and two seats. After the 2006 elections the party entered into cooperation with the Sweden Democrats regarding distribution of committee seats. Svend Nielsen left the party in November 2006.\n"}
