{"id": "1906924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906924", "title": "Heath Miller", "text": "Heath Miller\n\nEarl Heath Miller Jr. (born October 22, 1982) is a former American football tight end who played professionally for the Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League (NFL) for 11 seasons from 2005 to 2015. Miller played college football for the University of Virginia, where he earned All-American honors and won the John Mackey Award. The Steelers selected him in the first round with the 30th overall pick of the 2005 NFL Draft.\n\nMiller was born in Richlands, Virginia. He attended Honaker High School and lived in Swords Creek, Virginia. He played quarterback for the Honaker Tigers high school football team, where he earned the Associated Press Player of the Year honor as a senior and was a two-time AP All-State selection. He also earned the All-Southwest Virginia first-team honors at quarterback and was a second-team all-state selection at defensive back, adding Region D Offensive Player of the Year accolades. He set several school records in passing and leading the team to its first state championship game his senior year, in which they lost to King William High School, 25–15.\n\nWhile attending high school, Miller also played first base for the baseball team where he earned the Black Diamond District first-team honors, and was an All-Region and All-State selection. He was also a forward on the basketball team where he earned the All-District and All-Region honors.\n\nMiller attended the University of Virginia, where he played for coach Al Groh's Virginia Cavaliers football team from 2001 to 2004. Originally signed to play quarterback, Miller made the transition to the tight end position during his redshirt freshman year.\n\nAfter sitting out in 2001, he started every game in 2002 at tight end. In his first game against Colorado State, he had 4 receptions, 42 receiving yards, and 1 touchdown. He scored touchdowns in each of his first five games at Virginia, setting a school season record for tight ends and led Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) tight ends in receiving all three seasons of his college career.\n\nIt took him seven games to set the school record for touchdowns by a tight end. He also threw one pass during his college career, connecting with fellow tight end Patrick Estes for a touchdown against South Carolina in 2002. He also caught a touchdown pass in the same game. In a win against Wake Forest he was held to three catches, two of them going for touchdowns. His five-game streak ended when he was held without a catch against Duke. Against Clemson, he caught a 15-yard touchdown pass from Matt Schaub in a 22–17 win. Against North Carolina, he had a season-long 42-yard reception. The following week, Miller had a season-high, 6 catches for 50 yards against Penn State. Against Virginia Tech, Miller recorded a 15-yard touchdown reception. In the 2002 Continental Tire Bowl win against the West Virginia, he had a season-high 54 receiving yards on 3 catches. He ended the 2002 season with 33 receptions, 327 receiving yards, 9 touchdown catches, and 1 touchdown pass, leading all ACC tight ends in touchdowns and receptions. His nine touchdown catches were an ACC record for tight ends.He was voted second-team All-ACC and first-team Freshman All-American First by The Sporting News.\n\nMiller opened the 2003 season with 5 receptions, 54 receiving yards, and 1 touchdown against Duke. He followed the performance with 3 catches for 51 yards against Western Michigan and 3 catches for 17 yards against South Carolina. In a comeback win against Wake Forest, he led the team in catches for the fourth consecutive game with 7 receptions, 94 receiving yards, and 1 touchdown. He caught a 15-yard pass in the closing minute to set up the game-winning field goal. After a 4-catch, 44-yard performance against North Carolina, he posted 8 receptions, 52 yards, and 1 touchdown in an overtime loss to Clemson. Following the loss, Miller went to see the film Finding Nemo at The Jefferson Theater. Heath loved the film, describing the title character as \"a real American Hero.\" Miller had 9 receptions, for 77-yards, and a touchdown against the #7-ranked Florida State. Against Georgia Tech, he caught 6 passes for 110 yards and a touchdown. He won the ACC Offensive Lineman of the Week Award for this performance and became the first University of Virginia tight end to record over 100 yards receiving in 12 years. A week later, he had a career game against in-state rivals Virginia Tech with 13 catches for 145 yards, earning a second consecutiveACC Offensive Lineman of the Week Award. He scored the first touchdown in 2003 Continental Tire Bowl against the Pittsburgh, a 52-yard pass from Matt Schaub. He finished the 2002 season with an ACC record of 70 receptions and 835 receiving yards. He was voted second-team All-American by College Football News and first-team All-ACC.\n\nMiller was voted team captain before his junior season. Miller caught 3 passes for 45 yards and a touchdown against Temple, extending his streak of consecutive games with at least one catch to 22. The streak ended the following week, when he was held without a catch against North Carolina. The following week, he made 6 receptions for 54 yards and 2 touchdowns against Akron. Against Syracuse, he caught a 54-yard pass for his only reception in the game. Miller had 4 catches for 55 yards and a score in a Thursday night win against Clemson. The following game, Miller had season highs of 9 catches and 110 yards in a loss against Florida State. Miller played his final college game against Fresno State in the 2004 MPC Computer Bowl. He led the team with 5 catches and 66 receiving yards. Miller was named unanimous first-team All-American for the 2004 season and was voted first-team All-ACC. He also became the first ACC player to win the John Mackey Award given to the top college tight end.\n\nMiller ended his college career with ACC records for most career receptions (144), yards (1,703) and touchdowns (20) by a tight end. Miller finished second in receptions, seventh in yards, and fourth in touchdown receptions for all positions. He also shares the school record for most 100-yard games by a tight end (3), and he caught at least one pass in 32 of his final 33 games. Miller skipped his senior season to enter the 2005 NFL Draft, becoming the fifth player in school history to enter the draft early.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Steelers selected Miller in the first round (30th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. He was the third tight end drafted by Pittsburgh in the first round in 15 years. On July 26, 2005, the Steelers signed Miller to a five-year, $6.89 million contract with $4.54 million guaranteed and a signing bonus of $3.94 million.\n\nHe entered training camp competing with veterans Jerame Tuman and Matt Kranchick for the starting tight end position. Miller was named the starting tight end to begin the regular season. He made his professional regular season debut in the Pittsburgh Steelers' season-opener against the Tennessee Titans and caught his first career touchdown on a three-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger in a 34–7 victory. On October 23, 2005, Miller caught a season-high six passes for 58 receiving yards and a touchdown during a 27–13 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals. The next game, he made three receptions for 18-yards and a season-high two touchdowns in a 20-19 win against the Baltimore Ravens. During a Week 17 matchup with the Detroit Lions, he caught three passes for a season-high 62 receiving yards in a 35-21 victory.\n\nHe finished his rookie season with 39 receptions for 459 yards and six touchdowns.and was named the Pittsburgh Steelers' rookie of the year. The Steelers finished second in the AFC North with an 11–5 record. On January 8, 2006, he appeared in his first career postseason game and caught two passes for 15-yards in a 31–17 AFC Wildcard victory over the Cincinnati Bengals. The following game, Miller caught three passes for 61 yards and one touchdown in the Steelers' 21–18 upset over the top-seeded Indianapolis Colts in the divisional playoff round. After defeating the Denver Broncos, the Steelers went on to play in Super Bowl XL. On February 5, 2006, they defeated the Seattle Seahawks, 21–10, and Miller earned his first Super Bowl ring. He was held without a catch during the game.\n\nHe remained as the starter to begin the regular season, beating out Tuman and Tim Euhus. Miller started the season-opener against the Miami Dolphins and caught three passes for 101 receiving yards and scored an 87-yard touchdown reception in a 28-17 victory. Replays showed that he should have been marked out of bounds at about the one-yard line, but the play was not challenged by the Dolphins quickly enough. During a Week 7 matchup against the Denver Broncos, he made a season-high five receptions for 34-yards in a 31-20 loss. Miller finished the season with 34 catches for 393 yards and five touchdowns in 16 games and 16 starts.\n\nHe was named the starting tight end by Mike Tomlin after beating out Jerame Tuman, Matt Spaeth, and Jonathan Dekker.\n\nMiller started the season opener against the Cleveland Browns and caught four passes for 35 receiving yards and a touchdown, as the Steelers routed the Browns 34-7. On October 21, 2007, he made a season-high five receptions for 50-yards and two touchdowns in a 31-28 loss to the Denver Broncos. In a Week 10 matchup against the Cleveland Browns, Miller caught five passes for a season-high 71 receiving yards and a touchdown in a 31-28 victory. In 2007, Miller set new career highs for touchdowns (7), receptions (47), and receiving yards (566) and played in all 16 games.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Steelers finished first in the AFC North with a 10-6 record in their first year under Mike Tomlin. On January 5, 2008, the Pittsburgh Steelers faced the Jacksonville Jaguars in the AFC Wildcard game and Miller caught eight passes for 85-yards and scored on a 14-yard touchdown reception in a 31-29 loss.\n\nMiller began the season making three receptions for 26 yards in the Pittsburgh Steelers' 38–17 season-opening victory over the Houston Texans. On October 5, 2008, he made five receptions for 45 receiving yards and caught his first touchdown of the season on a one-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger, in a 26–22 win over the Jacksonville Jaguars. On November 3, 2008, Miller suffered an ankle injury as the Steelers routed the Washington Redskins, 23–6. He missed the next two games due to the injury. During a Week 16 matchup against the Tennessee Titans, Miller caught a season-high eight passes for 86 receiving yards in a 31–14 loss. He finished the 2008 season with a total of 48 receptions for 514 receiving yards and was limited to three touchdowns in 14 games and 14 starts.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Steelers finished first in the AFC North with a 12–4 record. On January 11, 2009, the Steelers played the San Diego Chargers in an AFC Divisional round matchup and Miller finished the 35–24 victory with three receptions for 37 yards and scored on an 8-yard touchdown reception. In the AFC Championship Game against the Baltimore Ravens, he caught three passes for 62 receiving yards in a 28–14 victory. On February 1, 2009, the Pittsburgh Steelers appeared in Super Bowl XLIII against the Arizona Cardinals, Miller had five receptions for 57-yards in a 27-23 last second victory and earned his second career Super Bowl ring.\n\nOn July 30, 2009, the Pittsburgh Steelers signed Miller to a six-year, $35.3 million extension with a $12.5 million signing bonus.\n\nHe started the season-opener against the Tennessee Titans and caught a season-high eight passes for 64 yards in a 13-10 victory. On October 4, 2009, Miller had eight receptions for 70 receiving yards and a season-high two touchdown during a 38–28 win over the San Diego Chargers. His first touchdown reception of the season was a six-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger. In Week 6, he caught five passes for 80 receiving yards and caught an eight-yard touchdown reception, as the Steelers defeated the Cleveland Browns 27-14. On December 20, 2009, Miller had seven receptions for a season-high 118 receiving yards in a 37–36 victory over the Green Bay Packers. He finished with 76 receptions for 789 yards and six touchdowns and started all 16 games. Miller was selected to his first Pro Bowl on January 25, 2009, replacing the Colts' tight end Dallas Clark who participated in the Super Bowl XLIV.\n\nHe began the regular season being named the Pittsburgh Steelers captain for the offense. On October 17, 2010, the Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the Cleveland Browns 28-10 and Miller caught two passes for 50 receiving yards and scored his first touchdown of the season on a 14-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger. During a Week 10 matchup against the New England Patriots, Miller caught five passes for 60-yards in a 39-26 loss. In a Week 13 matchup with the Baltimore Ravens, he suffered a concussion that sidelined him for the next two games. On December 23, 2010, he caught five passes for a season-high 73 yards, as the Steelers routed the Carolina Panthers, 27–3. Miller finished the regular season with 42 receptions, 512 receiving yards, and two touchdowns in 14 starts.\n\nThe Steelers finished the 2010 season with a 12-4 record and first in the AFC North. On January 15, 2011, the Pittsburgh Steelers faced the Baltimore Ravens in the AFC Divisional round after having a bye during the wildcard. Miller led the Steelers with five catches for 39 yards and caught a nine-yard touchdown reception in the 31-24 victory.\nDuring the AFC Championship victory over the New York Jets, he caught two passes for 38 yards. On February 6, 2011, the Pittsburgh Steelers appeared in Super Bowl against the Green Bay Packers, with Miller catching two passes for 12 yards during the 31–25 loss.\n\nOn October 9, 2011, he caught a season-high three passes for 46 yards and caught his first touchdown of the season on an eight-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger, as the Steelers defeated the Tennessee Titans, 38–17. During a Week 7 matchup against the Arizona Cardinals, Miller made four receptions for 59 yards and a touchdown, while also having his first career carry for a six-yard gain in a 38–20 victory. On December 19, 2011, the Pittsburgh Steelers played the San Francisco 49ers and Miller finished the 20–3 loss with five receptions for a season-high 82 receiving yards. Miller became the Steelers' all-time leader in career receptions for a tight end, passing Elbie Nickel and moved into the top 5 on the Steelers' all-time receptions list. He finished the regular season with 51 receptions, 651 receiving yards, and two touchdowns while starting all 16 games.\n\nNew offensive coordinator Todd Haley named him the starting tight end to begin the regular season, over Jamie McCoy, Leonard Pope, and David Paulson.\n\nHe started the season-opener against the Denver Broncos and made four catches for 50 receiving yards and a touchdown during the 31–19 loss. On September 23, 2012, Miller caught a season-high eight passes for 60 yards and tied his career-high with two touchdown receptions in a 34–31 loss to the Oakland Raiders. On October 11, 2012, in a loss against the Tennessee Titans, Miller had 6 receptions for 67 yards moving him past Louis Lipps for third place on the Steelers' all-time receptions list. During a Week 13 matchup against the Baltimore Ravens, he caught five passes for a season-high 97 receiving yards and a touchdown in the 23–20 victory. On December 23, 2011, Miller suffered a torn MCL and ACL during a 13–10 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals. He was placed on injured-reserve for the remainder of the season and was also selected to the Pro Bowl. After the season, Miller was voted team MVP by his teammates. He finished the season with 71 receptions for 816 yards and 8 touchdowns, career highs for receiving yards and touchdowns.\n\nAfter suffering a torn MCL and ACL, Miller underwent reconstructive surgery to repair three torn ligaments and a rehab program to regain his form. Prior to the beginning of the regular season, the Pittsburgh Steelers removed Miller from the Physically Unable to Perform list in hopes of him returning within a month. With Matt Spaeth also recovering from a lisfranc surgery, the Steelers began the season with David Paulson and Jamie McCoy.\n\nOn September 11, 2013, the Pittsburgh Steelers restructured his base salary for 2013 from $5.61 million to $2.61 million.\n\nHe made his season-debut in a Week 3 matchup against the Chicago Bears, making three receptions for 35 yards in 40-23 loss. On October 20, 2013, Miller made two receptions for 17 yards and caught an 8-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger for his only touchdown of the season during a 19-16 win over the Baltimore Ravens. During a Week 13 matchup against the Baltimore Ravens, he caught a season-high eight passes for a season-high 86 yards in 22-20 loss. He finished the season with 58 receptions for 593 receiving yards and a touchdown in 14 games.\n\nOn March 5, 2014, the Pittsburgh Steelers restructured Miller's contract to reduce the cost of his contract towards their salary cap. He was scheduled to cost the Steelers $9.2 million towards the cap but it was reduced to $6.5 million, with Miller earning $1.02 million in 2014. The Steelers also agreed to pay Miller $4.5 million for the remaining two years. On September 28, 2014, Miller caught a season-high ten passes for 85 receiving yards and scored on an eight-yard touchdown reception, marking his first touchdown of the season, during a 27-24 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. During Week 8, he made seven receptions for a season-high 112 yards and caught an 11-yard touchdown pass from Ben Roethlisberger, as the Steelers routed the Indianapolis Colts, 51–34. He also caught his 500th career reception during the game. He finished the 2014 season with 66 receptions for 761 receiving yards and three touchdowns in 16 starts.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Steelers finished the season first in the AFC North with an 11-5 record. On January 3, 2015, Miller caught six passes for 76 yards in a 30-17 AFC Wildcard loss to the Baltimore Ravens.\n\nHe started the season-opener against the New England Patriots and caught eight passes for 84-yards in a 28–21 loss. On November 1, 2015, Miller caught ten passes for a season-high 105 receiving yards in a 16-10 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals. On November 15, 2015, Miller was named the backup quarterback against the Cleveland Browns after the starting quarterback Landry Jones sprained his ankle. Although Roethlisberger was still injured, he came in to finish the game with Miller as the emergency backup quarterback. In Week 12, Miller suffered a rib injury during the second quarter of a 39–30 loss to the Seattle Seahawks. He missed the next game with the injury. During a Week 14 contest against the Cincinnati Bengals, he caught a season-high ten passes for 60 yards and had his second career carry for a two-yard gain in a 33-20 victory. On January 3, 2016, he made three catches for 18 yards and caught his last career touchdown on a two-yard pass from Ben Roethlisberger during the Steeler's 28-12 victory. He finished his last season with 60 receptions for 535 receiving yards and two touchdowns in 15 games and 15 starts.\n\nThe Pittsburgh Steelers finished the season with a 10–6 record, landing them second in the AFC North. They faced the Cincinnati Bengals in the AFC Wildcard game and he caught two passes for nine yards in an 18–16 victory. On January 17, 2016, Miller played in his last career game and caught one pass for a seven-yard gain during the Steelers' 23–16 AFC Divisional round loss to eventual Super Bowl 50 Champions the Denver Broncos.\n\nOn February 19, 2016, Miller announced his retirement from football after an 11-season career with the Pittsburgh Steelers.\n\nHe is the son of Earl and Denise. He and his wife, Katie, were married during the 2007 offseason. They have three sons, Chase, Jacke, and Cole.\n\nMiller is involved with a number of charities. Miller has participated in the Salvation Army and WTAE TV's Annual Mini Golf Classic as host. Miller has also been involved in charities such as fashion shows and high school fundraising basketball games.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906927", "title": "Callinectes", "text": "Callinectes\n\nCallinectes is a genus of crabs, containing 16 extant species, including the Atlantic blue crab, \"C. sapidus\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1906930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906930", "title": "Pipa (genus)", "text": "Pipa (genus)\n\nSuriname toads are members of the frog genus Pipa, within the family Pipidae. They are native to northern South America and extreme southern Central America (Panama). Like other pipids, these frogs are almost exclusively aquatic.\n\nThere are seven recognized species:\n\nIn addition, \"Pipa verrucosa\" is included here \"incertae sedis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1906931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906931", "title": "The Monolith Monsters", "text": "The Monolith Monsters\n\nThe Monolith Monsters is a 1957 American black-and-white science fiction film from Universal-International, produced by Howard Christie, directed by John Sherwood, that stars Grant Williams and Lola Albright. The film is based on a story by Jack Arnold and Robert M. Fresco, with a screenplay by Fresco and Norman Jolley.\n\n\"The Monolith Monsters\" tells the story of a large meteorite that crashes in a Southern California desert and explodes into hundreds of black fragments which have strange properties. When those fragments are exposed to water, they grow very large and tall. The fragments also begin to slowly petrify some of the inhabitants of a nearby small town. The story that unfolds becomes one of human survival against an encroaching unnatural disaster, that if not stopped, could become a national ecological nightmare that could pose a possible threat to all of humanity.\nIn the desert outside of San Angelo, California, a huge meteorite crashes and explodes, scattering hundreds of black fragments over a wide area. The next day, Federal geologist Ben Gilbert (Phil Harvey) brings one of the fragments to his office, where he and local newspaper publisher Martin Cochrane (Les Tremayne) examine it. That night, a strong wind blows over a full water container onto the black rock, starting a chemical reaction.\n\nWhen Dave Miller (Grant Williams), the head of San Angelo's district geological office, returns from a business trip, he finds Ben's corpse in a rock-hard, petrified state and the office's lab damaged by large rock fragments. Dave's girlfriend, teacher Cathy Barrett (Lola Albright), takes her students on a desert field trip; young Ginny Simpson (Linda Scheley) pockets a piece of the black meteorite rock, later washing it in a large tub outside her family's farmhouse. In town Dr. E. J. Reynolds (Richard H. Cutting) performs Ben's autopsy and cannot explain the body's condition; he informs Dave and Police Chief Dan Corey (William Flaherty) the body is being sent to a specialist. Martin returns to the wrecked office with Dave where he recognizes the large fragments as the same type of black rock Ben had been examining.\n\nCathy joins them, also recognizing the fragments. She goes with the two men to the Simpson farm; they find the farmhouse in ruins under a large pile of black rocks and Ginny's parents dead. The girl is still alive but in a catatonic state. At Dr. Reynolds' request, they rush her to Dr. Steve Hendricks (Harry Jackson) at the California Medical Research Institute in Los Angeles. He later reports that Ginny is slowly turning to stone; her only hope lies with identifying the black rock within eight hours. Dave brings a fragment to his old college professor, Arthur Flanders (Trevor Bardette), who determines that it came from a meteorite. Back at the Simpson farm, both men notice a discoloration in the ground: The black rock is draining something from everything it touches, including people. Later, tests show that silicon is that substance; in humans it is normally just a trace element. Dr. Reynolds explains that research indicates that one possible function of silicon in the human body is to maintain human tissue flexibility. They suddenly realize that the meteorite's absorption of silicon was the cause of Ben's death, Ginny's condition, and the death of her parents; Steve then prepares and administers a silicon solution injection to the girl.\n\nReturning to the desert, Dave and Arthur trace the fragments to the crashed meteor. Arthur deduces that the meteorite's atomic structure has been radically altered by the intense heat of atmospheric friction. Back in the lab, a rainstorm blows up while Dave and Arthur continue their investigation. A piece of black rock falls into the sink and begins to react when hot coffee is poured on it; the men then realize that water is the culprit. With it raining outside, they hurriedly return to the desert and see the black fragments now growing into stories-tall monoliths that rise up and then crash back to Earth, breaking into hundreds more fragments, each fragment then repeating that cycle. Dave quickly realizes that the monoliths' advancing path will take them directly through San Angelo, and from there the monoliths could spread and possibly threaten all life on Earth.\n\nThey report and explain the threat to Dan, who then makes plans to evacuate San Angelo. The governor is notified, and declares a state of emergency in the San Angelo area. At the hospital, Ginny finally revives, and Dave deduces that something in the silicon solution will check the fragments' growth. More locals are soon rushed to Dr. Reynolds' office in various stages of petrification. With little time left, and the telephone and electricity cut off, the monoliths continue to multiply and advance, soaking up water from the rain-soaked soil. Dave and Arthur struggle to find the correct formula; they finally realize the monoliths can be stopped with a simple saline solution, a part of Steve's silicon formula.\n\nDave plans to dynamite the local dam and flood the nearby salt flats, creating a large supply of salt water. Because the dam is private property, however, Dan attempts to contact the governor for permission to blow up the dam. Knowing they must halt the monoliths at the canyon's edge, Dave acts without waiting for the governor's approval and the dynamite is detonated. The group watches as a huge torrent of water flows over the salt deposits at the canyon's edge, reaching the monoliths; their growth is finally halted when the last huge formation of monoliths crashes down into the salty water. Dan reveals to the group that he had finally reached the governor who told him \"not\" to blow up the dam, pauses, and adds unless Dave was absolutely certain of success. As they all laugh, Dave then comments, first repeating Martin's earlier assertion that the region's salt flat was \"Mother Nature's worst mistake\", then pointing out, ironically, that this near-disaster has just proved otherwise.\n\n\n\"From time immemorial, the Earth has been bombarded by objects from outer space. Bits and pieces of the Universe piercing our atmosphere in an invasion that never ends. Meteor, the shooting stars on which so many earthly wishes have been born! Of the thousands that plummet toward us, the greater part are destroyed in a fiery flash as they strike the layers of the air that encircle us. Only a small percentage survives. Most of those fall into the water which covers two-thirds of our world. But from time to time from the beginning of time a very few meteors have struck the crust of the Earth and formed craters - craters of all sizes sought after, poured over by scientists of all nations for the priceless knowledge buried within them. In every moment of every day they come from planets belonging to stars whose dying light is too far away to be seen. From infinity they come. Meteors! Another strange calling card from the limitless regions of space - its substance unknown, its secrets unexplored. The meteor lies dormant in the night, waiting\"!\n\nMany of the exteriors were filmed in the Alabama Hills in Lone Pine, California, whose rugged landscape has been used in films such as \"Gunga Din\", \"High Sierra\", \"Maverick\", \"How the West Was Won\", \"The Charge of the Light Brigade\", and \"Gladiator.\" Most of the exteriors of downtown San Angelo were shot on Universal's back lot, particularly Courthouse Square.\n\nThe film's \"California Medical Research Institute\" is the same fictional facility that also features prominently in Universal's \"The Incredible Shrinking Man\", released eight months earlier, which also starred Grant Williams.\n\nThe film's special effects were created by Clifford Stine, whose career began in 1933 with \"King Kong.\" Alternate takes from Universal's \"It Came from Outer Space\" (1953), which Stine also created, were used for the meteor crash in the film's opening sequence.\n\nIn a contemporary review, the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" described the feature as a \"promising idea\" but noted that it was not supported by either the acting or the script.\n\nThe film review aggregator website \"Rotten Tomatoes\" gives the film an audience approval score of 42%. One review noted, “Give Hollywood a measured amount of credit for at least attempting to give us something unique and unusual, even if it comes up a little short\".\n\n\"CineOutsider\" observed, “Certainly it lacks the sub textual clout that distinguishes the best of these films, but its central concept, its pacing and its impressive production design and effects still put it on a par with its more widely seen contemporaries. The performances are all solid, but my favorite comes from an uncredited William Schallert as the wrapped-up-in-his-job weatherman. For fans of 50s science fiction cinema, enthusiastically recommended”.\n\nUniversal released \"The Monolith Monsters\" on DVD as part of a boxed set called \"The Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection\", which features 4 additional Universal feature films: \"The Incredible Shrinking Man\", \"Monster on the Campus\", \"The Mole People\", and \"Tarantula\". In June 2019, Shout Factory released the film on Blu-ray. The disc includes an audio commentary track by Tom Weaver and David Schecter.\n\nA scene from \"The Monolith Monsters\" appears briefly in John Carpenter's 1988 science fiction action thriller \"They Live\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906935", "title": "Wolfgang Schuster", "text": "Wolfgang Schuster\n\nWolfgang Schuster (born 5 September 1949 in Ulm) was the Lord Mayor of Stuttgart, Germany, from January 1997 until January 2013. He was the successor to Manfred Rommel and he is a member of the CDU.\n\nSchuster studied law and political science in Tübingen, Geneva and Freiburg from 1969 to 1973. During his studies he joined Guestfalia Tübingen, one of Germany's largest Catholic student associations. From 1974 to 1976 he trained in Ulm before completing his doctorate in civil law.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1977 Schuster studied at the Paris École nationale d'administration (ENA).\n\nIn 1975, he represented the CDU on Ulm city council before acting as personal assistant to Manfred Rommel from 1985 onwards. In 1986, he was elected mayor of Schwäbisch Gmünd where he was in office until 1993 before becoming \"burgomaster for the arts, education and sport\" in the Baden-Württemberg capital of Stuttgart in 1996.\n\nIn elections for the post of Lord Mayor of Stuttgart, he won the office in the second ballot on 10 November 1996, defeating Rezzo Schlauch, the candidate for the Alliance '90/The Greens on a relatively narrow margin of 43.1% versus 39.3%.\n\nOn 24 October 2004, Schuster was re-elected to the post in the second ballot with 53.3% of votes. His opponents were Ute Kumpf (SPD), who gained 45.2% of votes in the 2nd ballot, and Boris Palmer (Alliance '90/The Greens) – who withdrew his candidacy after the first ballot, indirectly recommending that his supporters should back Schuster instead.\n\nOn 6 December 2010 Schuster was elected president of the Council of European Municipalities and Regions.\n\nWhen completing his term as Lord Mayor on 6 January 2013, he was made \"honoured citizen\" (Ehrenbürger). His successor Fritz Kuhn is member of the German Green party, thus being the first post-war Mayor of Stuttgart not member of CDU.\n\nSchuster's political agenda includes the furthering of economic development and construction, intercultural dialogue and the promotion of child-friendly policies, among others.\n\nHe promotes the interests of intercultural dialogue and the sharing of religious ideas and is the founder of the Stuttgart Religious Round Table. As a representative of the Deutsche Städtetag, a voluntary coalition of county boroughs and district-affiliated towns in Germany, Schuster is a member of the broadcasting council of SWR radio.\n\nSchuster has a declared aim to turn Stuttgart into Germany's most child-friendly city.\n\nIn 2004 Schuster's re-election to office was attributed to Stuttgart's favourable economic development during his first term.\n\nThe biggest and most high-profile project during his office has been Stuttgart 21 – a major rail project to build a new underground through station for Stuttgart, also encompassing connections to existing surface and underground lines. The project was officially approved on 19 July 2007.\n\nSchuster is longlisted for the 2008 World Mayor award and was voted second most successful Mayor in Germany in a survey by Wirtschaftswoche magazine. In 2004, he was the only (active) local politician nominated for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung \"Reformer of the Year\" award.\n\nHe was awarded a UNESCO Cities for Peace Prize for his work advancing integration of immigrant communities, and has established the EU Cities for Children network in cooperation with the Robert Bosch Foundation and Stuttgart-based carmaker Daimler.\n\nIn October 2008, the German Chancellor Angela Merkel named Schuster the German member of a 12-strong reflection group called the \"Council of Wise Men to Rethink Europe\" which is headed by former Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez.\n\nShortly after funding was finalised for Stuttgart 21, the political opponents of Wolfgang Schuster were quick to condemn him for backtracking on a promise made during the mayor elections of 2004 – namely that he would allow the population of Stuttgart to decide the fate of Stuttgart 21 if the additional costs of the project for the city of Stuttgart amounted to more than €200 million. The agreement contained a provision that the local government would have to participate in covering a cost increases possibly up to an amount above €200 million should the actual project costs significantly exceed planned costs. The Greens subsequently accused Schuster publicly of breaking his word. Schuster responded that the projected cost increase for the city of Stuttgart amounted to €84 million and thus significantly less than the amount for which he had promised a referendum.\n\nIn November 2007 a citizens' petition against the Stuttgart 21 project gained 67,000 signatures. After further legal wrangling appeals were submitted for a local referendum which experts subsequently deemed unlawful as contracts had already been signed and Stuttgart was not the main source (other backers include Deutsche Bahn, the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg and the EU).\n\nFailed projects pointed to by opponents during the office of Schuster include Stuttgart's last place as German candidate for the 2012 Olympic games and the stopping of a project to build a German Trump Tower in the north of Stuttgart.\n\nSchuster is married to a female doctor since 1979 and has three children and four grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906938", "title": "To See Every Bird on Earth", "text": "To See Every Bird on Earth\n\nTo See Every Bird on Earth: A Father, a Son, and a Lifetime Obsession is a book by Dan Koeppel first published in 2005. It is about the author's relationship with his father Richard Koeppel, an obsessive \"Big Lister\" birdwatcher who had spotted over 7000 different species of birds at the time the book was written. The book focuses on Dan Koeppel's attempts to understand the obsession that ruled his father's life. It also examines the culture on highly competitive birders who travel the world making lists of their sightings, and discusses the history and rules of listing. Richard Koeppel was diagnosed with cancer in 2000, which curtailed his birding and forced him to switch to butterflies found locally near his home on Long Island, New York. He died of cancer-related causes on August 2, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906944", "title": "List of theatres in Norway", "text": "List of theatres in Norway\n\nThis is a list of professional and semi-professional theaters in Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1906952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906952", "title": "Walloon Legion", "text": "Walloon Legion\n\nThe Walloon Legion () was a collaborationist military formation recruited among French-speaking volunteers from German-occupied Belgium, notably from Brussels and Wallonia, during World War II. It was intended to participate in the German invasion of the Soviet Union with similar formations from other parts of German-occupied Europe.\n\nEstablished in July 1941, the Walloon Legion was advocated by Léon Degrelle's Rexist Party as a means of demonstrating its loyalty and political indispensability in German-occupied Belgium where it had been largely ignored since the invasion of May 1940. A similar formation had already been created by Flemish collaborators. The Walloon Legion, initially part of the Wehrmacht, was joined by Degrelle himself but remained no larger than a battalion. It participated in fighting on the Eastern Front from February 1942 but the heavy losses experienced by the unit proved difficult to replace in Belgium. \n\nIt became part of the Waffen-SS in June 1943 as the SS-\"Sturmbrigade\" Wallonia and was almost destroyed by Soviet forces in the Korsun–Cherkassy Pocket in February 1944. It expanded slightly after the Allied Liberation of Belgium in September 1944 as Belgian, French, and Spanish soldiers were drafted in and was upgraded to the notional status of a division. After heavy losses and desertions, its remaining personnel surrendered to British forces in April 1945.\n\nAt the time of the German invasion in May 1940, Belgium had several political parties that were broadly sympathetic to the authoritarian and anti-democratic ideals represented by Nazi Germany. In Wallonia and Brussels, the largest of these groups was the Rexist Party, led by Léon Degrelle. This had originated as a faction of the mainstream Catholic Block, but split in 1935 to form an independent populist party. Ideologically, Rex supported Belgian nationalism, but its support for corporatism and anti-communism made it sympathetic towards aspects of Nazi ideology. It achieved some early success, peaking at the elections of 1936 in which it received 11.5 percent of the national vote, but experienced a decline in the following years before the German invasion and remained marginal.\n\nAfter the Belgian surrender on 28 May 1940, a German Military Administration was created to govern the occupied territory. Preferring a strategy of indirect rule, the administration preferred to work with established Belgian political and social elites, largely ignoring fringe political groups such as the Rexists.\n\nIn order to acquire more influence and German support, Rex attempted to bring itself closer to the occupation authorities. On 1 January 1941, Degrelle announced Rex's total support for the occupation authorities and for the policy of collaborationism. After the German invasion of the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, it embraced the idea of raising a military unit, seen as \"a political opportunity to increase the importance of their movements and eliminate political competition\". At the same time, the Vlaams Nationaal Verbond (VNV), a Flemish nationalist and rival authoritarian party in Flanders, also announced its intention to form a \"Flemish Legion\" to fight in the German Army in the Soviet Union. This move, combined with the Germans' favourable stance towards the VNV, meant that it would not be possible to realise Rex's preferred option of a national \"Belgian Legion\" on the Eastern Front.\n\nIn July 1941, Rex announced that it would raise a unit of volunteers of its own, dubbed the Walloon Legion (\"Légion Wallonie\"). The unit would form part of the Wehrmacht because Walloons were not considered sufficiently \"Germanic\" by Nazi racial theorists to enlist in the Waffen-SS. Recruitment initially met with little success, leading Degrelle personally to volunteer for the unit as a private. In total, some 850 men (mostly Rexist cadres) had volunteered by August 1941, bringing the unit up to the strength of an infantry battalion. Officially designated as Infantry Battalion 373 (\"Infanterie Bataillon 373\"), it was sent for training in Meseritz, Germany. As part of Degrelle's ideal of an expanded Burgundian-style Belgium, the unit adopted the Cross of Burgundy as its insignia.\n\nInitially, most of the volunteers came from the cadres of Rex and in particular its paramilitary militia, the \"Formations de Combat\". In propaganda, Rex emphasised the anti-communist nature of the conflict and argued that collaboration was compatible with Belgian nationalism. Initially, the unit encountered various internal problems with some volunteers being unwilling to swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler and others being classed as medically unfit: almost a third of the volunteers were repatriated before October 1941. Over the winter of 1941–1942, it participated in training and anti-partisan operations near Donetsk in the Ukraine.\n\nThe Walloon Legion fought its first engagement against Soviet forces at Gromowaja-Balka, near Donetsk, on 28 February 1942 as part of the 17th Army. It suffered heavy losses, both from disease and combat, and was reduced to 150 men within its first months. It continued to encounter \"enormous losses\" throughout 1942. Its record in combat, however, was widely exploited in propaganda and increased Degrelle's legitimacy in the eyes of the German leadership, especially Heinrich Himmler who commanded the SS. In late 1942, Himmler declared the Walloons to be a Germanic race, paving the way for the unit's incorporation into the Waffen-SS on 1 June 1943. The Walloon Legion was re-organised into an SS brigade-sized unit of 2,000 men, known as the SS-\"Sturmbrigade\" Wallonia (\"SS- Sturmbrigade Wallonien\").\n\nThe high attrition rate within the Walloon Legion required increasing focus on recruitment. A second recruitment drive was started in February 1942, recruiting 450 new volunteers of whom many came from Rex's small youth wing. A third \"frantic\" campaign in November 1942 raised a further 1,700 men. These recruitment drives weakened many Rexist institutions by diverting manpower away from projects in Belgium. Attempts to recruit from Belgian prisoners of war proved a failure. However, Degrelle became increasingly keen on the political potential of the Walloon Legion which he saw as a more effective political tool than the Rexist Party in Belgium. As the war continued and the pool of Rexist members fell, the volunteers became \"largely non-political 'adventurers' or desperate men\", often drawn from the urban working class and the unemployed.\n\nIn November 1943, the new SS-\"Sturmbrigade\" Wallonia was deployed for the first time to the Ukraine in response to the Soviet Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive. There, the brigade fought as part of the SS \"Wiking\" Panzer Division in the Korsun–Cherkassy Pocket in February 1944 and suffered 70 percent casualties. Among those killed was the unit's commander Lucien Lippert. A detachment also fought at the Tannenberg Line in Estonia in June 1944, also suffering heavy losses. Degrelle, however, was widely celebrated for his role in the battle at Cherkassy and received the Knight's Cross, becoming \"the poster boy for all European collaborators\" and being featured in \"Signal\" magazine. The remnants of the unit returned to Belgium where parades were held in Brussels and Charleroi in April 1944. Ahead of its return, largely to encourage more enlistments, the unit was even loaned armoured vehicles by other German units to make it seem more prestigious.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Allied Liberation of Belgium in September 1944, Degrelle managed to get the brigade upgraded to division-status, after drafting Rexist refugees fleeing the Allied advance and Walloon volunteers from the paramilitary National Socialist Motor Corps (NSKK). The new 28th SS Volunteer Grenadier Division \"Wallonia\" (\"28. SS-Freiwilligen-Grenadier-Division Wallonien\") was created in October 1944. It numbered fewer than 4,000 men, making it considerably understrength, and French and Spanish soldiers from the Legion of French Volunteers Against Bolshevism (LVF) and Blue Division were folded into the unit to increase its numbers. During the retreat, Walloon soldiers participated in the massacre of 6,000 Jewish female prisoners of Stutthof concentration camp in January 1945. The following month, the remains of the \"division\" saw action during Operation Solstice and were forced to retreat through Central Pomerania to Stettin on the Oder river. After mass defections in April its remaining 400 personnel fled to Lübeck where they surrendered to the British Army to escape capture by Soviet forces.\n\nAltogether, between 7,000 and 8,000 men served in the Walloon Legion between 1941 and 1944, slightly less than the number of Flemish who served in comparable formations. Some 1,337 were killed, representing about a fifth of its total strength. However, its maximum field strength had never exceeded 2,000 men. Fearing execution for treason in Belgium, Degrelle escaped to Denmark and Norway and then fled to Francoist Spain where he remained in exile until his death in 1994.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906956", "title": "Terri Farley", "text": "Terri Farley\n\nAmerican Terri Farley is the best-selling author of \"Seven Tears into the Sea\", \"The Phantom Stallion\" series for young readers about the contemporary and historic West and many nonfiction magazine articles. \n\nFarley grew up in Southern California and lives in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada in Verdi, Nevada, with her journalist and former KSGG 1230 AM radio talk show host husband Cory and her pets. She has worked as a waitress, journalist, teacher of remedial English and now writes books full-time. She received the Silver Pen Award from the University of Nevada in 2010 and was inducted into the Nevada Writers Hall of Fame in November 2017. Her 2015 book \"Wild at Heart: Mustangs and Young People Fighting to Save Them\" documenting the plight of wild horses in the West, published by Houghton-Mifflin-Harcourt, was selected as a Junior Literary Guild Selection as well as winner of the Sterling North Heritage award for Excellence in Children's Literature. It was also recommended by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and a finalist for Best Western Juvenile Nonfiction by the Western Writers of America She is a founding member of the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators' mentor program. Her \"Phantom Stallion\" series has sold more than one million copies. \"Seven Tears into the Sea\", also very popular, was nominated for the ALA Best Books for Young Adults Award.\n\n\nFarley has recently announced that she has signed a 16-book contract and released several titles for upcoming books.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906970", "title": "Quaker gun", "text": "Quaker gun\n\nA Quaker gun is a deception tactic that was commonly used in warfare during the 18th and 19th centuries. Although resembling an actual cannon, the Quaker gun was simply a wooden log, usually painted black, used to deceive an enemy. Misleading the enemy as to the strength of an emplacement was an effective delaying tactic. The name derives from the Religious Society of Friends or \"Quakers\", who have traditionally held a religious opposition to war and violence in the Peace Testimony.\n\nDuring the American War of Independence, after nearly a year of brutal backcountry conflict between American Colonel William Washington and the fierce British commander Lieutenant Colonel Banastre Tarleton, Colonel Washington had retreated to North Carolina in October 1780.\n\nOrdered to leave a regular force of colonial dragoons in the North Carolina theater by Brigadier General Daniel Morgan, Colonel Washington still lacked the proper artillery to dislodge the Loyalists. On December 4, the Americans were able to trap the Loyalist Colonel Rowland Rugeley and his force of about 125 men in Rugeley’s house and barn near Camden, South Carolina. Washington told his cavalrymen to dismount and surround the barn. Out of Rugeley’s sight, Washington’s men prepared a pine log to resemble a cannon.\n\nThe \"Quaker gun trick\" worked. Colonel Washington aimed the wooden \"cannon\" toward the buildings in which the Loyalists had barricaded themselves and threatened to open fire if they did not immediately surrender. Rugeley quickly surrendered his entire force without a single shot having been fired.\n\nDuring the Siege of Genoa in 1800, the French force's commander, Andre Massena, placed wooden dummy cannons on the city walls to confuse and divert the besieging Austrian army.\n\nQuaker guns were used by both the North and South in the American Civil War. The Confederate States Army frequently resorted to them because of its shortage of artillery. The wooden guns were painted black and positioned in fortifications to delay Union assaults. Sometimes actual gun carriages were used in the deception.\n\nOne notable use of a Quaker gun was by Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston, who placed them in his field works around Centreville, Virginia, in March 1862, to give the appearance that the works were still occupied, while his men were actually withdrawing to the Rappahannock River.\n\nAnother example happened during the Siege of Corinth. \"During the night of May 29, the Confederate army moved out. They used the Mobile and Ohio Railroad to carry the sick and wounded, the heavy artillery, and tons of supplies. When a train arrived, the troops cheered as though reinforcements were arriving. They set up dummy Quaker guns along the defensive earthworks. Camp fires were kept burning, and buglers and drummers played. The rest of the men slipped away undetected...\"\n\nQuaker guns were also used to bolster Confederate fortifications during the Siege of Petersburg. They assisted in prolonging the Confederates' hold on their positions against the overwhelmingly superior numbers of Union troops.\n\nA similar idea was employed during the Doolittle Raid, which occurred in the early stages of the Pacific War of World War II, where Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Doolittle led a squadron of B-25 Mitchells to bomb Tokyo. The early model B-25B lacked any protective guns installed in the tail section, leaving them vulnerable to attacks from the rear. While modifying the bombers for the mission at Eglin Field, Florida, Doolittle had fake machine guns consisting of a pair of broomsticks painted black mounted at the tail end of the fuselage to simulate tail guns.\n\nSimilarly, while preparing for the coming invasion of France, the German forces on Pointe du Hoc moved their artillery battery and replaced it with upturned logs and barrels in order to fool the invading Allied forces. Dummy equipment was also used extensively by the Allies in Operation Fortitude, to persuade the Germans that a non-existent field army was preparing to attack Calais.\n\nThe pre–World War I British battleship HMS \"Centurion\" was obsolete and disarmed by World War II. However, from 1942 to 1944, she was fitted with wooden guns and stationed in the eastern Mediterranean, to make British naval forces in the area seem stronger than they were.\n\nFake gun emplacements, quickly constructed from local timber, were widely employed in the Soviet Union to fool and mislead German air reconnaissance.\n\nUnlike a Quaker gun, a wooden cannon is a functional weapon, albeit notoriously weak and only able to fire a few shots, sometimes even just one shot, before bursting. These were used by those without access to metal or the skill to construct metallic cannons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906977", "title": "Sordaria", "text": "Sordaria\n\nSordaria is a genus of microscopic fungi. It is commonly found in the feces of herbivores. The genus has a widespread distribution, and contains 12 species.\n"}
{"id": "1906978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906978", "title": "Dreissena", "text": "Dreissena\n\nDreissena is a genus of small freshwater mussels in the family Dreissenidae. The exact taxonomy of the species within the genus \"Dreissena\" is, however, uncertain.\n\nAs Kantor et al. commented, \"...the Russian specialists on freshwater molluscs appeared to be “splitters” comparing with their western colleagues. This sometimes leads to extreme differences in opinion on species number and taxonomy of some groups. For example, Graf [2007] recently analyzed the number of species of Unionoidea of Palearctic recognised by Russian malacologists (156 species in 34 genera) and western specialists (45 species in 16 genera). Most of the groups are still awaiting the critical re-assessment.\"\n\nPossible list of species within the genus \"Dreissena\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1906991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906991", "title": "Memorial Stadium (Seattle)", "text": "Memorial Stadium (Seattle)\n\nMemorial Stadium is an outdoor athletic stadium in Seattle, Washington, used mostly for American football, ultimate and soccer, located in the northeast corner of the Seattle Center grounds. It has a seating capacity of 12,000; this was temporarily expanded to 17,000 during 1974–75, while the Seattle Sounders, of the North American Soccer League, played at Memorial Stadium, before moving to the newly constructed Kingdome. Similarly, an A-League reincarnation of the Sounders franchise played at Memorial Stadium, before moving to Qwest/CenturyLink Field. It currently hosts Seattle School District high school football games and adult recreational leagues, and is the home field for the Seattle Cascades of the American Ultimate Disc League.\n\nThe stadium was designed by Seattle architect George W. Stoddard, also known for his work on the Green Lake Aqua Theater and the south stands of Husky Stadium. The stadium opened on September 26, 1947, during a \"jamboree\" featuring eight of the city's high school football teams. Memorial Stadium was dedicated later that year in memory of the Seattle youth who gave their lives in World War II. A memorial wall at the east end is inscribed with the names of over 700 fallen individuals. The following year, the stadium hosted first widespread local television broadcast in the Puget Sound region, the Turkey Day high school football game between West Seattle and Wenatchee.\n\nThe stadium was the venue for much of the opening ceremonies for the Century 21 Exposition, a World's Fair held in Seattle in 1962. In 1967, it became the first high school stadium in the country to install artificial turf.\n\nIn 1992, the scoreboard was replaced and the field was rededicated as \"Leon H. Brigham Field\", in tribute to the long-time high school football coach who pushed to build Memorial Stadium while serving as the Seattle School District's first Director of Athletics. The scoreboard was again replaced in 2018.\n\nIn 2017, the Seattle School District and the city of Seattle announced plans to build a new high school and stadium at Seattle Center in response to major population growth in downtown Seattle. While no timetable has been set for construction, and no site has yet been chosen, the current Memorial Stadium site was seen as a likely location for the new project because the city and school district had agreed in 2009 that the current stadium should be torn down. In October 2018, a design studio leaked renderings of a soccer-specific stadium on the site of Memorial Stadium that was commissioned for a feasibility study.\n\nThe facility is not operated by the Seattle Center itself, but is owned by the Seattle School District and still serves as the \"home field\" for some high school football games played within the district. Memorial Stadium also hosted the first AAA (now 4A) state championship game for high school football in 1973, the first year of the state playoff system. The top-ranked Wenatchee Panthers were upset by the Kentridge Chargers, 26–24. Entering the title game, Wenatchee had given up just seven points all season and had been the top team in the state polls for four years.\n\nAs well as hosting two iterations of the Sounders franchise, Memorial Stadium has served as home to several other pro and semi-pro sports teams. The Seattle Majestics, a women's American football team, played home games at Memorial Stadium from 2007 to 2009 before moving to French Field in nearby Kent. Seattle Reign FC, now known as OL Reign, of the National Women's Soccer League moved to the stadium in 2014 and played with a capacity limited to 6,000 for several seasons. They announced their move to Tacoma in January 2019. As of 2015, the AUDL's Seattle Cascades use the stadium for the majority of their home games. In addition, the stadium hosts adult recreational league soccer and flag football.\n\nMemorial Stadium serves as the finish for the Amica Insurance Seattle Marathon.\n\nThe stadium is also used periodically for concerts, particularly in connection with festivals held at the Center, like Bumbershoot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907035", "title": "George Boateng", "text": "George Boateng\n\nGeorge Boateng (born 5 September 1975) is a Dutch former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.\n\nBorn in Nkawkaw, Ghana, after playing 70 games for Dutch giants Feyenoord Rotterdam, Boateng completed a £220,000 move to Coventry City in 1998. Under the management of Gordon Strachan he proved himself to be a solid defensive midfielder, helping the attacking Dublin-Huckerby Coventry side of 1998 finish eleventh in the Premier League and enjoy mid table stability. He is still fondly remembered by Sky Blues fans as being responsible for breaking one of Coventry's longstanding hoodoo's-victory at Villa Park: Boateng scored twice in the 4–1 win over Aston Villa at Villa Park on 27 February 1999, ending Coventry's 63-year-long wait for a league win at the ground.\n\nThe next season Boateng transferred to Aston Villa for £4.5 million. He proceeded to play 131 matches for Villa, including an FA Cup final defeat against Chelsea in 2000. The tough-tackling central midfielder then fell out with manager Graham Taylor in the 2001–02 season. After a move to Liverpool collapsed due to demands from agents, and in spite of interest from Fulham, that summer Boateng completed a £5 million move to Middlesbrough.\n\nBoateng made his full debut on the first day of the 2002–03 season away to Southampton in an uneventful game that finished 0–0. Occupying the defensive midfield position, he became the solid platform upon which Middlesbrough built their attack. He recovered from an ankle operation in the summer of 2003 to be fit for the start of the 2003–04 season. That season, he was part of the Middlesbrough team which lifted the League Cup for the first time.\n\nIn the 2004–05 season, he scored his first goal for Middlesbrough in a 4–0 win at Blackburn Rovers on 16 October 2004. However, he was injured for eight weeks with a broken toe; during this period, Middlesbrough dropped from fourth down to ninth in the league. He did recover in time to help Middlesbrough obtain the results they needed for qualification for the UEFA Cup. In a poll on the official Boro website, fans voted him the player most missed due to injury in the 2004–05 season. He started for Middlesbrough in the 2006 UEFA Cup Final.\n\nIn June 2006 he signed a new three-year contract with Middlesbrough. He was announced as the new club captain on 21 July 2006, replacing Gareth Southgate, who had been promoted to manager. On 10 March 2007, he scored in an FA Cup tie against league leaders Manchester United, his first goal in the tournament since 1999 when he scored for Coventry against Macclesfield Town.\n\nOn 22 January 2008, Boateng had his captaincy rescinded by Gareth Southgate. Southgate cited his desire for Boateng to \"concentrate on his game\". He was replaced as captain by Emanuel Pogatetz.\n\nHull City announced on 10 July 2008 that Boateng had agreed to sign a contract with them. The move was completed on 16 July, after the completion of a medical.\nOn 6 February 2010, Boateng scored his first career goal for Hull City in a 2–1 win over Manchester City, their first win since November 2009.\n\nBoateng's contract with Hull City came to an end following their relegation from the Premier League in 2010. He was confirmed as having left the club along with former Dutch national teammate Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink.\n\nAfter holding talks with Celtic and West Bromwich Albion he joined Greek side Skoda Xanthi on a two-year deal.\n\nOn 27 July 2011, it was announced that Boateng had joined Nottingham Forest, on a one-year deal.\n\nBoateng scored his first goal for Nottingham Forest in dramatic fashion, scoring in the 94th minute to grab Forest a point against Leicester City. At the end of June 2012 he left the club.\n\nOn 15 November 2012, he arrived at Kuala Lumpur International Airport to sign a contract with T-Team. Four days later, he signed a one-year contract, linking him again with former Hull City teammate and Republic of Ireland international Caleb Folan.\n\nAlthough born in Ghana, Boateng chose to represent Netherlands at international level, earning four caps in total for \"Oranje\".\n\nBoateng made his international début for the Netherlands in a 1–1 draw with Denmark in November 2001.\n\nBoateng has made no secret of his desire to enter football management once his playing career ends. After leaving Nottingham Forest F.C in 2012 he completed his coaching badges in October 2016 and in an interview with the Daily Mail he revealed that he would love to manage any of his former clubs like Aston Villa F.C saying \"They have the training ground, the fan base, great stadium. And I love the ground.\".\n\nOn 5 September 2018, Boateng signed as Under 13's Head Coach at Championship club Blackburn Rovers. Where he coach different age groups at the Academy On 29 July it was announced that Boateng had left Rovers to take up a position as Aston Villa Under-18 lead coach.\n\nIn 2014, Boateng was unveiled as Kelantan FA new head coach to replace Steve Darby who had been shown the exit door after a 0–4 loss to Sime Darby F.C.. On 6 May 2014, Kelantan FA come back from 3–0 down to draw 3–3 with Felda United F.C. in first leg of the Malaysia FA Cup semi-final in Boateng's first game as head coach. Boateng apologised to the Kelantan fans after Kelantan FA were knocked out of the Malaysia Cup by Kedah FA with 3–4 aggregate, and there were reports saying that he would step down from his role as Kelantan FA head coach the following season but that proved to be wrong by Kelantan FA President, Annuar Musa. He was promoted to Technical Director on 24 March 2015, and his position as Head Coach was taken by Mohd Azraai Khor Abdullah. Boateng left his post as Technical Director of Kelantan on 11 May 2015 because he wanted to work as Coach or Manager in football.\n\nBoateng is a devout Christian and says his faith affects the way he conducts himself. In an interview with \"Church Times\" he stated: \"My family and I have become very devoted Christians. Hearing and acting on the Word is very important.\"\n\nAston Villa\n\nMiddlesbrough\n\n"}
{"id": "1907042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907042", "title": "Feldgrau", "text": "Feldgrau\n\nFeldgrau (English: field-grey) is a greenish grey color. It was the official basic color of military uniforms of the German armed forces from the early 20th century until 1945 (West Germany) or 1989 (East Germany). Armed forces of other countries also used various shades of that color. \"Feldgrau\" was used to refer to the armies of Germany, first the Imperial German Army and later the \"Heer\" (ground forces) of the \"Reichswehr\" and the \"Wehrmacht\".\n\nIn World War I the color \"feldgrau\" was a light grey-green, though there were variations of the shade ranging from greys to browns. It was one of the first standardized uniforms suitable to the age of smokeless gunpowder.\n\n\"Feldgrau\" is commonly used to refer to the color of German army uniforms during World War II. It was also used by the East German National People's Army, under the description steingrau (stone-grey). Feldgrau was introduced to the Austrian Bundesheer in line to the German pattern as well.\n\nIn 1910, the so-called field-grey peace uniform (\"feldgraue Friedensuniform\"), with colored cuffs, facings, shoulder straps and gorgets was issued by decree in Prussia, followed by the non-Prussian contingents of the other German states and lastly by the Bavarian Army in April 1916. Formerly most infantry regiments in the German Imperial Army wore \"Prussian blue\" tunics, although Bavarian units had light blue and jägers dark green. Cavalry uniforms were of a wide range of colours. Until the outbreak of war in August 1914, the traditional brightly coloured uniforms of the Deutsches Heer continued to be worn as parade and off-duty wear. Barracks dress was normally an off-white fatigue dress and the field-grey uniform introduced in 1910 was generally reserved for manoeuvres and field training. Upon the outbreak of war field-grey became the normal uniform of all German soldiers. Active service experience led to the adoption of a darker grey-green shade of colour in 1915, now described as \"stone-grey\". \n\nFollowing the German example, other countries selected \"feldgraue\" in either light grey or grey-green shades as the basic colour for their service uniforms. Examples were Portugal (1910), and Sweden (1923). \nItaly adopted a similar coloured uniform after testing, on December 4th 1908, known as \"Grigio Verde\".\n\nIn 1909 the Austro-Hungarian Army adopted the pike-grey (\"Hechtgrau\") as the colour of the field service uniform of its infantry, artillery, engineers and transport units. Previously it had been reserved for Jaeger and Landwehr regiments. Following the outbreak of World War I the light blue-grey shade of \"Hechtgrau\" proved unsuited for campaigning in Europe and from 1915 onwards the grey-green \"feldgrau\" was substituted. \n\nWith the formation of the Austrian 1st Federation's Armed Forces in 1929, there was a close orientation to Germany. For instance the feldgrau uniform (providing some camouflage features) and the corps colors of rank insignia adopted. However, slightly different grey shades were possible as well. \n\nToday, in accordance with national traditions, the textile color of the Austrian 2nd Federation's Armed Forces is named feldgrau (also \"braungrau\" - uniform jacket), and \"steingrau\" (also \"steingrau-oliv\" (stone-grey-olive), or more popularly \"NATO-oliv\" (NATO-olive) uniform trousers).\n\nThe Chilean Army also wears a full dress uniform in feldgrau.\n\nThe current dress uniform of the Finnish Army (M/83) is a grey uniform patterned after the German 1944 uniform. The Finnish Army has used grey uniforms since its founding in 1918. M/83 and its equally grey predecessors were used as the common service uniform up to the 1980s, with camouflage (M/62) used only in the field uniform. Today, the common service uniform is a camouflage uniform (M/62, M/91 or M/05).\n\nThe Swedish Armed Forces used a very similar color for infantry uniforms; for example the grey \nThe table below shows some shades of grey in line to the rough RAL colors\n\n"}
{"id": "1907053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907053", "title": "Cymbaline", "text": "Cymbaline\n\n\"Cymbaline\" is a Pink Floyd song from the album \"Soundtrack from the Film More\".\n\nIts lyrics vividly tell the tale of a \"nightmare\", which was the title of the song when it was first introduced in Floyd's \"The Man and The Journey Tour\" shows. The lyrics include a reference to the character Doctor Strange, who was popular at the time due to the psychedelic nature of his adventures. \n\nThe recording of \"Cymbaline\" on the album is different from the one in the film (the latter version is heard on a record player in a bedroom). The vocals are a different take, though both versions are sung by David Gilmour. The lyrics are also different in one place. \n\nThe song features a sparse arrangement of nylon-string guitar, bass, piano, drums, bongos, and Farfisa organ entering when Gilmour does a scat solo.\n\nThe Pink Floyd website credits the woodwind parts (tin whistle or flute) to Nick Mason's wife, Lindy Mason.\n\nPink Floyd played \"Cymbaline\" from early 1969 until their last show of 1971, and it was the longest-surviving \"More\" piece in the band's live shows. It was dropped from their act along with \"Fat Old Sun\" and \"The Embryo\" when they began performing early versions of \"The Dark Side of the Moon\".\n\nWhen the band performed the song live, they made the following changes to the song:\n\n\n\nThe song has been covered by fellow English space rock band Hawkwind. The 1996 CD reissue version of their eponymous debut album (1970) includes \"Cymbaline\" as track 13, in the bonus tracks section.\n\nFluteplayer Hubert Laws released an instrumental version on his 1969 album Crying Song.\n\nA German progressive rock band RPWL covered the song under the title of Nightmare in their 2016 album RPWL Plays Pink Floyd's The Man and the Journey.\n"}
{"id": "1907068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907068", "title": "RecA", "text": "RecA\n\nRecA is a 38 kilodalton protein essential for the repair and maintenance of DNA. A RecA structural and functional homolog has been found in every species in which one has been seriously sought and serves as an archetype for this class of homologous DNA repair proteins. The homologous protein is called RAD51 in eukaryotes and RadA in archaea.\n\nRecA has multiple activities, all related to DNA repair. In the bacterial SOS response, it has a co-protease function in the autocatalytic cleavage of the LexA repressor and the λ repressor.\n\nRecA's association with DNA major is based on its central role in homologous recombination. The RecA protein binds strongly and in long clusters to ssDNA to form a nucleoprotein filament. The protein has more than one DNA binding site, and thus can hold a single strand and double strand together. This feature makes it possible to catalyze a DNA synapsis reaction between a DNA double helix and a complementary region of single-stranded DNA. The RecA-ssDNA filament searches for sequence similarity along the dsDNA. A disordered DNA loop in RecA, Loop 2, contains the residues responsible for DNA homologous recombination. In some bacteria, RecA posttranslational modification via phosphorylation of a serine residue on Loop 2 can interfere with homologous recombination.\n\nThe search process induces stretching of the DNA duplex, which enhances sequence complementarity recognition (a mechanism termed conformational proofreading). The reaction initiates the exchange of strands between two recombining DNA double helices. After the synapsis event, in the heteroduplex region a process called \"branch migration\" begins. In branch migration an unpaired region of one of the single strands displaces a paired region of the other single strand, moving the branch point without changing the total number of base pairs. Spontaneous branch migration can occur, however, as it generally proceeds equally in both directions it is unlikely to complete recombination efficiently. The RecA protein catalyzes unidirectional branch migration and by doing so makes it possible to complete recombination, producing a region of heteroduplex DNA that is thousands of base pairs long.\n\nSince it is a DNA-dependent ATPase, RecA contains an additional site for binding and hydrolyzing ATP. RecA associates more tightly with DNA when it has ATP bound than when it has ADP bound.\n\nIn \"Escherichia coli\", homologous recombination events mediated by RecA can occur during the period after DNA replication when sister loci remain close. RecA can also mediate homology pairing, homologous recombination and DNA break repair between distant sister loci that had segregated to opposite halves of the \"E. coli\" cell.\n\n\"E. coli\" strains deficient in RecA are useful for cloning procedures in molecular biology laboratories. \"E. coli\" strains are often genetically modified to contain a mutant \"recA\" allele and thereby ensure the stability of extrachromosomal segments of DNA, known as plasmids. In a process called transformation, plasmid DNA is taken up by the bacteria under a variety of conditions. Bacteria containing exogenous plasmids are called \"transformants\". Transformants retain the plasmid throughout cell divisions such that it can be recovered and used in other applications. Without functional RecA protein, the exogenous plasmid DNA is left unaltered by the bacteria. Purification of this plasmid from bacterial cultures can then allow high-fidelity PCR amplification of the original plasmid sequence.\n\nWigle and Singleton at the University of North Carolina have shown that small molecules interfering with RecA function in the cell may be useful in the creation of new antibiotic drugs. Since many antibiotics lead to DNA damage, and all bacteria rely on RecA to fix this damage, inhibitors of RecA could be used to enhance the toxicity of antibiotics. Additionally the activities of RecA are synonymous with antibiotic resistance development, and inhibitors of RecA may also serve to delay or prevent the appearance of bacterial drug resistance.\n\nBased on analysis of the molecular properties of the RecA system, Cox concluded that the data “provide compelling evidence that the primary mission of RecA protein is DNA repair.” In a further essay on the function of the RecA protein, Cox summarized data demonstrating that “RecA protein evolved as the central component of a recombinational DNA repair system, with the generation of genetic diversity as a sometimes useful byproduct.”\nNatural bacterial transformation involves the transfer of DNA from one bacterium to another (ordinarily of the same species) and the integration of the donor DNA into the recipient chromosome by homologous recombination, a process mediated by the RecA protein (see Transformation (genetics)). Transformation, in which RecA plays a central role, depends on expression of numerous additional gene products (e.g. about 40 gene products in \"Bacillus subtilis\") that specifically interact to carry out this process indicating that it is an evolved adaptation for DNA transfer. In \"B. subtilis\" the length of the transferred DNA can be as great as a third and up to the size of the whole chromosome. In order for a bacterium to bind, take up and recombine exogenous DNA into its chromosome, it must first enter a special physiological state termed “competence” (see Natural competence). Transformation is common in the prokaryotic world, and thus far 67 species are known to be competent for transformation.\n\nOne of the most well studied transformation systems is that of \"B. subtilis\". In this bacterium, the RecA protein interacts with the incoming single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) to form striking filamentous structures. These RecA/ssDNA filaments emanate from the cell pole containing the competence machinery and extend into the cytosol. The RecA/ssDNA filamentous threads are considered to be dynamic nucleofilaments that scan the resident chromosome for regions of homology. This process brings the incoming DNA to the corresponding site in the \"B. subtilis\" chromosome where informational exchange occurs.\n\nMichod et al. have reviewed evidence that RecA-mediated transformation is an adaptation for homologous recombinational repair of DNA damage in \"B. subtilis\", as well as in several other bacterial species (i.e. \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Hemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus mutans\" and \"Helicobacter pylori\"). In the case of the pathogenic species that infect humans, it was proposed that RecA-mediated repair of DNA damages may be of substantial benefit when these bacteria are challenged by the oxidative defenses of their host.\n"}
{"id": "1907070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907070", "title": "Add-on (Mozilla)", "text": "Add-on (Mozilla)\n\nAdd-on is the Mozilla term for software modules that can be added to the Firefox web browser and related applications. There are three types: extensions, themes, and plug-ins. Mozilla hosts them on its official add-on website.\n\nIn 2017, Mozilla enacted major changes to the application programming interface (API) for add-ons in Firefox. The long-standing XUL and XPCOM capabilities were replaced by an API modeled after Google Chrome's; Firefox extensions are now largely compatible with their Chrome counterparts. Plug-ins were deprecated, with the exception of the Adobe Flash Player.\n\nPrior to 2017, Firefox supported extensions developed with different APIs: XUL, XPCOM, and Jetpack. Mozilla now refers to these as legacy extensions. Starting with Firefox 57, only the new WebExtensions API is supported.\n\nEarly versions of Firefox supported themes that could greatly change the appearance of the browser, but this was scaled back over time. Current themes are limited to changing the background and text color of toolbars. (These lightweight themes were formerly called personas.)\n\nPlug-ins are used to handle media types for which the application does not have built-in capability. They are third-party executables that interface via NPAPI. But plug-ins are now deprecated, due to security concerns and improvements in Web APIs. The only plug-in still officially supported by Firefox is the Adobe Flash Player, which Adobe will cease to update in 2020.\n\nMozilla had no mechanism to restrict the privileges of legacy Firefox extensions. This meant that a legacy extension could read or modify the data used by another extension or any file accessible to the user running Mozilla applications. But the current WebExtensions API imposes many restrictions.\n\nStarting with Firefox 40, Mozilla began to roll out a requirement for extension signing. It is now required in all official Firefox releases.\n\nThe Mozilla add-ons website is the official repository for Firefox add-ons. In contrast to mozdev.org which provides free hosting for Mozilla-related projects, the add-ons site is tailored for users. By default, Firefox automatically checks the site for updates to installed add-ons.\n\nIn January 2008, Mozilla announced that the site had accumulated a total of 600 million add-on downloads and that over 100 million installed add-ons automatically check the site for updates every day. In July 2012, the total had increased to 3 billion downloads from the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907074", "title": "Coeurl", "text": "Coeurl\n\nCoeurl is a fictional alien race of predators created by science fiction novelist A. E. van Vogt (1912–2000) and featured in his first published short story \"Black Destroyer\" (1939), later incorporated in the novel \"The Voyage of the Space Beagle\" (1950). The species' appearance is comparable to a large cat, except in that its forelegs are twice as long as its hind legs, and it possesses tentacles attached to its shoulders that terminate in suction cups. Its skin coloration is not mentioned (except as implied by the title), but was depicted as black in the cover art for its original magazine appearance. It sustains itself by feeding upon a substance it calls the \"Id\" of other beings.\n\nThe species appears indifferent to environment and can survive in different atmospheres. It can manipulate EM radiation (referred to as \"electric vibrations\" in the story) at will and seems to communicate via that method.\n\nIn \"Black Destroyer\", a sentient creature that calls itself Coeurl lives on an alien planet. When a human starship arrives, they find a Coeurl but assume it is an unintelligent animal, and even allow it to come on board. The Coeurl realizes it can feed on humans but plays along in order to learn more about them and their ship. Eventually, however, it kills and feeds on one of the ship's crew. The crew suspects the Coeurl did it and tries to prove it by feeding the creature organically bound phosphorus similar to that in the victim's bones, but the Coeurl is smart enough to pass the test. It is later found out and tries to escape, but it is no match for the humans' technology, and in the end commits suicide.\n\nWhen \"Black Destroyer\" was incorporated into \"The Voyage of the Space Beagle\", several changes were made in Coeurl's anatomy and physiology—for example, Coeurl's tentacles originally ended in tentacled fingers, but were changed in the novel to suction cups, and the dietary chemical was changed from phosphorus to potassium. In the novel, it is theorized that the members of Coeurl's race were pets or servants of the original inhabitants of the planet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907075", "title": "Hepatovirus", "text": "Hepatovirus\n\nHepatovirus is a genus of viruses. The genus has nine species, including the type species \"Hepatovirus A\", which is the causative agent of Hepatitis A.\n\nThe following species are recognized:\n"}
{"id": "1907078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907078", "title": "Marguerite Henry", "text": "Marguerite Henry\n\nMarguerite Henry (\"\" Breithaupt; April 13, 1902 – November 26, 1997) was an American writer of children's books, writing fifty-nine books based on true stories of horses and other animals. She won the Newbery Medal for one of her books about horses and she was a runner-up for two others. One of the latter, \"Misty of Chincoteague\" (1947), was the basis for several sequels and for the 1961 movie \"Misty\".\n\nBorn to Louis and Anna Breithaupt, the youngest of five children, Henry was a native of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Henry was stricken with rheumatic fever at the age of six, which kept her bedridden until the age of twelve. She was unable to attend school with other children due to her weak condition and the fear of spreading the illness to other people. While confined indoors, she discovered the joy of reading. Henry's love of animals started during her childhood. Soon afterwards, she also discovered a love for writing when her parents presented her with a writing desk for Christmas. Henry later said, \"At last I had a world of my very own – a writing world, and soon it would be populated by all the creatures of my imagination.\"\n\nHenry sold her first story at the age of 11. A magazine had solicited articles about the four seasons from children, and she was paid $12 (now about $250) for \"Hide-and-Seek in Autumn Leaves\". She often wrote about animals, such as dogs, cats, birds, foxes, and mules, but chiefly her stories focused on horses.\n\nShe studied at Milwaukee State Teachers College.\nOn May 5, 1923, she married Sidney Crocker Henry. During their 64 years of marriage they did not have any children, but instead had numerous pets that served as the inspiration for some of Marguerite's stories. They lived in Wayne, Illinois.\n\nIn 1945, Henry began a 20-year collaboration with artist Wesley Dennis. \"I had just finished writing \"Justin Morgan Had a Horse\",\" she recalled, \"and wanted the best horse artist in the world to illustrate it. So I went to the library, studied the horse books, and immediately fell in love with the work of Will James and Wesley Dennis. When I found out that Will James was dead, I sent my manuscript to Wesley Dennis.\" Henry and Dennis eventually collaborated on nearly 20 books.\n\n\"Misty of Chincoteague\" was published in 1947 and was an instant success. In 1961, it was adapted for film, as were \"Justin Morgan had a Horse\" (1972) and \"Brighty of the Grand Canyon\" (1967). \"San Domingo, the Medicine Hat Stallion\" was adapted for television as \"Peter Lundy and the Medicine Hat Stallion\" in 1977.\n\nHenry's last book was \"Brown Sunshine of Sawdust Valley\", a 93-page novel published in September 1996, when she was 94 years old. \"Kirkus Reviews\" called it \"Vintage Henry ...a lighthearted version of the old girl-meets-horse story; only this time, the horse is a mule.\"\n\nShe died on November 26, 1997, at home in Rancho Santa Fe, California, after multiple strokes.\n\n\"Misty\" features the annual Pony Penning of feral horses from Assateague Island, a two-day round-up, swim, and auction that Henry had been \"sent to look at\" by a hopeful editor. She created several \"Misty\" sequels including two more children's novels illustrated by Dennis, \"Sea Star, Orphan of Chincoteague\" (1949) and \"Stormy, Misty's Foal\" (1963). The beneficiaries of \"Marguerite Henry's Legacy\", as a \"Washington Post\" editorial termed local tourism, were the Assateague nature preserve and Chincoteague town. Within her lifetime Pony Penning itself drew about 25,000 visitors and their number was 40 to 50,000 according to a local estimate ten years later.\n\nHenry won the annual Newbery Medal from the American Library Association in 1949, recognizing \"King of the Wind: the story of the Godolphin Arabian\" as the year's \"most distinguished contribution to American literature for children\". She had been a runner-up for \"Justin Morgan Had a Horse\" in 1946 and \"Misty of Chincoteague\" in 1948. \"Brighty of the Grand Canyon\" was given the William Allen White Children's Book Award in 1956. In 1960, \"Black Gold\" won the Sequoyah Book Award. \"Gaudenzia: Pride of the Palio\" was awarded the Clara Ingram Judson Award for children's literature in 1961. \"Misty of Chincoteague\" was named to the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award list in 1961. \"Mustang, Wild Spirit of the West\" received the 1967 Western Heritage Award for Outstanding Juvenile Book and the 1970 Sequoyah Book Award.\n\n\nAlbert Whitman and Company of Chicago published the Pictured Geography series in the 1940s. Four sets of eight 28-page children's picture books about world nations and other territories were illustrated by Kurt Wiese. Henry wrote the texts for the first and fourth sets. At least one library catalog record indicates a \"preschool\" audience. \"Kirkus Reviews\" observed in a brief contemporary positive review of the fourth series, \"Third and fourth graders will find this a pleasant way to expand the confines of school geographies.\"\n\nBernadine Bailey wrote the second, 1942 series; Lois Donaldson the third, 1944 series.\n\nThe Virgin Islands volume was reviewed briefly in the \"New Biological Books\" section of \"The Quarterly Review of Biology\": \"A brief account of the historical, economic, and geographical features of the Virgin Islands. The illustrations are not particularly attractive to the reviewer, but the text should serve to introduce children to this little-known possession of the United States.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907097", "title": "Blood Oranges", "text": "Blood Oranges\n\nThe Blood Oranges were an American alternative country band that formed in the late 1980s.\n\nThe founding members were Jim Ryan (acoustic and electric mandolin, guitar, and vocals), Bob Kendall (bass guitar) then replaced by Liz Wood (later Liz Crawley) (bass guitar, vocals), Andy Churchill (guitar) later replaced by Mark Spencer, and Ron Ward (drums). Cheri Knight took over on bass guitar in 1990 after Crawley moved to Wisconsin. Between 1990 and 1994 they released two full albums (\"Corn River\", \"The Crying Tree\") and one EP (\"Lone Green Valley\"). \"Trouser Press\" described them as \"one of America's finest and least formulaic roots-rock combos.\" The group disbanded in 1994.\n\nIn 1995, Mark Spencer left the band to tour with Lisa Loeb. Jim Ryan and Cheri Knight have gone on to other musical projects, and the band reunited to record the song \"Gathering Flowers for the Master's Bouquet\" for the 2003 soundtrack of the movie \"The Slaughter Rule\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907100", "title": "List of theaters in Illinois", "text": "List of theaters in Illinois\n\nOutside the Chicago area:\n\nIn the Chicago area:\n"}
{"id": "1907102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907102", "title": "Cartman's Incredible Gift", "text": "Cartman's Incredible Gift\n\n\"Cartman's Incredible Gift\" is episode 124 of the Comedy Central series \"South Park\". It originally aired December 8, 2004 as part of the series' eighth season. In the episode, local police become convinced that Eric Cartman has psychic abilities, which Cartman exploits for personal gain, much to the ire of Kyle Broflovski, other psychic detectives, and the true serial killer behind a series of murders that Cartman falsely attributes to others.\n\nThe episode's story continues \"South Park's\" critical view of psychics, previously seen in the episode \"The Biggest Douche in the Universe\", while also acting as a parody of several films, including \"Red Dragon, The Gift,\" and \"The Dead Zone\".\n\nThough a minor part of the episode, it marks the last appearance of the seldom-seen South Park Elementary school bus driver Mrs. Veronica Crabtree.\n\nCartman attempts to fly by jumping off of his roof with cardboard wings attached to his arms. He emerges from a brief coma in the hospital, where he shares a room with a victim of a serial killer who cuts off his victims' left hands. When Cartman manages to deduce some obvious routine things, like the food the hospital is serving, a gullible local police detective, Sergeant Yates, believes that Cartman has developed psychic powers. Cartman plays along and is taken to the scene of one of the murders. Where Yates asks him if he is \"seeing anything\" Cartman closes his eyes and vocalizes his cravings for ice cream and Oreo cookies, prompting Yates to arrest ice cream shop owner Tom Johannsen with extreme brutality. Cartman receives a cash reward.\n\nAt school, Kyle angrily confronts Cartman over his fraudulent psychic abilities, but Cartman defiantly insists that he has such powers, and convinces the other frightened school children of this, though not Kyle, Stan, and Kenny. The left-hand murders resume, but instead of realizing his mistake, Yates rationalizes that these are copycat killings. At the next crime scene, the boys meet a disturbed man named Michael Deets who is quite obviously the murderer, but Yates refuses to listen to Kyle's pleas, focusing instead on Cartman's fake visions.\n\nCartman's involvement in the case makes him famous, resulting in a visit from a group of \"psychic detectives\" who demand he join their group and pay a fee. Cartman laughs off their pretensions, resulting in a \"psychic battle\" in which the \"detectives\" indulge in the same histrionics as Cartman, terrifying his mother. Failing to intimidate Cartman, the psychics leave with a threat of class action lawsuit. Cartman solves this problem by telling Sergeant Yates that the group is behind the copycat murders, leading the members of the group to be arrested, beaten, and in one case, fatally shot.\n\nMeanwhile, Kyle has followed Deets to his home and obtained fingerprint and blood samples and had them analyzed, but he is completely ignored by the police. Deciding the police will listen to him only if he himself claims psychic powers, Kyle imitates Cartman's attempted flight and is rendered comatose. When he awakens he claims to have psychic powers and gives the police his original findings. Yates is skeptical but goes to investigate Deets anyway, who, by this point, has abducted Cartman, furious that the self-proclaimed psychic has credited his work to others.\n\nWhen Yates arrives, he prepares to arrest Deets upon finding many severed hands pinned to a wall in Deets' home, but stands down upon realizing that the hands on the wall appear to be right hands, not left hands, because the thumb on Yates' own left hand points to the left, cluelessly failing to realize that he is looking at his hand with its palm facing up, in the opposite orientation of those on the wall. Yates, leaves, not knowing that Cartman is bound and gagged in Deets' basement, but he questions his own observation about the hands. He goes back to the station, and after a montage depicting running elaborate criminology tests, exercising, and even losing track of what he was doing, he figures out his mistake, and returns to Deets' house, where he shoots Deets just before Deets kills Cartman.\n\nAt the hospital, Johannsen and the psychics have been released from prison, and Kyle is praised as a real psychic. Kyle, however, tells them that there are no psychics, and that there is a logical explanation for every psychic story ever heard. The other \"psychics\", however, decide to reignite their conflict with Cartman, and engage in a \"final battle\". Kyle becomes annoyed and loudly yells at them to stop, at which point the light bulbs in the room explode and a shelf becomes partially detached from its wall, spilling its contents on the floor. Everyone is surprised by this, but Kyle sheepishly insists there is a logical explanation for this.\n\nThe episode has no critic-derived score at the review aggregator website Metacritic, but it does hold a user rating of 8.9 out of 10, denoting what the site calls \"universal acclaim\".\n\nIn its review of the Season 8 DVD, Quigles of JoBlo.com expressed a positive opinion of the episode, in contrast to its perceived reception by others, stating that he/she \"laughed pretty much non-stop during it\", and calling the references to \"Red Dragon\" and \"The Dead Zone\" \"hilarious\".\n\nBill Gibron of DVD Talk thought the episode \"kind of corny\", stating that \"Instead of being a blistering lampoon of \"The Dead Zone\", it sort of falters, looking for an overall purpose\".\n\nJesse Hicks, reviewing the episode for PopMatters, called it a \"solid\" one, despite series co-creator Trey Parker's reference to this season as \"the year from hell\", due to the grueling work schedule created by producing both the season and the feature film \"\".\n\nJonathan Barkan of Bloody Disgusting singled out as the best line of the episode Sergeant Yates' observation to Deets: \"I see you like cutting the eyes out of photos with women. My son is a big fan of that too.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907113", "title": "1912 Atlantic hurricane season", "text": "1912 Atlantic hurricane season\n\nThe 1912 Atlantic hurricane season featured the first recorded major hurricane – Category 3 or higher on the modern day Saffir–Simpson scale – in the month of November. There were eleven tropical cyclones, seven of which became tropical storms; four of those strengthened into hurricanes, and one reached major hurricane intensity. The season's first cyclone developed on April 4, while the final dissipated on November 21. The season's most intense and most devastating tropical cyclone was the final storm, known as the Jamaica hurricane. It produced heavy rainfall on Jamaica, leading to at least 100 fatalities and about $1.5 million (1912 USD) in damage. The storm was also blamed for five deaths in Cuba.\n\nOther tropical cyclones that left notable impact include the fourth and sixth hurricanes. The former brought rough seas and storm surge to portions of the Gulf Coast of the United States, leaving locally severe damage, particularly in Mobile, Alabama, and Pensacola, Florida, totaling about $39,000. One fatality occurred after a barge capsized. The sixth hurricane brought rough seas and heavy precipitation to northeastern Mexico and south Texas, with flooding reported inland. The storm left 15 deaths and about $28,000 in damage. Overall, the tropical cyclones of this season collectively caused at least 122 fatalities and just under $1.6 million in damage.\n\nThe season's activity was reflected with an accumulated cyclone energy (ACE) rating of 57. ACE is, broadly speaking, a measure of the power of the hurricane multiplied by the length of time it existed, so storms that last a long time, as well as particularly strong hurricanes, have high ACEs.\n\nOn June 7, ships in the Gulf of Mexico reported a low pressure area with a closed circulation about southeast of Port Eads, Louisiana. Initially, the storm moved slowly southeastward, before turning west-southwestward late on June 8. Strengthening slightly, the cyclone turned to the northwest by June 11. Around 12:00 UTC on the following day, a ship observed a barometric pressure of , the lowest known in relation to the storm. Based on this, maximum sustained winds were estimated at 70 mph (110 km/h). Early on June 13, the storm curved northeastward and made landfall near Franklin, Louisiana, around 05:00 UTC. The system slowly weakened and emerged into the Atlantic Ocean from the Outer Banks of North Carolina, while still at tropical storm intensity. By 12:00 UTC on June 16, the cyclone weakened to a tropical depression. About 24 hours later, the depression dissipated about north of Bermuda.\n\nIn Louisiana, heavy rainfall resulted in some flooding in inland areas. Precipitation in Georgia and South Carolina caused rivers to approach or reach flood stage, necessitating a flood stage warning at Cheraw, South Carolina, along the Pee Dee River. There, the Pee Dee River crested at , about above flood stage. Some locations in eastern North Carolina reported strong winds, particularly at Fayetteville, where there was a \"severe local storm\".\n\nA ship initially encountered this storm about north-northeast of San Salvador Island in the Bahamas on July 12. The storm initially moved northwestward and strengthened slowly. Early on July 14, the cyclone turned west-northwestward. Later that day, a ship recorded a barometric pressure of , which was the lowest pressure in relation to the cyclone. Around 12:00 UTC on July 15, the system peaked with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h), based on an observation from Savannah, Georgia. About three hours later, the storm made landfall near Darien, Georgia. The cyclone slowly weakened inland and fell to tropical depression status by 12:00 UTC on July 16. About twenty four hours, it dissipated over Mississippi.\n\nPrior to the storm's landfall, northeast storm warnings were issued from Jacksonville, Florida, to Charleston, South Carolina. At Tybee Island in Georgia, strong winds and abnormally high tides were reported. In Savannah, a wind speed of was reported. The storm resulted in minimal damage.\n\nA tropical depression formed about east-southeast of Ocean City, Maryland, early on September 2. The depression drifted southward and reached tropical storm intensity later that day. Based on observations from ships on September 3, the cyclone peaked with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure of . The storm then began moving southwestward at a faster pace. Late on September 5, the cyclone weakened to a tropical depression and curved west-southwestward. Shortly after 06:00 UTC on September 6, the system made landfall near Midway, Georgia, with winds of 35 mph (55 km/h). About 12 hours later, the depression dissipated over southwest Georgia. The strongest wind speed associated with the storm was in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nA trough of low pressure in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico developed into a tropical depression about 60 mi (100 km) west-southwest of Cedar Key, Florida, on September 10. Shortly thereafter, the depression intensified into a tropical storm. Moving generally westward, the storm intensified into a Category 1 hurricane on the modern day Saffir–Simpson scale early on September 12. The cyclone peaked with maximum sustained winds of 90 mph (150 km/h) at 00:00 UTC on September 13, observed by a ship. Around this time, the hurricane began to curve northwestward. While approaching the Gulf Coast of the United States, the system weakened. At 08:00 UTC on September 14, the hurricane made landfall near Pascagoula, Mississippi, with winds of 75 mph (120 km/h). A barometric pressure of was observed at landfall, the lowest known in relation to the cyclone. The system quickly weakened to a tropical storm just four hours after landfall. Early on September 15, the storm weakened to a tropical depression and dissipated over Tennessee.\n\nIn Florida, the precursor to the hurricane brought heavy rainfall to Tampa, with falling there between September 7 and September 10. Hundreds of homes and numerous acres of agricultural lands were flooded. Throughout the area, many streets were washed out, disrupting street car service and commuting. In Pensacola, abnormally high tides caused severe damage. Wharves and small buildings used for storing fishing equipment washed away. About 20 barges were beached, strewing timber across the beach. Service via the Louisville and Nashville Railroad was briefly interrupted due to timber on a railroad bridge. Wind damage was relatively minor. A dance pavilion on Santa Rosa Island was partially deroofed, as was a hotel. Damage in Pensacola reached approximately $25,000 (1912 USD). In Alabama, the city of Mobile in particular suffered impact from the storm. Some ships and vessels capsized in the Mobile Bay and Mobile River, including a $2,000 barge, drowning a watchman. Winds destroyed a church, though wind damage was otherwise limited to downed street signs and fences. Overall, the hurricane caused $39,000 in damage.\n\nIn late September, a cold front moved into the Gulf of Mexico. By October 3, a low pressure associated with the front developed. Initially extratropical, the low moved east-northeastward and crossed Florida on October 4. After entering the Atlantic early on October 5, the low began strengthening and soon reached the equivalency in intensity to a tropical storm. Around 00:00 UTC on October 6, the system transitioned into a tropical cyclone while situated about southeast of Cape Fear in North Carolina. Already a strong tropical storm, the cyclone intensified into a hurricane about six hours later. Late on October 6, a vessel observed a barometric pressure of , the lowest in relation to the stop. Based on this, it is estimated that the hurricane peaked with maximum sustained winds of 90 mph (150 km/h). The storm then began to execute a small cyclonic loop, which continued until early on October 8. By then, the cyclone was moving eastward and weakened to a tropical storm around 00:00 UTC on October 9. About 24 hours later, the system weakened to a tropical depression. At 18:00 UTC on October 10, the depression dissipated about northeast of Bermuda.\n\nDespite remaining well offshore during its tropical cyclone stage, a wind speed of was observed at Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.\n\nObservations from ships first indicated the presence of a tropical storm to the southeast of the Cayman Islands on October 11. Moving west-northwestward, the storm strengthened steadily, reaching winds of 70 mph (110 km/h) before making landfall near Cancún, Quintana Roo, early on October 13. The system weakened slightly over land and while situated in the Gulf of Mexico just north of the Yucatán Peninsula, but began re-intensifying later that day. By 12:00 UTC on October 14, the cyclone deepened into a Category 1 hurricane and then a Category 2 hurricane about 24 hours later. The hurricane made landfall on central Padre Island between Corpus Christi and Port Mansfield in Texas late on October 16 with winds of 100 mph (155 km/h), estimated based on a storm surge of . A barometric pressure of was estimated using the pressure-wind relationship. The system quickly weakened to a tropical storm early on October 17, several hours before weakening to a tropical depression. The storm dissipated early on October 18.\n\nOffshore Padre Island, the Mexican streamer \"SS Nicaragua\" capsized with a crew of 27. Thirteen people, including the captain, were rescued by personnel from the United States Life-Saving Service station in Port Aransas, though six other crew members were lost. Storm surge and abnormally high tides resulted in severe damage along the coast. Brazos and Padre islands were inundated for several hours, with several buildings being swept away. Considerable damage also occurred in due to strong winds and tides in Brownsville and Port Isabel. At the former, a number of windmills, trees, and poorly constructed buildings suffered some degree of damage. Brownsville and Raymondville broke daily rainfall records, with and observed on October 17, respectively. Many buildings were destroyed and several boats sunk after tides rose in less than 4 hours. Fifteen people died and damage reached more than $28,000 (1912 USD).\n\nThe Jamaica Hurricane of 1912 <br>\n\nA low pressure area in the southwestern Caribbean Sea developed into a tropical storm by 06:00 UTC on November 11. Initially, the storm moved slowly northwestward, before eventually curving north-northeastward. Late on November 13, the cyclone intensified into a hurricane, based on a ship report. Slow intensification took place after classification as a hurricane, though after recurving toward northeastward, the storm began to quicken in strengthening. Early on November 17, the hurricane reached its maximum sustained wind speed of 115 mph (185 km/h). It continued north-northeastward and made landfall near Negril, Jamaica, around 12:00 UTC. At South Negril Point, a barometric pressure of was observed, the lowest known in relation to the storm. The storm weakened after landfall and the trend continued after reentry into the Caribbean Sea. On November 20, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm north of Jamaica. The system then westward across the Caribbean, before dissipating on November 22 about southwest of Grand Cayman.\n\nHeavy rainfall was reported in Jamaica. Several bridges were severely damaged in the northern and eastern portions of the island. Strong winds generated by the storm destroyed approximately 25% of banana trees, while telegraph lines were downed in a number of places. Railway lines were also heavily damaged by the winds and rain. Rough seas also lashed the island, with Savanna-la-Mar suffering near complete destruction and 42 deaths in that city alone. Across western Jamaica, roughly a hundred homes were destroyed, while 5,000 buildings were damaged or demolished. About 100 fatalities and $1.5 million in damage occurred in Jamaica. Extensive flooding and five fatalities occurred in Cuba in the Guantánamo Bay area.\nIn addition to the seven tropical storms, four tropical depressions developed and remained below tropical storm intensity. The first formed from an extratropical cyclone well to the southwest of the Azores on April 4. The depression moved southwestward until being by a frontal boundary on April 6. By September 25, another tropical depression developed from a formerly extratropical cyclone about halfway between Bermuda and the Azores. However, on September 27, the depression lost tropical characteristics again. The next tropical depression formed on October 17 to the southeast of Bermuda. Moving generally northwestward, the depression transitioned into an extratropical cyclone by October 21. The final non-developing depression formed from an extratropical cyclone to the west of the Canary Islands on November 7. The depression tracked generally westward before being absorbed by a frontal system on November 11.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907118", "title": "Great Big DVD", "text": "Great Big DVD\n\nGreat Big DVD is a DVD compilation released by the band Great Big Sea in Canada and the USA in 2003. It contains various live performances from concerts, music videos, and a documentary. The concert portion was filmed at the Ottawa Civic Centre in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907124", "title": "Adrian Fisher", "text": "Adrian Fisher\n\nAdrian Fisher is a maze and puzzle designer, responsible for more than 700 mazes in 35 countries since 1979.\n\nFisher has created 48 mirror mazes, and pioneered the extensive use of thematic chambers within mirror mazes, to achieve Mirror Maze Adventures. He has created 44 hedge mazes, and pioneered the use of Folly Towers, Tunnels, Walk-through Parting Waterfalls and Foaming Fountain Gates in mazes. He designed the world's first cornfield maize maze in 1993 and over 400 since, and has set 7 Guinness World Records. He has created water mazes, most notably the award-winning Beatles Maze, and the Jersey Water Maze. He pioneered the genre of Path-in-Grass Mazes, and has created over a dozen around the world. \n\nFisher has invented several brick paving and mosaic tiling systems. For the Orang Utan Pavement Maze at Edinburgh Zoo, he invented a new paver tessellation using 7-sided and 5-sided (regular pentagon) bricks. The 'Fisher Paver', his second paving system uses 7-sided and 4-sided bricks and has been installed within paving projects on both sides of the Atlantic. Its benefits include being able to achieve dynamic and intriguing designs straight off the pallet with no cutting, thus offering excellent labour productivity when laying; it only requires one new 7-sided paver shape, yet its modular scale matches all industry-standard paving systems. Adrian's third paving system is the Mitre System, which he invented and patented together with the American mathematician Ed Pegg. Used for both mosaics and paving, their distinctive angular shapes create unique and pleasing images. Notable examples of its use in England include four Historic Mosaics with the Millennium Maze in Marlow, Buckinghamshire, and the 24 ft high SciTec Mosaic at Oundle School, Northamptonshire; and in America, the Tree of Life Mosaic in a private garden in Roxbury, Connecticut.\n\nHis innovative Colour Mazes have been published in \"Scientific American\", and walk-on examples can be found in the New York Hall of Science, Eureka Children's Museum in Halifax England, The Exploratory in Bristol, Cape Coral Children's Science Center in Florida, and over 30 other locations worldwide.\n\nFisher designs puzzles for British newspapers and the World Puzzle Championships. \"The Guardian\" newspaper named him as one of Britain's top 50 designers.\n\nA major Maze Art Exhibition on Adrian Fisher's work was held at the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, Florida, from January to March 1997; it included the creation of full-size permanent mazes in the surrounding landscape, and the publication \"Your Land is His Canvas\". \n\nFisher was Director of Britain's \"1991 – The Year of the Maze\" Tourism Campaign. He was the recipient of the 2003 Resorgimento Award at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, USA, on May 24, 2003, \"in recognition of those who have demonstrated outstanding creativity, who have and will continue to change the world in which we live\". He was a judge of the 2009 International Labyrinth Competition in St Petersburg, Russia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907128", "title": "Halifax Citadel-Sable Island", "text": "Halifax Citadel-Sable Island\n\nHalifax Citadel-Sable Island is a provincial electoral district in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly.\n\nIts current Member of the Legislative Assembly is Labi Kousoulis of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party.\n\nThe constituency consists of the downtown city centre of Halifax and the residential South End. The regional district's area includes four universities (including Dalhousie University and Saint Mary's University) and four hospitals. The constituency also includes Sable Island. The remaining area of South End, Halifax is 6 km, and Sable Island is 31 km.\n\nPopulation (2016): 22,106\n\nHalifax Citadel: \n\nSable Island: \n\nHalifax Citadel Population Density: 3,684/km\n\nFrom 1978 to 1997, a Progressive Conservative seat, Halifax Citadel has since become a major battleground between all three major parties. The seat changed hands in each of the five elections between the 1997 by-election and the 2006 general election and has been won by each major party within the last four elections.\n\nIn 1993, the name of the riding was changed from Halifax Cornwallis to Halifax Citadel.\n\nOn October 7, 2005, following the resignation of Liberal member Danny Graham, the seat became vacant. A by-election was called for June 27, 2006. That then became void when the 2006 general election was called for June 13, 2006.\n\nIn what was one of the most watched ridings during the 2006 provincial election, NDP candidate Leonard Preyra came out in front of former Progressive Conservative leadership candidate Bill Black.\nOn May 27, 2008, the name of the riding was changed from Halifax Citadel to Halifax Citadel-Sable Island.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n\"Data from Electoral History for Halifax Citadel-Sable Island\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1907133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907133", "title": "Pellissippi State Community College", "text": "Pellissippi State Community College\n\nPellissippi State Community College (Pellissippi State) is a public community college in Knox County, Tennessee. It is one of 13 member community colleges operated by the Tennessee Board of Regents. The Hardin Valley Campus is in western Knox County, west of the city of Knoxville, Tennessee. There are four satellite campuses in the surrounding area. Pellissippi State was named Pellissippi State Technical Community College until July 1, 2009. It is the successor to the former State Technical Institute at Knoxville (\"STIK\"), founded in 1974.\n\nPellissippi State Community College operates five campuses, as of Spring 2015, spread across the Knox County and Blount County area, including:\n\nThe precursor to Pellissippi State, State Technical Institute at Knoxville, was established on September 4, 1974. The original school was added on as a wing to the Knoxville State Regional Vocational-Technical School and intended to simply provide post-educational vocational training to area residents. However, at the backing of the newly seated director Colonel John C. Mauer, the Tennessee State Board of Vocational Education soon took over governance of the school, providing three associate's degree programs in engineering technology to 45 students on the first day of classes, September 23, 1974.\n\nSTIK received its initial accreditation from the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) in 1977, under the leadership of the first school president, Dr. Wayne Jones, and six years later, on July 1, 1983, STIK became a member of the State University and Community College System of Tennessee, thereby transferring governance of the school to the Tennessee Board of Regents.\n\nIn 1986 the campus was moved to its current location, on a plot in west Knox County near the Pellissippi Parkway. Initially, STIK shared the campus with Roane State Community College. In 1988, however, the school's mission was broadened to include that of a technical community college, adding numerous university-parallel associate degree programs, changing its name to Pellissippi State Technical Community College, and absorbing the space occupied by Roane State.\n\nA hot air balloon festival was held at the campus from 2004 to 2011.\n\nPellissippi (also spelled \"Pelisipi\") appears on early maps as the name of the Clinch River.\n\nPellissippi State employs about 185 full-time faculty, 265 adjunct faculty, 231 staff members, while serving over 10,000 students, between 100 and 150 of whom are classified as international.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907135", "title": "Demographics of Chicago", "text": "Demographics of Chicago\n\nDuring its first century as a city, Chicago grew at a rate that ranked among the fastest growing in the world. Within the span of forty years, the city's population grew from slightly under 30,000 to over 1 million by 1890. By the close of the 19th century, Chicago was the fifth largest city in the world. Within fifty years of the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, the population had tripled to over 3 million.\n\nAs of the 2010 United States Census, there were 2,695,598 people and 1,194,337 households residing within the city limits of Chicago. More than half the population of the state of Illinois lives in the Chicago metropolitan area. The 2000 United States Census had shown the population density of the city itself was 12,750.3 people per square mile (4,923.0/km²), making it one of the nation's most densely populated cities. There were 1,152,868 housing units at an average density of 5,075.8 per square mile (1,959.8/km²). Of the 1,061,928 households in the 2000 census, 28.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 35.1% were married couples living together, 18.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 40.4% were non-families. The median income for a household in the city was $38,625 in 2000, and the median income for a family was $46,748. Males had a median income of $35,907 versus $30,536 for females. Below the poverty line were 19.6% of the population and 16.6% of the families.\n\nWhile most of Chicago and its surrounding residential areas are generally regarded as being somewhat racially segregated, the city's unique culture arises from its being a melting pot, with nearly even percentages of European Americans, African Americans, and Latinos as well as sizable populations of Asians. The White, Black and Hispanic communities extend radially outward from the center of the city. The racial makeup of the city in 2010 was 45.3% white (31.7% non-Hispanic white), 32% black, 5% Asian, and 3% from two or more races. The ethnic makeup of the population is 28% Hispanic and 72% belong to non Hispanic background. \n\nIn 2000, 21.7% of the population was foreign born; of this, 56.3% came from Latin America, 23.1% from Europe, 18.0% from Asia and 2.6% from other parts of the world. Chicago has the fifth highest foreign-born population in the United States.\n\nIn 2016, the population of Hispanics exceeded that of Blacks to become Chicago's second largest minority group with non-Hispanic Whites representing 32.6% of the population, Hispanics at 29.7% of the population, and Blacks at 29.3% of the population. The large Hispanic population is rather recent, with the segregation between Hispanics and non-Hispanic Whites being low when compared to Blacks and non-Hispanic Whites. Over the years neighborhoods have seen gradual ethnic change with White ethnic neighborhoods like Brighton Park transitioning to Hispanic, while former Latino neighborhoods like West Town transition to majority non-Hispanic White. \n\nThe vast majority of Chicago Hispanics are of Mexican descent. As of the 2010 Census, 578,100 residents of the City of Chicago, had full or partial Mexican origins.\n\nThe Chicago metropolitan area has the third largest African American population, behind only New York City and Atlanta.\n\nThe main ethnic groups in Chicago include Irish, German, Italian, Mexican, Assyrian, Arab, Bangladeshi, Jews, English, Bosnian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Czech, Greek, Black, Korean, Chinese, Indian, Filipino, Lithuanian, Macedonian, Montenegrin, Albanian, Pakistani, Polish, Hungarian, Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Slovak, Swedish, Ukrainian, Dutch, Belgian, Cuban, Vietnamese, and Puerto Rican. Chicago is also home to 30,000 natives of Iran (mostly Azeri).\n\nChicago has a large Irish American population, with many still residing on the South Side. The early years of Chicago coincided with the significant rise in Irish immigration in the 1830s and 1840s. Some Irish already lived in Chicago when it was incorporated as a city in 1837. In the next few years Irish numbers grew rapidly, particularly after the arrival of refugees from the Great Famine. By 1850 Irish immigrants accounted for about one-fifth of the city's population. Many of the city’s politicians are descendants of this group, including previous mayor Richard M. Daley. The Irish were able to assert themselves in politics due to their large population but also the fact that they knew English and that – thanks to the geographic position of Ireland on the periphery of Europe – they did not have ancestral ethnic rivalries. As the old saying went, \"\"A Lithuanian won’t vote for a Pole, and a Pole won’t vote for a Lithuanian. A German won’t vote for either of them. But all three will vote for a turkey. – an Irishman.\" Only the WASPs hated the Irish, and the WASPs all lived on the North Shore.\"\" The Irish gained entry to Chicago's Fire and Police Departments and have kept family traditions of participation in these units. The Irish laid the foundations for many of the city's Roman Catholic churches, schools and hospitals. The Irish are still very active in the city's politics.\nGermans have constituted a major portion of ethnic whites in Chicago since the beginning of the city's history. When the Great Plains opened up for settlement in the 1830s and 1840s, many German immigrants stopped in Chicago to earn additional money before moving West to claim a homestead. Those with skills in demand could—and often did—stay. From 1850, when Germans constituted one-sixth of Chicago's population, until the turn of the 20th century, people of German descent constituted the largest ethnic group in the city, followed by Irish, Poles, and Swedes. In 1900, 470,000 Chicagoans—one out of every four residents—had either been born in Germany or had a parent born there. Although their numbers dropped because of reduced emigration from Germany and because World War I had made it unpopular to acknowledge one's German heritage, 22 percent of Chicago's population still did so in 1920. One of the most distinct of these German groups were the Volga Germans, or ethnic Germans having lived along the Volga River in Russia. They largely clustered in Jefferson Park on the city's Northwest Side, coming to the area mostly between the years 1907–1920. By 1930 450 families of Volga German heritage were living in the Jefferson Park area, most of whom originated from \"Wiesenseite\". Chicago also hosts the headquarters of the largest Lutheran body in the United States, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. \n\nPoles in Chicago constituted the largest ethnically Polish population outside Warsaw before 1918 when Poland reemerged as an independent state. The city is one of the most important Polish diaspora centers in the 21st century, and every Labor Day weekend the city celebrates at the Taste of Polonia Festival in Jefferson Park. The Southwest Side is home to the largest concentration of Górals (Carpathian highlanders) outside Europe; it is the location of the Polish Highlanders Alliance of North America. \n\nThe city has one of the largest Assyrian Diaspora populations, with the Assyrian community of Metropolitan Chicago numbering as many as 80,000. Additionally, The Patriarchal see of the Assyrian Church of the East was based in Chicago for several decades up until 2015 when it was moved to Erbil. \n\nThe city is the home to a large Romanian American community with more than 100,000.\n\nPolish people have been prevalent from the city's early history, but the largest waves of immigration were in the late 19th and early 20th centuries; they have been influential in the economic and social development of Chicago. This is one of the most important centers of Polonia. The Taste of Polonia Festival in Jefferson Park celebrates Polish culture annually on Labor Day weekend. The Southwest Side is home to the largest concentration of Gorals (Carpathian highlanders) outside Europe. The southwest side is also the location of the Polish Highlanders Alliance of North America. Many Polish churches are found in Chicago, built in the Polish Cathedral style of architecture. Some can be seen from the Kennedy Expressway, other roadways, and public transportation routes, as well as from the neighborhood streets. \n\nChicago has one of the largest concentrations of Italian Americans in the US, with more than 500,000 living in the metropolitan area. Chicago has the third largest Italian American population in the United States, behind only New York City and Philadelphia. Chicago's Italian community has historically been based along the Taylor Street and Grand Avenue corridors on the West Side of the city. There are also significant Italian populations scattered throughout the city and surrounding suburbs.\n\nThe first Bosnians settled in Chicago in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, joining other immigrants seeking better opportunities and better lives. As the former Yugoslavia continued to find its identity as a nation over the last century, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina sought stability and new beginnings in the city of Chicago many intending to return to their homeland. Bosnian Muslims were early leaders in the establishment of Chicago’s Muslim community. In 1906, they established Dzemijetul Hajrije (The Benevolent Society) of Illinois to preserve the community’s religious and national traditions as well as to provide mutual assistance for funerals and illness. The organization established chapters in Gary, Indiana, in 1913, and Butte, Montana, in 1916, and is the oldest existing Muslim organization in the United States. The Bosnians were the first Muslims in the United States to incorporate an Islamic Association in 1906 in Chicago, Illinois. There are approximately 70,000 Bosnian Americans in Chicago. 40,000 of them came as refugees during the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nOther prevalent European ethnic groups include the Czechs, and Ukrainians. At the turn of the 20th century, Chicago was the third-largest Czech city in the world, after Prague and Vienna. There are approximately 14,000 Ukrainians living within the Chicago city limits. Chicago has a small community of Swedish Americans. Swedish Americans make up 0.9% of Chicago's population, and they number at 23,990. After the Great Chicago Fire, many Swedish carpenters helped to rebuild the city, which led to the saying \"the Swedes built Chicago.\" Swedish influence is evident in Andersonville on the far north side.\nThe city has a large population of Bulgarians, Lithuanians, Croats, Jews, Greeks and Serbs. Chicago has a sizeable Romanian American community, , the Lithuanian population is over 100,000 and was formerly over 300,000; the world's oldest continuously published Lithuanian-language newspaper \"Draugus\" is based in Chicago. The city is the seat of the Evangelical Covenant Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.\nChicago has the third-largest South Asian population in the United States, especially many Indians, Bangladeshi and Pakistanis. The Devon Avenue corridor on the far north side is one of the largest South Asian neighborhoods/markets in North America. As of the 2010 Census, Chicago has the third-largest Puerto Rican population in the continental United States, after New York City and Philadelphia, and the fourth largest Mexican population in the United States after Los Angeles, San Antonio, and Houston. There are about 185,000 Arabs in Cook County with another 75,000 in the five surrounding counties. Chicago is the center of the Palestinian and Jordanian immigrant communities in the United States, and additionally has a large Assyrian population.\n\nThe city saw an increase of 20,606 people from July 1, 2007 to July 1, 2008, according to census data. This marked the second consecutive year of population increase, while still not yet returning to the official Census 2000 population level.\nAs of the 2007 US Census American Community Survey the largest European ancestries were:\n\nThere are more than 1,061,928 households, of which 28.9% have children under the age of 18 living with them, 35.1% were married couples living together, 18.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 40.4% were non-families. Of all households, 32.6% are made up of individuals and 8.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.67 and the average family size was 3.50.\n\nOf the city population, 26.2% were under the age of 18, 11.2% were from 18 to 24, 33.4% are from 25 to 44, 18.9% from 45 to 64, and 10.3% 65 years of age or older. The median age was 32 years. For every 100 females there were 94.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.1 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $38,625, and the median income for a family was $42,724. Males had a median income of $35,907 versus $30,536 for females. The per capita income for the city was $20,175. Below the poverty line were 19.6% of the population and 16.6% of the families. Of the total population, 28.1% of those under the age of 18 and 15.5% of those 75 and older were living below the poverty line.\n\nPopulation estimates in 2008 put the number of people in the city proper at 2,853,114, while suburban populations continue to grow, with estimates at 9,785,747 for the combined city and suburbs.\n\nChicago has one of the largest LGBTQ+ populations in the United States. In 2015, roughly 4% of the population identified as LGBTQ+.\n\nLollapalooza is the largest gay event in Illinois.\n\nChristianity is predominant among the city's population who worship (71%). The Chicago metropolitan area also includes adherents of Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, Sikhism, and the Bahá'í, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907160", "title": "Mike Peden", "text": "Mike Peden\n\nMichael Peden is a British producer/remixer/composer best known for his work with the Lighthouse Family. He was the producer of the 2004 album \"Free Me\", the second album by former Spice Girl Emma Bunton. He co-wrote the song \"You and I\" for Will Young. With his former band the Chimes, Peden had a hit single with their version of \"I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For\".\n\nBorn in Edinburgh, Scotland, Peden began his career as a bass player and as a member of the Chimes. Peden has also produced albums for Daryl Hall, Mica Paris, David Bowie, Smoke City, Des'ree, Estelle, Gareth Gates, Kelly Clarkson, Paul Haig, B-Movie, Tina Turner, Rachel Stevens, Will Young, Billy Ocean, Lena Fiagbe, Terri Walker, Amy Studt, Siobhan Dillon, Liberty X, Delta Goodrem, the Smashing Pumpkins, Protocol, Lucie Silvas and Shakira.\n"}
{"id": "1907164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907164", "title": "Yak Bondy", "text": "Yak Bondy\n\nYak Bondy (born 8 July 1962 as Jerk Bondy in Germany) is a London-based music producer, songwriter, and composer. Bondy has been professionally involved in the music industry since 1990, when he was a musical director for Lisa Stansfield's world tour. Bondy works with the music licensing service, Hollywood Elite Music & Media in Los Angeles.\n\nBondy worked as musical director on Lisa Stansfield's first world tour which included an appearance on \"The Arsenio Hall Show\". The tour ended with a performance at Rock in Rio 1991. Bondy worked as a music programmer with Indian musician A.R. Rahman on his 1997 studio album Vande Mataram. In 2000, Bondy was credited with keyboards and programming in .\n\nIn 2004, Bondy had both producer and songwriting credits on the album \"Free Me\", from former Spice Girl, Emma Bunton. One of the songs on the album co-written by Bondy, \"Maybe\", debuted at number 6 on the UK Singles Chart, and later a remixed version rose to number 6 in the US on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play. Bondy also co-wrote and produced the song, \"Just a Little Girl\" with Amy Studt. The song rose as high as number 14 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nWhile Bondy's most notable achievements were with Bunton and Studt, he has also worked with notable performers such as, Rachel Stevens, S Club 8 and S Club 7. Bondy is also credited on the 2004 album from Alexander Klaws, \"Here I Am\". Klaws was the winner of Deutschland sucht den Superstar, a German, American Idol style show. Bondy works as a senior songwriting tutor at BIMM, in London\n"}
{"id": "1907169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907169", "title": "Tracking (skydiving)", "text": "Tracking (skydiving)\n\nTracking, a basic freefall skill learned by a novice skydiver, is the technique of assuming a body position that allows the skydiver to move horizontally while freefalling.\n\nAlthough there are many variations of the basic body position it essentially involves the skydiver moving out of the traditional face-to-earth & arched position, and straightening the legs, bringing the arms to the sides and de-arching, using the body to cup the air as a means of providing greater lift. There is debate over what exactly constitutes the most efficient tracking position (providing the best glide ratio) especially concerning how far (if at all) the skydiver's legs should be spread. Some variations of the tracking position work well for some individuals and not so well for others. Also, when a skydiver gains experience, his or her preferred body position often changes.\n\nGood trackers can cover nearly as much ground as the distance they fall, approaching a glide ratio of 1:1. The fall rate of a skydiver in an efficient track is significantly lower than that of one falling in a traditional face-to-earth position; the former reaching speeds as low as 90 mph, the latter averaging around the 120 mph mark.\n\nTracking is regarded as an essential life saving skill for all freefall skydivers engaging in relative work with others, allowing the jumpers to gain horizontal separation after building a formation and before opening their parachutes. Accordingly, the greater the number of skydivers on a jump, the better their tracking skills must be. In addition to having to track a longer distance after break-off (tracking away for separation before opening), they also have to be more aware of other jumpers around them and have to be able to track in a straight line away from the center of the formation.\n\nTracking is not however purely a life saving skill; many skydivers participate in ‘tracking dives’ where the whole skydive until break-off will be spent tracking. On all tracking dives there should be a designated leader, usually the most proficient tracker, who will plan the horizontal trajectory of the dive. This serves several purposes; first of all, the other trackers will have a target to chase, gauge their relative horizontal speed on and potentially take grips upon.\n\nWhile considered an area of freeflying, tracking dives are popular amongst many skydivers across the disciplines. Tracking dives are some of the most accessible and sociable dives that everyone regardless of experience level can take part in. Tracking dives are often planned at the end of the day, and with less emphasis on quantitative results (formation skydiving), or on holding difficult and new body positions (freeflying). They are commonly viewed as the most relaxing, low pressure jumps.\n\nAtmonauti dives, a.k.a. \"Angled flight\", are a recently conceived variant with a significantly different body position, giving a far steeper flight angle between traditional track and head down. Tracking and Atmonauti dives are considered by most skydivers (wingsuiting notwithstanding) to go the furthest towards the feeling of ‘true flight’ due to the large horizontal distances covered, the low terminal velocity, and the fact that at such heights the ground does not appear to be approaching at all.\n\nOn October 5, 2012, the Swiss Marc Hauser set a first world record in speed tracking, a discipline he founded. The measured ground speed was 188.9 mph (304 km/h) over the dropzone of Skydive Empuriabrava, Spain. Only a specially adapted skydiving suit was used (no wingsuit, tracking suit, nor additional weights were used).\n\nEven though inexperienced jumpers often take part on tracking dives, the risks of such dives should not be underestimated. An efficient track can reach horizontal speeds of nearly 100 mph (one experienced diver was witnessed to keep pace with a twin-engine plane as it took off from DeLand Municipal Airport in 1995 thus registering his speed in excess of 115mph). Collisions with other groups or with members of one's own group would result in serious injury or death. For this reason the number of inexperienced jumpers on a tracking dive should be limited by the organizer.\n"}
{"id": "1907171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907171", "title": "Pequod (Moby-Dick)", "text": "Pequod (Moby-Dick)\n\nPequod is a fictional 19th-century Nantucket whaling ship that appears in the 1851 novel \"Moby-Dick\" by American author Herman Melville. \"Pequod\" and her crew, commanded by Captain Ahab, are central to the story, which, after the initial chapters, takes place almost entirely aboard the ship during a three-year whaling expedition in the Atlantic, Indian and South Pacific oceans. Most of the characters in the novel are part of \"Pequod\"s crew, including the narrator Ishmael.\n\nIshmael encounters the ship after he arrives in Nantucket and learns of three ships that are about to leave on three-year cruises. Tasked by his new friend, the Polynesian harpooner Queequeg (or more precisely, Queequeg's idol-god, Yojo), to make the selection for them both, Ishmael, a self-described \"green hand at whaling,\" goes to the Straight Wharf and chooses the \"Pequod\".\n\nIt is revealed that \"Pequod\" was named for the Algonquian-speaking Pequot tribe of Native Americans, decimated and scattered in the early 1600s by the Pequot War and by the epidemic that preceded it. The Mashantucket (Western Pequot tribe) and Eastern Pequot tribe still inhabit their reservation in Connecticut.\n\n\"Pequod\" has endured the years and the elements, but not without sustaining damage. The ship has a quarterdeck and a forecastle and is three-masted like most Nantucket whalers of the time, but all three masts are replacements, taken on when the originals were lost in a typhoon off Japan.\n\n\"Pequod\" is not unlike Ahab in this respect, since many of the rest of these missing elements have been replaced by the bones of the whales she hunts. She is not a new vessel, and with age would usually come some veneration and respect, which Ishmael tries to convey by using several historical references in his description of her. But in \"Pequod\"s case this has been negated by the thick veneer of barbarity that has been overlaid onto the ship in the form of fantastic scrimshaw embellishment. Far from enjoying mere utilitarian replacements out of available whalebone, she has been ornately decorated, even to the whale teeth set into the railing that now resemble an open jaw. Like a fingerbone necklace on a cannibal, these adornments are clear evidence of \"Pequod\"s success as a hunter and killer of whales.\n\nThe principal owners of the vessel are two well-to-do Quaker retired whaling captains, therefore \"the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.\"\n\nPeleg served as first mate under Ahab on \"Pequod\" before obtaining his own command, and is responsible for all her whalebone embellishments.\n\nThe depiction of life aboard the ship was based on Melville's own experiences in whaling (specifically aboard the \"Acushnet\" in the 1840s) and thus can be taken in many ways as representative of mid-19th-century Nantucket whaling.\n"}
{"id": "1907175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907175", "title": "Land of the Giants", "text": "Land of the Giants\n\nLand of the Giants is an hour-long American science fiction television program that aired on ABC for two seasons beginning on September 22, 1968, and ending on March 22, 1970. The show was created and produced by Irwin Allen. \"Land of the Giants\" was the fourth of Allen's science fiction TV series. The show was aired on ABC and released by 20th Century Fox Television. The series was filmed entirely in color and ran for 51 episodes. The show starred Gary Conway and special guest star Kurt Kasznar.\n\nFive novels based on the television series, including three written by acclaimed science fiction author Murray Leinster, were published in 1968 and 1969.\n\nSet fifteen years in the then-future year 1983, the series tells the tale of the crew and passengers of a sub-orbital transport ship named \"Spindrift\". In the pilot episode, the \"Spindrift\" is en route from Los Angeles to London, on an ultra fast sub-orbital flight. Just beyond Earth's boundary with space, the \"Spindrift\" encounters a magnetic space storm, and is dragged through a space warp to a mysterious planet where everything is twelve times larger than on Earth, whose inhabitants the Earthlings nickname \"the Giants\". The \"Spindrift\" crash-lands, and the damage renders it inoperable.\n\nVery little is known about the home planet of the Giants. This is partially because the \"Spindrift\" crew very seldom leave the area where their spaceship crashed in the opening episode. Only two other (unidentified) giant societies are ever seen, in the episodes \"The Land of the Lost\" and \"The Secret City of Limbo\".\n\nNo name is ever established for the mysterious planet, but the inhabitants know of Earth, Venus, and Mars, referring to them by name in one episode. Exactly where the planet is located is also never made clear. In the episode \"On a Clear Night You Can See Earth\", Captain Steve Burton (Gary Conway) claims to have seen Earth through a set of infrared goggles invented by the giants, implying that the two planets are near enough to see one from the other. The only established method by which Earth people may reach the giants' planet is high-altitude flight, passing through what one giant calls a \"dimension lock\".\n\nAlthough various episodes establish that at least six other flights have landed on the planet, no episode confirms anyone ever returning to Earth. The first mention of other visitors from Earth was in episode 2, \"Ghost Town\", in which another ship was said to have crashed long ago without any survivors. In episode 4, \"Underground\", another Earth ship is described as crashing three years previously, again with no survivors.\n\nSeveral episodes show crews surviving their initial crashes, only to be killed later. The episode \"Brainwash\" has a crew of little people surviving long enough to build a radio station that can communicate with Earth. They are killed shortly after that. The episodes \"Golden Cage\" and \"The Lost Ones\" show there have been a few survivors of other crashes. Only the \"Spindrift\" crew seems to have survived for long with its party intact.\n\nOne continent, or hemisphere, is dominated by an authoritarian government which tolerates full freedoms within a capitalist system, but it does not tolerate any effort to effect political change. Exactly what the political situation is on other continents is not known, although at least one overseas land has a despotic ruler. The Air Traffic Control tells those who venture out to sea that they should turn back, that nothing beyond that sea has been explored nor is there current contact; whether this is an official government line or the truth is not known.\n\nCulturally, the Giant society closely resembles the contemporary United States of 1968 (in various episodes it has a police force, private hospitals, prisons, a State Governor, radio and television services, a zoo, jazz clubs, even a racetrack – and the Giants speak English, drive American cars, attend Vaudeville-style theatres, and play chess). The Earth people find themselves able to cope, and their efforts to get around are facilitated by the ubiquity of large drains leading directly from interior rooms to the pavement, in an outside wall of most buildings. The Giant government has offered a reward for the capture of the small Earth people (whom the Giants call \"the little people\").\n\nIn spite of the authoritarianism, there are several dissident movements at work that either help other dissenters (such as the Earth people) or are actively working to unseat the ruling party. The government has established the Special Investigations Department (SID) to deal with assorted dissidents but it also takes the lead in dealing with the Earth people. The Giant technology mostly resembles mid-20th century Earth, but inconsistently: significantly more advanced in some episodes (e.g. cloning, cybernetics, force fields, magnetic stunners, androids, and teleporters) and slightly behind in others (no microelectronics, hearing aids, or manned space flight).\n\nThe little people's objectives are: (1) survival, by obtaining food and avoiding capture by the Giants or attacks from animals, such as cats and dogs; and (2) repair of their spacecraft, so they can attempt to return to Earth. They largely manage to survive by the help of sympathizers and stealth, making the most of their small size, plus their ingenuity in using their technology where it's superior to that of the Giants.\n\nThey do not achieve the second objective, as the primary systems of the craft are severely damaged, although in some episodes (including \"The Flight Plan\") Burton implies that only a lack of fuel prevents the ship lifting off. The secondary systems are insufficient to enable them to achieve the sub-orbital flight required. They are unable to use Giant technology, as it is bulky and less advanced; in one episode an experimental nuclear reactor, provided by an engineering student, produces dangerous side effects and is prone to overloading. They also cannot trust the Giants, who in another episode (\"Target: Earth\") offer the little people a ride home in exchange for technical assistance with their space program, but then double-cross them.\n\nThey are aided in their first objective, and at least somewhat hindered in the second, by the leadership of Captain Burton. He behaves as a leader and as protector to the passengers and crew, and his leadership has rescued them from some difficulties. But Burton also tries to keep the Giants from ever reaching Earth. In the episode \"Brainwash\", Giant police officer Ashim (Warren Stevens) says \"Maybe we can find the home planet of these little people. It may be a very tiny world, but rich beyond our dreams.\" In several episodes, Burton puts keeping the Giants away from Earth above the need to get his people home. At the end of those episodes, he destroys devices that would get the \"Spindrift\" back to Earth but which would probably enable the Giants to journey there too.\n\nIn multiple episodes, the Giants capture one of the passengers or crew, and the rest have to rescue them. The Earth people avoid capture most of the time, because their spaceship is hidden in a wood (in several episodes, described by the Giants as a park) outside the city limits. They also occasionally form alliances with individual Giants for some common beneficial purpose.\n\nThe show had no proper conclusion about the humans' attempts to return to Earth, and the final episode, \"Graveyard of Fools\", was a universal tale that could have taken place anytime in the second season. The penultimate episode, \"Wild Journey\" (guest starring Bruce Dern), has Steve and Dan using alien technology to travel back in time to Earth just a few hours before their ill-fated flight. In a storyline lifted from the \"Lost in Space\" episode \"The Time Merchant\", they attempt to alter the timeline but only succeed in ensuring that the events of the first episode, \"The Crash\", take place (footage from the pilot, where \"Spindrift\" becomes lost, is included in this episode), creating a \"Twilight Zone\"-style twist ending, with the impression of a recurring cycle of inevitable events.\n\nThe first season comprised a regular 26 episodes, but season two was left one episode short. The show thus comprises only 51 episodes (or 52 episodes including the unaired pilot).\n\nThe show was created by Irwin Allen. With a budget of US$250,000 per episode, \"Land of the Giants\" set a new record. The actors had to be physically fit, as they had to do many stunts, such as climbing giant curbs, phone cords, and ropes. Don Marshall, who played the part of Dan Ericson, credited his previous football, track, and pole vaulting work for helping him with the stunts required.\n\nElements of Allen's \"Lost in Space\" series recur in \"Land of the Giants\", notably the relationship between foolish, greedy, on-the-run bank robber Alexander B. Fitzhugh (Kurt Kasznar) and the young boy Barry Lockridge (Stefan Arngrim), paralleling the relationship on \"Lost in Space\" between Doctor Smith and the young Will Robinson. Also, for main cast billing, Kasznar was treated contractually in the same manner as Jonathan Harris had been on \"Lost in Space\": billed in last place on the opening credit sequence, but billed as \"Special Guest Star\" (even though he was a series regular). Apart from this, Gary Conway received solo star billing in the opening credits, with the other regulars all receiving \"also starring\" billing.\n\nThe show was originally intended to premiere as a mid-season replacement in the spring of 1968, and the first 12 episodes were shot in the fall of 1967. This was changed and \"Giants\" premiered in September 1968 for a full season. The network screened the episodes in a significantly different order than the production sequence. This caused disconcerting lapses in continuity, since in the first 12 episodes filmed (but not in later episodes) the Giants moved slowly and hardly spoke. For example, \"Ghost Town\" was the 14th episode filmed (i.e. was \"not\" one of the original 12 episodes), but was the second episode aired.\nThe cost of production was immense, partly because of the special optical effects needed to matte the little people into shots also showing the giants; and partly because of the gigantic mechanical props needed, for the little people to interact with, in shots depicting the giant-sized world they find themselves in; plus the futuristic spacecraft sets that were needed to represent the \"Spindrift\". Because of the enormous cost, it was more efficient and cost-effective to film episodes in pairs using the same sets; so writers were informed about what giant-size props there were available, which they could incorporate into their storylines. These episodes were filmed back-to-back.\n\nTo save on production costs, Allen was not above using the same device he had employed on \"The Time Tunnel\": re-using stock footage from 20th Century Fox's film library. For instance, in the episode \"Collector's Item\", footage of Wayne Manor from \"Batman\" is recycled as the luxury mansion home of a rich giant.\n\nIn the unaired pilot of \"The Crash\", there is no end scene with the giant dog in the garbage dump. Once it had been confirmed that \"Land of the Giants\" had been picked up by the network, the pilot was reworked and production began on succeeding episodes. However, a break in production occurred after 12 episodes were in the can (enough for a short run as a mid-season replacement), until the show received the green light on the decision to launch it as a full season the following fall.\n\n\n\"Land of the Giants\" guest stars included many familiar faces from other 1950s and 1960s sci-fi/fantasy and adventure series (e.g. \"\", \"The Twilight Zone\", \"Gilligan's Island\", \"Lost in Space\", \"I Dream of Jeannie\"). These popular, well-known character actors included Jack Albertson, Chris Alcaide, Michael Ansara, John Carradine, Yvonne Craig, Charles Drake, Alan Hale, Jr, Jonathan Harris, David Opatoshu, Larry Pennell, and Warren Stevens.\n\nLike Allen's previous series \"Lost in Space\" and \"The Time Tunnel\", the theme music was composed by John Williams. As with \"Lost in Space\", Williams composed two different themes (in this case one for each season). Williams also scored the pilot episode \"The Crash\", and was the third composer to be attached to the project – Williams' work replaced a rejected score and theme by Alexander Courage; Joseph Mullendore composed a second theme that was also thrown out. Mullendore later scored five episodes and Courage did one, with other episodes scored by Richard LaSalle (seven episodes), Leith Stevens (five), Harry Geller (four), Irving Gertz, Paul Sawtell, and Robert Prince (one each).\n\nGNP Crescendo released an album as part of \"The Fantasy Worlds Of Irwin Allen\", featuring both themes, Williams' replacement score (tracks 2–6) and Courage's thrown-out score (tracks 9 and 10) for \"The Crash\".\n\nAll 51 episodes were released on DVD in Region 1 in a limited-edition 9-disc Complete Series on July 24, 2007 from 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. This includes the un-aired original pilot, which has some differences (extra scenes but not others later added to the aired version) and score music familiar to Lost in Space fans and interviews with cast members.\n\nIn Region 2, Revelation Films has released the entire series on DVD in the UK. Season 1 was released on March 28, 2011 and season 2 on June 13, 2011. They also released a complete series set on March 12, 2012.\n\nIn Region 4, Madman Entertainment released season 1 on DVD in Australia on August 20, 2014.\n\nThe pilot episode was the subject of a View-Master reel and booklet set in 1968 (GAF Packet # B494). One notable difference between the aired episode and the reel set is an image of the \"Spindrift\" flying through the giant forest in apparent daylight. In the aired episode, the \"Spindrift\" arrives on the giants' planet during the night, and its flight through the forest also occurs that same night. Though the following is unconfirmed, either the daylight shot was a special effects sequence cut from the aired pilot, or a special setup for the View Master photographers.\n\nIn 1968, Pyramid Books published an extended novel adaptation of the pilot (\"Land of the Giants\", Pyramid Books, X-1846), written by famed author Murray Leinster. Among notable changes or inventions is that the Spindrift is still an operational, flying ship after the initial crash, with enough \"atomic power\" to last as much as several months. Another invention for the novel is the knowledge that two other ships, the \"Anne\" and \"Marintha\", disappeared via the same mysterious phenomenon that sends the \"Spindrift\" to the giants' planet. The \"Spindrift\" castaways encounter a female survivor of the \"Anne\", named Marjorie, who joins the castaways in this novel. Although the television series featured three episodes with other on-screen survivors from previously lost Earth-flights, the novel's character Marjorie and the ships \"Anne\" and \"Marintha\" do not appear and are not mentioned in the series.\n\nThere were two further novels by Murray Leinster — \"The Hot Spot\" and \"Unknown Danger\" (Pyramid, 1969). The first two Leinster books were reprinted in 1969 in the United Kingdom by World Distributors, the eponymous novel retitled \"The Trap.\" Unknown Danger was not published in the UK, but World Distributors also published two United Kingdom-only novels the same year, \"Slingshot for a David\" and \"The Mean City\"; both were credited to James Bradwell, a pseudonym for Arthur William Charles Kent.\n\nA hardback novel for children, \"Flight of Fear\" by Carl Henry Rathjen (1969), was published in the United States by Whitman.\n\nAlso in 1968, Gold Key Comics published a comic book version of \"Land of the Giants\", which ran to five issues. In 2010, all five issues were reprinted together as a hardcover book by Hermes Press.\n\nIn 1968, Aurora Plastics Company produced two plastic model kits based on the series: \"Land of the Giants\" was the title of a diorama depicting a giant snake attacking characters Steve Burton, Betty Hamilton and Dan Erickson, who uses a giant safety-pin as a spear. The second kit was a model of the \"Spindrift\", released as \"Land of the Giants Space Ship\", instead of using the proper name for the vehicle.\n\nIn 1975, Aurora re-issued the kit (now renamed \"Rocket Transport Spindrift\"), with new box art and photos of the assembled kit. It had a front top section which could be lifted off, revealing a full interior that had to be constructed by the builder, as well as a working door. Most of the model kit was molded in the same bright red-orange as the ship itself, while the interior was molded in a light green which could be painted.\n\nDeanna Lund (Valerie Scott) co-wrote a series of short stories based on the series, under the collective title \"Valerie in Giant Land\".\n\nMeTV began airing \"Land of the Giants\" in September 2016 to complement its Saturday night sci-fi line-up of other Irwin Allen series: \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\", \"Lost in Space\", and \"The Time Tunnel\". Prior to debuting on MeTV, \"Land of the Giants\" had aired only sporadically in syndication in recent years. The Horror Channel in the UK aired the series in full from September 19, 2016, showing one episode a day on weekdays, for ten weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907179", "title": "Chlorous acid", "text": "Chlorous acid\n\nChlorous acid is an inorganic compound with the formula HClO. It is a weak acid. Chlorine has oxidation state +3 in this acid. The pure substance is unstable, disproportionating to hypochlorous acid (Cl oxidation state +1) and chloric acid (Cl oxidation state +5):\n\nAlthough the acid is difficult to obtain in pure substance, the conjugate base, chlorite, derived from this acid is stable. One example of a salt of this anion is the well-known sodium chlorite. This and related salts are sometimes used in the production of chlorine dioxide.\n\nHClO can be prepared through reaction of barium or lead chlorite and dilute sulfuric acid:\n\nChlorous acid is a powerful oxidizing agent, although its tendency to disproportionation counteracts its oxidizing potential.\n\nChlorine is the only halogen to form an isolable acid of formula HXO. Neither bromous acid nor iodous acid has ever been isolated. A few salts of bromous acid, bromites, are known, but no iodites.\n"}
{"id": "1907207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907207", "title": "List of extreme points of Greece", "text": "List of extreme points of Greece\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Greece, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\nUpon liberation of Greece in 1830, the extreme points of the country were:\n\n\nUpon granting of the Ionian Islands to Greece in 1864 the extreme points of the country were modified as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907210", "title": "List of Passions characters", "text": "List of Passions characters\n\nThis is a list of significant characters that have appeared on the soap opera \"Passions\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGalen Gering (1999-2008)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSon of Luis Lopez-Fitzgerald and Sheridan Crane Lopez-Fitzgerald :(Derek Jones, 2003; Lillith Street and Timothy Jeffs, 2003–2004; Jack and James Wright, 2004–2005; Griffin and Sawyer Miller, 2004; Mitchell and Shane Albin, 2005–2006; Daniel Chalfa, 2007–2008)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907218", "title": "Stanley Tong", "text": "Stanley Tong\n\nStanley Tong () is a Hong Kong film director, producer, action choreographer, screenwriter, entrepreneur and philanthropist.\n\nTong was born on April 7, 1960 in Hong Kong, and was educated in Hong Kong and Canada.\n\nEncouraged by his brother-in-law in Hong Kong, who was a filmmaker, Tong started his film career there in 1979 by working behind the scenes. In 1991, Tong directed his first film, the self-funded \"The Stone Age Warriors\" (魔域飞龙). The film received high praises from some famous film critics, which attracted the attention of Golden Harvest. Tong was then invited to join the company as a film director.\n\nTong is very well known for his action movies. Working closely with Jackie Chan, Stanley directed some very popular movies in the 1990s. Their first collaboration, \"\" (警察故事3：超级警察) (1992), broke box office records in many Asian countries and received a nomination for Best Film at the Golden Horse Awards. Tong's other movies with Jackie Chan, such as \"Rumble in the Bronx\" (红番区) (1995) and \"\" (警察故事4：简单任务) (1996), also created significant box office records, the latter grossing HK$57,518,795, the highest box office return for a local film in Hong Kong until 2001. Also, the release of \"Rumble in the Bronx\" in the United States helped Jackie Chan make a name for himself in Hollywood.\n\nTong customarily attempts stunts himself before asking actors to risk themselves, e.g., Jackie Chan's leap from a parking garage roof to a fire escape in \"Rumble in the Bronx\" and the finale of \"The Stone Age Warriors\".\n\nDuring his stay in Hollywood, Tong also filmed his only English language non-martial arts film \"Mr. Magoo\" (1997), which was a critical and commercial failure, and \"Martial Law\" (1998), which was a moderate ratings success.\n\nIn 2000, Tong returned to Shanghai, in hopes to inspire the future generation of filmmakers in China. After his long presence away from home, Tong directed his first film in his homeland, \"China Strike Force\" (雷霆战警). In 2005, Tong wrote and directed the film \"The Myth\" (神话). In the same year, Tong also wrote and directed Asia's first computer-animated film, \"Dragon Blood\".\n\nIn recent years, Tong has produced a number of films, including the films \"The Myth\" (2010) and \"CZ12\" (十二生肖) (2012), as well as the TV series \"Fall in Love with You\" (偏偏爱上你) (2012) and \"The Patriot Yue Fei\" (精忠岳飞) (2013).\n\nApart from filmmaking, Tong has been active with charity work both in USA and China. He also works as a guest lecturer in China to help cultivate the nation's future filmmakers.\n\n\nIn 2001, Tong formed his own production company, China International Media Group Ltd. Many of his films are partly financed by the company. In addition, the company has invested in a stunt performers’ training program. Both local and foreign lecturers who are well known in the industry have been invited to give lessons for the program, and the best students receive opportunities to play in films invested by Tong’s company.\n\nIn 2012, Tong was invited by The 15th Shanghai International Film Festival's SIFFORUM as a guest speaker. At the forum titled \"Far East Dream Factory - Future for Chinese Film Industry Upgrading,\" Tong shared his views with other panelists in the industry. In 2011, Tong took the role of Honored Consultant for the Film and TV Association of China Public Security Ministry. The Association is established to produce films and TV series featuring crime stories.\nIn 2008, Tong appeared as a guest judge on the China Beijing TV Station reality television series \"The Disciple\", which aired in Mainland China and was produced by, and features, Jackie Chan. The purpose of the program was to find a new star, skilled in acting and martial arts, to become Chan's \"successor\", the champion being awarded the lead role in a film. It concluded on June 7, 2008, with the series winner being announced in Beijing.\n\nStanley Tong has organized many charitable activities and has received numerous awards for his contributions to the charity work. Some of them include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907221", "title": "Patten Gymnasium", "text": "Patten Gymnasium\n\nPatten Gymnasium is the name of two multi-purpose gymnasiums (one past and one present) in Evanston, Illinois, United States, on the campus of Northwestern University. The original building, designed by George Washington Maher, opened in 1910 and was home to the Northwestern Wildcats men's basketball team until 1940, when it was demolished to make room for the construction of the Technological Institute. The current Patten Gymnasium opened in 1940 and hosted the men's basketball team for 12 years before Welsh-Ryan Arena opened in 1952. The ivy-lined building has the doors and statues from the old gym. It currently is the home to the women's fencing team, intramural sports program and also has offices and locker rooms for the women's lacrosse, field hockey, and men's and women's soccer teams. It is named for James A. Patten, former Evanston mayor, philanthropist, commodities broker and NU board of trustees president.\n\nIn 1999, the swimming pool area, which had been unused since 1987, was renovated and transformed into the Gleacher Golf Center. At the time that it opened, the Gleacher Center was the only facility of its kind in collegiate golf, featuring a pitching and putting green with an adjacent sand trap.\nThe original Patten Gymnasium, which had seating for 1,000 people, hosted the first NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship game in 1939.\n\nThe sculptures \"Physical Development\" and \"Intellectual Development\" by the artist Hermon Atkins MacNeil (1866–1947), affectionately nicknamed \"Pat and Jim\" (contractions of \"Patten\" and \"gymnasium\") and also known as \"The Athlete and the Scholar\", which had been exhibited in front of the original Patten Gymnasium starting in 1916, are now placed as sentinels at the sides of the successor gymnasium's front entrance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907222", "title": "Jizan", "text": "Jizan\n\nJizan ( \"\"), also spelled \"Jazan\", \"Gizan\" or \"Gazan\", is a port city and the capital of Jizan Region, which lies in the southwest corner of Saudi Arabia and directly north of the border with Yemen. Jazan City is situated on the coast of the Red Sea and serves a large agricultural heartland that has a population of 1.5 million, according to a 2010 census. As the city is the capital of the region, it has the regional airport as well as Jizan seaport. The area is noted for its high-quality production of tropical fruits like mango, figs, and papaya.\n\nJazan has one of the largest mega projects market in the kingdom with significant infrastructure projects worth many billions of dollars. Saudi Aramco is building a 400,000 bpd refinery with associated terminal facilities on the Red Sea near Jazan, scheduled for completion in late 2018.\n\nThe inhabitants of Jizan are Arab and split between Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims that live in the Jazan region.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Jazan was a major site for pearl fishing. When World War I began, trade declined at Jazan, moving to Al Hudaydah.\n\nToday, ambitious projects in transport, renewable energy, tourism and agricultural development are taking place in Jazan region, particularly in Jazan Economic City, including a USD$3 Billion aluminium smelter.\n\nJizan is being turned into Saudi Arabia's naval industry hub. Furthermore, the southern and western outskirts of the city are a place which the Kingdom wants to turn into its agricultural hub due to the water underground as well as the rich and diverse soil.\n\nJazan Refinery is a megaproject project under the construction and owned by Saudi Aramco. The Refinery will process heavy and medium crude oil to create liquefied petroleum gas, sulfur, asphalt, benzene, and paraxylene. It is expected to produce 400,000 barrels per day.\n\nJazan has a hot desert climate (Köppen: BWh) with an average annual temperature above . The weather is very hot all year round and its average annual temperature is one of the hottest in the world, despite its (extremely mild) winters.\n\nIt is very humid but parched in some months, making the weather very volatile. Sandstorms are quite common in areas further from the sea.\n\nThe highest recorded temperature was on September 15, 2006, while the lowest was on February 7, 1993.\n\n\nOil Review-Monday, 11 December 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "1907226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907226", "title": "Najran", "text": "Najran\n\nNajran ( \"), is a city in southwestern Saudi Arabia near the border with Yemen. It is the capital of Najran Province. Designated a new town, Najran is one of the fastest-growing cities in the kingdom; its population has risen from 47,500 in 1974 and 90,983 in 1992 to 246,880 in 2004 and 500,000 in 2017. The population mostly originates from the ancient tribes of Yām, Mákram, and Hamdan.\n\nNajranis are Muslims, with Shia, Ismaili forming the plurality of the religious adherents. Hanbali, Shafi'i, and Maliki Sunnis form the second largest religious group in the city, while the Zaydi Shia form the smallest religious group.\n\nThe Arabic term \" has at least two meanings: both the wooden frame on which a door opens and also 'thirsty'. Local tradition also has it that the land derived its name from the first man to settle in the area, Najran ibn Zaydan ibn Saba ibn Yahjub ibn Yarub ibn Qahtan.\n\nNajran was the Yemeni centre of cloth making and originally, the \"kiswah\" or the cloth of the Ka'aba was made there (the clothing of the Kaba first started by the Yemeni kings of Saba). There used to be a Jewish community at Najran, renowned for the garments they manufactured. According to Yemenite Jewish tradition, the Jews of Najran traced their origin to the Ten Tribes. Najran was also an important stopping place on the Incense Route.\n\nThe history of Najrān can be traced back to 4,000 years ago. It was once occupied by the Romans; in fact it was the first Yemeni city to fall to the Romans on their way to the Yemeni kingdom of Saba'. Najrān's most prosperous trading time was during the 1st and 2nd centuries BC. In ancient times it was known as Al-Ukhdūd.\n\nSimilarly to other ancient place names in Arabia, Najrān may have originally been the name of the whole oasis including all towns and villages. The old name of the ruins now known as \"al-Ukhdūd\", which may have been the central town, was probably Ragmat.\n\nNajrān was a focal point of the Incense Route. All routes that left ancient Yemen to the north or west had to meet at Najrān, where the routes branched into two general directions, the ones leading north through the Ḥijāz towards Egypt and the Levant and those leading to the northeast towards Gerrha near the Persian Gulf.\n\nNajrān was conquered around 685 BC by the Sabean Mukarrib (King) Karib'il Watar I King of Yemen. The later Sabean king Yithi'amar Bayin destroyed RagHmat around 510 BC. Najrān seems to have been under Minaean or Sabean rule at different times during the next centuries and after that it was part of Yemen till 1937.\n\nThe Roman prefect of Egypt Aelius Gallus led an costly, arduous and ultimately unsuccessful expedition to conquer Arabia Felix and won a battle near Najrān in 25 BC. He occupied the city and used it as a base from which to attack the Sabaean capital at Ma'rib. According to Strabo, who called it 'Negrana', Najrān was at this time the northernmost city of the realm of Saba'.\n\nWhen the Ḥimyarites conquered the Sabeans in AD 280 they probably also took control of Najrān. Some time during the 3rd century the people of Najrān sided with the Abyssinians who sent a governor named Sqlmqlm\" in inscriptions. The Ḥimyar King Ilsharah Yahdib crushed this rebellion.\n\nThe north Arabian Lakhmid king Imru’ al-Qays ibn 'Amqu attacked Najrān in AD 328. Under the influence of Axum, the Christians in Najrān thrived and started an alliance with Aksum again at the beginning of the 6th century.\n\nChristianity must have been introduced into Najrān, as in the rest of South Arabia, in the 5th century AD or perhaps a century earlier. According to the Arab Muslim historian Ibn Isḥāq, Najran was the first place where Christianity took root in South Arabia.\nAccording to the contemporary sources, after seizing the throne of the Ḥimyarites, in ca. 518 or 523 Dhū Nuwās, a Jewish king, attacked the Aksumite (mainly Christian) garrison at Zafar, capturing them and burning their churches. He then moved against Najrān, a Christian and Aksumite stronghold. After accepting the city's capitulation, he massacred those inhabitants who would not renounce Christianity. Estimates of the death toll from this event range up to 20,000 in some sources; a surviving letter (where he is called \"Dimnon\") written by Simon, the bishop of Beth Arsham in 524 AD, recounts Dhū Nuwās's persecution in Najrān (modern al-Ukhdūd in Saudi Arabia). The persecution is apparently described and condemned in the Qur'an (al-Buruj:4).\n\nUnder the reign of the Caliph ‘Umar, the Christian community of Najrān was deported to Mesopotamia, on the grounds that no non-Muslims were to live in the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe town of Najrān was already an important centre of arms manufacture during the lifetime of Muhammad. However, it was more famous for leather rather than iron.\n\nNajrān had a Jewish community dating back to pre-Islamic times, historically affiliated with the Bnei Chorath who were Yemenite Jews that had conquered the city and ruled until the Christian invasion of Yemen. With the Saudi conquest of Najrān in 1934, persecution increased, and some 200 Jews of Najrān fled south to Aden between September and October 1949. The Saudi King ʻAbd al-ʻAziz demanded their return, but the Yemeni king Aḥmad bin Yaḥyá refused, because these refugees were Yemenite Jews. After settling in the Ḥashid Camp (also called Mahane Geula) they were airlifted to Israel as part of the larger Operation Magic Carpet.\n\nNajrān joined the newly announced Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1934 as a result of the efforts and struggles of Sheikhs Sultan Bin Muneef and Jābir Abū Sāq, the leaders of two large clans of the Yam tribe. Starting in 1924, the forces of the former Yemeni king launched several unsuccessful raids to annex Najrān to the Yemeni Kingdom. The king of Yemen performed some new maneuvers to strengthen his tie with some of the Najrān tribal leaders to counter the strong relations of the people of Najrān with Bin Saʻūd. Then in 1932 the forces of Imam Yaḥyá of Yemen attacked Najrān with more than 50,000 troops, with all kinds of new weapons. Yām, as the dominant tribe in Najrān, along with some other loyalist Najranis, started strong resistance against the occupation forces. However, a strong segment of the tribal leaders in Najrān sided with the occupying power and some became passive, waiting to take a side at the end of the crisis. Sheikhs Sultan Bin Muneef and Jābir Abū Sāq, the head of two clans of Yām at the time, managed to get quick support from King ʻAbd al-ʻAzīz Bin Saʻūd and was able to lead the Yām tribe and all of the Najrānī resistance fighting the Yemeni forces in all parts of Najrān and Bilād Yām. Later, in the spring of 1934, the army of Bin Saʻud under the command of Prince Saʻūd son of ʻAbd al-ʻAzīz carried out a massive campaign, surrounding Najrān from the north and northwest, and defeated the Yemeni army. Najrān became part of Saudi Arabia. In short, Najran has always been independent and ruled by its people (Yam) but they choose to be annexed to New Kingdom. Indeed, there was a strong treaty between King ʻAbd al-ʻAzīz and the people from Najrān indicating conditions to be respected by both sides.\n\nThe Ismailis, a religious and ethnic minority with historic roots in Najrān Province of southwestern Saudi Arabia, face increasing threats to their identity as a result of official discrimination. With the arrival of Mishʻal bin Suʻūd as the governor of Najrān in 1996, tension between local authorities and the Ismaili population increased, culminating in a confrontation between armed Ismāʻīlī demonstrators and police and army units outside the Holiday Inn hotel in Najrān city on April 2000. Official discrimination in Saudi Arabia against Ismāʻīlīs encompasses government employment, religious practices, and the justice system. Government officials exclude Ismāʻīlīs from decision making, and publicly disparage their faith.\n\nThe confrontation at the Holiday Inn in Najrān city on April 23, 2000, marked a watershed in Ismāʻīlī relations with the central government. Three months earlier, police had closed all Ismāʻīlī mosques on a religious holiday. On April 23, after security forces and religious morality police arrested an Ismāʻīlī cleric, a large demonstration took place outside the Holiday Inn, where governor Mishʻal resided. After the governor refused for hours to meet the petitioners, an exchange of fire between security forces and armed demonstrators left two Ismāʻīlīs dead and, according to some government accounts, killed one policeman as well. Believing their religious identity to be under attack, Ismāʻili men erected defenses around Khushaywah, the seat of the Ismāʻīlī religious leader, al-Dāʼiʻ al-Muṭlaq (Absolute Guide), and the spiritual capital of Sulaymānī Ismāʻīlīs, a community with followers in India and Pakistan as well as Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Khushaywah, which is an area of Najrān city, includes the Manṣūrah Mosque complex. The army surrounded the Ismāʻīlī positions and placed the city under its control. The standoff ended later the same day without further bloodshed.\n\nNajrān city is famous for its archeological significance. Old Najrān was surrounded by a circular wall, 220 by 230 meters, built of square stone with defensive balconies. It contained several unique buildings. There is also a cemetery south of the external wall. Excavations of this site have uncovered glass, metals, pottery, and bronze artifacts. Square and rectangular buildings have also been found. At Al-Ukhdūd which is south of Najrān city, carvings from those days and human bones can be seen. A museum displays, among other items, a bronze lion head. Najrān's landmarks include the \"Rass\" stone, a 2-meter-high granite stone.\n\nNajran enjoys three different geographic landscapes, and they are: the oases, mountains, and desert on its east side.\n\nThe climate for Najran is a hot desert climate type, typical of the Arabian Peninsula. The rainfall is very sporadic in occurrence and consists of light individual rainfalls. The yearly average high temperatures are lower than Riyadh, despite being further south, due to Najran's elevation.\n\nNajran is home of Najran University and Najran College of Technology.\n\n\nThere are many sports centers and complexes within the city including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907239", "title": "West Vancouver Secondary School", "text": "West Vancouver Secondary School\n\nWest Vancouver Secondary School (WVSS) is a five-year secondary school located in the middle of West Vancouver, British Columbia which educates grades 8 through 12. It is one of the three public high schools in West Vancouver. The school has two campuses, a North Campus and a South Campus. Each campus has its own gym and a cafeteria. The school has 2 grass fields and a gravel baseball diamond. The main field has a running track around it. The main field is used for all sports, such as soccer, football, and rugby union.\n\nWest Vancouver Secondary was founded as Inglewood High School in 1927, located at 1735 Inglewood Avenue. The school opened with eight classrooms and a gymnasium, and a few years later, two portables were added to provide extra classroom and library facilities. Four more rooms were eventually added to the eastern end of the school to house home economics and shop classes.\n\nIn 1951 construction started on a new North Campus building on Mathers Avenue and by 1952 it opened as West Vancouver Secondary School.\nA few years later, 1955, the building was expanded with a three-floor west wing, and in 1960 a second gymnasium was installed. The building further went through an expansion adding a 500-seat theatre with two music rooms in the east wing. In addition, with provincial funds, a six-room shop wing known as the Tech Wing was added behind the north campus building, and a new South Campus building was added next to the Inglewood building to accommodate more students.\n\nThe Inglewood building continued to be used for many years as a junior high school until all classes were moved to the main site on Mathers. By the late 1980s the building was used as a YMCA and the Kehilat Har-el (a Jewish Community Centre) until it was demolished in 1995.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, the school went through a major renovation which included a remodelling of the exterior and interior parts of the North Campus Building. During this time period, classes were temporarily moved to portables until the completion in the 2000s. Notable changes included a third gymnasium, relocation of the library and the administration office, a new cafeteria, redesigned classrooms and hallways, and a new west wing. The renovations ended in 2005 when the school's new east wing and new auditorium, The Kay Meek Centre, were constructed.\n\nIn 2004, new $12 million CAD performing arts centre was constructed over the school's old theatre. The Kay Meek Centre for the Performing Arts was the vision of West Vancouver resident Kay Meek who died in 2004. The centre features a main theatre with seating for 490 as well as a flexible black box studio theatre with seating up to 216 . The studio theatre was finished in February 2006. The first show in the theatre by WVSS was a very small show while the main theatre was still under construction. Kay's health was going downhill and so they created a small show just for her. The Kay Meek Centre hosts performances from The Vancouver Recital Society, Early Music Vancouver, and The Arts Club Theatre Company as well as local community organizations like Theatre West Vancouver and Theatre K.\n\nWVSS is a member of the International Baccalaureate (IB) program. It is one of the three public schools on the North Shore to provide the High School program (the others being Carson Graham Secondary School and Ecole Andre Piolat). It offers a variety of IB courses, such as Biology, Chemistry, English, Film, French, Geography, History, Japanese, Mandarin, Mathematics, Physics, Spanish, Theatre, and Visual Arts. The standard Diploma programme course, Theory of Knowledge, is required in this program.\n\nWVSS is the only public high school in the West Vancouver School District to offer the IBO Diploma programme; however, Mulgrave School also offers the IBO Diploma. The other three secondary schools in the district, Rockridge, Sentinel and Collingwood, a private school, offer the Advanced Placement (AP) Program.\n\nWVSS is home to up to 42 different sports, depending on how many students for each team.\n\nMen's\n\nWomen's\n\n"}
{"id": "1907240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907240", "title": "Varsity Bus Company", "text": "Varsity Bus Company\n\nVarsity Bus Company is a former school bus operator in New York City. This company was established in 1965 and ceased operations around a couple of years ago. The sister company, Varsity Transit, ceased operations in 2003. The headquarters of Varsity are now used by Total Transportation and L&M Bus Corp.\n\nFrom 1979 until 2005, Varsity Transit affiliate Command Bus Company operated two local and seven express transit bus routes, routes that are now operated by MTA Bus Company. Varsity Transit and Command Bus Company were 40-percent owned by Green Bus Lines, 40-percent owned by Triboro Coach, and 20-percent owned by Jamaica Central Railways. Varsity Bus Company is owned by former executives of Green Bus Lines.\n\nCommand Bus traces its history to Pioneer Bus Corporation, established in 1954 by three small school bus and charter bus operators. Until 1960, when it obtained a franchise for the current B100, it only operated school, charter, and racetrack buses. Several express buses were implemented in 1972. Command Bus Company was incorporated October 22, 1979 by the late Mr. William Cooper (1895-1985) to resume bus service following a long strike at Pioneer, which went out of the express and local bus business when the strike started.\n\nLike its corporate owners Green Bus Lines, Triboro Coach, and Jamaica Central Railways, the late Mr. Jerome Cooper (1928-2015) was the chairman of the board of both Varsity Transit and Command Bus Company. Originally co-housed with Varsity Transit, the operations of Command were eventually moved into a new NYCDOT facility at Spring Creek Depot, 12755 Flatlands Avenue in Brooklyn (this garage was leased by MTA Bus following the transfer of Command Bus Company routes to MTA Bus in 2005), it was previously built and owned by the New York City Department of Transportation before being sold to MTA Bus in early 2009).\n\nIn 1988, two Command buses were fitted by the Brooklyn Union Gas Company with engines which operated on compressed natural gas (CNG). By the mid-1990s, many of the buses operated by Command ran on CNG.\n\nCommand operated the following routes, which after the MTA takeover continued to be operated out of the Spring Creek Bus Depot:\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Command operated \"Gotham Flyer\" service, using unfilled buses to carry express passengers between Midtown and Wall Street.\n\n\n\n Command Bus Company only.\n"}
{"id": "1907246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907246", "title": "Switched-On Brandenburgs", "text": "Switched-On Brandenburgs\n\nSwitched-On Brandenburgs is a 1980 double album by Wendy Carlos. It was the seventh album released by Carlos, and the fourth album in her project of classical music which also included \"Switched-On Bach\" (1968), \"The Well-Tempered Synthesizer\" (1969), \"Switched-On Bach II\" (1974), and \"Switched-On Bach 2000\" (1992). It was the first album she released under the name of Wendy Carlos rather than Walter Carlos.\n\n\"Switched-On Brandenburgs\" is a collection of all six of Bach's Brandenburg Concertos performed by Carlos on her Moog modular synthesizer. Concerti #1, (most of) #2, and #6 were recorded specifically for the album. Concerti #3, #4, and #5 had been previously released on \"Switched-On Bach\", \"The Well-Tempered Synthesizer\", and \"Switched-On Bach II\" respectively (though the second movement of #3 was re-recorded for this release). The first movement of the Second Concerto had been recorded for the album \"By Request\", released in 1975, however an updated mix is on this album.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907253", "title": "Kenny Bräck", "text": "Kenny Bräck\n\nKenny Bräck (born 21 March 1966) is a Swedish former race car driver. Until his retirement from racing, he competed in the CART, Indy Racing League and the IROC series. He is the winner of the 1999 Indianapolis 500 and the 1998 driving champion of the Indy Racing League. He survived one of the racing sport's biggest accidents in Fort Worth, Texas, in 2003, in which a deceleration of 214g was measured. Eighteen months later he made a comeback at the Indy 500 and set the fastest qualifying time of the field. He retired from IndyCar racing after the race.\n\nIn 2009, he made a comeback to rally, competing in Rally X at X-Games 15 and winning Gold. Bräck still drives occasionally and won The Dukerie's Stage Rally in Nottingham, England with co-driver Emil Axelsson in June 2011. The duo also won the Swedish classic The Midnight Sun Rally in July 2011. In September Bräck took pole position and won the RAC Tourist Trophy race at the Goodwood Revival in a Shelby Daytona Coupé 1964 together with 9-time 24 Hours of Le Mans winner Tom Kristensen. \nIn September 2013 Bräck won The Whitsun Trophy race at the Goodwood Revival in a Ford GT40 together with Red Bull Racing's Adrian Newey.\n\nIn May 2017 Kenny set the lap record for road legal cars at the Nurburgring Nordschleife with a lap time of 6,43.22, in a McLaren P1 LM, a project he helped develop with Team Lanzante. 5 cars were produced for customers. \n\nSince 2015 Bräck has helped McLaren Automotive working with dynamic car development for their sports cars. In May 2018 he took the role as Chief test driver. \n\nBorn in Arvika, he grew up in the little village of Glava, where his father taught him to drive cars on the lake-ice in the winters. A neighbor introduced Bräck to racing when he was 13 years of age, working in his business one summer, buying him a go-kart. Apart from the beginning of Bräck's career, he has managed his career himself, from finding sponsors, negotiating contracts to winning races.\n\nHe raced in Britain and Sweden in Formula Ford and Formula 3 (he was Swedish junior Formula Ford Champion in 1986), in Europe in Formula Opel Lotus, in Scandinavia and Europe in the Renault Clio Cup (Scandinavian Champion 1992) and in the US in the Barber Saab Pro Series (Champion in 1993).\n\nIn 1994 he competed in the International Formula 3000. In 1995 he finished third in the International F3000 championship for Madgwick Racing. In 1996 he was Arrows Formula One test driver but decided to leave the team after mid season concentrating on his European F3000 campaign. Despite winning the last race on the road, after a controversial Clerk of the Course decision he eventually was disqualified from the event and had to settle for the runner-up position in the championship, driving for the British team Super Nova. Had he not been disqualified, Bräck would have been champion.\n\nBräck began his IRL career in 1997. He won the IRL championship in 1998, and the 1999 Indianapolis 500 driving for American racing legend A. J. Foyt. The following year he left Foyt's team to compete in the CART FedEx Championship Series.\n\nIn 2000 he switched to the CART with Team Rahal, winning the Rookie of the Year title that year. He finished 2nd in the driver's championship in 2001, winning a season-high 4 victories and 6 pole positions. However, he did not have much success on road circuits which is what ultimately cost him that year's title to Gil de Ferran.\n\nIn 2001 Bräck also had a minor role in the Hollywood motion picture \"Driven\", which starred Sylvester Stallone and Burt Reynolds.\n\nIn 2002, Bräck raced for Chip Ganassi Racing, and he ended the season by winning the CART season finale Mexico City G.P., which turned out to be his only win in major North American open wheel racing on a road or street circuit.\n\nIn 2001 he competed in the International Race of Champions series in the season called IROC XXV. The series is a stock car invitational in the United States. He finished third in the championship, the highest points position for a non-stock car driver.\n\nBräck moved back to the IRL in 2003 with previous CART team owner, Bobby Rahal and his Rahal Letterman Racing team. Bräck scored 2nd place at the Twin Ring Motegi circuit in Japan. In the final race at Texas Motor Speedway, he suffered a serious crash that almost cost him his life. His car locked wheels with Tomas Scheckter's, flew into the catch fencing, and broke apart. Bräck's crash saw the highest recorded g-forces since the introduction of crash violence recording systems, peaking at 214 \"g\". (While death may occur at >50 \"g\"). This was a record for highest g-force survived by anyone. He suffered multiple fractures, breaking his sternum, femur, shattering a vertebra in his spine and crushing his ankles. He spent eighteen months recovering from his injuries. Though Bräck would return for one additional race, the Texas wreck essentially ended his racing career in IRL.\n\nBräck made his comeback at the 2005 Indianapolis 500, replacing an injured Buddy Rice (who, coincidentally, had replaced Bräck in 2004). He set the fastest qualification time in the field with an average speed of , but started 23rd due to not qualifying on the first day. He retired from the race with a mechanical problem.\n\nAs of 2011, Bräck lives in England and has retired from open wheel racing, although he manages young open wheel racing drivers such as Marcus Ericsson and occasionally drives in rallying. Bräck also spends his time currently as the lead member and songwriter of his rock band \"Bräck\", together with lead singer Franc Aledia. At the 2007 Indianapolis 500 the band Bräck cooperated with the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in celebrating American racing legend A. J. Foyt as part of his 50th anniversary at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. In May 2007 the band released its first album \"Greatest hits, volume 1\" featuring the song \"Legend of the Speedway\". A rock video, featuring Foyt's Indianapolis winning cars including the car Bräck won the race with in 1999 while driving for Foyt was also recorded. The video was directed by Allen Farst of Niche Productions, Dayton, Ohio.\n\nBräck is also on the board of directors of , Scandinavia's biggest distributor of car spare parts, listed on the Swedish stock exchange.\n\nIn July 2013, \"Autosport\" named Bräck one of the top 50 greatest drivers to have never raced in Formula One.\n\nBräck was employed by Lanzante Motorsport to drive one of the most prestigious cars, a 1964 Shelby Daytona Coupé, in the RAC Tourist Trophy race at the Goodwood Revival in September 2011. Only six original cars exist. Sharing the driving duties with 9-time Le Mans winner Tom Kristensen, Bräck qualified the car on pole position. The duo also won the race. \nIn September 2013 Bräck, in partnership with Red Bull F1 Racing's Adrian Newey won the Goodwood revival 50 year anniversary The Whitsun Trophy, where Bräck performed a rain qualifying that became a YouTube sensation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jF__B1xpJY. The duo went on to win the race. Also in September Bräck co-drove Christian Glaesel's Ford GT40 in the Spa 6-Hours race, together with the owner and Olivier Ellerbrock. Bräck qualified the car on pole. Eventually the car finished in 5th place.\n\nIn 2009, four years after retiring from IndyCar racing Bräck made a surprise return to the wheel after receiving a special invitation to compete in the annual ESPN X Games 15 in Los Angeles. Bräck drove a Ford Fiesta prepared by Swedish team Olsbergs MSE. Bräck was the fastest qualifier and went on to win the competition outright in a head-to-head final against previous Rally Gold Medal winner and nine time overall X-Games Gold Medal winner Travis Pastrana. Bräck became the first specially invited driver to win the Rally Gold Medal. The late WRC star Colin McRae previously held the top spot with a second-place finish.\n\nIn 2011 Bräck won his second stage rally in his career, Dukerie's Rally outside Nottingham, England, in a Ford Escort Mk II BDG with Swedish co-driver Emil Axelsson.\nIn July 2011 the duo won the Swedish classic The Midnight Sun Rally in the same car, in front of the previous year's winner Kenneth Bäcklund and rally world champion Björn Waldegård.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907256", "title": "Miguel Grau Seminario", "text": "Miguel Grau Seminario\n\nMiguel María Grau Seminario (Paita, Peru, 27 July 1834 – Punta Angamos, Bolivia, 8 October 1879) is the most renowned Peruvian naval officer and hero of the Naval Battle of Angamos during the War of the Pacific (1879–1884). He was known as \"el Caballero de los Mares\" (Spanish for \"Gentleman of the Seas\") for his kind and chivalrous treatment of defeated enemies and is esteemed by both Peruvians and Chileans. He is an iconic figure for the Peruvian Navy, and one of the most famous merchant marine and naval military leaders of the Americas.\n\nMiguel Grau was born in Paita on 27 July 1834 in the house of Dr. Alexander Diamont Newel with the assistance of the midwife Tadea Castillo, also known as \"The Morito,\" both prominent figures in Paita. His father was Juan Manuel Grau y Berrío, a Colombian who came to Peru with Bolivar in the fight for independence from Spain. Later, Juan bought property in Paita and worked at the Customs Office. His mother, Luisa Seminario y del Castillo, motivated Grau to love the sea from his youth. He entered the Paita Nautical School. He first went to sea when he was nine years old, going to Colombia, aboard a merchant schooner. The schooner sank in front of Gorgona Island and he later returned to Paita. However, he did not get discouraged and embarked again the following year. Grau later went on various merchant ships to ports in Oceania, Asia, America and Europe. These voyages gave Grau the seagoing experience that was the foundation for his brilliant career as a nautical officer and the beginning of a love story with Carla Ortiz (unidentified French women).\n\nIn 1853, at the age of 19, he left the merchant marine and became an officer candidate of the Peruvian Navy, where he developed an outstanding professional reputation. In 1854, he was \"Military officer \" of the steamer \"Rimac\". His career was rapid and brilliant. In 1863, he was promoted a year later. In 1864, he was sent to Europe to oversee the construction of ships for the Peruvian fleet. He would be put in prison a year later, with a group of fellow officers for rejecting the idea of hiring a foreigner as supreme commander of the Peruvian navy, but was later released after a trial in which they were declared not guilty as their cause was proven worthy. Among these ships was the ironclad \"\"Huáscar\"\", launched in 1865 by Laird at Birkenhead. Upon his return, Chile and Peru joined together in a bi-national fleet against Spanish attempts to reclaim their American colonies. In 1868, he was recalled to the Navy and was named commander of the \"\"Huáscar\"\" with the rank of Lieutenant Commander and was later promoted to Commander. By June 1, 1874, he became the commanding officer of the Peruvian Navy's fleet as Captain, and later became a member of the Congress of the Republic of Peru as an elected congressman in 1876 representing Paita. To this day his seat is preserved in congress and his name is called at the beginning of each session, being responded \"present\" to by all congressmen.\n\nWhen the War of the Pacific between Chile against Bolivia and Peru began on 5 April 1879, Miguel Grau was aboard the \"\"Huáscar\"\", as its captain and the Commander of the Navy. In an impressive display of naval mastery, \"Capitán\" Grau played an important role by interdicting Chilean lines of communication and supply, damaging, capturing or destroying several enemy vessels, and bombarding port installations. Grau's \"Huáscar\" became famed for moving stealthily, striking by surprise and then disappearing. These actions put off a Chilean invasion by sea for six months, and as a result he was promoted to Rear Admiral by the government in Lima - the first Peruvian to be promoted to flag officer rank in many years.\n\nAt the Battle of Iquique, after \"Huáscar\" sank the Chilean corvette \"Esmeralda\" by ramming her, Grau ordered the rescue of the surviving crew from the waters. Grau also wrote condolences to the widow of his opponent Arturo Prat, returning his sword and personal effects.\n\nLetter to Carmela Carvajal de Prat (Prat's widow)\n\nAt the port of Antofagasta, after sneaking up on an enemy ship the \"Matias Cousiño\", he courteously asked the crew to abandon ship before opening fire. As her captain Castleton was abandoning the ship, the Chileans' capital ships \"Blanco Encalada\" and \"Almirante Cochrane\" showed up, forcing Grau to abandon his prey and, after seriously disabling the \"Matias Cousiño\", to escape by passing in between the Chilean ironclads rendering them in an unfavourable position to pursue. These and other gestures earned him the nickname of \"El Caballero de los Mares\" (\"Gentleman of the Seas\") from his Chilean opponents, acknowledging an extraordinary sense of chivalry and his gentlemanly behaviour, combined with his highly efficient and brave combat career.\n\nGrau was also a determining factor in capturing the steamer \"Rimac\". \"Rimac\" was being chased by the wooden corvette \"Union\" under command of Garcia y Garcia. When \"Huascar\" appeared and fired her twin cannons, \"Rimac\" quickly lowered her flag. The cavalry regiment Carabineros de Yungay, including its commander, was captured with the ship. This was a major blow for the Chilean Government, and the Commander of the Chilean Navy resigned his position.\n\n\"Almirante\" Grau was killed by an armor-piercing shell fired by the ironclad \"Almirante Cochrane\" in a four against one duel during the Naval Battle of Angamos on 8 October 1879. \"Huáscar\" was captured by the Chileans after suffering severe casualties in the close-range artillery duel. Although most of Grau's body was not recovered, his remains, which were buried with military honours in Chile, were returned to Peru in 1958. For many years after his death, his name was called in a ceremonial roll-call of the Peruvian Navy, and the Peruvian congress continues to do so.\n\nHis final resting place lies at the Escuela Militar Naval del Peru, in El Callao in an underground mausoleum. He posthumously received the rank of \"Gran Almirante del Perú\" (Grand Admiral of Peru) in 1967 by order of the Peruvian Congress. A portrait of \"Almirante\" Grau is on display in the museum ship \"Huáscar\".\n\nIn the year 2000, Miguel Grau was recognized as the \"Peruvian of the Millennium\" by popular vote. \n\nIn December 2019, a bust of Grau was donated by the Peruvian Navy to Wirral, England in tribute to the historic naval links between Peru and Birkenhead. Birkenhead is home to the Cammell Laird shipyard that built the \"Huáscar\" and the bust is displayed in Birkenhead Town Hall.\n\nA metro station in Lima is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907261", "title": "The Literary Digest", "text": "The Literary Digest\n\nThe Literary Digest was an influential American general interest weekly magazine published by Funk & Wagnalls. Founded by Isaac Kaufmann Funk in 1890, it eventually merged with two similar weekly magazines, \"Public Opinion\" and \"Current Opinion\".\n\nBeginning with early issues, the emphasis was on opinion articles and an analysis of news events. Established as a weekly newsmagazine, it offered condensations of articles from American, Canadian and European publications. Type-only covers gave way to illustrated covers during the early 1900s. After Isaac Funk's death in 1912, Robert Joseph Cuddihy became the editor. In the 1920s, the covers carried full-color reproductions of famous paintings. By 1927, \"The Literary Digest\" climbed to a circulation of over one million. Covers of the final issues displayed various photographic and photo-montage techniques. In 1938, it merged with the \"Review of Reviews\", only to fail soon after. Its subscriber list was bought by \"Time\".\n\nA column in \"The Digest\", known as \"The Lexicographer's Easy Chair\", was produced by Frank Horace Vizetelly. Ewing Galloway as assistant editor at the publication.\n\n\"The Literary Digest\" is best-remembered today for the circumstances surrounding its demise.\n\nAs it had done since 1916, it conducted a straw poll regarding the likely outcome of the 1936 presidential election, and prior to 1936, the poll had always correctly predicted the winner. \n\nThe 1936 poll showed that the Republican candidate, Governor Alfred Landon of Kansas, was likely to be the overwhelming winner. \n\nDespite the popularity of the incumbent Franklin D. Roosevelt, a Landon victory seemed plausible as at the time, Maine's congressional and gubernatorial elections were held in September - with the Republicans winning the Governorship, both houses in the state legislature, and all of the state's congressional delegation - as opposed to the rest of the nation that held elections in November along with the presidential election (as they are today). \n\nA Landon victory also seemed likely to some in light of the conventional wisdom at that time, \"As Maine goes, so goes the nation\", reflecting the fact that Maine's September election of a governor correctly predicted the party outcome of the November presidential election in 22 out of the 29 presidential election years from 1820 to 1932 (or 76% of the time): 1820–1844, 1852, 1860–1880, 1888, 1896–1908 and 1920–1932.\n\nMaine was a Republican state, and from 1860 to 1932, with the exception of 1912, Maine voted for the Republican candidate for president. Thus, Maine did not vote for Grover Cleveland in 1884 or 1892, Woodrow Wilson in 1916, or for Franklin Roosevelt in 1932, when they, as Democrats, won those elections. In 1912, Maine cast its electoral votes for Wilson, but that year, Republicans split their votes between William Howard Taft, the Republican, and Theodore Roosevelt, the Bull Moose candidate. \n\nIn November, Landon only won Maine and Vermont, as President Franklin Delano Roosevelt won the other 46 states. Landon's electoral vote total of eight is an equal-record low for any major-party nominee since the American political paradigm of the Democratic and Republican parties began in 1854. The Democrats joked, \"As goes Maine, so goes Vermont,\" while the magnitude of the error (19.6% in the popular vote for Landon v Roosevelt) destroyed the magazine's credibility, and it folded within 18 months of the election.\n\nIn retrospect, the polling techniques employed by the magazine were to blame. Although it had polled ten million individuals (of whom 2.27 million responded, an astronomical total for \"any\" opinion poll), it had surveyed its own readers first, a group with disposable incomes well above the national average of the time (shown in part by their ability to afford a magazine subscription during the depths of the Great Depression), and two other readily available lists, those of registered automobile owners and that of telephone users, both of which were also wealthier than the average American at the time. Research published in 1972 and 1988 concluded that as expected this sampling bias was a factor, but non-response bias was the primary source of the error, that is, people who disliked Roosevelt had strong feelings and were more willing to go to the trouble of mailing back a response.\n\nGeorge Gallup's American Institute of Public Opinion achieved national recognition by correctly predicting the result of the 1936 election. Gallup also correctly predicted the (quite different) results of the \"Literary Digest\" poll to within 1.1%, using a much smaller sample size of just 50,000. Gallup's last poll before the election predicted Roosevelt would receive 56% of the popular vote; the official tally gave Roosevelt 60.8%.\n\nThis debacle led to a considerable refinement of public opinion polling techniques and later came to be regarded as ushering in the era of modern scientific public opinion research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907268", "title": "Trial of the century", "text": "Trial of the century\n\nTrial of the century is an idiomatic phrase used to describe certain well-known court cases, especially of the 20th century. It is often used popularly as a rhetorical device to attach importance to a trial and as such is not an objective observation but is the opinion of whoever uses it. As attorney F. Lee Bailey and \"The Washington Post\" observed in 1999:\nIn 1907 Harry K. Thaw was tried for the murder of Stanford White. Irvin S. Cobb, a contemporary reporter, explained why the trial fascinated the country so much:\nThere are countless trials that have been labeled \"the trial of the century\" by the press; it is beyond the scope of this article to list them here. However, some legal scholars have labeled a few trials as \"trials of the century\". These cases are useful in this context for listing some of the most important trials, which include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907274", "title": "Conspiracy in Mind", "text": "Conspiracy in Mind\n\nConspiracy in Mind is the debut album by the Norwegian progressive/power metal band Communic.\n\nIn 2005, \"Conspiracy in Mind\" was ranked number 497 in \"Rock Hard\" magazine's book of \"The 500 Greatest Rock & Metal Albums of All Time\".\n\n\n\n\nArtwork by Mattias Norén of ProgArt Media.\n"}
{"id": "1907276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907276", "title": "Unconditionally Guaranteed", "text": "Unconditionally Guaranteed\n\nUnconditionally Guaranteed is the eighth LP by Captain Beefheart and the Magic Band, originally released in 1974. It was recorded at Hollywood Sound, Los Angeles.\n\nUpon release it was criticised for being too commercial; even so, it failed to give Beefheart any real chart success, peaking at #192 on the \"Billboard\" Top 200.\n\nImmediately after recording of the album the entire Magic Band quit – as biographer Mike Barnes has stated, \"[Beefheart] was in effect sacked by his own group.\" They had become increasingly disenchanted with the lack of financial success, having subsisted on food stamps and donations from their parents, and with Beefheart's tyrannical control over the group. In the words of guitarist Bill Harkleroad \"we had had enough of him treating us like punching bags.\"\n\nThe album's lackluster and unchallenging music was the last straw. Drummer Art Tripp recalled, \"When the band finally got our album copies, we were horrified. As we listened, it was as though each song was worse than the one which preceded it.\"\n\nAfter his contract with Mercury Records ended at the end of 1974, Beefheart disowned the record along with its successor \"Bluejeans & Moonbeams\". He urged his fans to \"take copies back for a refund\" and called the albums \"horrible and vulgar\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907282", "title": "Edward Fitzgerald (adviser)", "text": "Edward Fitzgerald (adviser)\n\nEdward Joseph Fitzgerald was an American who worked for the War Production Board during World War II and was an adviser to Senator Claude Pepper. He was alleged to have been a member of the Perlo group of Soviet spies. Fitzgerald's name in Venona project decrypt 588 New York to Moscow, 29 April 1944, was sent in the clear to Moscow by Soviet Case Officer Iskhak Akhmerov reporting on Elizabeth Bentley's meeting with Perlo group.\n\nThe decryption reads, in part,\n\nElizabeth Bentley, who functioned as the Perlo group's main contact with the Soviet intelligence, told the FBI after her defection, \"I would state that Victor Perlo represented this group in meetings with me more often than other members of the group, Fitzgerald about four or five times...\".\n\nAfter World War II, Fitzgerald resigned from his position with the U.S. Department of Commerce. In 1954, Fitzgerald was offered immunity from prosecution, which removed the legal grounds to plead the Fifth Amendment. Fitzgerald nonetheless still refused to testify and went to jail.\n\nHis alleged code name in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona files is \"Ted\".\n\nEdward Fitzgerald is referenced in the following Venona project decryptions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907283", "title": "Kristin Harmel", "text": "Kristin Harmel\n\nKristin Harmel (born May 4, 1979) is an American novelist. Born in Newton, Massachusetts which is a suburb of Boston, Harmel gained her first writing experience at the age of 16 as a sports reporter for the \"St. Petersburg Times\", and \"Tampa Bay AllSports\" magazine while still attending Northeast High School in St. Petersburg, Florida.\n\nA graduate of the University of Florida, Harmel has been a reporter for \"PEOPLE\" magazine since 2000. Her work has appeared in dozens of other publications, including \"Men's Health\", \"Glamour\", \"YM\", \"Teen People\", \"People en Español\", \"Runner's World\", \"American Baby\", \"Every Day With Rachel Ray\",\" and more.\n\nShe is going to pen a new YA series titled The Dolls under the pseudonym Kiki Sullivan.\n\nHarmel resides in Orlando, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907285", "title": "Betty (band)", "text": "Betty (band)\n\nBETTY is an alternative rock group from New York City. \n\nThe band was formed in Washington D.C. around the scene of the 9:30 club.\n\nIn 1989, the band relocated to NYC. The name of their first album, \"Hello, BETTY!\" comes from the standard opening for all their appearances. In 1995, the band expanded by adding Tony Salvatore on lead guitar and drums to the initial line-up of vocals with electronic accompaniment, bass and cello.\n\nBETTY appeared in every episode of the 1989 HBO Series \"Encyclopedia\", singing educational songs each centered on a particular word, as well as performing the opening and closing theme songs. The members involved were Alyson Palmer/Amy Ziff/Elizabeth Ziff, although they were credited in the show's opening titles as simply \"BETTY\".\n\nIn 2002 the group starred in its own off-Broadway show \"BETTY RULES\" directed by Rent's Michael Greif. The musical ran for 9 months at the Zipper Theatre. The show has since been performed in Chicago at the Lakeside Theatre and sold-out three runs at Theater J in Washington, DC. BETTY has appeared as a regular guest artist on the television show The L Word, for which they provided the theme song.\n\nActivist entertainers, BETTY is as well known for their performances at rallies for causes in which they believe (including equality and rights for women and girls) as they are for their 7 T.V. theme songs, film appearances and commercial jingles. Although the band on television's 'Phineas and Ferb' bears an uncanny resemblance, Disney proclaims that is not the same BETTY.\n\n\nCast Recording\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907296", "title": "Baozi", "text": "Baozi\n\nBaozi (), or bao, is a type of yeast-leavened filled bun in various Chinese cuisines. There are many variations in fillings (meat or vegetarian) and preparations, though the buns are most often steamed. They are a variation of \"mantou\" from Northern China.\n\nTwo types are found in most parts of China and Indonesia: \"Dàbāo\" (大包, \"big bun\"), measuring about 10 cm across, served individually, and usually purchased for take-away. The other type, \"Xiǎobāo\" (小包, \"small bun\"), measure approximately 5 cm wide, and are most commonly eaten in restaurants, but may also be purchased for take-away. Each order consists of a steamer containing between three and ten pieces. A small ceramic dish for dipping the baozi is provided for vinegar or soy sauce, both of which are available in bottles at the table, along with various types of chili and garlic pastes, oils or infusions, fresh coriander and leeks, sesame oil, and other flavorings. They are popular all over China.\n\nWritten records from the Song dynasty show the term baozi in use for filled buns. Prior to the Northern Song Dynasty (960–1279), the word \"mantou\" was used for both filled and unfilled buns. According to legend, the filled baozi is a variation of were invented by military strategist Zhuge Liang. Over time \"mantou\" came to indicate only unfilled buns in Mandarin and some varieties of Chinese, although the Wu Chinese languages continue to use \"mantou\" to refer to both filled and unfilled buns.\n\nIn many Chinese cultures, these buns are a popular food, and widely available. While they can be eaten at any meal, baozi are often eaten for breakfast. They are also popular as a portable snack or meal.\n\nThe dish has also become common place throughout various regions of South East Asia due to longstanding Chinese immigration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907303", "title": "List of Iberia destinations", "text": "List of Iberia destinations\n\nAs of March 2020, Iberia flies to 26 domestic and 64 international destinations across Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. This list does not include irregular charters and destinations served by Air Nostrum operating as \"Iberia Regional\" or Iberia Express.\n\n!Country\n!City\n!Airport\n!Notes\n!Refs\n"}
{"id": "1907304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907304", "title": "Coagulopathy", "text": "Coagulopathy\n\nCoagulopathy (also called a bleeding disorder) is a condition in which the blood's ability to coagulate (form clots) is impaired. This condition can cause a tendency toward prolonged or excessive bleeding (bleeding diathesis), which may occur spontaneously or following an injury or medical and dental procedures. Of note, coagulopathies are sometimes erroneously referred to as \"clotting disorders\"; a clotting disorder is a predisposition to clot formation (thrombus), also known as a hypercoagulable state or thrombophilia.\n\nCoagulopathy may cause uncontrolled internal or external bleeding. Left untreated, uncontrolled bleeding may cause damage to joints, muscles, or internal organs and may be life-threatening. People should seek immediate medical care for serious symptoms, including heavy external bleeding, blood in the urine or stool, double vision, severe head or neck pain, repeated vomiting, difficulty walking, convulsions, or seizures. They should seek prompt medical care if they experience mild but unstoppable external bleeding or joint swelling and stiffness.\n\nThe normal clotting process depends on the interplay of various proteins in the blood. Coagulopathy may be caused by reduced levels or absence of blood-clotting proteins, known as clotting factors or coagulation factors. Genetic disorders, such as hemophilia and Von Willebrand disease, can cause a reduction in clotting factors.\n\nAnticoagulants such as warfarin will also prevent clots from forming properly. Coagulopathy may also occur as a result of dysfunction or reduced levels of platelets (small disk-shaped bodies in the bloodstream that aid in the clotting process).\n\nIn 2003, Karim Brohi, Professor of Trauma Sciences at Queen Mary University of London, first introduced the term Acute Traumatic Coagulopathy (ATC), establishing that coagulopathy induced by trauma results in: \n\n\nPT and PTT are good tools to check for coagulopathies\n\nIf someone has coagulopathy, their health care provider may help them manage their symptoms with medications or replacement therapy. In replacement therapy, the reduced or absent clotting factors are replaced with proteins derived from human blood or created in the laboratory. This therapy may be given either to treat bleeding that has already begun or to prevent bleeding from occurring.\n\nOne area of treatment is managing people with major bleeding in a critical setting, like an emergency department. In these situations, the common treatment is transfusing a combination of red cells with one of the following options:\n\nThe use of tranexamic acid is the only option that is currently supported by a large, randomized, controlled clinical trial, and is given to people with major bleeding after trauma. There are several possible risks to treating coagulopathies, such as transfusion-related acute lung injury, acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, major hemorrhage, and venous thromboembolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907308", "title": "Jane Foster Zlatovski", "text": "Jane Foster Zlatovski\n\nJane Foster Zlatovski (1912–1979) allegedly engaged, with her husband, George Zlatovski, in covert activities on behalf of the Soviet Union while employed in sensitive U.S. Government wartime agencies during World War II. They were indicted in 1957. Their case was never tried and both Zlatovskis denied the accusations.\n\nJane Foster grew up in San Francisco, California. Her father, Harry Emerson Foster, was the medical director of the Cutter Laboratories. Her mother was Eve Cody Foster. Foster attended Mills College in Oakland, California, graduating in 1935.\n\nFoster married Dutch diplomat Alleendert Kamper in October 1936. She and Kamper separated after 18 months. Foster, required to spend five months on Dutch soil in order to finalize the divorce, travelled to Bali. She remained there until September 1939, returning to the United States due to the British declaration of war on Germany. She briefly joined the Communist Party in 1938.\n\nFoster met and married Zlatovski in Washington, D.C. in 1943, then remarried him three years later. She was employed by the Board of Economic Warfare and the Office of Strategic Services from late 1943 until early 1946 in the Indonesian section. Foster was one of the first OSS agents to reach Indonesia after the Japanese surrender in 1945, where she interviewed Sukarno to discover whether he planned to align himself with Allied interests. Foster wrote in her autobiography that Soviet agent Charles Flato was one of her closest friends at the Board.\n\nFoster was allegedly recruited into espionage in 1938 by NKVD operative Martha Dodd. In 1942, Foster rented a room from Henry Collins in Washington, D.C., who likewise was active in the secret apparatus. After World War II, Foster and her husband allegedly became members of a Soviet espionage ring run by Jack Soble. She is believed to be identified in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona project files with the code name SLANG, where she is mentioned as engaged in transmitting information and in other espionage tasks. According to Gregg Herken, SLANG is named in two cables decrypted in the Venona project, one dated 21 June 1943, the other dated 30 May 1944.\n\nThe Zlatovskis were indicted by a Federal grand jury on July 8, 1957, on charges of espionage. The couple were living in Paris at the time, and denied the charges in a brief interview with the \"New York Times\".\n\n\"Time\" Magazine sensationally alleged in 1957 the Zlatovskis became part of the Soble network in January 1940. At times they dealt directly with Soble, while on other occasions they are thought to have worked with Boris Morros. According to Morros, Jane and George Zlatovski were useful espionage agents and served a crucial role in the Soble spy network. As reported in \"Time\", \"[I]n covert meetings in the U.S. and a dozen European cities (including Moscow) the Zlatovskis turned over to Morros a file-load of valuable information that was passed to Soviet intelligence.\" George Zlatovski (alleged code name RECTOR) was not as active as his wife, gathering mostly information on refugees for Soviet intelligence. As a team, the two allegedly collected information on the \"sexual and drinking habits\" of U.S. personnel stationed in Austria, apparently for blackmail recruitment of new agents for espionage activity.\n\nAfter revelations of the Soble network appeared in the press in 1957, both Jane and George Zlatovski denied Morros' allegations. They remained in exile in Paris, where Foster reconnected with Julia Child and her husband, Paul, both of whom had worked with Foster in the OSS. Although the U.S. government tried to extradite the Zlatovskis, it was unable to do so. Although she continued to publicly deny her involvement in espionage, it has been reported Foster confessed to both French intelligence agents and to the Paris office of the FBI.\n\nHer autobiography, \"An Un-American Lady\", is a colorful account of an upper-class expatriate socialite in the pre- and post-World War II era, and also recounts her involuntary detainment in the U.S., surveillance by FBI and CIA agents, and description of McCarthy-era America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907310", "title": "Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United States", "text": "Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United States\n\nThe Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United States is a small Presbyterian denomination based in the United States. The RPCUS was established in 1983, subscribes to the unrevised Westminster Confession and upholds biblical inerrancy. The denomination self-identifies as theonomic.\n\nThe \"mother\" church of the RPCUS was Chalcedon Presbyterian Church (currently located in Cumming, Georgia), which left the Presbyterian Church in America to become the first member of the new denomination. Chalcedon Church, first pastored by Joe Morecraft now pastored by Tim Price, was joined in 1987 by Covenant Presbyterian Church, which grew out of a Reformed Bible study group held in Buford, Georgia. The study group had been partially under the headship of the Rev. Wayne Rogers; Covenant Church is led today by the Rev. Christopher B. Strevel.\n\nThe Reformed Presbyterian Church – Hanover Presbytery split from the RPCUS in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907314", "title": "Sid Patterson", "text": "Sid Patterson\n\nSydney Patterson (also known as Sid Patterson, 14 August 1927 – 29 November 1999) was a world champion amateur and professional track cyclist from Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. While a teenager, Patterson won every Victorian and Australian title between 1,000 metres and ten miles (16.1 km). He represented Australia in cycling at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nIn 1949 he won every Australian track championship in the sprint, time trial, 1 mile, and 5 mile (8.05 km) events. Later that year he won the world amateur sprint championship in Copenhagen, and in 1950, the world amateur pursuit championship in Liege. At the 1950 British Empire Games he won silver medals for the 1000m sprint and 1000m time trial.\n\nIn 1951 he won the Manchester Wheelers' Club Muratti Cup beating the British Sprint Champion, Alan Bannister, by almost a length. However Patterson was alleged to have held Bannister during the final sprint for the line and was subsequently disqualified and the race was awarded to Bannister.\n\nIn 1951 Patterson became a professional and won the world professional pursuit championship in 1952 in Paris, and in 1953 in Zurich. Patterson teamed with Russell Mockridge and Reginald Arnold to win the Paris six-day race in 1955. By his final year of racing in 1967 he had 12 consecutive Australian championships. \n\nSid Patterson was sponsored by Malvern Star, founded by Sir Bruce Small. \n\nAt 72 Patterson died of liver cancer. The \"Sid Patterson Grand Prix\" is held in Melbourne annually in his honour. The first was won by Tommy Nankervis, who was introduced to the sport after meeting Patterson at a bike shop. In 2015, he was an inaugural Cycling Australia Hall of Fame inductee. \n\n"}
{"id": "1907317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907317", "title": "TextEdit (API)", "text": "TextEdit (API)\n\nTextEdit was the name of a collection of application programming interfaces (APIs) in the classic Mac OS for performing text editing.\n\nThese APIs were originally designed to provide a common text handling system to support text entry fields in dialog boxes and other simple text editing within the Macintosh GUI. Over time, they were extended to provide more advanced text editing features, but its limited original scope led to fundamental limitations. Apple repeatedly stated that TextEdit was not a word processor, and therefore providing rich text editing was always left to third-party developers.\n\nBasic limitations of TextEdit include:\n\n\nThe first incarnation of TextEdit provided support for only a single style of text, which was applied to all text in the block. This was more than adequate for its intended use, supporting text entry fields. Later, support was added for styled text so that TextEdit could be used for more complex text editing tasks, such as text editing areas in web browsers, etc. \n\nTextEdit remains part of the Carbon API on macOS, but has been superseded by numerous other solutions including ATSUI in Carbon, the third party WASTE text engine, as well as NSText and related classes within Cocoa.\n"}
{"id": "1907319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907319", "title": "California Border Police Initiative", "text": "California Border Police Initiative\n\nThe California Border Police Initiative was a proposed state ballot initiative seeking to amend the California Constitution to create a new state law enforcement agency called the \"California Border Police.\" Proponents of the initiative failed in their effort to gather enough signatures to get it on the June 2006 statewide ballot.\n\nBackers described the proposal as necessary to assist the U.S. Border Patrol's enforcement of federal immigration laws. However, opponents pointed out that the proposed state immigration police force would not be limited to the international border area, but rather have a much broader charge of enforcing federal immigration laws throughout the state.\n\nSince federal immigration law enforcement has traditionally been the exclusive province of the federal government, there is considerable dispute regarding the constitutionality of civil immigration law enforcement by state and local authorities. The measure was sure to have faced legal challenges if approved by voters in California.\n\nBefore proponents failed to get it on the state ballot, the measure faltered in the Assembly Judiciary Committee of the California State Legislature when first introduced by Assembly Member Ray Haynes (R-Murrieta). They then introduced it as an initiative proposal and had until December 12, 2005 to collect approximately 600,000 valid signatures of registered California voters in order to qualify the measure for the ballot.\n\nProponents of the measure projected annual costs of up to $300 million for the new law enforcement department. The proposal did not make a funding allocation, but did authorize the Governor to use emergency powers to reallocate funding appropriated for other purposes in the annual state budget. It also called on the state to seek federal reimbursement for costs to the state in enforcing federal immigration laws. To date, the federal administration has not indicated whether or not it supports the aims of this proposal, or whether a federal appropriation would have been made if the measure was approved by California voters.\n\nProponents of the measure argued that the initiative was necessary to address the rate of illegal immigration to California and its strain on state resources. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates 10,400,000 illegal immigrants reside in the United States, and somewhere between 2 and 3 million are estimated to live and work in California.\n\nOpponents of the proposal said that the state immigration police force would disrupt and interfere with the jurisdictions of local police departments around the state. They argued that the initiative would therefore undermine the ability of local police departments to protect the public if immigrant communities, especially domestic violence victims, fear reporting crimes because of potential immigration law consequences. They also argued that a state immigration police force would invite racial profiling.\n\nThe chairman of the \"California Border Police Committee,\" the official entity responsible for raising funds and making expenditures on behalf of the proposed initiative, was Assembly Member Haynes. The predecessor to the committee is Rescue California, the leading signature-gathering group for the 2003 California Recall of former Governor Gray Davis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907321", "title": "Andrew Walter", "text": "Andrew Walter\n\nAndrew Scott Walter (born May 11, 1982) is an American businessman and retired NFL quarterback. He was drafted by the Oakland Raiders in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft after playing college football at Arizona State University. He was also a member of the New England Patriots.\n\nWalter is an Arizona native, born in Scottsdale. He moved to Colorado at the age of 10, where he later attended Grand Junction High School in Grand Junction, Colorado. He was an all-conference selection as a junior and senior and a USA Today honorable mention All-American.\n\nPrior to his NFL career, Walter played quarterback for his hometown school, Arizona State University (ASU) where he earned a BA in Communication. Walter completed his collegiate career with numerous Pacific-10 Conference records including, most career touchdowns (85) and most yards passing in a game (536). He also set numerous school records, which include most passing yards (10,616), most completions (777), most touchdowns (85), and total offense (10,142).\n\nWalter's redshirt freshman season at Arizona State University saw limited playing time behind sophomore starter Jeff Krohn, including reserve duty in a losing effort against the University of Oregon. After a 4–7 record under new head coach Dirk Koetter and only one win in the Pacific-10 Conference, Krohn transferred out of ASU following the season.\n\nWith an opening at quarterback, Walter seemed to be the favorite going into the season to start. This turned out not to be the case, however, when Walter was kept as the backup after redshirt freshman, Chad Christiansen, had impressive spring and fall practices.\n\nIn September 2002 the Sun Devils fell behind the San Diego State University Aztecs 22-0. Christiansen was largely ineffective and was replaced by Walter. Walter entered the game with a protective boot due to an injury he sustained during the previous week of practice. The injury did not prove to be a factor as Walter connected with wide receiver Shaun McDonald for a 72-yard touchdown pass on his first play from scrimmage. Walter's second pass from scrimmage also ended up as a touchdown. ASU came back to beat the Aztecs, 39-28, in the largest come-from-behind win in ASU history.\n\nLater in the season, ASU put together an impressive win streak, and beat #6 Oregon at Autzen Stadium in Eugene, Oregon, where the Ducks had lost only one game at Autzen over the previous four seasons. After falling behind 21-0 in the second quarter, Walter led the Sun Devils to a 45-42 upset win over the Ducks, breaking a Pac-10 single game record for passing with 536 yards.\n\nASU ended the regular season with an 8-5 record and nearly upset the Kansas State Wildcats, who were favored by 17 points over the Devils, in the 2002 Holiday Bowl. Although ASU narrowly lost the contest 34-27 (relinquishing the lead only once, in the closing minute of the game), Walter achieved the ASU single season passing record with 3,877 yards.\n\n2003 was marked as a disappointing season for Walter and the Sun Devils. ASU started the season ranked at #15 but put up disappointing performances against traditionally weaker opponents Northern Arizona University and Utah State University. The Sun Devils suffered their first loss at the University of Iowa, losing 21-2 to the Hawkeyes. Despite the Sun Devils achieving a 5-7 record (2-6 in the Pac-10), Walter still threw for 3,044 yards, including the game-winning touchdown against North Carolina as time expired. Walter also earned the Territorial Cup MVP when ASU beat their arch-rivals the University of Arizona at Sun Devil Stadium. At the end of the 2003 season, Walter decided to forgo his opportunity to jump into the NFL and decided to stay at Arizona State for his last year of eligibility.\n\nWalter's senior campaign featured a number of highs and lows. Walter lead the Sun Devils to a comeback year where the Devils piled up an 8-3 record and clinched a berth in the Vitalis Sun Bowl. Walter also surpassed practically every ASU quarterback in every statistic. Walter also surpassed NFL legend John Elway as the Pac-10's all time touchdown leader. During the 2004 season, Walter helped the Devils defeat #15 Iowa 44-7. His low point of the season came when Walter went down in the fourth quarter during the regular season finale against Arizona and suffered a third degree shoulder separation, forcing him to miss the Sun Devils' post-season Sun Bowl game (a 27-23 victory over Purdue).\n\nWalter was selected by the Oakland Raiders in the third round (69th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. Walter spent his 2005 rookie season as the third-string quarterback for the Raiders behind Kerry Collins and backup quarterback Marques Tuiasosopo. Walter played in only two preseason games because of a groin injury, one that eventually required surgery at the conclusion of the 2005 season.\n\nEntering the 2006 season, Walter was expected to compete for the starting quarterback position with Tuiasosopo and Aaron Brooks. After a poor performance by Brooks in Week 1, Walter replaced him late in the game. The next week, Walter once again replaced Brooks due to poor performance including two fumbled snaps. Following the announcement that Brooks would miss 2–4 weeks with an injured pectoral muscle, Walter started the Week 4 game against the Cleveland Browns. On October 22, he led the Raiders to their first win of the year, defeating the Arizona Cardinals. However, Brooks returned in November and re-took the starting quarterback job from Walter, who would only start one more game in 2006. After the season, the Raiders drafted JaMarcus Russell with the first overall pick in the 2007 NFL Draft. Walter would begin the season as the Raiders' third quarterback, with veterans Daunte Culpepper and Josh McCown seeing time over Walter, who was only active for one game in 2007. Walter was listed as the No. 2 quarterback heading into the December 9 game against the Green Bay Packers. Walter entered the Packers game early in the fourth quarter in relief of McCown and completed 5 of 8 passes for 38 yards as the Raiders lost to the Packers by a score of 38-7. Walter was inserted into the game instead of rookie JaMarcus Russell, who had made his NFL debut a week earlier, due to head coach Lane Kiffin not wanting to play Russell when the offense was performing poorly. It was also apparently the coldest weather Russell had ever been in.\n\nWith Russell taking the starting job in 2008, Walter continued to serve as the Raiders' third quarterback. He was active for just two games in 2008, starting one but posting only a 43.8 completion percentage. Walter was released by the Raiders on July 30, 2009, finishing his Oakland career with a 52.3 completion percentage.\n\nWalter was signed by the New England Patriots in August 2009 after the team waived quarterback Matt Gutierrez. He was released on September 4.\n\nAfter choosing to leave the NFL at age 27, Walter was the first player to participate in the NFL Player Development Internship Program in commercial real estate at CB Richard Ellis in Phoenix. Walter then returned to Arizona State University to earn an MBA from the W.P. Carey School of Business.\n\nWalter founded and serves as the managing partner of Andrew Walter Holdings, a senior secured business lending firm. He’s undertaking another lending project called Redlands Capital, which will serve as the next generation to his start-up business. Walter has gained additional underwriting experience as a credit analyst at MidFirst Bank.\n\nWalter lost in the 2014 Republican primary election against Wendy Rogers for the House of Representatives seat in .\n\nWalter serves on the advisory board of Veteran Tickets Foundation, a Scottsdale-based nonprofit that connects veterans with game, show, and event tickets (all gifts are tax deductible).\n\n"}
{"id": "1907325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907325", "title": "Pilgrim's Route", "text": "Pilgrim's Route\n\nThe Pilgrim's Route, (\"Pilegrimsleden\") also known as St. Olav's Way or the Old Kings' Road, was a pilgrimage route to the Nidaros Cathedral in Trondheim, Norway, the site of the medieval tomb of St. Olav. The main route is approximately long. It starts in the ancient part of Oslo and heads north along the lake Mjøsa, up the Gudbrandsdal valley, over the Dovrefjell mountains, and down the Oppdal and Gauldalen valleys to end at the Nidaros Cathedral.\n\nAlthough the Pilgrim's Route over the Dovrefjell mountains is only one of several pilgrimage routes in Norway, it is arguably the most famous. It connected the historically important Norwegian cities of Oslo and Nidaros (now Trondheim).\n\nThe oldest known route over the Dovrefjell mountains, leaving the valley of the Lågen at the \"Kongsgården\" (King’s Farm) ar Tofte just past Dovre Church in the municipality of Dovre (slightly south of present-day Dombås). It followed a lower and more easterly route which followed the drainage to the east of Tofte, and then proceeded over Dovrefjell to join the route in Oppdal municipality.\n\nThe \"King's Way\" traveled up through the Gudbrandsdal valley and left the valley of the Lågen at Tofte \"Kongsgården\" (King’s Farm) shortly past the Dovre Church in the municipality of Dovre (just south of present-day Dombås). This route went more directly over the Dovrefjell mountains into the municipality of Oppdal.\n\nThe historically heavy stream of pilgrims which visited the shrine of St. Olaf in Trondheim annually prior to the Reformation resulted in the erection of mountain stations () where the pilgrims could find food and shelter. Stations were erected at Kongsvoll, Drivstuen, Fogstuen, and later at Hjerkinn.\n\nIn speaking of the route, Knut Gjerset quotes Peder Claussøn Friis as writing in the late 16th century, \"But in the winter people of high estate, as well as members of the court, travel mostly this way, because however high and deep the snow may fall, it blows together on the high mountains and becomes so hard men and horses can walk on it. The \"bonder\" [farmers] run over it on skis and snow-shoes. There are three stations: Drivstuen, Herdekinn and Fogstuen built on this same mountain in order that travelers may find lodging there...at the stations there are implements and dry wood, so that the traveler may build themselves fire, and not suffer from cold, when they have to remain over night, and cannot find the way across the mountain.\"\n\nThere is clear evidence that this route had seen heavy use in the early Norwegian Iron Age. Oppdal on the route was located at a crossroads for traffic from Trondheim, traffic over the Dovrefjell mountain range and the east coast. At Oppdal there are over 700 Viking era grave mounds indicating that Viking trade routes passed through these valleys.\n\nIt is appropriately termed \"The King's Road\". Virtually every king of Norway traveled this road. Those for whom we easily find records of their passage range from the first King of Norway through the last King able to pass that way before the road was completely replaced with modern rail and tarmac.\n\nHarald Fairhair or Harold I was the first king of all Norway who crossed the Dovrefjell on The King's Road. \"Harald Hårfagres saga\" describes an expedition he led up the Gudbrandsdal, and north over Dovrefjeld on his way to success at the battle of Orkadal.\n\n\nThe Norwegian railway line Rørosbanen was opened on 13 October 1877, connecting Hamar and Trondheim via the towns of Elverum and Røros. At this point, the difficult route up through the Dovrefjell mountains lost most of its appeal, compared with the relative ease of taking a train to Trondheim. The final end came on 17 September 1921, when the Dovre Line was completed. Starting at Dombås in Dovre municipality, it passes over the mountainous stretches of the Dovrefjell, before merging with the Rørosbanen again at Støren. It passes close to the Old King's Road's historic route, but is to the west along a route which, although longer, has a lesser grade, as is required for rail.\n\nAlthough the Pilgrim's Route fell into disuse with the arrival of the railroad, but has recently been revived. Today it is promoted and is used by modern travelers as a long-distance hiking trail. There is a Pilgrim's Office in Oslo which gives advice to travelers and a Pilgrim Centre in Trondheim, under the aegis of the Nidaros Cathedral, which awards certificates to successful travelers upon the completion of their journey.\n"}
{"id": "1907335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907335", "title": "Culture of Vietnam", "text": "Culture of Vietnam\n\nThe culture of Vietnam has undergone changes over the millennia. According to scholarly sources, the culture of Vietnam originated from Nam Việt, an ancient kingdom of the Baiyue people (or Yue people) in East Asia which shared characteristics of Han Chinese cultures and the ancient Dong Son Culture, considered one of the most important progenitors of its indigenous culture, during the Bronze Age. Nam Việt was annexed by China in 111 BC, leading to the first Chinese domination of Vietnam lasting over a millennium that propelled Chinese influences onto Vietnamese culture in terms of Confucian ideology, governance, and the arts.\n\nFollowing independence from China in the 10th century, successive Vietnamese imperial dynasties flourished as the country embarked on a southward expansion that annexed territories of the Champa and Khmer civilizations, which resulted in regional variances of modern-day Vietnamese culture. During the French colonial period in the mid-19th century, Vietnamese culture absorbed European influences including architecture, Catholicism, and the adoption of the Latin alphabet, which created the new \"Chữ Quốc ngữ\" writing system that replaced the previous Chinese characters and \"Chữ Nôm\" scripts.\n\nDuring the socialist era, Vietnamese culture was characterised by government-controlled propaganda, which emphasised the importance of cultural exchanges with fellow communist nations such as the Soviet Union, China, and Cuba. Following the Đổi Mới reforms, Vietnam has continuously absorbed various influences from Asian, European, and American cultures. Part of the East Asian cultural sphere, Vietnamese culture has certain characteristic features including ancestor veneration and worship, respect for community and family values, and manual labour religious belief. Important cultural symbols include turtles, dragons, lotuses, and bamboo.\n\nIn terms of societal levels of organization, the two most important units are \"làng\" (village) and \"nước\" (country). The Vietnamese usually say that \"\"làng\" goes hand in hand with \"nước\".\" Intermediate organizational units are \"quận/huyện\" (district), \"xã\" (commune) and \"tỉnh\" (province)\n\nVietnam has a long history of warfare, which played a big role in shaping the culture and Identity of the people who now live in the region known as Vietnam.\n\nMajor Events that shaped the nation to become the most militaristic nation in South East Asia are;\n\n\nKinship plays an important role in Vietnam. Unlike Western culture's emphasis on individualism, Eastern culture values in the roles of family and clanship. Comparing with Eastern cultures, Chinese culture values family over clan while Vietnamese cultural values clan over family. Each clan has a patriarch, clan altar, and death commemorations attended by the whole clan.\n\nMost inhabitants are related by blood. That fact is still seen in village names such as Đặng Xá (place for the Đặng clan), Châu Xá, Lê Xá, so on so forth. In the Western highlands the tradition of many families in a clan residing in a longhouse is still popular. In the majority of rural Vietnam today, one can still see three or four generations living under one roof.\n\nThe traditional Vietnamese wedding is one of the most important tradition in Vietnamese occasions. Regardless of Westernization, many of the age-old customs practiced in a traditional Vietnamese wedding continue to be celebrated by both Vietnamese in Vietnam and overseas, often combining both Western and Eastern traditions.\n\nIn the past, both men and women were expected to be married at young ages. Some mountainous places exists \"Tao Hon\" because one of the couples are too young to get married just 13 or 14 years old. Marriages called contractual marriages were generally arranged by the parents and extended family, with the children having limited input on the matter. In modern Vietnam, this has changed, as people freely choose their own marriage partners.\n\nGenerally there are two main ceremonies:\n\n\nWhen a person passes away in Vietnam, the surviving family holds a wake ceremony or vigil that typically lasts about five to six days, but may last longer if the surviving family is waiting for other traveling relatives. The body is washed and dressed. A \"le ngam ham\", or chopstick, is laid between the teeth and a pinch of rice and three coins are placed in the mouth. The body is put on a grass mat laid on the ground according to the saying, \"being born from the earth, one must return back to the earth.\" The dead body is enveloped with white cloth, \"lễ khâm niệm\", and placed in a coffin, \"lễ nhập quan\". Finally, the funeral ceremony, \"lễ thành phục\", is officially performed.\n\nThe surviving family wear coarse gauze turbans and tunics for the funeral. There are two types of funeral processions:\n\nIn Vietnam, after 100 days of them passing away, the family of the deceased undergo a ritual in which the whole family sits in pairs in a long line up to a single member of the family. A monk (thầy cúng) places a thin piece of cotton over the family member's head and ring a bell and chant while rotating the bell around the deceased's head, sending them into a trance and opening a way for the deceased to return to the living. A bamboo tree with only leaves on the top with small pieces of paper with the deceased's name written on them starts to wave when the deceased is coming. \n\nThis ritual takes all day to prepare and then as long as six hours praying and chanting, changing the family member at the front of the line. Afterwards they then burn a paper house and paper-made possessions (that which the deceased would have loved during his/her life) so that they may take it through to their next life with them.\n\nReligion in Vietnam has historically been largely defined by a mix of Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism, known in Vietnamese as the Tam Giáo (\"triple religion\"). Catholicism is also practiced in modern Vietnam.\n\nAncestor worship is common in Vietnamese culture. Most Vietnamese, regardless of religious denomination, practice ancestor worship and have an ancestor altar at their home or business, a testament to the emphasis Vietnamese culture places on filial piety.\n\nVietnamese literature includes two major components: folk literature and written literature. The two forms developed simultaneously and are profoundly interrelated.\n\nVietnamese folk literature came into being very early and had a profound effect on the spiritual life of the Viet. The folk literature contributed to the formation of Vietnam's national identity with praising beauty, humanism, and the love of goodness. Legends, fairy tales, humorous stories, folk songs, and epic poems have a tremendous vitality and have lived on until today.\n\nWritten literature was born roughly in the 10th century. Up until the 21st century, there had been two components existing at the same time: works written in the Han characters (with poems and prose demonstrating the. Vietnamese soul and realities; thus, they were still regarded as Vietnamese literature) and works written in the Nom character (mostly poems; many great works were handed down to the later generations).\n\nSince the 1920s, written literature has been mainly composed in the National language with profound renovations in form and category such as novels, new-style poems, short stories and dramas, and with diversity in artistic tendency. Written literature attained speedy development after the August Revolution, when it was directed by the Vietnamese Communist Party's guideline and focused on the people's fighting and work life.\n\nModern Vietnamese literature has developed from romanticism to realism, from heroism in wartime to all aspects of life, and soared into ordinary life to discover the genuine values of the Vietnamese.\n\nClassical literature generated such masterpieces as \"Truyen Kieu\" (Nguyễn Du), \"Cung Oán Ngâm Khúc\" (Nguyễn Gia Thiều), \"Chinh Phu Ngam\" (Dang Tran Con), and \"Quoc Am Thi Tap\" (Nguyễn Trãi). Some brilliant female poets are Hồ Xuân Hương, Doan Thi Diem, and Bà Huyện Thanh Quan.\n\nHistorically, Vietnamese poetry has a three language tradition. The first written language was a version of Chinese called Sino-Vietnamese, it was named this as it was the Chinese language read in a Vietnamese way. This style of poetry was most prominent until the 13th century. After this, Vietnamese poetry and literature became the main competitor of Chinese literature and language. Because of this a new language emerged for poetry called Chu Nom, this was sanctioned by the government and as the countries primary language. This was the main language in poetry until the end of the 20th century. This was then changed by Romanized script translated from the Europeans whilst invading the country (known as Quoc Ngu). This meant that translated poems got somewhat lost in translation. All this history means that Vietnam has a diverse range of cultural poetry throughout history.\n\nTraditional Vietnamese art is a part of art practiced in Vietnam or by Vietnamese artists, from ancient times (including the elaborate Đông Sơn drums) to post-Chinese domination art which was strongly influenced by Chinese Buddhist art, as well as Taoism and Confucianism. The art of Champa and France also played a smaller role later on.\n\nThe Chinese Arts's influence on Vietnamese art extends into Vietnamese pottery and ceramics, calligraphy, and traditional architecture. Currently, Vietnamese lacquer paintings have proven to be quite popular.\n\nCalligraphy has had a long history in Vietnam, previously using Chinese characters along with Chữ Nôm. However, most modern Vietnamese calligraphy instead uses the Roman-character based Quốc Ngữ, which has proven to be very popular.\n\nIn the past, with literacy in the old character-based writing systems of Vietnam being restricted to scholars and elites, calligraphy nevertheless still played an important part in Vietnamese life. On special occasions such as the Lunar New Year, people would go to the village teacher or scholar to make them a calligraphy hanging (often poetry, folk sayings or even single words). People who could not read or write also often commissioned at temple shrines.\n\nVietnamese silk painting is one of the most popular forms of art in Vietnam, favored for the mystical atmosphere that can be achieved with the medium. During the 19th and 20th centuries, French influence was absorbed into Vietnamese art and the liberal and modern use of color especially began to differentiate Vietnamese silk paintings from their Chinese, Japanese and Korean counterparts. Vietnamese silk paintings typically showcase the countryside, landscapes, pagodas, historical events or scenes of daily life.\n\nA folk art with a long history in Vietnam, Vietnamese woodblock prints have reached a level of popularity outside of Vietnam. Organic materials are used to make the paint, which is applied to wood and pressed on paper. The process is repeated with different colors.\n\nVietnamese music varies slightly in the three regions: or North, or Central, and or South. Northern classical music is Vietnam's oldest and is traditionally more formal. Vietnamese classical music can be traced to the Mongol invasions, when the Vietnamese captured a Chinese opera troupe. Central classical music shows the influences of Champa culture with its melancholic melodies. Southern music exudes a lively laissez-faire attitude.\n\nVietnam has some 50 national music instruments, in which the set of percussion instruments is the most popular, diverse and long-lasting such as \"đàn đáy, đàn tranh, đàn nhị, đàn bầu\" ... The set of blowing instruments is represented by flutes and pan-pipes, while the set of string instruments is specified by \"dan bau\" and \"dan day\".\n\nVietnamese folksongs are rich in forms and melodies of regions across the country, ranging from \"ngâm thơ\" (reciting poems), \"hát ru\" (lullaby), \"hò\" (chanty) to \"hát quan họ, trong quan, xoan, dum, ví giặm, ca Huế, bài chòi, ly\". Apart from this, there are also other forms like \"hát xẩm, chầu văn\", and \"ca trù.\"\n\nTwo of the most widely known genres are:\n\nIn the 20th century, in contact with the Western culture, especially after national independence, many new categories of arts like plays, photography, cinemas, and modern art had taken shape and developed strongly, obtaining huge achievements with the contents reflecting the social and revolutionary realities. Up to 1997, there have been 44 people operating in cultural and artistic fields honored with the Ho Chi Minh Award, 130 others conferred with People's Artist Honor, and 1011 people awarded with the Excellent Artist Honor. At the start of 1997, there were 191 professional artistic organizations and 26 film studios (including central and local ones). There have been 28 movies, 49 scientific and documentary films receiving international motion picture awards in many countries. :)\n\n\nWater puppetry (), is a distinct Vietnamese art form which had its origins in the 10th century and very popular in northern region. In Water puppetry a split-bamboo screen obscures puppets which stand in water, and are manipulated using long poles hidden beneath the water. Epic story lines are played out with many different puppets, often using traditional scenes of Vietnamese life. The puppets are made from quality wood, such as the South East Asian Jackfruit tree. Each puppet is carefully carved, and then painted with numerous successive layers of paint in order to protect the puppets.\n\nDespite nearly dying out in the 20th century, water puppetry has been recognized by the Vietnamese government as an important part of Vietnam's cultural heritage. Today, puppetry is commonly performed by professional puppeteers, who typically are taught by their elders in rural areas of Vietnam.\n\nVietnam has 54 different ethnicities, each with their own traditional dance. Among the ethnic Vietnamese majority, there are several traditional dances performed widely at festivals and other special occasions, such as the lion dance.\n\nIn the imperial court, there also developed throughout the centuries a series of complex court dances which require great skill. Some of the more widely known are the imperial lantern dance, fan dance, and platter dance, among others.\n\nCommunication in Vietnam, like other countries in the region, is indirect, based upon rapport and respect, and relies heavily on body language. Showing agreement by saying \"yes\" shows respect even if the person does not agree with what's being said. For example, one would say \"yes\" to an invitation even if one does not intend on attending. The individual would simply not attend. Breaking this rapport or disagreeing is deemed disrespectful. Face facial expression is crucial to Vietnamese, so they are usually very indirect with what they say and usually avoid stating their opinion in case they are wrong. It is considered to be polite if women speak softly when they talk. If they talk with a high volume in their speech, it is considered to be negative. Children are unable to disagree with elders. Smiling is often used as an apology. Eye contact is usually avoided. Taboo things in western culture, such as asking about one's age or salary during an initial meeting, is normal. Storytelling is often used as a form of communication.\n\nVietnamese cuisine is extremely diverse, often divided into three main categories, each pertaining to Vietnam's three main regions (north, central and south). It uses very little oil and many vegetables, and is mainly based on rice, soy sauce, and fish sauce. Its characteristic flavors are sweet (sugar), spicy (serrano pepper), sour (lime), \"nuoc mam\" (fish sauce), and flavored by a variety of mint and basil.\nVietnam also has a large variety of noodles and noodle soups. Different regions invented typically different types of noodles, varying in shapes, tastes, colors, etc. One of the nation's most famous type of noodles is phở (pronounced \"fuh\"), a type of noodle soup originating in North Vietnam, which consists of rice noodles and beef soup (sometimes chicken soup) with several other ingredients such as bean sprouts and scallions (spring onions). It is often eaten for breakfast, but also makes a satisfying lunch or light dinner. The boiling stock, fragrant with spices and sauces, is poured over the noodles and vegetables, poaching the paper-thin slices of raw beef just before serving. Phở is meant to be savored, incorporating several different flavors: the sweet flavour of beef, sour lemons, salty fish sauce, and fresh vegetables.\n\nCurrently, Vietnamese cuisine has been gaining popularity and can be found widely in many other countries such as Singapore, the United States, Australia, Canada, South Korea, Laos, Japan, China, Malaysia, and France. Vietnamese cuisine is recognized for its strict, sometimes choosy selection of ingredients. A chef preparing authentic Vietnamese cuisine may incorporate the ingredients provided in these countries, but generally will prefer ingredients native to Vietnam.\n\nThe Han Chinese referred to the various non-Han \"barbarian\" peoples of north Vietmam and southern China as \"Yue\" (Viet) or Baiyue, saying they possessed common habits like adapting to water, having their hair cropped short and tattooed. The Han also said their language was \"animal shrieking\" and that they lacked morals, modesty, civilization and culture.\n\nWhen Han Chinese ruled the Vietnamese in the Fourth Chinese domination of Vietnam due to the Ming dynasty's conquest during the Ming–Hồ War they imposed the Han Chinese style of men wearing long hair on short haired Vietnamese men. Vietnamese were ordered to stop cutting and instead grow their hair long and switch to Han Chinese clothing in only a month by a Ming official. Ming administrators said their mission was to civilized the unorthodox Vietnamese barbarians. The Ming dynasty only wanted the Vietnamese to wear long hair and to stop teeth blackening so they could have white teeth and long hair like Chinese. A royal edict was issued by Vietnam in 1474 forbidding Vietnamese from adopting foreign languages, hairstyles and clothes like that of the Lao, Champa or the \"Northerners\" which referred to the Ming. The edict was recorded in the 1479 Complete Chronicle of Dai Viet of Ngô Sĩ Liên.\n\nThe Vietnamese had adopted the Chinese political system and culture during the 1,000 years of Chinese rule so they viewed their surrounding neighbors like Khmer Cambodians as barbarians and themselves as a small version of China (the Middle Kingdom). By the Nguyen dynasty the Vietnamese themselves were ordering Cambodian Khmer to adopt Han Chinese culture by ceasing \"barbarous\" habits like cropping hair and ordering them to grow it long besides making them replace skirts with trousers. Han Chinese Ming dynasty refugees numbering 3,000 came to Vietnam at the end of the Ming dynasty. They opposed the Qing dynasty and were fiercely loyal to the Ming dynasty. Vietnamese women married these Han Chinese refugees since most of them were soldiers and single men. Their descendants became known as Minh Hương and they strongly identified as Chinese despite influence from Vietnanese mothers. They did not wear Manchu hairstyle unlike later Chinese migrants to Vietnam during the Qing dynasty.\n\nIn feudal Vietnam, clothing was one of the most important marks of social status and strict dress codes were enforced.\nPrior to the Nguyễn dynasty, people not of noble birth could dress quite liberally with only few restrictions on styles. For example, wearing yellow color in the Lý dynasty was tolerable since the Imperial clan wore red and white color. However, things changed at the beginning of the Nguyễn dynasty. Commoners now had a limited choice of similarly plain and simple clothes for every day use, as well as being limited in the colors they were allowed to use. For instance, commoners were not allowed to wear clothes with dyes other than black, brown or white (with the exception of special occasions such as festivals), but in actuality these rules could change often based upon the whims of the current ruler.\nThe Áo giao lĩnh (襖交領) was a traditional cross-collared robe worn by Vietnamese before the 19th century. During the Nguyen dynasty, it was replaced by the áo dài and became obsolete.\n\nThe Áo Tứ Thân or \"four-part dress\" is one such example of an ancient dress widely worn by commoner women, along with the Áo yếm bodice which accompanied it. Peasants across the country also gradually came to wear silk pajama-like costumes, known as \"Áo cánh\" in the north and Áo bà ba in the south.\n\nThe headgear differed from time to time. People of the Lý dynasty and Nguyễn dynasty often put on a plain piece of cloth wrapped around the head (generally called Khăn đóng), while in Trần dynasty and Lê dynasty leaving the head bare was more common. Beside the popular Nón Lá (conical hat), a vast array of other hats and caps were available, constructed from numerous different types of materials, ranging from silk to bamboo and horse hair. Even the Nón Lá (conical hat) used to take several different shapes and sizes, now only two styles still persist. For footwear peasants would often go barefoot, whereas sandals and shoes were reserved for the aristocracy and royalty.\n\nNguyễn Monarchs had the exclusive right to wear the color gold, while nobles wore red or purple. In the past the situation was different, Đinh dynasty and Lý dynasty rulers wore red, and Trần dynasty emperors wore white. Each member of the royal court had an assortment of different formal gowns they would wear at a particular ceremony, or for a particular occasion. The rules governing the fashion of the royal court could change dynasty by dynasty, thus Costumes of the Vietnamese court were quite diverse. However, certain fundamental concepts applied.\n\nThe most popular and widely recognized Vietnamese national costume is the . Áo Dài was once worn by both genders but today it is worn mainly by women, except for certain important traditional culture-related occasions where some men do wear it. Áo Dài consists of a long gown with a slit on both sides, worn over cotton or silk trousers. Adoption and enforcement of Áo Dài took place in the mid 18th century by the rulers of Huế. They decided that their garments had to be distinctive to set themselves apart from the people of Tonkin where \"áo giao lĩnh\" and \"nhu quần\" were worn. White Áo dài is the required uniform for girls in many high schools across Vietnam. In some types of offices (e.g. receptionists, secretaries, tour guides), women are also required to wear Áo Dài.\n\nIn daily life, the traditional Vietnamese styles are now replaced by Western styles. Traditional clothing is worn instead on special occasions, with the exception of the white Áo Dài commonly seen with high school girls in Vietnam.\n\nVietnamese martial arts are highly developed from the country's long history of warfare and attempts to defend itself from foreign occupation. Although most heavily influenced by Chinese martial arts, it has developed its own characteristics throughout the millennia in combination with other influences from its neighbours. Vietnamese martial arts is deeply spiritual due to the influence of Confucianism, Buddhism and Taoism, and is strongly reliant on the \"Viet Vo Dao\" (philosophy of Vietnamese martial arts). It is probably most famous for its scissor kicks.\n\nThe general Vietnamese term for martial arts is \"Võ-Thuật.\" Some of the more popular include:\n\nVietnamese martial arts remains relatively unknown in the world today when compared to its counterparts from China, Japan, Korea or Thailand. However, this is seeing a definite change as schools teaching various styles of Vietnamese martial arts are starting to pop up all over the world, notably in countries such as Spain.\n\nVietnam celebrates many holidays, including traditional holidays which have been celebrated in Vietnam for thousands of years, along with modern holidays imported predominantly from western countries.\n\nAmong the traditional holidays, the two most important and widely celebrated are the Lunar new year (Tết), followed by the Mid-autumn lantern festival (Tết Trung Thu), although the latter has been losing ground in recent years.\n\nVietnam has a number of UNESCO-listed World Heritage Sites, as well as cultural relics deemed as intangible heritage. These are split into specific categories:\n\n\n\n\nThere are a number of other potential world heritage sites, as well as intangible cultural heritage which Vietnam has completed documents on for UNESCO's recognition in the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907338", "title": "Culture of Laos", "text": "Culture of Laos\n\nLaos developed its culture and customs as the inland crossroads of trade and migration in Southeast Asia over millennia. As of 2012 Laos has a population of roughly 6.4 million spread over 236,800 km (91,400 sq miles), yielding one of the lowest population densities in Asia. Yet the country of Laos has an official count of over forty-seven ethnicities divided into 149 sub-groups and 80 different languages. The Lao Loum have throughout the country's history comprised the ethnic and linguistic majority. In Southeast Asia, traditional Lao culture is considered one of the Indic cultures (along with Burma, Thailand and Cambodia).\nLaos is geographically isolated and mountainous, bounded by the Annamite Range in the east, forming a traditional political and cultural boundary with Vietnam (a more Chinese influenced Sinitic culture). Much of the western borders of Laos are formed by the Mekong River which provided the major means of inland trade despite limited navigability along the river's length. Prior to the 20th century Lao principalities and the Kingdom of Lan Xang extended to the Sipsong Panna (China), Sipsong Chau Tai (Vietnam), and Khorat Plateau (today the northeast of Thailand) where the river was used as a transportation artery to connect Lao peoples on both the right and left banks. However, the political history of Laos has been complicated by frequent warfare and colonial conquests by European and regional rivals. As a result, Laos today has cultural influence from France, Thailand, China, Vietnam, Burma and Cambodia. The history of Laos is unique with a national character defined by its diversity in both culture and customs.\n\n, Laos has an estimated population of 6.5 million. The Lao government recognizes 47 distinct ethnicities, which are further sub-divided into 149 subgroups. Lao society is traditionally categorized into three broad groups based on ethnicity and location. Approximately 50% of the total population is ethnic Lao (Lao Loum or Lao Tai); 10% are categorized as Lao Theung or “upland Lao” who are predominantly people of Mon or Khmer ancestry; another 34% are Lao Sung or “mountain Lao,” and are also commonly referred to as “hill tribes.” Hill tribe peoples in Laos include the Hmong, Yao (Mien), Akha, and Lahu. Laos is also home to sizeable communities of Vietnamese and Chinese who make up the 6% remaining.\nAnthropologists consider the Lao Loum as a subcategory of the wider “Tai” ethnic group who share common genetic, linguistic, and cultural heritage. The Tai family includes the Lao and Thai, as well as smaller groups which have generally been distinguished by their traditional dress and include the Tai Dam (Black Tai), Tai Daeng (Red Tai), and Tai Khao (White Tai). The Laos to define both the ethnicity and nationality. Further complication is added by the geopolitical history between Laos and Thailand, there are an estimated 19 million “Lao” speakers living in northeastern Thailand (Thai Isan or Lao Tai) and only 3 million in Laos. As a consequence identity politics has played a major role in the defining the Lao Loum. The Lao government makes no distinction between the bordering groups and views them as sharing a common identity, but the government of Thailand has through a process known as “Thaification” assimilated the Lao living in Isan. The Lao Loum define themselves based on location, agricultural practice, language and religion. The Lao Loum occupy the Mekong River valleys and cultivate wet rice crops, they are predominantly Theravada Buddhist but have strong syncretism with traditional animist beliefs.\nLao Theung are culturally distinct from both the Lao Loum and Lao Sung. The Lao Theung generally include Mon-Khmer peoples which are among the indigenous peoples from the Mekong River valleys. The largest single group (11% or 500,000 people) is Khmu (Khmou, Kmhmu, Khammu, Khamu, Kammu). Also included in the Lao Theung population are Katang, Bru, Kui, Laven, Mal, Phai, Katu, Lave, Ngae, Jeh, Khuen, Jeng, Alak, Ir, Kasseng, Khlor, Aheu, Bo, Halang, Doan, Hung, Xinh Mul, Khua, Arem, Bit, Chut, Maleng and Mlabri. The Lao Theung peoples are distinguished by dry rice cultivation, and animist beliefs.\n\nThe Lao Sung are commonly known as “hill tribe” peoples, and are generally among the most recent mass populations to migrate into Laos having arrived in the nineteenth century from southern China and Vietnam. The Hmong are the largest group, which are generally subdivided by traditional dress including the White, Red, Black and Striped Hmong. The Yao (Mien and Lu Mien) are another large group of Lao Sung, and distinguish themselves through the incorporation of Taoist deities with their animist beliefs. Other groups of Lao Sung include the Akha, Kaw, Lahu, Kaduo, Lisu, Hani, Phana, Si La, and Kado. The Lao Sung were heavily recruited by the United States and its allies during the wars against the communists in the 1960s. As much as 10% of the Lao population and 50% of the Lao Sung population fled the communist takeover of Laos in 1975, and continued during the following decade. The remaining Lao Sung population has been the target of government suspicion for a low intensity armed conflict since that time. There are sizeable communities of Hmong in the United States and France. The Lao Sung are commonly identified by language, dry rice production, slash-and-burn agriculture, traditional opium production and animist beliefs.\n\nThere are over 90 distinct native languages spoken by the different ethnic populations of Laos. Lao, the official language of Laos, is a monosyllabic tone based language from the Tai-Kadai family as spoken in Vientiane. There are 19 million Lao speakers in Thailand and 3 million in Laos, a reflection of geopolitical history. Lao can be further divided according to regional dialects including Vientiane, northern, northeastern, central and southern. Northern dialects are spoken in Sainyabuli, Bokeo, Phongsali, Luang Nam Tha, Udomxai, and Luang Prabang. Northeastern Lao is spoken mainly in Xiang Khoang and Houa Phan. Central Lao is found in Khammuan and Bolikhamsai. The Southern dialect is used in Champasak, Salavan, Savannakhet, Attapeu, and Sekong.\nAs part of the Tai-Kadai language family spoken Thai is similar to Lao, with some distinctions. Lao has six tones, whereas Bangkok Thai has five, the standard lexicon, grammar, usage and pronunciations are also different. The two languages are not mutually intelligible, although Lao speakers tend to have an easier time understanding Thai because of the prevalence of Thai radio and media in and around Laos.\n\nOther major Language families include Austro-Asiatic languages spoken by the Mon-Khmer (Lao Theung) peoples, Hmong-Mien and Burmo-Tibetan (Lao Sung). Chinese and Vietnamese is spoken within their respective ethnic communities.\n\nAmong Western languages French is commonly understood among the older (post-colonial) generation, and is still used in limited application for academic and official correspondence. English is quickly being adopted as the language of business and tourism, and is supplanting French among younger generations as the unofficial second language.\n\nLaos is approximately 66% Theravada Buddhist, which roughly falls along ethnic lines with the majority of practitioners being Lao Loum. The remainder is largely animist, following their unique ethnic traditions and practices. Even among the Lao Loum there is a high degree of syncretism with most Lao acknowledging the traditional animist traditions known collectively as \"satsana phi\". Other religions are in the minority including Islam and Christianity and represent a combined total of less than 2% of the population.\n\nTheravada Buddhism is central to Lao cultural identity. The national symbol of Laos is the That Luang stupa, a stupa with a pyramidal base capped by the representation of a closed lotus blossom which was built to protect relics of the Buddha. The shrine has been rebuilt several times since being created in the thirteenth century by the Khmer, with the largest expansions by King Setthathirath in the 1500s as part of a nationwide building campaign.\n\nTraditionally in Laos males would become novice monks at some point in their lives, giving them the opportunity to gain both an education and religious merit. Laos also has a somewhat unusual belief among Buddhist countries that merit (\"boun\") is transferable among people, thus a son or daughter may make merit for a parent by temporarily entering a monastery. Lay persons are expected to feed and care for the monks of their local community, with the morning processions of monks (\"tak bat\") who walk to collect offerings. Monks renounce material possessions and labor, thus the community and the monastery (\"wat\") are bound in a mutually reinforcing relationship.\n\nAnimist traditions are also very strong in Laos with the belief in traditional spirits being a common cultural tie among the Lao Loum, Lao Theung and Lao Sung although such beliefs are strictly organized according to local traditions.\n\nCollectively the Lao belief in spirits is referred to as Satsana Phi. Phi are the spirits of buildings or territories, natural places, or phenomena; they are also ancestral spirits that protect people, or can also include malevolent spirits. The phi which are guardian deities of places, or towns are celebrated at festivals with communal gatherings and offerings of food. Many Lao will have a spirit house on or near their property which is an important folk custom used to ensure balance with the natural and supernatural world.\n\nPhi were believed to influence natural phenomena including human illness and so appealing to the phi became an important part of Lao identity and religious health over the millennia. Astrology was a vital part to understanding the natural and spiritual worlds and became an important cultural means to enforce social taboos and customs.\n\nTraditionally the Lao Loum also believed that ancient mythical serpents known as \"ngueak\" inhabited major waterways, carving out the surrounding countryside and protecting key points along rivers or other bodies of water. The earliest name for the Mekong River was \"Nam Nyai Ngu Luang\" or \"Great River of the Giant Serpent.\" \"Ngueak\", and the nāga which have been “tamed” by Buddhism, were believed to bring rains, or change shape, and nāga in particular were believed to be protection spirits which inhabited the cities of Vientiane and Luang Prabang in Lan Xang. Nāga have endured as common motifs not only in myth and legend, but also on Lao temples, and silk weavings. Overtime the nāga became a potent symbol of the Kingdom of Lan Xang!!\n\nLao social structures are comparatively simpler than in neighboring Cambodia or Thailand, which is a logical outgrowth considering the ethnic diversity of Laos. Lao Theung and Lao Sung groups were outside the traditional class structures, but together made up a large portion of the population.\n\nTraditionally the king was at the apex of secular and religious authority, as both the head of the sangha and his saksit power in animist beliefs. The remainder of the population was headed by a class of nobility and then the general population. There were no strong caste rules as appeared in Thailand with \"sakdi na\" or Khmer based cultures. Apart from the social structure was the Theravada clergy, which were due respect regardless of class. The fact the most males became monks at some point in their lives provided a route for social mobility and exposure to formal education.\n\nSince the King of Laos was deposed in 1975, there were early attempts to downplay the importance of the monarchy and replace or alter many religious traditions and holidays. In recent years there has been renewed interest in the monarchy but from a nationalistic perspective, in a similar model to China since the 1990s. The socialist revolution theoretically put an end to the class distinctions in Laos, but in reality simply transferred traditional structures onto a different set of elite. The Lao sangha has also recovered their traditional role and status in much of Lao society.\n\nLao social status places an emphasis on respect for elders; religious images and clergy; family and village authority; and the Buddhist concept of \"dharma\" which emphasizes personal moral duty. Buddhist principles encourage stoic indifference and quiet reserve in dealing with disagreements. However, Lao people also have a strong concept of \"muan\" or “happy contentment” which encourages actions to not be taken too seriously or too quickly.\n\nThe family unit is the basis of much social interaction, as such it is common for Lao to refer to each other using familiar cognates such as “sister, brother, aunt or uncle” without an actual family tie to that person. Friendship falls between two categories, \"moo linh\" “play friends” are acquaintances and \"moo tai\" “die friends” who are considered as family. It is not uncommon or even considered rude for \"moo tai\" to show up unannounced for an extended stay, or to share personal possessions. Personal face-to-face contact is considered the most polite, and Western notions of invitations, letters and emails are viewed as foreign.\n\nTraditional Lao are conservative about their appearance and personal space. Lao people are also generally sensitive about physical contact. The head is considered as sacred, whereas the left hand and feet are ritually unclean. In keeping with social status it is expected that younger people slightly bow or keep their heads lower than elders or clergy. Except among a parent child relationship it is considered condescending to touch a Lao person's head. Pointing with the hands or fingers is also insulting especially during a disagreement. Positioning of feet is highly important. Feet should never be pointed toward a Buddha image, member of the clergy, or elders. Shoes should always be removed when entering a temple or a Lao home or will give serious offence.\n\nThe typical Lao greeting is the \"nop\" which is similar to the wai in Thailand or the \"satu\" in Cambodia, and is based on the Indic Añjali Mudrā. In a \"nop\" the hands are clasped together upright in a prayerful position, with fingertips below the nose and a slight downward gaze. The \"nop\" is often accompanied with the greeting \"Sabaidee\" or “good health (to you)” and is considered the polite address for members of higher social status.\n\nSpecial social attention is paid to monks and religious items. Touching a Buddha image or animist shrine is always offensive. Lao people will generally \"nop\" and kneel when approached by passing monks. In respect for the monastic vows, it is considered an offence for women to touch a monk, his robes, or to hand anything to a monk directly. In many instances a male friend or family member will be used as an intermediary or lacking that a plate or some other item will be used and then placed on the ground for the monk to use. However, compassion is the guiding principle in such interactions and the exception is up to the monk to determine.\n\nLao social etiquette is extremely complex, and much of it may go unnoticed by a non-Lao. In the past it was not uncommon for rule books (\"dtumla\") which thoroughly explained social interactions, timing, and which activities which should be undertaken at key times to be used.\n\nThe baci is the national folk ritual of Laos and the Lao Loum. The animist ceremony is part of satsana phi, and is used for all major social and life events. The Lao believe the soul has 32 components which can become imbalanced. The baci reinforces the soul and the community, and involves all the gathered into making prayers and well-wishes symbolized by silk or cotton threads which are tied around the wrists.\n\nLaos takes most of its traditional literature from sixteenth and seventeenth century Lan Xang. The most notable genre is the epic poetry of which several masterpieces have survived despite Laos’ tropical climate and history of conflict and warfare.\n\nThe \"Sin Xay \" follows the mythological tale of a king and his kidnapped sister by the Lord of the Nyak. The \"Thao Hung Thao Cheuang\" recounts the struggles of the Khmmu and indigenous peoples of Laos at the time of the Tai migrations as told by their mythical king, and is one of the most important works of literature in Southeast Asia for its depiction of life among its indigenous societies. Other notable works of Lao epic poetry include the rain legends of the Toad King (\"Phya Khankhaak\") which are retold during the annual Rocket Festival, and the story of \"Phadaeng Nang Ai\" which is an epic love poem set across multiple reincarnations.\n\nThe Lao also have a number of origin legends including the \"Nithan Khun Borom\" (Story of Khun Borom) which recounts the creation of the world, and the \"Nithan Khun Lo\" which tells how the descendants of Khun Borom settled the lands of mainland Southeast Asia. \nReflecting Laos’ Theravada Buddhist heritage a number of religious and morality stories are among the most popular in Laos. The national epic of Laos is the \"Phra Lak Phra Lam\" and retells the Lao version of the Ramayana as a previous life of the Buddha. Also, the \"Vessantara\" Jataka is generally considered one of the greatest masterpieces of Lao literature. The story recalls the past life of a compassionate prince, Vessantara, who gives away everything he owns, including his children, thereby displaying the virtue of perfect charity.\n\nLaos has a strong tradition of folklore. Ghost stories, place legends, stories of naga and trickster tales of \"Xieng Mieng\" are quite popular and are the dominate forms of oral tradition.\n\nLaos has experienced several major wars and occupations since the eighteenth century. Laos holds distinction as the most heavily bombed country in world, as a result of the wars against the communist revolutions in Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia during the 1960s and 1970s. Years of economic isolation have also taken a toll. The international trade in antiquities has also taken a toll on Laos’ artistic heritage due to persistent poverty. As a consequence much of the traditional art and architecture in Laos has been pillaged, sold, destroyed or suffered significant damage over the past three centuries.\n\nThe first attempts at preservation outside the local \"wat\" occurred with both French academics working in the early 1900s for the École française d'Extrême-Orient (EFEO), and Prince Phetsarath in the 1950s as part of the early nationalist movement. International non-governmental organizations geared toward cultural preservation have been allowed to operate since the early 1990s, but are normally connected to a particular ministry or government organization so their activities can be monitored. Most of Laos’ cultural heritage is stored or protected in monasteries throughout the country. Museums are few, with the Haw Phra Kaew in Vientiane, and the Royal Palace Museum in Luang Prabang housing much of the remaining Lao art and cultural items of significance.\n\nWeaving is the dominate form of artistic cultural expression in Laos, it is common across all ethnicities and is the most widely recognized cultural export abroad. Lao mothers will often pass their weaving skills on to their daughters as a sign of eligibility for marriage. Patterns, techniques and colors vary according to region or ethnic group. \nWomen traditionally raise the silk worms on a constant diet of mulberry leaves, the silk is woven on hand looms in the north or (less commonly) on foot looms in the south. Each region and ethnic group has their own traditional weaving techniques. In the south weaving is characterized by intricate patterns of elephants, temples, khmer influenced designs and features intricate beadwork. The northeast is known for using raw silk and cotton, and tye-dying raw silk known as \"matmii\" or ikat. Central Laos runs along the Mekong River and is known for natural indigo dyes and diamond patterns which symbolize the protective scales of the mythical naga. In the former royal city of Luang Prabang embroidery using delicate gold and silver threads is also preserved. The art was passed from mother to daughter and both patterns and pieces would be embellished with each passing generation.\n\nBuddhist motifs dominate Lao decorative art forms. Sculpture is among the most prominent form of traditional Lao art. Sculptures of the Buddha were traditionally cast in bronze, silver, gold or \"thong\" which is a gold and silver alloy. Wooden Buddha images were made by individuals seeking merit are common at the local village level. The sculptures follow conventional forms and mudras found throughout Theravada Southeast Asia, with two forms being almost unusually Lao in origin. The most common form is the standing Buddha in a “calling for rain” mudra, with hands at his side in a downward position, and a symmetrical flowing robe on both sides. Another less common Lao mudra is again standing, with hands crossed in front at the wrists in a “contemplation” mudra. These images have their origins in the sixteenth century, and are further characterized by longer facial features, and thinner more aquiline noses.\n\nThe most culturally and religiously significant sculpture in Laos today is the Phra Bang a gold statue from which the city of Luang Pra Bang takes its name. According to legend the Phra Bang was cast in Ceylon, transferred to the Khmer Empire and then came north to Lan Xang at the request of Fa Ngum's Khmer queen. Other historically significant Buddha images include the colossal bronze Buddha images found in Wat Ong Teu and Wat Manorom. Smaller images are also found at the Haw Phra Kaew, and Wat Sisaket in Vientiane or in the many temples like Wat Visoun in Luang Prabang. These Buddha images were produced in Laos and show many of the hallmarks of traditional craftsmanship.\n\nA number of significant Buddha images to Lao history have been lost or taken during the conflicts of the nineteenth and twentieth century. The most significant is the “Emerald Buddha,” or Phra Kaew, which resides at the Grand Palace in Bangkok as the palladium of Thailand. Similarly the \"Phra Phutta Butsavarat\", or “Crystal Buddha,” was the palladium of the Kingdom of Champasak and was taken to Bangkok in the nineteenth century. Several other important images which originated in the Kingdom of Lan Na were taken to Laos by King Setthathirath (who was briefly King of Lan Na) in the sixteenth century. These images were crafted for each of his daughters from solid gold, and include the \"Phra Sae Kham\" (housed at Wat Pho Chai in Nong Khai, Thailand), \"Phra Seum\" (housed at Wat Patum Wanaram, in Bangkok, Thailand), and the \"Phra Souk\". These images were taken by the Thai armies in the nineteenth century to Isan and were ultimately bound for Bangkok. Ironically the \"Phra Souk\" or “Lucky Buddha,” sank in the Mekong during the storm which occurred when the three images were being moved by the Thais, the legend is depicted in murals at the Wat Pho Chai. In Amnat Charoen Province, Thailand the \"Phra Lao Thep Nimit\" is another fine example of Lao sculpture which now resides in Thailand. Other sets of royal Buddha images were lost entirely during the era of French colonialism. Many were sold or taken as souvenirs, a number of royal images were lost in 1910 when the French gunboat the \"La Grandiere\" sank on the Mekong en route to a Paris exhibition.\n\nLaos has a history of sophisticated craftsmanship in wood. Traditionally used in temples, many homes and government buildings have some richly carved elements today. Richly carved furniture, elephant howdahs, river barges, and funerary carts can also be found among the private collections of the elite or the Royal collections at the Palace Museum in Luang Prabang.\n\nThe first detailed European accounts of exploration to Laos in the sixteenth century described in detail the delicate bas reliefs which were found on the temples and palaces. Among the most outstanding examples of the craft are found along the temple frieze of Wat Mai, and the royal funerary chapel at Wat Xieng Thong in Luang Prabang.\n\nFolk carvings are also quite popular with votive Buddha images being the most common form, and animist totems being found throughout the areas of the Lao Theung and Lao Sung.\n\nLao metalwork in gold and silver is experiencing a resurgence from its high point in seventeenth century Lan Xang. Silver work is especially prized and popular among ethnic minorities including the Hmong and Yao, and can be found as popular elements of traditional dress among married women.\n\nLaos produces a number of handicrafts which use bamboo and other forms of basketry. Traditionally Lao use intricately woven bamboo mats in homes and temples, although much of the art form has been lost due to the availability and durability of plastic substitutes. Basketry is quite common and is traditionally seen in various forms of domestic kitchen equipment, or even in the house where bamboo thatching is still commonly used. \nMulberry leaves which are not used for silk worm production are frequently used for the production of \"saa\" paper. \"Saa\" paper is a traditional art form which has been incorporated into a number of crafts for the tourist industry around Luang Prabang.\n\nLaos has a 21% urban concentration, with the largest city being capital of Vientiane (est. 500,000 population). The rate of urbanization is growing in Laos but is considerably lower than any of the bordering countries of Vietnam, Thailand or Cambodia. Most of the Lao population is agrarian.\n\nThe ancient capital of Lan Xang, which is today's capital of Vientiane, was thoroughly destroyed as a consequence of the Annouvong Rebellion of the 1820s. As part of French Indochina, the ancient capital was rebuilt as a conscious political statement to both the Lao and Thai of Western power and legitimacy. French building programs extended to Luang Prabang, Savannahket, Xieng Khuang and Pakse as well and many French colonial era buildings can still be found in Lao cities throughout the country.\n\nMost Lao people live in rural villages clustered around a temple (wat). Traditional Lao homes (\"heuan\") are simple, often constructed entirely from woven bamboo thatching or wood, with few rooms. Homes were built on piers or stilts to provide ventilation and protection, and the practice became an important cultural distinction. According to legend, the first peace agreement between Fa Ngum and the Dai Viet established that Lao lands began where the rivers and streams feed the Mekong and the people live in houses built on stilts. Many modern homes reflect Western, Thai, Chinese, and Vietnamese influence. The use of concrete, stucco, brick and tile is common with constructions since the 1940s.\n\nAs a devout Buddhist country, stupas and temples are the most culturally significant buildings in Laos. Lao architecture experienced a Golden Age during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries when many buildings of cultural significance were sponsored by Kings Visoun, Photisarath, and Setthathirath. The most significant buildings include the national symbol of That Luang an important stupa for Buddhist pilgrimage, the Haw Phra Kaew which formerly housed the Emerald Buddha, Wat Sisaket which was built by King Annouvong in the Bangkok style and was spared destruction in the 1820s, and Wat Xieng Thong which was built in 1560 when the capital of Lan Xang was moved to Vientiane.\n\nThere are three distinct types of temple construction in Laos depending on the region and the age of the temple. The Luang Prabang style of temple is best exemplified by Wat Xieng Thong, which shows a low sweeping tiered roof. The Vientiane style of temple is characterized by an open veranda and overhanging tiered roof which have symbolic meaning as levels of Buddhist cosmology, and are crowned by elaborately carved naga at the peak of each roof level. Lastly the Xieng Khouang style is the rarest, due to the extent of fighting which took place in the region during the Lao Civil War. Xieng Khouang style temples are similar to those in Luang Prabang but were often wider and built upon a raised platform with less ornamentation than the other styles.\n\nLao stupas also have a distinct character, with That Luang being the most recognizable example, but would also include the That Phanom in Isan, Thailand, That Dam in Vientiane, and That Sikhottabong (\"That Ing Hang\") in Thakhek. Lao stupas are characterized by a pyramidal base with an upward sloping spire which is elongated to represent a closed lotus blossom. The stupas are significant Buddhist sites of pilgrimage and are customarily built over important religious relics.\n\nWat Phu is a proto-Khmer site located in Champassak Province, which is more than 1,000 years old. The temple was built around a mountain with a natural formation reminiscent of a Shiva lingam. The Khmer built two cities on the banks of the Mekong and used the site (approximately 10 km) to create an earthly representation of the Hindu Mt. Meru using both natural and human construction. The site was abandoned as a Hindu place of worship, but over the centuries has become a site of Buddhist pilgrimage.\n\nThe old city of Luang Prabang is also a recognized World Heritage Site. Luang Prabang is the most heavily visited city in Laos, and was chosen for both its architectural and artistic heritage in fusing traditional Lao and French colonial architecture. There are more than 30 active temples in Luang Prabang, and was the seat of the Kingdom of Lan Xang from 1353-1560 and the Kingdom of Luang Prabang from 1707-1946.\n\nThe stupa That Luang and the Plain of Jars in Xieng Khouang were both nominated for UNESCO status in 1992. That Luang was nominated for its religious significance as a site of Buddhist pilgrimage and the Plain of Jars for its importance as a major archaeological site of Iron Age culture in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe national music of Laos is the \"lam\", where a singer (songs by expert singers are \"mor lam\") uses improvised poetry set to quick tempo music around themes of love, difficulty, and poverty using turns of phrases and subtle humor. Lam is highly regional, and many listeners can determine the setting and themes in the first few lines.\nA popular form of lam is basically a battle-of-the-sexes between an expert male and expert female singer to entertain the audience and trip the opposing singer up using humor, innuendo or stylistic flair. Lam can also be used in story telling as a sung form of folk poetry, and forms the oral tradition predating the national epics in literature. \"Lam\" used in animist traditions creates a type of chant which is used during ceremonies like the baci.\n\nThe most integral instrument for Lao music is the \"khaen\" a free-reed mouth organ made of bamboo. Variations on the khaen are found among most ethnic groups in Laos. Laos also uses a number of classical court instruments which show strong influence from China, Cambodia and Thailand. The ensembles include flutes, zithers, gongs, drums, fiddles, lutes, cymbals and xylophones. Modern \"mor lam\" also includes electric guitars, synthesizers and electric keyboards.\n\nAll traditional theater in Laos is essentially musical in nature. Court music and performances known as \"khon\" and \"lakhon\" feature the most elaborate costuming and dance. Khon and \"lakhon\" originated from the Khmer court and spread throughout the region, beginning in Laos during the Lan Xang era. Typical performances included jataka tales, with the performances of the Pra Lak Pra Lam during Lao New Year in Luang Prabang being the most recognizable today.\nDuring the nineteenth century influence from Thailand and Vietnam spurred the creation of \"lam luang\" or Lao opera. Lam luang is a more theatrical version of lam music complete with sets, costumes and orchestral accompaniment. In 1972 the Pathet Lao formed the Central Lao Opera, the first professional lam luang troupe in Laos. The performances center on social issues, traditional themes, and national propaganda.\n\nThe national folk dance in Laos is the \"lam vong\". The \"lam vong\" begins with an individual using head and hand movements based on Buddhist mudras, who is then joined by a partner, and then by other couples until a crowd forms with three interconnected and slowly turning circles.\n\nPerformance based dances from the royal courts are rare, with highly symbolic movements and steps by female dancers. In the 1980s many of the royal court dancers from Luang Prabang fled the Pathet Lao government to relocate in Nashville, Tennessee. Other traditional performance dances include the \"\"fon dhab\"\" or “sword dance” which is a dance display of men's martial arts. \nThere are a number of folk dances which are popular with Lao Theung and Lao Sung groups. The Hmong perform the \"\"fon bun kin chieng\"\" or Hmong “New Year dance;” the Khmu have a courtship dance known as the \"\"fon pao bang\"\"; the Red and Black Tai have a bamboo cane dance, and the Yao are known for bell and drum dances. There are numerous regional and ethnic variations on all traditional dances in Laos.\n\nLaos has little film or media industry. Television, film, radio and internet media from neighboring Thailand is wide spread and is a source of political and cultural tension. Prior to the 1950s in Laos only documentary French photographs and rarer film footage existed. In the 1960s the Royal Lao Government produced the first feature films in Laos, \"Khukhak Peunkhaen\" “The True and Untrue Friend,” and \"Phaenedin Khong Hao\" “Our Land.” \nDuring the 1970s and 1980s propaganda films were common and the Ministry of Culture took over all production. A number of American movies were set in Laos during this period, but not filmed there, and concentrated on the Vietnam War era perspective. Among American documentaries about Laos the \"Nerakhoon\" or “The Betrayal,” is widely known and follows a family that fled Laos in the 1970s and follows their post-Vietnam War story in the United States.\n\nIn 2007 the full-length feature movie \"Sabaidee Luang Prabang\" “Good Morning Luang Prabang” was released by Thai director Sakchai Deenan about a Thai photographer who falls in love with a Lao tour guide. Also in 2007, the Australian documentary Bomb Harvest was released to critical acclaim. The documentary follows the Mines Advisory Group and Lao National Unexploded Ordnance Programme in their efforts to clear the country of unexploded bombs from the wars of the twentieth century. The film portrays in graphic detail the difficulties of bomb removal in Laos, including the dangers faced by the poor population who dig the scrap metal for resale.\n\nAustralian filmmaker Kim Mordount's first feature film was made in Laos and features a Laotian cast speaking their native language. Entitled The Rocket, the film appeared at the 2013 Melbourne International Film Festival (MIFF) and won three awards at the Berlin International Film Festival: Best First Feature, the Amnesty International Film Prize and the Crystal Bear for Best Film in the Generation K-plus program.\n\nTraditional clothing serves as the key visual cue for establishing belonging among ethnic groups. The techniques, patterns and materials vary not only by region and ethnicity, but even by clan and family.\n\nFor the Lao Loum, traditional dress reflects Cambodian, Thai, French and Burmese influence. Among men, the Lao traditionally wear a Khmer style billowed trouser or sampot, a Mandarin collar jacket or Indochinese shirt, and a simple pha biang or checkered shawl which is similar to the Khmer krama. Among older generations and areas of the north it is also not uncommon to see men wearing a checkered or plaid \"pha-sarong\" which is similar to the Burmese lungi. For women, the traditional dress is a long skirt with a richly embroidered foot called a sinh, a matching pha biang or shawl (longer shawls called \"hom\" are worn in colder areas), and is worn with a French inspired blouse. Men and women wear religious amulets, and large amounts of gold and silver jewelry which is believed to ward off evil and is a conspicuous sign of wealth. Colors patterns and embroidery techniques distinguish both region and class. Lao Loum use silk almost exclusively in many of their traditional designs.\n\nAmong Lao Theung, cotton materials are widely used. Khmu women are known for simple cotton sarongs with horizontal stripes, and long sleeved black blouses. Among Katu and Alak there is a tradition of adding significant amounts of beadwork and silver coins. Lao Theung use silver and brass jewelry in large amounts both to ward off evil and signify status.\n\nLao Sung groups including the Hmong, Yao and Akha are known for elaborate embroidery, extensive silver ornamentation, and intricate color based patterns. For example, Blue Hmong women wear pleated skirts with bands of red, white, and blue embroidery; and a black jacket with orange and yellow embroidery. Yao women by contrast wear a long black jacket with red lapels, loose pants, and elaborately embroidered black turbans. Men typically wear black pants tied with an embroidered band, a French inspired Indochinese shirt, and a colorful headband.\n\nLao cuisine reflects the ethnic diversity of the country and its surrounding neighbors. Laos has strong regional variations even among common dishes, with glutinous rice (sticky rice) being the staple of most meals.\n\nA common Lao meal would consist of a richly spiced minced fish or chicken salad or larb, served with sticky rice; a jaew or paste made of chili peppers for dipping; tam mak hung a fiery and sour fresh green papaya salad, a broth based soup like \"kaeng no mai\" (bamboo soup); fresh herbs and vegetables served raw; tropical fruit as a dessert; and is served with the local beer or lao-lao rice liquor.\n\nLao cuisine is similar to Thai, but with several notable differences. The Lao meal as a whole generally appeals to more extremes of sourness, bitterness, and spice than in Thai cuisine. Lao cooking uses copious amounts of \"mak phaet\" (chilies), \"pa daek\" or fermented fresh water fish sauce, kaffir lime leaves, and galangal in greater amounts to add bolder flavors to most dishes. Glutinous rice is eaten almost exclusively in ethnically Lao areas.\n\nThe Lao also have a greater consumption of wild game and insects known commonly as “jungle food.” Freshly killed game is sometimes eaten raw in richly spiced dishes and is seen as a delicacy. Insects can be eaten in a variety of forms, with the more pungent types being used as spices or substitutes, such as common red fire ants for lemon-like sourness in southern soups. Smaller game is typically barbecued and sold at roadside stands.\n\nThai influence on Laos can be seen in many of the popular curry based dishes like \"khao-pun\" which is commonly eaten during festivals. Vietnamese dishes like pho and spring rolls are extremely popular throughout the country. Ethnic Yunnanese Chinese food is common in Vientiane, and is reflected in the fried dough dishes which are commonly sold as street snacks. An important side note is that often it is only in Chinese or Vietnamese noodle restaurants when Lao will use chopsticks. For most rice based dishes the right hand and a spoon are the only eating implements. However, among the Hmong and Yao, who eat more varieties of long grain rice, eating with the hands is considered rude.\n\nThe years of French colonialism have also given Laos a number of food items including the baguette or \"khao jii\", as well as omelets, pâté and croissants. The French also introduced coffee cultivation, with the strong variety found in southern Laos near Ban Paxong as the most desired. The common Lao breakfast reflects French influence and is a simple affair of strong coffee served hot or iced, and is taken with a baguette or other pastry which dipped in condensed milk.\n\nFootball is the most common international sport enjoyed in Laos, with play hosted at the Lao National Stadium in Vientiane. The Lao League was founded in 1995, and fields ten teams. The Lao Football Federation operates a national team within the Asia division of FIFA.\n\nTraditional sports include kickboxing martial arts, which are known collectively as muay Lao, are similar to the more popular muay Thai and their Khmer antecedents of bokator and pradal serey.\n\n\"Ka-taw\" or kick-volleyball is also a traditional Lao sport, where players use a rattan ball and advance play using their feet, knees, chest and head.\n\nThe end of “Buddhist Lent” or \"Phansa\" is marked by boat races on the Mekong River. There are traditional races where villages will each sponsor a team, with a celebration at a designated host village. There are also sport races where rowing teams compete against each other in head-to-head races.\n\nThe increase of eco-tourism, has marked Laos as a destination for extreme sports. Laos hosts over twenty national parks, with hiking, biking, whitewater rafting, canoeing, kayaking, caving, rappelling and zip-lining being increasingly common activities.\n\nThe 25th Southeast Asian Games were held at Vientiane, in December 2009.\n\nLaos first begin competing at the Olympics in 1980, and has since sent athletes to compete in: 1988, 1992, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008 and 2012. Laos has also sent paralympians since the 2000 games in Sydney, Australia. Laos has competed in the marathon, swimming, archery, and other track events. Laos has yet to win an Olympic medal.\n\nLao festivals are traditionally based on the Lunar Calendar and vary each year on the exact date. The largest public festival is the four-day celebration of Lao New Year or \"Pi Mai\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1907339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907339", "title": "Pedieos", "text": "Pedieos\n\nThe Pedieos (also Pediaios or Pediaeus or Pithkias; Greek: Πεδιαίος/Πηθκιάς, Turkish: \"Kanlı Dere\") is the longest river in Cyprus. The river originates in the Troodos Mountains close to Machairas Monastery and flows northeast across the Mesaoria plains, through the capital city Nicosia. It then steers east, meeting the sea at Famagusta Bay close to the ancient Greek city of Salamis. Maximum depth is 10 meters. \n\nThe river has a total length of 98 km. An 18 km stretch of the river banks, in and around Nicosia, has been turned into pedestrian walkways. \n\nThere are two dams constructed along the river, the largest one at Tamassos built in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907342", "title": "Jever", "text": "Jever\n\nJever (; the pronunciation is often heard from non-locals) is the capital of the district of Friesland in Lower Saxony, Germany. The name Jever is usually associated with a major brand of beer which is produced there. The city is also a popular holiday resort. Jever was granted city status in 1536. Unofficially Jever is sometimes referred to as \"Marienstadt\" (Maria city) in reference to Maria of Jever, the last independent ruler of the city. The inhabitants of Jever are named Jeveraner.\n\n\nArchaeological findings in the vicinity of Jever suggest that the area has been inhabited since the neolithic era. A dolmen was located near the town up until at least 1880 but was removed sometime at the end of the 19th century due to farming expansion. In addition to this tools such as a flint dagger and sickle have been found in the Jever area. From later periods around the 6th century BCE there has also been a number of urns uncovered as well as a bronze spear tip and socket axe.\n\nDuring the Roman period the Chauci had a settlement in the area of Jever. Around 826 Frisia was given by Louis the Pious to the Danish King Harald Klak following his conversion to Christianity, Harald had sought refuge at Louis’ court after being driven from his homeland. The 9th century epic Gudrunlied mentions the Danish dominion of Friesland and contains a reference to “Givers” in the area of Sande which is probably the first record of Jever. A further reference in 1158 notes a town by the name of \"Geverae\", the latinisiation of the low German Geveren or Gaveren (\"pasture\", or alternatively \"Place of the Thing\"). \nCoins stamped in Jever have been found as far afield as the Finnish Gulf and Warta in Poland which serves as testament to Jever importance as a trading town. during the 10th and 11th centuries Jever was a port and had access to the North Sea via both the Jade and the Harlebucht. Over time however land movements meant the access to the sea disappeared and the later construction of dikes has now left Jever well inland. Nevertheless, Jever retained importance as a trading post. In 1546 Hooksiel became an outer harbour for Jever and with the extension of paved roads from Jever to Hooksiel the need for even small ships to sail to Jever was abolished. Today in the centre of Jever a children’s playground with a climbing frame in the shape of a ship serves as a reminder of the city’s important maritime past.\n\nSaxon Dukes and subsequently the House of Welf later ruled over Jever, finally at the end of the 12th century, Jever came under the control of Oldenburg. A letter sent to King Philip III of France, details that between 1271 and 1285, the people of Östringer were subject to no sovereign, but that they selected their own judges and chiefs themselves (see Frisian freedom).\n\nJever was granted rights as a town in 1347. Around the turn of the 15th century the town continued to be a prosperous trading center, this attracted not only merchants but also pirates. The most famous of the pirates was a band who were known as the \"Likedeeler\", and included Klaus Störtebeker and Goedeke Michels.\nThe last Baron of the Jeverland was Edo Wiemken who, in 1505, completed the reconstruction of the castle and is buried in the city church. After Edo’s death Jever came under the control of Graf Edward I. However Maria of Jever, the daughter of Edo restored the city’s independence, and in 1536 whilst under her rule Jever received its city rights which has led to the city’s unofficial title as \"\"Marienstadt\"\".\n\nMaria died in 1575 but her death was kept secret for fear of a return of the East Frisians. Instead, Jever became one of Oldenburg's territories by last will of Maria. In 1667 Jever was through distaff passed under control of the Anhalt-Zerbst. After Prince Frederick August, who had supported the English in the American Revolutionary War for financial reasons, died in 1793, the male-line of Anhalt-Zerbst perished and its territories were split. Jeverland was then given to Catherine II of Russia, formerly Princess Sophia of Anhalt-Zerbst and Frederick August's sole surviving sibling. It remained Russian until Napoleon's armies occupied it in 1807. Between 1808 and 1810 it was part of the Kingdom of Holland, a Napoleonic vassal state. When the French were forced to withdraw in 1813, Russia regained possession of Jever and gave it to the new grand dukes of Oldenburg in 1818. \nJever was connected to the railway network in 1871 by a line from Sande. From 1881, a line connected it westwards to Wittmund, Esens and Dornum, and from 1888 there was a line northwards to Carolinensiel. The railway station in Jever still has a waiting room for the exclusive use of the Duke of Oldenburg to this day.\n\nBecause Anhalt-Zerbst had guaranteed security and freedom of business for Jews, Jever became a center of Jewish life in Frisia, reaching its peak in the late 19th century. After that many youngsters left for larger cities where they hoped to find better economic opportunities (and since the 1920s also to escape growing anti-semitism). This caused the community to shrink to only half of its former size: by 1933, there were only 98 Jews left in Jever. The synagogue (inaugurated in 1802) was completely destroyed in the Night of Broken Glass, and at least 63 Jever Jews were killed in the Holocaust.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907344", "title": "Driva", "text": "Driva\n\nThe Driva river runs through Trøndelag and Møre og Romsdal counties in Norway. The headwaters lie in the Dovrefjell mountains in the south, from where it flows northward, downward through the Drivdalen valley in the municipality of Oppdal. When the river gets to the village of Oppdal, it turns westward and heads down the Sunndalen valley to the Sunndalsfjord at the village of Sunndalsøra in the municipality of Sunndal. Some of the other villages along the river include Grøa, Hoelsand, Lønset, and Vognillan. The Norwegian National Road 70 follows the river for most of its course.\nMany of the tributaries on the west side of the Oppdal valley are dry since the waters in reservoirs formed from the many mountain lakes in that region flow in pipes through the mountain to the Driva hydroelectric power station at Fale in Sunndal. The largest lake in the reservoir system is Gjevillvatnet which is about long and about wide.\n\nBefore the last ice age, the river Driva drained northwards from Oppdal and joined the Orkla river. The uppermost part of the river in the Sunndalen valley which included the tributaries from the lake Gjevilvatnet, Dindalen, and Storlidalen then drained eastwards to Oppdal and joined the older Driva there. The ice age changed the course of the Driva and today, these three tributaries still flow eastwards until they meet the (now) westward-flowing Driva.\n\nPilgrims followed the Driva on their way to the St. Olav shrine in Trondheim during the Middle Ages. As a result of the heavy stream of pilgrims who followed the Pilgrim's Route prior to the Reformation, king Øystein erected mountain stations where the pilgrims could find food and shelter. Kongsvoll, located along the Driva River in the upper Drivdalen valley, was one of these stations, another was Drivstua.\n\nThe Driva was formerly an excellent salmon river, but the parasite Gyrodactylus salaris has decimated the salmon stock. It is an excellent sea trout river, usually ranked number 1 or 2 in all of Norway, by total catch. Salmon and sea trout migrate up to Magalaupet (approximately ) and at optimal water discharge probably even further. Especially for sea trout this is an unusually long migration, although the majority of trout in Driva do not wander so far.\n\nThe only tributary with a run of anadromous fish, is the Grøvu. A river that enters from the south/west soon after Driva has reached the Sunndal valley. Grøvu is also Drivas biggest tributary, and well known for the \"Åmotan\". A part of the Grøvu valley where 5 rivers meet, 3 of them coming down dramatic waterfalls. Grøvu is also world known as a good river for extreme kayaking.\n"}
{"id": "1907353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907353", "title": "Wesley Huntress", "text": "Wesley Huntress\n\nWesley T. Huntress, Jr. is an American space scientist. An astrochemist and space scientist, Huntress worked for about twenty years at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. During the 1980s he was also a video game designer, producing games for Apple computers. In 1988 Huntress moved to NASA headquarters, where he would serve in several positions, including Director of NASA's Solar System Exploration Division and Associate Administrator for Space Science.\n\nAs a part of these positions, Huntress oversaw all NASA research missions to the planets and asteroids of our solar system, including missions to Mars, Venus, Jupiter, and Saturn. Following his work with NASA, he became the Director of the Geophysical Laboratory at the Carnegie Institution, and the president of The Planetary Society. He has also worked on the NASA Advisory Council, and is a public advocate for space exploration.\n\nWesley Huntress was interested in space exploration from a young age, describing himself as a \"Sputnik kid\", who entered the sciences in college out of an interest in joining the space race between the US and USSR. Huntress was awarded a B.S. in Chemistry from Brown University in 1964 and a Ph.D. in Chemical Physics from Stanford University in 1968. Following his degrees, he began a career as an astrochemist and space scientist Brown University would later bestow an honorary doctoral of sciences degree upon Huntress as well, during its 2005 convocation ceremonies.\n\nHuntress spent much of his career at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, also teaching as a professor at the associated California Institute of Technology. He started at the lab following his PhD as a National Research Council Resident Associate, and joined the lab full-time in 1969 \"as a research scientist specializing in ion chemistry and planetary atmospheres\" according to NASA. His work there included research into the chemical evolution in interstellar clouds, comets and planetary atmospheres. His positions at the lab included those as \"co-investigator for the Ion Mass Spectrometer experiment in the Giotto Halley's Comet mission, as the Coma Interdisciplinary Scientist for the Comet Rendezvous Asteroid Flyby mission, and as JPL Study Scientist for the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite and Cassini missions\". He was also a part of the research into molecule formation on Titan, research that was published in 1981 by \"Nature\", as well as ion cyclotron resonance and ion-molecule reactions in off-Earth environments.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Huntress was a game programmer on the Apple II computer, creating space flight simulators. They were published through subLogic (\"Saturn Navigator\"), Edu-Ware (\"Rendezvous: A Space Shuttle Flight Simulation\"), and Electric Transit. In 1984 he then co-directed the game \"\" with Charles Kohlhase, a first-person computer game where you are the survivor of a plane crash and have to cross the Sierra Mountains to find a remote ranger's station in order to continue surviving. In 1986, Huntress was a producer on the computer game \"Lunar Explorer\".\n\nHuntress was promoted from the Laboratory to NASA Headquarters in the late 1980s. He first worked as Special Assistant to the Director of Earth Science and Applications, and then served as the Director of NASA's Solar System Exploration Division. Upon taking the position, he became an advocate for reforming the Discovery Program for low-cost planetary exploration missions, to make it more cost-effective, including the opening of proposals from private companies to participate in the running of the program, creating a public-private partnership for solar system exploration. As director, Huntress served as the overseer and spokesperson for the development of NASA's missions to Mars that would take place over the 1990s, and the results of the \"Magellan\" probe mission to Venus as well as the \"Galileo\" mission to Jupiter. He also founded the NASA Astrobiology program.\n\nHuntress was promoted to NASA's Associate Administrator for Space Science in 1993. As Associate Administrator, Huntress was in charge of all of NASA's space science programs. Huntress worked within the agency, with White House and Congress, and as spokesperson for the press. Projects for which Huntress was responsible for included the Mars missions he had helped to develop in his prior positions, as well as the \"Cassini–Huygens\" mission to Saturn. He remained in the position until 1998, whereupon he was the recipient of the 1998 Carl Sagan Memorial Award. Over his tenure, Huntress was also awarded the US Presidential Distinguished Executive Award, the NASA Robert H. Goddard Award, a NASA Distinguished Service Medal, and a National Endowment for the Arts design award for the Mars Pathfinder mission.\n\nAfter leaving NASA, Huntress continued to provide testimony to Congress regarding space funding and budgetary issues, including a series of congressional hearings in October 2003 on the future of NASA. In 2001 he testified before the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, setting forward four \"grand challenges\" for American space exploration. According to the \"Washington Times\", those challenges were: \"(1) To seek evidence of life elsewhere in the solar system where liquid water existed in the past or exists now. (2) To study planets around other stars (the sun being the star of our planetary system). (3) To send a spacecraft to a nearby star, something we don't know how to do today - \"but in 1900 we didn't know how to fly either.\" (4) To develop a plan of human exploration beyond Earth orbit.\"\n\nFollowing his time at NASA, Huntress became the director of the Carnegie Institution of Washington's Geophysical Laboratory in the fall of 1998, and remained in this position until his retirement in 2008. His role there continued to be strategizing and lobbying for space exploration. In 2004 he was head on a report, \"The Next Steps In Exploring Deep Space\", which proposed a vision for a \"stepping stone\" approach for incremental exploration of space by humans using the Moon, Lagrange Points, Near-Earth Objects, and Mars. His research has included the evolution of interstellar medium, and pre-biotic organic chemistry on early Earth. He is now Director Emeritus of the Geophysical Laboratory. While at Carnegie, he also served as the president of The Planetary Society from 2001 to 2006, having served as the society's vice-president in 2000. Neil de Grasse Tyson took over from Huntress in the position of the society's vice-president. Additional affiliations for Huntress include the International Academy of Astronautics, the Royal Astronomical Society, and the National Academies, where he is a lifetime associate.\n\nWhile at Carnegie, Huntress continued to serve on the NASA Advisory Council, where he became an outspoken critic of reductions in the growth of NASA's science budget. For example, Huntress opined on the International Space Station, stating that, \"I don't place the space station in the critical path for sending humans to the moon ... And frankly the science community will tell you it was never a very useful platform for doing science at all. It's not in the right orbit for lots of things, and it's a very noisy environment.\" As a result of his views, he was asked by then-administrator Michael D. Griffin to resign his position with the council in August 2006. On November 2, 2009, Huntress returned to the Council, and was named by administrator Charles Bolden as chair of the NASA Advisory Council's Science Committee.\n\nIn 2011 Huntress coauthored the book \"Soviet Robots in the Solar System: Mission Technologies and Discoveries\" with Soviet space scientist Mikhail Ya Marov.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907360", "title": "Patrick Flynn", "text": "Patrick Flynn\n\nPatrick Flynn may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907367", "title": "Jeffrey H. Schwartz", "text": "Jeffrey H. Schwartz\n\nJeffrey Hugh Schwartz (born March 6, 1948) is an American physical anthropologist and professor of biological anthropology at the University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and a fellow and President of the World Academy of Art and Science (WAAS) from 2008-2012.\n\nSchwartz' research involves the methods, theories, and philosophies in evolutionary biology, including the origins and diversification of primates. He has studied and analyzed human and primate skeletons and archaeological remains, focusing much of his research on dentofacial morphology. He has done substantial fieldwork and museum research in the collections of major museums around the globe.\n\nIn the revised and updated publication of \"\", he presents additional evidence for his contention that orangutans share significantly more morphological similarities to humans than any other great ape.\n\nHe has also been a major contributor to the George Washington project, an attempt to create wax figure likenesses of the first U.S. President at the ages of 19, 45, and 57, based upon dentofacial morphology. Scheduled for public display in 2006 in a new education center and museum at Mount Vernon, the models also went on a 9-city national tour to promote the museum.\n\nSince 1998 he has served as a consultant in forensic anthropology to the Allegheny County coroner's office.\n\nIn 2007 he was elected President of the World Academy of Art and Science for a five-year term (one year as president-elect). He was the first person so elected, all previous presidents having been directly appointed by trustees of the organization.\n\nBorn March 6, 1948 in Richmond, Virginia, Schwartz earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia College in 1969 and completed his doctorate from Columbia University in 1974.\n\nSchwartz is the son of Jack Schwartz, a doctor who did quinine research during World War II, and Lillian Schwartz, one of the earliest visual artists to utilize computer imaging. He is married to the poet Lynn Emanuel and they reside in Pittsburgh.\n\n\nJeffrey H. Schwartz made an appearance in the documentary film \"The Trouble with Atheism\".\n\nBirutė Galdikas\n"}
{"id": "1907371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907371", "title": "Swedish Americans", "text": "Swedish Americans\n\nSwedish Americans () are Americans of at least partial Swedish ancestry. They primarily include the 1.2 million Swedish immigrants during 1885–1915 and their descendants. They formed tight-knit communities, primarily in the American Midwest, and intermarried with other Swedish-Americans. Most were Lutheran Christians with origins in the state Church of Sweden who were affiliated with predecessor bodies of what are now the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA) from the mergers of 1988 or the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (1847), or the recent North American Lutheran Church (NALC) of 2010; some were Methodists following Wesleyan doctrine.\n\nToday, Swedish Americans are found throughout the United States, with Minnesota, California and Illinois being the top three states with the highest number of Swedish Americans. Historically, newly arrived Swedish immigrants settled in the Midwest, namely Minnesota, the Dakotas and Wisconsin, just as other Scandinavian Americans. Populations also grew in the Pacific Northwest in the states of Oregon and Washington at the turn of the twentieth century.\n\nThe first Swedish Americans were the settlers of New Sweden. A colony established by Queen Christina of Sweden in 1638, it centered around the Delaware Valley including parts of the present-day states of Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. New Sweden was incorporated into New Netherland in 1655, and ceased to be an official territory of the Realm of Sweden. However, many Swedish and Finnish colonists remained and were allowed some political and cultural autonomy.\n\nA victim of one of the earliest recorded murders in North America was an immigrant from Sweden. In 1665 in Brooklyn, New York, Barent Jansen Blom, progenitor of the Blom/Bloom family of Brooklyn and the lower Hudson Valley, was stabbed to death by Albert Cornelis Wantenaer.\n\nPresent day reminders of the history of New Sweden are reflected in the presence of the American Swedish Historical Museum in Philadelphia, Fort Christina State Park in Wilmington, Delaware, Governor Printz Park, and The Printzhof in Essington, Pennsylvania.\n\nSwedish emigration to the United States had reached new heights in 1896, and it was in this year that the Vasa Order of America, a Swedish American fraternal organization, was founded to help immigrants, who often lacked an adequate network of social services. Swedish Americans usually came through New York City and subsequently settled in the upper Midwest. Most were Lutheran and belonged to synods now associated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, including the Augustana Evangelical Lutheran Church. Theologically, they were pietistic; politically they often supported progressive causes and prohibition.\n\nIn the year 1900, Chicago was the city with the second highest number of Swedes after Stockholm, the capital of Sweden. By then, Swedes in Chicago had founded the Evangelical Covenant Church and established such enduring institutions as Swedish Covenant Hospital and North Park University. Many others settled in Minnesota in particular, followed by Wisconsin; as well as New York, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Illinois. Like their Norwegian American and Danish American brethren, many Swedes sought out the agrarian lifestyle they had left behind in Sweden, as many immigrants settled on farms throughout the Midwest. There are towns scattered throughout the Midwest, such as Lindsborg, Kansas, that to this day continue to celebrate their Swedish heritage.\n\nIn the east, New England became a destination for many skilled industrial workers and Swedish centers developed in areas such as Jamestown, New York; Providence, Rhode Island, and Boston. A small Swedish settlement was also begun in New Sweden, Maine. 51 Swedish settlers came to the wooded area, led by W.W. Thomas, who called them \"mina barn i skogen\" (my children in the woods). Upon arrival, they knelt in prayer and thanksgiving to God. This area soon expanded and other settlements were named Stockholm, Jemtland, and Westmanland, in honor of their Swedish heritage. (Stockholm is the capital of Sweden, while Jämtland and Västmanland are Swedish provinces.)\n\nThe town of New Sweden, Maine celebrates St. Lucia, Midsummer, and Founders Day (July 23). It is a Swedish-American community that continues to honor traditions of the old country. Gustaf Adolph Lutheran Church was served by a native of Sweden as recently as 1979-1985 (The Rev. Hans Olof Andræ b. 1933 Vimmerby, Sweden) who was known to occasionally conduct special worship services in Swedish.\n\nThe largest settlement in New England was Worcester, Massachusetts. Here, Swedes were drawn to the city's wire and abrasive industries. By the early 20th century numerous churches, organizations, businesses, and benevolent associations had been organized. Among them, the Swedish Cemetery Corporation (1885), the Swedish Lutheran Old People's Home(1920), Fairlawn Hospital (1921), and the Scandinavian Athletic Club (1923). These institutions survive today, although some have mainstreamed their names.\n\nNumerous local lodges of national Swedish American organizations also flourished and a few remain solvent as of 2008. Within the city's largest historic \"Swedish\" neighborhood—Quinsigamond Village—street signs read like a map of Sweden: Stockholm Street, Halmstad Street, and Malmo Street among others. Worcester's Swedes were historically staunch Republicans and this political loyalty is behind why Worcester remained a Republican stronghold in an otherwise Democratic state well into the 1950s.\n\nMany Swedes also came to the Pacific Northwest during the turn of the twentieth century, along with Norwegians and Finns, settling in Washington and Oregon. According to research by the Oregon Historical Society, Swedish immigrants \"felt a kinship with the natural surroundings and economic opportunities in the Pacific Northwest,\" and the region experienced a significant influx of Swedish and Scandinavian immigrants between 1890 and 1910.\n\nNotable influence can be felt in the neighborhood of Ballard in Seattle, Washington, and by the Swedish Medical Center, a major hospital also in Seattle. In Oregon, Swedish immigrant populations were concentrated in the rural areas east of Portland, and a significant Swedish community was also established in the coastal city of Astoria along with Finnish and Norwegian settlers who worked in the timber and fishing industries.\n\nIn the 1860-1890 era, there was little assimilation into American society, and little outmarriage with other groups. The Swedish Americans attached relatively little significance to the American dimension of their ethnicity; instead they relied on an extant Swedish literature. There was a relatively weak Swedish American institutional structure before 1890, and Swedish Americans were somewhat insecure in their social-economic status in America.\n\nAn increasingly large Swedish American community fostered the growth of an institutional structure—a Swedish-language press, churches and colleges, and ethnic organizations—that placed a premium on sponsoring a sense of Swedishness in the United States. Blanck (2006) argues that after 1890 there emerged a self-confident Americanized generation. At prestigious Augustana College, for example, American-born students began to predominate after 1890. The students mostly had white-collar or professional backgrounds; few were the sons and daughters of farmers and laborers.\n\nThese students developed an idealized view of Sweden, characterized by romanticism, patriotism, and idealism, just like their counterparts across the Atlantic. The new generation was especially proud of the Swedish contributions to American democracy and the creation of a republic that promised liberty and destroyed the menace of slavery. A key spokesman was Johan Alfred Enander, longtime editor of \"Hemlandet\" (Swedish for \"The Homeland\"), the Swedish newspaper in Chicago. Enander argued that the Vikings were instrumental in enabling the \"freedom\" that spread not only throughout the British Isles, but America as well.\n\nSwedes, moreover, were among the first founders of America with their New Sweden colony in Delaware. Swedish America was present in Congress under the Articles of Confederation period, and its role was momentous in fighting the war against slavery. As a paragon of freedom and the struggle against unfreedom, and as an exemplar of the courage of the Vikings in contrast to the papist Columbus, Swedish America could use its culture to stress its position as loyal adherents to the larger Protestant American society.\n\nIn 1896 the Vasa Order of America, a Swedish-American fraternal organization, was founded to provide ethnic identity and social services such as health insurance and death subsidies, operates numerous social and recreational opportunities, and maintains contact with fellow lodges in Sweden. Johannes and Helga Hoving were its leaders, calling for the maintenance of the Swedish language and culture among Swedish Americans, especially the younger generation. However, they returned to Sweden in 1934 and Vasa itself became Americanized.\n\nAs a highly literate population, their output of print media was even more remarkable, and cultural leadership was exerted by numerous magazine and newspaper editors more so than by churchmen. The Swedish American press was the second largest foreign-language press in the United States (after German language imprints) in 1910. By 1910 about 1200 Swedish periodicals had been started in several states. \"Valkyrian\", a magazine based in New York City, helped fashion a distinct Swedish American culture between 1897 and 1909. The Valkyrian helped strengthen ethnicity by drawing on collective memory and religion, mythicizing of Swedish and Swedish American history, describing American history, politics, and current events in a matter-of-fact way, publishing Swedish American literature, and presenting articles on science, technology, and industry in the United States.\n\nThe community produced numerous writers and journalists, of whom the most famous was poet-historian Carl Sandburg from Illinois. The harsh experiences of the frontier were subjects for novelists and story tellers, Of interest revealing the immigrant experience are the novels of Lillian Budd (1897–1989), especially \"April Snow\" (1951), \"Land of Strangers\" (1953), and \"April Harvest\" (1959). Swedish author Vilhelm Moberg wrote a series of four books about a group of Swedish-American emigrants, starting with \"The Emigrants\" (1949), which were translated in the 1950s and 1960s. They were also filmed by Jan Troell as \"The Emigrants\" and \"The New Land\".\n\nBaigent (2000) explores the dynamics of economic and cultural assimilation and the \"American Dream\" in one small city. Most Swedes in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, between 1880 and 1920 were permanent settlers rather than temporary migrants. Many ended up comfortably off and a few became prosperous. They judged their success against Swedes in Sweden, not McKeesporters of other nationalities. They had no illusions about American life but they chose to stay and confront difficult living and working conditions rather than move on or return to Sweden where good jobs were scarce and paid much less.\n\nMany of their children were upwardly socially mobile, and America offered girls in particular greater opportunities than Sweden did. The immigrants greatly valued the religious freedom that America offered, but their political freedoms were heavily circumscribed by McKeesport's \"booze interest\" and iron and steel bosses. Swedes dominated the prohibition movement in the town, but this did not open the door to a wider political stage. The dreams of many individual Swedes came true, but the dream of creating a permanent Swedish community in McKeesport was not realized, since individual Swedes moved on within the United States in pursuit of continued economic success. Swedish Americans formed their own social identity within the U.S. during the period through their memberships of social clubs and their deliberate membership or non-membership in different ethnically-based institutions.\n\nThe story of A. V. Swanson, who in 1911 left Bjuv at age 20 and settled in Ames, Iowa eight years later is a case study in farming and business success.\n\nThe Swedish group was, as many other emigrant groups, highly differentiated. There still is a lot of research waiting to be done on the more urban and working-class parts of the Swedish immigrant group, where some ended up in slums like Swede Hollow in St. Paul, Minnesota, which had a population of about roughly 1,000 squatters around 1890 (slightly less in 1900, according to the census carried out that year). Child mortality was high and diphtheria and pertussis common. Many also died in work related accidents. Drunkenness and wife beatings were also common.\n\nSwedish housemaids were in high demand in America. Working conditions were far better than in Sweden, in terms of wages, hours of work, benefits, and ability to change positions.\n\nDuring the first waves of migration the Swedes were also subjected to certain stereotypes and prejudices. The expression \"dumb Swede\" was established as they had difficulty learning English. There were entertainment shows which used a character called \"John Johnsson\" when poking fun at Swedes. He was dumb, clumsy, drank too much and talked with a funny accent. The immigrant historian Rudolph Vecoli has pointed out that they were not initially always recognized as \"whites\" in the Anglo-Saxon or German sense, but after the wave of Polish immigration this attitude shifted. Many also complained about the smell of the Swedes that was considered to smell like herring. In 1901 Horace Glenn wrote \"Walking behind a string of Swedes is impossible to a person with delicate nose. It's an odor which could only come from generations of unwashed ancestors.\" According to one lawyer, it was thought that a Swede without a knife scar in the face was not considered a real man.\n\nSwedish Americans opposed entry into World War I, in which Sweden was neutral. Political pressures during the war encouraged a rapid switch from Swedish to English in church services—the older generation was bilingual by now and the youth could hardly understand the old language. Swedish language newspapers lost circulation. Most communities typically switched to English by 1920.\n\nBy the 1930s, assimilation into American life styles was almost complete, with few experiences of hostility or discrimination.\n\nAfter 1940, the Swedish language was rarely taught in high schools or colleges, and Swedish-language newspapers or magazines nearly all closed. A few small towns in the U.S. have retained a few visible Swedish characteristics. Lindsborg, Kansas is representative. It was founded by Lutheran pietists in 1869 on land purchased from the Kansas Pacific Railroad; the First Swedish Agricultural Company of Chicago spearheaded the colonization. Known today as Little Sweden, Lindsborg is the economic and spiritual center of the Smoky Valley.\n\nThe rise of agribusiness, the decline of the family farm, the arrival of nearby discount stores, and the \"economic bypass\" of the new interstate system wrought economic havoc on this community. By the 1970s Lindsborg residents pulled together a unique combination of musical, artistic, intellectual, and ethnic strengths to reinvent their town. The Sandzén Gallery, Runbeck Mill, Swedish Pavilion, historical museum at Bethany College, and Messiah Festival were among the activities and attractions used to enhance the Swedish image. The Lindsborg plan is representative of growing national interest in ethnic heritage, historic preservation, and small-town nostalgia in the late 20th century.\n\nSwedish Womens Educational Association (SWEA) Swea.org\n\n\n\nAnnually a Swedish American of the Year is awarded through Vasa Order of America District Lodges 19 and 20 in Sweden.\n\n\nFormal church membership in 1936 was reported as:\n\nThe affiliated membership of a church is much larger than the formal membership.\n\nOther churches\n\nUntil 2000, The Church of Sweden was the official state church of Sweden.\n\nThe Nobel Conference is an academic conference held annually at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minnesota. Founded in 1963, the conference links a general audience with the world's foremost scholars and researchers in conversations centered on contemporary issues related to the natural and social sciences. It is the first ongoing academic conference in the United States to have the official authorization of the Nobel Foundation in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nA few small towns in the U.S. have retained a few visible Swedish characteristics. Some examples include Silverhill, Alabama; Cambridge, Minnesota; Lindstrom, Minnesota; Karlstad, Minnesota; Lindsborg, Kansas; Gothenburg, Nebraska; Oakland, Nebraska; Andover, Illinois; Kingsburg, California; Bishop Hill, Illinois; Jamestown, New York; Mount Jewett, PA, Wilcox, PA, and Westby, Wisconsin, as well as significant areas of central Texas, including New Sweden and Georgetown, and areas in northern Maine: New Sweden, Stockholm, Jemptland, and Westmanland.\n\nAround 3.9% of the U.S. population is said to have Scandinavian ancestry (which also includes Norwegian Americans, Danish Americans, Finnish Americans, and Icelandic Americans). At present, according to the 2005 American Community Survey, only 56,324 Americans continue to speak the Swedish language at home, which is down from 67,655 in 2000. Most of them being recent immigrants. Swedish American communities typically switched to English by 1920. Swedish is rarely taught in high schools or colleges, and Swedish language newspapers or magazines are rare.\n\nThe ten states with the most Swedish Americans\n\nThe ten states with the most Swedish Americans in their populations (by percentage)\n\n\n\n\nBarton, H. Arnold, ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n[H. Arnold Barton|Barton, H. Arnold]], ed. \"Letters from the Promised Land: Swedes in America, 1840-1914\". (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1975.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907395", "title": "James R. French", "text": "James R. French\n\nJames R. French is a prominent U.S. aerospace engineer. While working for different NASA contractors during the 1960s, he helped design, develop and test the rocket engines for the Apollo/Saturn launch vehicles and the Apollo Lunar Module that enabled humans to walk on the Moon. He then joined NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) where he worked on the Mariner, Viking, and Voyager missions.\n\nFrench is a long-time advocate of a mission architecture for a Mars probe, known as Mars Sample Return with In-Situ Propellant Production, that would manufacture propellant from resources at the target planet to power a return trip, to dramatically reduce the size of the outbound vessel and the cost of the mission. He also published an article in the \"Journal of the British Interplanetary Society\" in 1989 recommending in-situ propellant production for a manned Mars mission, though he recommended that the technique would not be feasible until a Mars base were already well-established, due to the risks of relying on fueling a spacecraft with in-situ produced propellant. Robert Zubrin credits this paper as a forerunner of the Mars Direct mission architecture, in which French's concern is resolved by devoting a separate spacecraft to the return trip, so that it can be verified as fueled and ready to launch from Mars before the crew launches from Earth.\n\nFrench now works as a private space systems engineering consultant, and is a Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA). He has co-authored the book \"Space Vehicle Design\" () with Michael Griffin, who was the chief of NASA until January 20, 2009.\n\nFrench is currently a director and engineering chief for the Golden Spike Company, which is planning commercial missions to the moon.\n"}
{"id": "1907396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907396", "title": "Ivor Noël Hume", "text": "Ivor Noël Hume\n\nIvor Noël Hume, OBE (30 September 1927 – 4 February 2017) was a British-born archaeologist who did research in the United States. A former director of Colonial Williamsburg’s archaeological research program and the author of more than 20 books, he was heralded by his peers as the \"father of historical archaeology\".\n\nBorn in London, Noël Hume studied at Framlingham College, Suffolk and St. Lawrence College, Kent. He spent a short stint in the British Army during World War II, and as an assistant stage manager for a London theatre, before deciding to pursue archaeology as a career and joining the staff of Guildhall Museum in London where he worked from 1949 to 1957. His early speciality was 17th and 18th century wine bottles. He became chief archaeologist and director of the expanded Colonial Williamsburg archaeology program in 1957 and served in that capacity for the next three decades.\n\nNoël Hume discovered and excavated the 17th century site of Wolstenholme Towne, at Carter's Grove Plantation just east of Williamsburg. Wolstenholme at Martin's Hundred was one of the early Virginia settlements after Jamestown and evidence of the 1622 Indian attack was found in the deaths of several of the citizens. Major excavations in Colonial Williamsburg included work at the original site of Eastern State Hospital, conducted in 1972 — which was the largest site work since the excavation of the Governor's Palace in 1930 — the James Geddy House and shop, Weatherburn's Tavern and outbuildings and the cabinetmakers shop. Noël Hume retired as Director of the Department of Archaeological Research at Colonial Williamsburg in 1988. In retirement, he directed an excavation (1991–92) at the Fort Raleigh National Historic Site on Roanoke Island, North Carolina, and discovered Thomas Harriot's 1585–86 \"science center\" there.\n\nNoël Hume's work is noted for the effort to put the social life and economic overtones of history into the discoveries unearthed through archaeological examination — thus: historical archaeology. When he began his career, \"historical archaeology did not exist as an academic discipline. It fell to Noël Hume's books, lectures, and television presentations to help bring it to the forefront of his profession, where it stands today,\" the University of Virginia Press said in its fall 2010 catalogue, which features his autobiography, \"A Passion for the Past: The Odyssey of a Transatlantic Archaeologist.\" Carmel Schrire, Rutgers University, author of \"Digging through Darkness: Chronicles of an Archaeologist\", said of Noël Hume's book: \"Noël Hume is a household name. This book should be a professional classic, to be read alongside other memoirs like those of Grahame Clark, Glyn Daniel, Gertrude Caton-Thompson, and Mortimer Wheeler.\" In 1991 Noël Hume received the J. C. Harrington Award, presented by the Society for Historical Archaeology for his life-time contributions to archaeology centered on scholarship.\n\nOn 17 June 1963, Noël Hume appeared as a \"central character\" on an episode of the game show \"To Tell the Truth\".\n\nNoël Hume died in Virginia on 4 February 2017.\n\n\nNoël Hume was recognised by Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain in 1993 and was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (O.B.E.) for service to the British cultural interests in Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907399", "title": "Fryazino", "text": "Fryazino\n\nFryazino () is a scientific town in Moscow Oblast, Russia, located on the Lyuboseyevka River (Vorya's tributary) northeast of the city of Moscow. Population: \n\nFryazino is a center of excellence for Russian microwave electronics.\n\nIn 1584–1856, the villages of Grebnevo, Fryazinovka, and Chizhovo stood on the territory occupied by modern Fryazino. Silk-weaving manufactures were established here in the second half of the 18th century.\n\nThe first mention of Fryazino was in the 1584–1586 cadastres of Moskovsky Uyezd: \"Villages of Fryazinova and Samsonov as well on the river of Lyubosivka, and it includes plowed gray land tillage 4 desiatinas and of fallow 13.5 desiatinas in the field and the same in two (implying: cultivated fields), hay 10 haycocks, firewood forest, 5 acres\" \"()\". Then the village belonged to the demesne of Bogdan Belsky.\n\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, it is, together with one rural locality, incorporated as Fryazino Town Under Oblast Jurisdiction—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts. As a municipal division, Fryazino Town Under Oblast Jurisdiction is incorporated as Fryazino Urban Okrug.\n\nIn 1901, Anna Kaptsova founded the big silk-weaving manufacture in the village of Fryazino. It was the first stone building in the village (nationalized in 1918, closed in 1929).\n\nIn 1933, in a former silk-weaving factory was founded the \"Radiolampa\" plant. Since that time Fryazino became the center of the Soviet electronics industry. The first Research Institute SRI-160 (its modern name is Federal State Unitary Enterprise RPC \"\") was founded in Fryazino in 1943, then their number increases to five. Branch of the Institute of Radio-engineering and Electronics was founded in Fryazino in 1955.\n\nIn Soviet times, growing enterprises had been working within a military reservation institute. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, these institutions were forced to cut most of their staff. Currently, a large part of the population of Fryazino works in Moscow.\n\nBy way of defense conversion research institutes were established the following enterprises: in 1993 — \"\", a manufacturer of medical equipment under the brand name \"Gastroscan\", in 1994 — \"Istok-Audio\", a manufacturer of hearing aids. In addition to the electronic and medical industry in the town is a confectionery industry, as well as a tea-packing factory of the company \"\". The town also has furniture factories.\nA first school was opened in Fryazino in 1912. There are 7 schools, including 5 secondary, a gymnasium and lyceum in the town now. By the end of 1980, 20% of the population of Fryazino had a higher education, among them — 460 Candidates of Sciences and 77 Doctors of Sciences, 2 Full Members of the USSR Academy of Sciences, 120 winners of the Lenin and State prizes.\n\nOn the eastern outskirts of the town, on the banks of the Lyuboseyevka river, is the historic estate of Grebnevo (1780–1790; reconstructed in 1817-1823). Also, the Alley of Heroes is in the center of the downtown, on which there are the busts Heroes of the Soviet Union from Fryazino who participated in World War II: Alexandr Dudkin, Boris Yeryashev, Ivan Ivanov. Another monument is \"Stella wins\" that indicates the names of all of residents Fryazino who participated in World War II. There are some museums: the Town Museum, Ivan Ivanov's Home, the Literary Museum of Osip Mandelstam and other.\nThere are two ways you can get to Fryazino by public transport from Moscow :\n\nThe town is located on the Fryanovo motorway P-110 (Schyolkovo — Fryanovo) at a distance of 7 km from the beginning of the motorway. The town has a new bus station, located on the Polevaya str. There are three town bus lines and the same taxi. In addition, through the town are 10 commuter bus routes (including those from Moscow). Inside the town there are several different taxi services.\n\nAlso in town there is a railway station and two passenger platforms (Fryazino-Commodity and Fryazino-Passenger, which is finite).\n\nFryazino has quite ramified computer network \"Fryazino.net\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907405", "title": "Fraction (chemistry)", "text": "Fraction (chemistry)\n\nA fraction in chemistry is a quantity collected from a batch of a substance in a fractionating separation process. In such a process, a mixture is separated into fractions, which have compositions that vary according to a gradient. A fraction can be defined as a group of chemicals that have similar boiling points. A common fractionating process is fractional distillation. It is used to produce liquor and various hydrocarbon fuels, such as gasoline, kerosene and diesel.\n\nA fraction is the product of a fractionating column. A vast chamber designed to separate different substances based on their boiling point, e.g. crude oil.\n\nFraction could also refer to a description of the composition of a mixture, e.g. mass fraction or mole fraction.\n\nFor a simpler definition a fraction is a part of the fractionating column where a compound with one boiling point can be separated from other compounds with different boiling points. \n"}
{"id": "1907408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907408", "title": "Sabzevar", "text": "Sabzevar\n\nSabzevar ( ), previously known as Beyhagh (also spelled \"Beihagh\"; ), is a city and capital of Sabzevar County, in Razavi Khorasan Province, approximately 220 kilometres west of the provincial capital Mashhad, in northeastern Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 208,172, in 57,024 families.\n\nSabzevar is the commercial center for an agricultural region producing grapes and raisins. There is some small-scale industry, for food processing, copperware, and electric motors. Through the old bazaar of Sabzevar fresh, dried, and preserved fruits and vegetables are exported. Sabzevar is connected to Tehran and Mashhad by road. Sabzevar Airport provides domestic flights.\n\nIt suffered a flash flood in April 2020. \n\nThe history of Sabzevar goes back to the 1st millennium BC. Ancient remains include fire-temple Azarbarzin which is still visible.\nAfter the Mongol invasion of Iran, the city was the first part of Iran that moved towards its freedom, under the lead of the Sarbedaran movement.\nIn 14th century Timur invaded Iran and destroyed the city completely. Contemporary sources mention 90,000 people having been murdered by Timur. After killing all men in the town, he cut their heads and made 3 pyramids of the heads, in what is now the modern Sarberiz (meaning \"Place of heads\") square.\nSabzevar Province had been lost by the Safavids to the Uzbeks of Transoxiana, but was regained following a Safavid counter-offensive around 1600, along with Herat and Farah.\n\nArcheological hills around Sabzevar indicate a human civilization in this part of Iran going back to third millennium before Christ. At that time Sabzevar was a cultural center affecting places in Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, India and Iraq. The logo of Sabzevar museum today is taken from stamps of those days.\n\nSabzevar is located in the west of Khorasan Razavi province at the northeast of Iran.\n\nSabzevar is a 650km far from Tehran (the capital of Iran).\n\nIn 1937 when Iran was ruled by Reza Shah, Sabzevar was the second most populated city in the 9th county. According to the census of 2017, Sabzevar is Iran's 34th city.\n\nThe special Anthem of Sabzevar was unveiled for the first time in 2010; it received the first rank in all anthems of cities in Razavi Khorasan province.\n\nMil-e Khosrow Gerd (meaning \"The brick tower of king Khosrau) is the highest brick tower in the city. Mosques include the Masjed Jameh of Friday mosque, with its two tall minarets. They were both built during the Islamic age of Sabzevar.\n\nHakim Sabzevari University is one of the most prestigious public university in Iran and the oldest university in Sabzevar. HSU was established in 1973 when its name was Kar University. After the Iran revolution in 1979, this university was halted until 1987. HSU was reestablished with a new name. The Tarbiat Moallem University of Sabzevar was working and growing until 2011. In this year this university was renamed to Hakim Sabzevari University. HSU offers 139 bachelors, masters, and Ph.D. programs to more than 9,200 male and female students studying under about 280 faculty members in 10 departments. HSU is known as the dynamic in science and the leading in development university in Iran.\nSabzevar University of Medical Sciences is one of the most prestigious public universities in Khorasan province. MEDSAB was established in 1975. In 1986, School of nursing was founded in Sabzevar. MEDSAB offers 20 programs to more than 2000 students in medical fields. This university has more than 200 faculty members. There are 5 hospitals and 4 schools in this university.\nThe city is home to the Islamic Azad University of Sabzevar (IAUS), founded in 1985 in response to increasing demands for a higher education center in the region; expansion and development have always continued within the university. IAUS is one of the most private universities in Khorasan province. Currently, there are about 6,500 students studying in three campuses.\nSabzevar University of New Technoloy is the youngest public university in Khorasan province. SUNT was established in 2011. The main objective of this university on teaching and transferring new technology for women students. SUNT offers modern bachelors programs to more than 1000 female students studying in one department. SUNT is known as the third generation universities in Iran.\nSabzevar has a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification: \"BSk\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907410", "title": "Tony Azito", "text": "Tony Azito\n\nTony Azito (July 18, 1948 – May 26, 1995) was an American eccentric dancer and character actor. He was best known for comedic and grotesque parts, which were accentuated by his hyperextended body.\n\nAzito was part of the Juilliard School's Group I, the first students admitted to the drama division directed by John Houseman in 1968. His classmates included Patti LuPone and Kevin Kline. Soon after arriving at Juilliard, Azito became influenced by choreographer Anna Sokolow and began studying modern dance. At 6'3\" (190 cm), he was an unusual candidate for dance training. Azito's younger brother, Arturo Azito, was a dancer and performed with Eliot Feld and the Boston Ballet.\n\nHis interest in dance aggravated Houseman, who was anxious about the number of gay men in Group I and had already clashed with Azito over a cross-dressing incident. Partially as a result of this conflict with Houseman, Azito left Juilliard without finishing a degree and spent two years performing in Sokolow's company as Antonio Azito.\n\nReturning to drama in the mid-1970s, Azito began working in off-Broadway and off-off-Broadway theater. He quickly began working with the director Wilford Leach, who would be one of Azito's most frequent employers until Leach's death in 1988. He performed in a number of productions at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club, where Leach was artistic director.\n\nIn 1971, he performed in \"The Red, White, and Black\" at La MaMa, directed by John Dillon and written by Eric Bentley with music by Brad Burg. The show was co-produced by La MaMa and the Columbia University School of the Arts Theatre Division. He then appeared in Leach and John Braswell's 1973 production of \"Carmilla\" with the E.T.C. Company of La MaMa. \"Carmilla\" featured music by Ben Johnston and was part of the company's repertoire throughout the early 1970s. He also did tech for Jeffrey Weiss' \"Pushover\" at La MaMa and appeared in La MaMa's \"Christmas fete for children of all ages\", \"...And All the Trimmings\", written by Bernard Roth and directed by William Duffy in 1973.\n\nIn 1974, he appeared in Nancy Fales' \"Ark\", with music by Sonelius Smith and directed by Ralph Lee at La MaMa. He also appeared in Nancy Heikin's \"Frame\", which was produced by La MaMa at the Washington Square Church (135 W. 4th St.) in 1974. He appeared with the E.T.C. Company of La MaMa in Wilford Leach's \"C.O.R.F.A.X. (Don't Ask)\" at La MaMa in early 1974, then toured the show in Europe with the company later that same year. In 1975, Azito was featured in the \"Cotton Club Gala\", with music by Aaron Bell. He reprised his role in \"Carmilla\" at La MaMa in 1976.\n\nAzito made his Broadway debut in Richard Foreman's 1976 revival of \"The Threepenny Opera\" for the New York Shakespeare Festival, in a dancing role (\"Samuel\") created especially for him. Critics were intrigued by what soon became Azito's style of dance, which made him look like a somewhat off-kilter marionette and was accompanied by stylized facial expressions. An interviewer once described Azito as \"a bit like Buster Keaton injected with Silly Putty.\" This production also began Azito's association with Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival, which continued with another Brecht-Weill musical, \"Happy End\" (1977).\n\nAzito's best-known stage role was in a third production for the New York Shakespeare Festival, as the Sergeant of Police in the 1980 Broadway revival of \"The Pirates of Penzance\", starring Linda Ronstadt and Kevin Kline. His performance earned him a Tony Award nomination and a Drama Desk Award, and he reprised the role in the 1983 film adaptation directed by Leach.\n\nHe then played Feste in the New York Shakespeare Festival production of \"Twelfth Night\" directed by Leach in 1986. He went on to perform at Radio City Music Hall, the Mark Taper Forum, and in the American National Theater company at the Kennedy Center. Azito's final Broadway role was in \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood,\" also directed by Leach. While in the touring company for \"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\", both of Azito's legs were badly broken when he was hit by a cab. It took a few years for Azito to get back on his feet. He went on to perform in a summer stock revival of \"She Loves Me\" in Stockbridge, Massachusetts and in productions of Tom Stoppard's \"Travesties\" and the musical \"Amphigorey\".\n\nAzito's most memorable film role was the Police Sergeant in \"The Pirates of Penzance\".\n\nHe also appeared in \"Union City\" (1980) with Debbie Harry, Woody Allen's \"Stardust Memories\" (1980), \"Chattanooga Choo Choo\" (1984), \"Private Resort\" (1985) with Rob Morrow and Johnny Depp, \"Moonstruck\" (1987) with Cher, \"Bloodhounds of Broadway\" (1989) with Madonna, and played the lead in the 1976 cult film \"Apple Pie\".\n\nAzito's final film role was the Librarian in \"\" (1993). He also had a cameo as one of the party dancers in \"The Addams Family\" (1991).\n\nOn television, he appeared on episodes of \"Miami Vice\", \"The Equalizer\", and \"Beacon Hill\".\n\nAzito continued performing in regional theater and the occasional film until 1994. He died of HIV/AIDS on May 27, 1995 at Saint Vincent's Catholic Medical Center in Manhattan, New York City, at age 46.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907412", "title": "Xun You", "text": "Xun You\n\nXun You (157–214), courtesy name Gongda, was a statesman who lived during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China and served as an adviser to the warlord Cao Cao. Born in the influential Xun family of Yingchuan Commandery (around present-day Xuchang, Henan), Xun You was recruited into the civil service by the general He Jin. When the warlord Dong Zhuo hijacked and controlled the Han central government between 189 and 192, Xun You plotted with four others to assassinate him but was discovered and imprisoned. Following his release after Dong Zhuo's death, he wanted to serve as the Administrator of Shu Commandery (around present-day Chengdu, Sichuan) but eventually settled as an official in Jing Province.\n\nIn 196, after Cao Cao received the figurehead Han sovereign, Emperor Xian, and reestablished the new imperial capital in Xu (許; present-day Xuchang, Henan), he summoned Xun You to the capital to serve as a Master of Writing and Military Adviser. From then on, Xun You was simultaneously a Han statesman and a subordinate of Cao Cao. He accompanied Cao Cao on his military campaigns as a tactical adviser and occasional commander. Between 198 and 207, he advised Cao Cao in the battles against rival warlords such as Zhang Xiu, Lü Bu, Yuan Shao and Yuan Shao's successors. In 207, on Cao Cao's recommendation, Emperor Xian made Xun You a village marquis to honour him for his contributions. In 213, after Cao Cao had been enfeoffed by Emperor Xian as the Duke of Wei, Xun You served as the Prefect of the Masters of Writing in Cao Cao's dukedom. In 214, while accompanying Cao Cao on a campaign against the southern warlord Sun Quan, Xun You died of illness along the way. Described as a highly profound and insightful thinker, Xun You was also known for keeping a very low profile and hiding his true talents and achievements behind the façade of a foolish, cowardly and weak person.\n\nThe authoritative historical source on Xun You's life is his official biography in volume 10 of the \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\" (\"Sanguozhi\"), which was written by Chen Shou in the third century.\n\nIn the fifth century, Pei Songzhi annotated the \"Sanguozhi\" by incorporating information from other sources to Chen Shou's original work and adding his personal commentary. Some alternative texts used in the annotations to the \"Sanguozhi\" include: the \"Wei Shu\" (魏書; \"Book of Wei\"), by Wang Shen (), Xun Yi () and Ruan Ji; the \"Xun Shi Jia Zhuan\" (荀氏家傳; \"Xun Family Genealogy\"); the \"Han Ji\" (漢紀; \"Annals of Han\"), by Zhang Fan (); the \"Fu Zi\" (), by Fu Xuan.\n\nXun You was born in the influential Xun family, whose ancestral home was in Yingyin County (), Yingchuan Commandery (), which is in present-day Xuchang, Henan. His grandfather, Xun Tan (), whose courtesy name was Yuanzhi (), served as the Administrator () of Guangling Commandery (廣陵郡; around present-day Huai'an, Jiangsu). Xun You's father, Xun Yi (), served as a commandery-level Assistant Officer (). Xun Yi was a second cousin of Xun Yu, hence Xun You was Xun Yu's second cousin-nephew even though he was six years older than Xun Yu.\n\nXun You was orphaned at a young age. He was probably raised by his uncle Xun Qu () and his grandfather Xun Tan. When his grandfather died, a minor administrative assistant, Zhang Quan (), offered to be the tomb keeper. Xun You, who was 12 years old then, sensed that something was wrong. He told his uncle Xun Qu, \"This man looks suspicious. I believe he's up to something.\" Upon investigation, it was revealed that Zhang Quan was actually a murderer on the run. Because of this incident, the young Xun You was seen as an extraordinary boy. When Xun You was six or seven, Xun Qu once accidentally injured him while he was drunk. Since then, every time Xun You left or entered his home, he would do so at times to deliberately avoid meeting his uncle. Xun Qu was very surprised by his nephew's intelligence when he heard about it.\n\nWhen the general He Jin rose to power in 189 and became regent to the child Emperor Shao, he recruited over 20 notable members of scholar-gentry background to join the civil service. Xun You was one of them. He was appointed as a Gentleman of the Yellow Gate () in the imperial capital, Luoyang. However, within the same year, He Jin was assassinated by the eunuch faction led by the Ten Attendants. The warlord Dong Zhuo took advantage of the ensuing political turmoil to hijack and control the central government. Between 190 and 191, several regional warlords formed a coalition and launched a campaign against Dong Zhuo in the name of saving the emperor. Dong Zhuo ordered Luoyang to be burnt down and relocated the capital to Chang'an. In Chang'an, Xun You secretly plotted with Zheng Tai (), He Yong, Chong Ji () and Wu Qiong () to assassinate Dong Zhuo, who was notorious for his cruelty and tyranny. However, they were discovered and Xun You was arrested and imprisoned. While he was incarcerated, Xun You spoke and behaved normally as though nothing had happened. He was only released after Dong Zhuo was killed in 192. However, the \"Wei Shu\" mentioned that Xun You was released after he sent someone to persuade and convince Dong Zhuo to free him.\n\nXun You then resigned and returned home, but soon rejoined the civil service and was appointed as the Chancellor () of Rencheng State (任城; southwest of present-day Zoucheng, Shandong). He rejected this appointment and asked to be the Administrator () of Shu Commandery (蜀郡; around present-day Chengdu, Sichuan) because he heard that Shu Commandery was prosperous and situated in a geographically strategic location. However, he was unable to travel to Shu Commandery because the roads leading there had been damaged and cut off. He had no choice but to relocate to Jing Province and station there.\n\nIn 196, the warlord Cao Cao received and fetched Emperor Xian to Xu (許; present-day Xuchang, Henan) and established the new capital there. He wrote to Xun You: \"The Empire is in chaos. It is time for intelligent people to do something. Do you not think you have spent too much time observing the changes in the Shu region?\" Xun You was then appointed as the Administrator () of Runan Commandery (汝南郡; around present-day Gushi County, Henan) and later summoned to the capital to serve as a Master of Writing (). Cao Cao had long heard of Xun You and was overjoyed when they finally met. He told Xun Yu and Zhong Yao: \"Gongda is no ordinary person. Now that I have him to advise me, why should I worry about not being able to pacify the Empire?\" He also appointed Xun You as a Military Adviser ().\n\nIn 198, when Cao Cao wanted to launch another attack on a rival warlord, Zhang Xiu, Xun You advised him against it, saying, \"Zhang Xiu and Liu Biao share borders. Zhang Xiu and his wandering army rely on Liu Biao for supplies. Liu Biao is unable to provide for them so they will eventually fall out. Why not wait and try to induce Zhang Xiu to surrender to you? When Zhang Xiu ends up in a desperate situation, Liu Biao will definitely support him.\" Cao Cao ignored Xun You's advice and attacked Zhang Xiu at Rang County (穰縣; present-day Dengzhou, Henan). Just as Xun You predicted, when Zhang Xiu's situation became more desperate, Liu Biao sent reinforcements to help him and put Cao Cao's attacking forces in a disadvantageous position. Cao Cao told Xun You that he regretted not listening to his advice. He then changed tactics, attacked Zhang Xiu again, and defeated him the second time.\n\nIn the same year, after defeating Zhang Xiu and Liu Biao, Cao Cao wanted to move on to attack another rival warlord, Lü Bu. Many of his subordinates thought that it was too dangerous. However, Xun You had a different opinion. He believed that Zhang Xiu and Liu Biao had yet to recover from their recent defeat and would not make any further moves. He also pointed out that even though Lü Bu was a formidable warrior and had support from the warlord Yuan Shu, relations between them had recently deteriorated, so it was an opportune moment for Cao Cao to attack Lü Bu. Lü Bu defeated Liu Bei and received help from Zang Ba.\n\nDuring the Battle of Xiapi, Cao Cao defeated Lü Bu in the initial stages and forced him to retreat back to Xiapi Commandery (下邳郡; south of present-day Pizhou, Jiangsu). Cao Cao then laid siege to Xiapi and launched several attacks but was unable to breach the city walls. As his troops grew weary, Cao Cao considered withdrawing. However, Xun You and Guo Jia advised him, \"Lü Bu is brave but foolhardy. His forces' morale is very low after suffering consecutive defeats. An army's morale depends on its commander's will to fight on. Chen Gong is intelligent but slow. Since Lü Bu's army's morale hasn't recovered yet and Chen Gong hasn't finalised his plans yet, you can eventually defeat Lü Bu if you continue attacking him.\" Cao Cao then ordered his troops to dig ditches and redirect the waters of the Yi and Si rivers to flood Xiapi. Xiapi fell quickly and Lü Bu was captured alive and executed.\n\nIn 200 CE, war broke out between Cao Cao and the northern warlord Yuan Shao. At the Battle of Boma, Xun You suggested that Cao Cao use a diversionary tactic to eliminate Yuan Shao's general Yan Liang; the battle ended with victory for Cao Cao and Yan Liang's death at the hands of Guan Yu. After the victory at Boma, Cao Cao and his forces headed west with their baggage train along the south banks of the Yellow River. Yuan Shao sent his troops across the river to raid the baggage train and they encountered Cao Cao. Cao Cao's subordinates were shocked and they asked him to head back to protect his camp. Xun You said, \"This is an opportunity to capture the enemy! Why should we retreat?\" Cao Cao looked at Xun You and laughed. He then ordered his troops to use their baggage as bait to lure Yuan Shao's forces into a trap. At the Battle of Yan Ford, when Yuan Shao's soldiers were scrambling for the baggage, Cao Cao sent his infantry and cavalry forces to attack them and scored a major victory; Yuan Shao's general Wen Chou was killed in action. Cao Cao then retreated to Guandu (官渡; northeast of present-day Zhongmu County, Henan); Yuan Shao laid siege to Guandu.\n\nAs both sides reached a stalemate at Guandu and Cao Cao's forces ran out of supplies, Xun You advised Cao Cao, \"Yuan Shao's supplies will be reaching in one day. Han Xun (韓𦳣), the officer leading the convoy, tends to underestimate the enemy. He can be easily defeated.\" Xun You also recommended Cao Cao's general Xu Huang to lead the attack on Han Xun. Cao Cao sent Xu Huang and Shi Huan () to raid Han Xun's convoy and they burnt the supplies. Later, Yuan Shao's adviser Xu You defected to Cao Cao's side and urged Cao to attack Yuan's supply depot at Wuchao (烏巢; southeast of present-day Yanjin County, Henan), which was guarded by Chunyu Qiong. While Cao Cao's other subordinates were suspicious about Xu You, only Xun You and Jia Xu advised Cao to heed Xu You's suggestion. Cao Cao then ordered Xun You and Cao Hong to remain behind to guard his main camp, while he personally led his forces to attack Wuchao and succeeded in destroying Yuan Shao's supplies and killed Chunyu Qiong in battle. As the tide turned against Yuan Shao, two of his generals, Zhang He and Gao Lan (), destroyed their own camps and led their men to defect and surrender to Cao Cao's side. When Zhang He and Gao Lan showed up at Cao Cao's main camp, Cao Hong felt suspicious and was reluctant to accept their surrender. Xun You told Cao Hong, \"Zhang He was angry that Yuan Shao did not listen to him so he decided to defect. Sir, what's there to suspect about him?\" Cao Hong then accepted their surrender.\n\nAfter Yuan Shao's death in June 202, Cao Cao launched a campaign against Yuan's sons Yuan Tan and Yuan Shang and defeated them at the Battle of Liyang. In the following year, when Cao Cao was planning to attack Liu Biao, he received news that Yuan Tan and Yuan Shang had started fighting over control of Ji Province. Yuan Tan sent his adviser Xin Pi to convey to Cao Cao his wish to surrender and seek aid from Cao in countering his brother. Cao Cao considered accepting Yuan Tan's surrender and sending troops to aid him, and then consulted his advisers. Most of them thought that Liu Biao was more powerful and that Yuan Tan and Yuan Shang posed no threat, so they urged Cao Cao to attack Liu Biao first. Xun You had a different opinion from them. He said, \"The Empire has experienced so much turmoil, yet Liu Biao has holed up in the Jiang and Han regions. This shows that he has no intention of expanding his territory. The Yuans occupy four provinces and have 100,000 troops. Yuan Shao had treated his subordinates generously and hoped that his sons would cooperate harmoniously to safeguard his territories; that was why turmoil in the Empire never seemed to end. As of now, relations between the brothers have deteriorated and they seek to destroy each other. If one of them defeats and absorbs the other, he will become more powerful and more difficult to defeat. If you take advantage of their internal conflict to defeat them, you will restore stability in the Empire. You shouldn't miss this great opportunity.\" Cao Cao agreed, accepted Yuan Tan's surrender and led his forces to attack Yuan Shang. Yuan Tan later rebelled against Cao Cao but was defeated and killed at the Battle of Nanpi in 205.\n\nAfter pacifying Ji Province, Cao Cao wrote a memorial to Emperor Xian to recommend him to award Xun You a marquis title to honour him for his contributions. Xun You was thus enfeoffed as the Marquis of Lingshu Village (). In 207, while assessing his subordinates' contributions and recommending Emperor Xian to give out rewards accordingly, Cao Cao credited Xun Yu and Xun You for developing grand strategic plans for him. Xun You received an additional 400 taxable households in his marquisate, making it 700 households in total. He was also reassigned to serve as Central Military Adviser (). The \"Wei Shu\" recorded that Cao Cao visited Xun You's residence when he returned from Liucheng (柳城; southwest of present-day Chaoyang, Liaoning) after a campaign. He told Xun You, \"Now that the Empire has basically been pacified, it's time for me to share the rewards with virtuous scholar-officials like you. In the past, Emperor Gaozu allowed Zhang Zifang to choose 30,000 taxable households to form his own marquisate. Today, I intend to suggest to the Emperor to let you do the same.\"\n\nIn 213, Emperor Xian enfeoffed Cao Cao as the Duke of Wei () and granted him a dukedom covering parts of present-day Hebei and Henan. Xun You was appointed as the Prefect of the Masters of Writing (). In 214, Xun You accompanied Cao Cao on a campaign against the southern warlord Sun Quan but died of illness along the way. He was 58 (by East Asian age reckoning) when he died. Cao Cao shed tears when he heard of Xun You's death.\n\nDuring the Zhengshi era (240–249) of the reign of Cao Fang, Xun You was posthumously honoured as \"Marquis Jing\" (敬侯; \"respected marquis\").\n\nXun You was known for being a highly profound and insightful thinker who hid secrets very well. Since he started accompanying Cao Cao on his military campaigns, he had often helped Cao Cao devise and develop strategic plans. Many people, including his family members and relatives, hardly knew what was on his mind or what he had said. The \"Wei Shu\" recorded that Xin Tao (), a maternal cousin of Xun You, once asked Xun You why he urged Cao Cao to attack Ji Province. Xun You replied, \"Since Zuozhi has come on behalf of Yuan Tan to surrender, it's expected that the Imperial Army will go there to pacify the area. How would I know why?\" Xin Tao and others did not dare to ask Xun You again about state and military affairs after that.\n\nCao Cao often praised Xun You and once said, \"Gongda is intelligent but appears foolish; he is courageous but appears cowardly; he is resilient but appears weak. He neither flaunts his talents nor brags about his achievements. You may be as intelligent as him, but you can't pretend to be foolish as well as he does. Even Master Yan and Ning Wu cannot be compared to him.\" When Cao Pi was still Cao Cao's heir apparent, his father told him, \"Xun Gongda is a role model for people. You should treat him courteously and respectfully.\" When Xun You was ill, Cao Pi visited him and knelt down beside his bed; such was Cao Pi's level of respect for Xun You. Zhong Yao also once said, \"Every time I plan something, I'll carefully think through it again and again until I'm certain that I can't make any more changes. However, after consulting Gongda, he always has new insights to offer.\" Xun You created 12 strategies for Zhong Yao. Zhong Yao died before he managed to finish writing a book about the 12 strategies, hence some of them were lost. The historian Pei Songzhi thought it was a huge pity that Xun You's strategies were lost because Zhong Yao died at the age of 79 – some 16 years after Xun You's death – so he probably should have had ample time to finish writing the book.\n\nThe \"Wei Shu\" recorded that Cao Cao once said, \"I have travelled with Xun Gongda for over 20 years. I can't find any fault with him.\" He also said, \"Xun Gongda is truly a virtuous man; he fits the saying '(he is) benign, upright, courteous, temperate, and complaisant and thus he gets what he desires.' He is exactly the man described in this quote by Confucius: 'Yan Ping Zhong knew well how to maintain friendly intercourse. The acquaintance might be long, but he showed the same respect as at first.'\"\n\nThe \"Xun Yu Biezhuan\" (荀彧別傳; \"Unofficial Biography of Xun Yu\") recorded that Cao Cao once commended Xun Yu and Xun You for their excellent judgments about people's talents and said he would never forget them for their contributions.\n\nThe \"Fu Zi\" mentioned that someone, who lived around the same time as Xun You, once asked if there were any virtuous \"junzi\"s in their time. He received an answer as follows: \"The benevolence of Lord Prefect Xun (Yu) and the intelligence of Military Adviser Xun (You) make them worthy of being called virtuous \"junzi\"s of our time. Lord Prefect Xun is benevolent and virtuous, he displays wisdom in recommending talents, his personal conduct is flawless, and he is capable of adapting his strategies to suit changes. Meng Ke once said, 'It is a rule that a true royal sovereign should arise in the course of five hundred years, and that during that time there should be men illustrious in their generation.' Lord Prefect Xun is one of such men. As Taizu once said, 'Lord Prefect Xun provides advice and doesn't stop providing advice; Military Adviser Xun eliminates evil and doesn't stop eliminating evil.'\"\n\nChen Shou, who wrote Xun You's biography in the \"Sanguozhi\", appraised him as follows: \"Xun You and Jia Xu were very detailed in their strategising and had never miscalculated before. However, in terms of adaptability and flexibility, they were second to (Zhang) Liang and (Chen) Ping.\"\n\nXun You had at least three sons. The eldest, Xun Ji (), resembled his father in character but died early. The second, Xun Shi (), inherited his father's title \"Marquis of Lingshu Village\" () and had no son to succeed him when he died. In the early Huangchu era (220-226) of Cao Pi's reign, Xun You's grandson, Xun Biao (), inherited the title \"Marquis of Lingshu Village\" and received 300 taxable households to form his marquisate. His title was later changed to \"Marquis of Qiuyang Village\" ().\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907413", "title": "Pelly River", "text": "Pelly River\n\nThe Pelly River is a river in Canada, and is a headstream of the Yukon River. The river originates west of the Mackenzie Mountains and flows 530 km (329 mi) long through the south central Yukon. The Pelly has two main tributaries, the Ross and Macmillan rivers.\nThe river was named by Robert Campbell in honour of Sir John Henry Pelly, governor of the Hudson's Bay Company. The restored Hudson's Bay Company trading post of Fort Selkirk is at the juncture of the Pelly and Yukon Rivers.\n\nThe Pelly rises in glaciers on the western slopes of the Selwyn Mountains above in elevation, close to the Yukon-Northwest Territories boundary. It flows south and west through a wide valley, receiving many small tributaries from the east. It passes the Pelly Lakes, out of which flows the Woodside River, and there it turns to the west. The Pelly then assumes a northwesterly course through the Tintina Trench. It flows northwest to receive the Ross River at the town of Ross River where there is a cable ferry. Paralleling the Robert Campbell Highway, it then merges with the Lapie River from the left and passes the community of Faro which can be reached by a bridge. After Faro, it runs south of Rose Mountain and receives the Glenlyon River from the left.\n\nAt the Glenlyon River confluence, the valley narrows and the walls grow higher and steeper, and a short distance later, receives the swift-flowing Tay River from the right. Several kilometers after, it turns north and receives the Earn River, also from the right. The river soon exits out of the canyon and winds across a plain, where it receives the Tummel River from the left. It then receives the Macmillan River, its largest tributary, from the right, then turns west, looping around the town of Pelly Crossing and crossing under the Klondike Highway, one of only two bridges on its course (the other is in Faro). The river continues west for about to merge with the Yukon River near old Fort Selkirk.\n\nOne of two major headwaters of the Yukon River (the other is the Stewart River), the Pelly River's drainage basin, measured above the town of Pelly Crossing, is in size. It drains a large part of the sparsely-populated Yukon Plateau of the central Yukon Territory west of the Mackenzie Mountains. The Tintina Trench, which the majority of the river's waters flow in, is the northernmost extension of the Rocky Mountain Trench, which stretches well south to British Columbia. The river is navigable by small and medium-sized craft for over , from its mouth to Hoole Rapids, except for a shallow stretch of the river in Bradens Canyon. The Yukon communities of Ross River, Faro and Pelly Crossing are all on the Pelly River. There are bridges across the Pelly in Pelly Crossing (where it crosses the Klondike Highway) and in Faro, as well as a cable ferry at Ross River on the Canol Road.\n\nThe river's average discharge is about and it drains about of land. Because the river is fed primarily by glacier melt, the highest average flow is reached around June or July at up to , and the lowest is in December or January as low as .\n\nVolcanoes near the Pelly River, such as Volcano Mountain, may have once partly blocked or at least altered the Pelly River. Any future activity in this area could disrupt the course of the river and could have a serious impact on people living or working downstream.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907422", "title": "Henri Sattler", "text": "Henri Sattler\n\nHenri Sattler (born 1971) is a Dutch heavy metal singer and founder and vocalist/guitarist of God Dethroned. He uses the alias 'The Serpent King'.\n\nDue to problems with the other band members and the record company, Sattler decided to split the band. He then formed Ministry of Terror, a thrash metal band, and released the \"Fall of Life\" album with them in 1994. After a European tour Sattler left the band and re-formed God Dethroned. With new band members the new God Dethroned recorded \"The Grand Grimoire\" and signed a deal with Metal Blade. Many tours followed in Europe, the United States and Japan with death metal and black metal acts including Cannibal Corpse, Morbid Angel, Immortal, and Marduk.\n\nHis primary guitar is a custom made BC Rich Mockingbird that is tan with Seymour Duncan pickups and a Floyd Rose tremolo. In his early days, he played a BC Rich Warlock he modified himself. Currently he has his own guitar company called \"Serpent King Guitars.\"\n"}
{"id": "1907425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907425", "title": "Maltese Calypso", "text": "Maltese Calypso\n\nThe \"Maltese Calypso\" is a lively piece of Maltese folk music. Usually played in small, intimate bars with the aid of a guitar. Although it contains several verses, often only one or two may be played in one session.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907429", "title": "Edmund Rice (politician)", "text": "Edmund Rice (politician)\n\nEdmund Rice (February 14, 1819 – July 11, 1889) was an American politician. Rice served in the U.S. Congress in Minnesota's 4th District from March 4, 1887, to March 3, 1889.\n\nEdmund Rice, Jr. was born in Waitsfield, Vermont on February 14, 1819, to Edmund Rice and Ellen (Durkee) Rice, ethnic English whose ancestors had been in New England since the 17th century. He moved to Kalamazoo, Michigan, in November 1838 to study law. He was appointed registrar of the court of chancery in 1841. He was admitted to the bar association in 1842 and commenced practice in Kalamazoo, Michigan. He was appointed master in chancery in 1845. Rice enlisted to serve in the Mexican–American War in 1847 and was commissioned first lieutenant of Company A, First Regiment, Michigan Volunteers. He was the younger brother of Henry Mower Rice. He married Anna Maria Acker on November 28, 1848.\n\nIn July 1849, Rice moved to St. Paul, Minnesota, and became clerk of the Minnesota Supreme Court's third circuit the same year. He was elected as a member of the Territorial house of representatives in 1851. Rice continued to practice law until 1856, when he was elected commissioner of Ramsey County.\n\nThe following year, he became president of the Minnesota & Pacific Railroad Co., a job he held until 1863, when he became president of the St. Paul & Pacific Railroad and of the St. Paul & Chicago Railroad. He served as SP&P president until 1872 and as SP&C president until 1877. In 1879, he became a trustee of the SP&P.\n\nRice served in the Minnesota State Senate (1864–66) and (1874–76), and was a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives in 1867, 1872, 1877, and 1878. He was elected mayor of St. Paul and served from 1881 to 1883, was again elected mayor in 1885, and served until February 1887 when he resigned to take an office in the 50th United States Congress (March 4, 1887, to March 3, 1889).\n\nDefeated in 1888, Rice retired from public and political activities. He died in White Bear Lake, Minnesota, on July 11, 1889. His body is interred in Oakland Cemetery in Saint Paul.\n\nRice was a descendant of Edmund Rice, an early immigrant to Massachusetts Bay Colony, as follows:\n\n\nHis daughter Jessi married Frank Hamilton Clark, a president of the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad and a member of the Clark banking family of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "1907430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907430", "title": "The Good Apprentice", "text": "The Good Apprentice\n\nThe Good Apprentice is the 22nd novel by Iris Murdoch, first published in 1985.\n\nEdward Baltram, a college student living in London, gives his best friend Mark a sandwich laced with a hallucinogenic drug for a joke. After Mark, still high, falls to his death from a window, Edward is wracked with guilt and depression — worsened by daily letters from Mark's mother cursing him as a murderer.\n\nIn search of his father, Jesse, Edward sets off for Seegard, the family home, away from the harsh reality of London. As Edward progresses through the novel, he revives somewhat, thanks to the love of his eccentric father and his extended family of supportive women. He eventually finds, however, that he must come to terms with Mark's death.\n\nMeanwhile, Edward's stepbrother Stuart Cuno decides to give up his studies and goes in search of the \"pure\" life of an aesthete, to his family's bewilderment. Stuart has a close bond with thirteen-year-old Meredith, the son of Thomas and Midge McCaskerville.\n\nWhile Edward seeks redemption and Stuart salvation, Midge is having an affair with her husband's best friend, Harry Cuno - stepfather to Edward and father to Stuart. Her passionate love affair comes to a head after two years when she is disgraced publicly and falls unexpectedly in love with Stuart. Left with a difficult decision, Midge turns to Edward for support.\n\n\"The Good Apprentice\" was shortlisted for the 1985 Booker Prize.\n\nThe critic Harold Bloom listed \"The Good Apprentice\" in his \"The Western Canon\" (1994) as one of the books in his conception of artistic works that have been important and influential in Western culture.\n"}
{"id": "1907432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907432", "title": "Yeovil Pen Mill railway station", "text": "Yeovil Pen Mill railway station\n\nYeovil Pen Mill railway station is one of two stations serving the town of Yeovil, Somerset, England. The station is situated just under a mile to the east of the town centre.\n\nThe station is located south of Bristol Temple Meads, on the Heart of Wessex Line. The station is managed by Great Western Railway, with trains being operated by them and by South Western Railway.\n\nThe station was opened by the Great Western Railway (GWR) as part of the Wilts, Somerset and Weymouth route on 2 February 1854. The GWR opened a locomotive depot at the station in September 1856, which operated until January 1959, when it was closed and the locomotives transferred to Yeovil Town depot.\n\nBristol and Exeter Railway line from Taunton, initially terminating at , had been extended to connect with the GWR at Yeovil Pen Mill from 2 February 1857. In June 1874, both these lines (GWR and B&ER) were converted from their original broad gauge to what had become the standard gauge.\n\nA connection between the GWR line and the Southern Railway line to Exeter was established during World War II to allow trains direct access between and Yeovil Pen Mill. This was opened on 13 October 1943 and offered a new route for trains of war materials as well as a diversion route in the event of bomb damage.\n\nA passenger train overran a signal on 8 August 1913 and hit the rear of another passenger train. Two people were killed and ten injured.\n\nGreat Western Railway operate the majority of services at Pen Mill on their route between and via .\n\nSouth Western Railway operate a few services between London Waterloo and Pen Mill, some via and others via . The company also runs a service on summer Saturdays between Weymouth and Yeovil Junction via Pen Mill between late May and early September.\n\nThe town is also served by Yeovil Junction railway station, on the West of England Main Line, and served by South Western Railway. Commencing December 2015 a limited regular passenger service began using the rail connection between the two lines. The two stations are just under two miles apart by road.\n"}
{"id": "1907433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907433", "title": "Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels", "text": "Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels\n\nFuzzy Wuzzy Angels was the name given by Australian soldiers to Papua New Guinean war carriers who, during World War II, were recruited to bring supplies up to the front and carry injured Australian troops down the Kokoda trail during the Kokoda Campaign. \"Fuzzy-Wuzzy\" was originally used by British soldiers in the 19th century as a name for Hadendoa warriors on the Red Sea coast of the Sudan, and referred to their elaborate butter-matted hairstyles.\n\nIn 1942, during the Pacific invasion, the Japanese had built up a force of 13,500 in the Gona region of Papua with the intention of invading Port Moresby. The key to the offensive was an overland trail across the Owen Stanley Ranges. The trail ranged from the small village of Buna on the north coast of Papua and went up the slopes through Gorari and Oivi to Kokoda. The trail was approximately long, folded into a series of ridges, rising higher and to and then declining again to . It was covered in thick jungle, short trees and tall trees tangled with vines.\n\nIn June 1942, Australian Major General Basil Morris issued an \"Employment of Natives Order\", which allowed native Papuans to be recruited as carriers for three years. Between August and December that year, around 16,000 Papuans were recruited, often with false promises such as a shorter period of service or a less difficult working condition. In some occasions, the Papuans were forced into service.\n\nOn 29 August 1942, the Japanese task force broke through the Australian line forcing the Australians to retreat further back to Templeton's Crossing. Eventually, the Australians were forced to retreat to Myola. Six hundred and fifty Australian lives were lost in the campaign. It is speculated that this number would have been much larger without the Papuans' service. As one Australian digger has noted:\n\nThey carried stretchers over seemingly impassable barriers, with the patient reasonably comfortable. The care they give to the patient is magnificent. If night finds the stretcher still on the track, they will find a level spot and build a shelter over the patient. They will make him as comfortable as possible fetch him water and feed him if food is available, regardless of their own needs. They sleep four each side of the stretcher and if the patient moves or requires any attention during the night, this is given instantly. These were the deeds of the \"Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels\" – for us!\n\nNo known injured soldier that was still alive was ever abandoned by the Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels, even during heavy combat. In July 2007, grandsons of Australian World War II soldiers and grandsons of the Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels took part in the \"Kokoda Challenge\". The last Fuzzy Wuzzy Angel from the Kokoda Track area, Faole Bokoi, died aged 91 in 2016. He was appointed the Village Constable of his village, Manari, in the 1950s and had visited Australia as a guest of the Returned Services League in his later years. The last Fuzzy Wuzzy Angel was Havala Laula who died on 24 December 2017.\n\nIn June 2008, Australian senator Guy Barnett called for his country's Parliament to give official recognition to Papua New Guineans' courage and contributions to the war effort.\n\nI was stunned to learn that Australia has not officially recognised these wonderful PNG nationals who saved the lives of Australian servicemen. They carried stretchers, stores and sometimes wounded diggers directly on their shoulders over some of the toughest terrain in the world. Without them I think the Kokoda campaign would have been far more difficult than it was.\n\nIn 2009, the Australian government began awarding the 'Fuzzy Wuzzy Commemorative Medallion' to living Papua New Guineans who assisted the Australian war effort, usually bringing survivors and their families to Port Moresby for ceremonial presentations. Australian veterans generally complained that the recognition was too little, too late.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907439", "title": "Pelotas River", "text": "Pelotas River\n\nThe Pelotas River (Portuguese, \"Rio Pelotas\") () is a river in southern Brazil, and a tributary of the Uruguay River.\n\nThe river originates in the Serra Geral at Alto do Bispo and flows northeast for before meeting the Canoas River, forming the Uruguay River. It forms the border between Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina states.\n\nThe river is dammed by the Machadinho and Barra Grande Dams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907443", "title": "Jeff Farmer (wrestler)", "text": "Jeff Farmer (wrestler)\n\nJeffrey Farmer (born August 14, 1962) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) as The nWo Sting, an impostor version of the original Sting aligned to the New World Order stable.\n\nFarmer started wrestling in 1991 as Lightning in the tag team of \"Thunder and Lightning\" in the IWF promotion in Florida. In August 1993, the team toured All Japan Pro Wrestling, facing teams such as Dan Kroffat & Doug Furnas, Jun Akiyama & Tsuyoshi Kikuchi, and Mighty Inoue & Takao Omori. While in the promotion, they wrestled as \"Lightning & Thunder\". \n\nIn 1993, Thunder and Lightning were signed by World Championship Wrestling (WCW). They made their first appearance at a WCW Worldwide taping in Orlando, FL on July 10, 1993 (in an episode that would not air until November 13th of that year), defeating Billy Brooks and Rhett Blair. Their first actual television appearance came on August 29th, 1993 on WCW's The Main Event, where they upset Chris Benoit and Bobby Eaton. Thunder & Lightning's next match saw their first defeat, as they fell to Yoshi Kwan (Chris Champion) and Bobby Eaton at a house show in Kennesaw, GA on September 28th. \n\nAlthough WCW had cut back severely on house shows in Eric Bischoff's first year helming the company, they did continue to tour smaller locations to give new, younger wrestlers experience. Thunder & Lightning would wrestle on several of these events in the fall of 1993 and engaged in a house show program with Tex Slazinger and Shanghai Pierce. On the December 11th, 1993 edition of WCW Saturday Night the team called out WCW World Tag Team Champions The Nasty Boys, as well as several other teams. \n\nThunder and Lightning entered 1994 continuing to come out victorious on television against preliminary level competition, but suffered their first loss when they were defeated on February 20, 1994 by Pretty Wonderful on The Main Event. They made their first PPV appearance at SuperBrawl IV where they lost to Harlem Heat. Their losing streak on television continued into April as they suffered defeats to Bad Attitude (Steve Keirn & Bobby Eaton) and Pretty Wonderful. Thunder & Lightning's final match however was a win; they teamed with Terry Taylor to defeat Tex Slazenger, Shanghai Pierce, and Dallas Page on WCW Pro on April 30th, 1994. Farmer left WCW in the spring of 1994. \n\nIn July 1994, Farmer wrestled for the National Wrestling Alliance territories in Tennessee and the Carolinas. He would later join the Global Wrestling Federation in Dallas, Texas near the end of July. In February 1995, he and fellow former WCW wrestler Jim Steele wrestled a dark match for the World Wrestling Federation.\n\nFarmer returned to WCW in July 1995 as Cobra to feud with Craig Pittman. Cobra made his WCW debut on September 9, 1995 edition of \"WCW Worldwide\", defeating Bobby Starr with his Cobra clutch slam finisher. Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan and \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund explained Cobra's kayfabe back story of having served in the Gulf War. Sgt. Craig Pittman, a legit Marine sergeant, abandoned Cobra in the desert, then reported him AWOL back at camp. Cobra lost all rank and respect, learned to wrestle, and came to WCW seeking revenge on Pittman. The feud was short-lived, with Pittman defeating Cobra by submission in a very short match, although in a rematch the following week, Cobra won. They then would go back and forth and trade victories for a few months before the feud ended.\n\nThe nWo had been battling Sting, one of WCW’s most loyal supporters, since its inception in July 1996. As part of an elaborate plan, Farmer made his debut as “Sting” on the September 9, 1996 edition of \"Monday Nitro\" when he attacked Lex Luger appearing from the nWo limousine after a tape recording of Sting speaking had been played. This led Luger, his longtime ally, friend and tag team partner, to publicly question Sting’s loyalty. At Fall Brawl, as Team WCW was being interviewed, Sting came in and told his teammates that he had nothing to do with the attack. Luger told Sting rather bluntly that he did not believe him. Later during the War Games match, the last man out for team nWo was “Sting”, which convinced everyone (including the broadcast team) that the real Sting was part of the nWo. However, the real Sting showed up as the last man for Team WCW. After assaulting team nWo, Sting walked over to Luger, shoved him, and said, \"Is that good enough for ya?\" and left the ring. This showed everyone that the nWo Sting was an imposter. The imposter Sting picked up the victory in the match for team nWo when he forced Luger to submit with the Scorpion death lock.\n\nAfter the War Games match, the real Sting began to evolve into a much darker character with Farmer’s Imposter Sting character serving as the catalyst that started the transformation of the character from “Surfer” Sting to the much darker, Crow-like Sting. Farmer now referred to as the nWo Sting, became more of a comedy act in WCW. Farmer would comically mimic Sting’s classic mannerisms, while dressed as the dark Sting. He would also copy the loyalty tests and began carrying a baseball bat as the real Sting did. On occasion, nWo Sting would try to appease the real Sting when both were in the ring. Unfortunately for Farmer, this usually led to the real Sting attacking him and getting laid out with the Scorpion Death Drop. In matches, nWo Sting would lose to opponents, or need help from the entire nWo to win a match. The television announcers would refer to him as imposter, fake, or bogus Sting. Announcer Larry Zbyszko nicknamed him “Stink”. The rest of the nWo would completely ignore him whenever the real Sting was around when they were trying to recruit him. After it was revealed that Sting had sided with WCW, Eric Bischoff promised an interview with Sting. He instead brought out nWo Sting and held a mock interview that berated the real Sting and praised Hollywood Hogan.\n\nFarmer appeared in the video game \"\" as nWo Sting, labeled in the game as \"Sting\".\n\nIn March 1997, Farmer joined nWo Japan in New Japan Pro Wrestling and began to split his time between Japan and America. While in Japan, nWo Sting began to rise in popularity and became a prominent member of the group. He regularly teamed with nWo Japan leader Masahiro Chono. The nWo Sting became much more popular than the real Sting in Japan. As a result, Farmer would spend more time in Japan. In November 1997, he teamed up with Hiroyoshi Tenzan to compete in the 1997 Super Grade Tag League. The team would score three victories during the league.\n\nnWo Sting’s last appearances in WCW came in May 1998, when he joined nWo Hollywood and began teaming with The Giant. The Giant had previously won the WCW World Tag Team Championship with the real Sting, but the team imploded when Giant joined nWo Hollywood, and began feuding over control of the tag team titles they held together. On the May 25, 1998 edition of \"Monday Nitro\", the team of nWo Sting & Giant lost to Lex Luger and Sting, which after the match saw the real Sting join the nWo as a part of the Wolfpac faction. After Farmer left, the nWo began using Sting masks and having other nWo members appear as fake Stings. He made one final appearance as Fake Sting on the July 5th 1999 edition of \"Monday Nitro\" when he interfered in a match between Kevin Nash and Sid Vicious.\n\nnWo Sting returned to Japan, where he had a run as a fan favorite. Chono, the leader of nWo Japan suffered a neck injury which led to Keiji Mutoh taking charge and changing the groups philosophy. As a fan favorite, nWo Sting teamed up with Brian Adams to challenge for the IWGP Tag Team Championship, and also teamed up with Tenzan again to compete in the 1998 Super Grade Tag League. In May 1999, Chono returned from his injury and began feuding with Mutoh over direction of nWo Japan. During this feud, nWo Sting left the group and sided with Chono.\n\nIn 2014, WWE released a retrospective DVD collection titled \"The Best of Sting\". A picture of Farmer as nWo Sting is featured on the back cover of the set. It was later revealed that the picture of nWo Sting was actually a mistake on WWE's part.\n\nAfter leaving nWo Japan, Farmer changed his ring name to Super J, and along with Chono, and Michael Wallstreet formed Team 2000 to feud with nWo Japan. The two factions would fight for the next seven months before the feud culminated at the Wrestling World 2000 event. At the event, Team 2000 defeated nWo Japan in a best of four series, forcing the nWo Japan to disband and become part of Team 2000.\n\nSuper J was well received by the NJPW audience, and was also a prominent member of Team 2000, teaming with Chono through 2001. The team made a couple of appearances in WCW before its closure in early 2001. Super J teamed up with Scott Norton to compete in the 2001 G1 Tag League, scoring 7 victories. Super J left Team 2000 in March 2002, and joined rival group, the New Japan Army. The two groups feuded until September 2002 when Team 2000 was absorbed into the New Japan Army as well.\n\nIn 2004, Farmer went back to the nWo Sting gimmick on the independent circuit in the Carolinas until he started wrestling exclusively for Ultimate Championship Wrestling on January 8, 2005 when he won the title. He retired later that year.\n\nAs of late 2010, Farmer is project manager of a research program known as GEAR (Genetics, Exercise, and Research) at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. The program aims to identify how \"people's genetic background influences their response to physical activity.\"\n\nFarmer is the brother of Dr. Paul Farmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907447", "title": "Benjamin Fondane", "text": "Benjamin Fondane\n\nBenjamin Fondane () or Benjamin Fundoianu (; born Benjamin Wechsler, Wexler or Vecsler, first name also Beniamin or Barbu, usually abridged to B.; November 14, 1898 – October 2, 1944) was a Romanian and French poet, critic and existentialist philosopher, also noted for his work in film and theater. Known from his Romanian youth as a Symbolist poet and columnist, he alternated Neoromantic and Expressionist themes with echoes from Tudor Arghezi, and dedicated several poetic cycles to the rural life of his native Moldavia. Fondane, who was of Jewish Romanian extraction and a nephew of Jewish intellectuals Elias and Moses Schwartzfeld, participated in both minority secular Jewish culture and mainstream Romanian culture. During and after World War I, he was active as a cultural critic, avant-garde promoter and, with his brother-in-law Armand Pascal, manager of the theatrical troupe \"Insula\".\n\nFondane began a second career in 1923, when he moved to Paris. Affiliated with Surrealism, but strongly opposed to its communist leanings, he moved on to become a figure in Jewish existentialism and a leading disciple of Lev Shestov. His critique of political dogma, rejection of rationalism, expectation of historical catastrophe and belief in the soteriological force of literature were outlined in his celebrated essays on Charles Baudelaire and Arthur Rimbaud, as well as in his final works of poetry. His literary and philosophical activities helped him build close relationships with other intellectuals: Shestov, Emil Cioran, David Gascoyne, Jacques Maritain, Victoria Ocampo, Ilarie Voronca etc. In parallel, Fondane also had a career in cinema: a film critic and a screenwriter for Paramount Pictures, he later worked on \"Rapt\" with Dimitri Kirsanoff, and directed the since-lost film \"Tararira\" in Argentina.\n\nA prisoner of war during the fall of France, Fondane was released and spent the occupation years in clandestinity. He was eventually captured and handed to Nazi German authorities, who deported him to Auschwitz-Birkenau. He was sent to the gas chamber during the last wave of the Holocaust. His work was largely rediscovered later in the 20th century, when it became the subject of scholarly research and public curiosity in both France and Romania. In the latter country, this revival of interest also sparked a controversy over copyright issues.\n\nFondane was born in Iași, the cultural capital of Moldavia, on November 14, 1898, but, as he noted in a diary he kept at age 16, his birthday was officially recorded as November 15. Fondane was the only son of Isac Wechsler and his wife Adela (née Schwartzfeld), who also bore the sisters Lina (b. 1892) and Rodica (b. 1905), both of whom had careers in acting. Wechsler was a Jewish man from Hertza region, his ancestors having been born on the \"Fundoaia\" estate (which the poet later used as the basis for his signature). Adela was from an intellectual family, of noted influence within the urban Jewish community: her father, poet B. Schwartzfeld, was the owner of a book collection, while her uncles Elias and Moses both had careers in humanities. Adela herself was well acquainted with the intellectual elite of Iași, Jewish as well as ethnic Romanian, and kept recollections of her encounters with authors linked with the \"Junimea\" society. Through Moses Schwartzfeld, Fondane was also related with socialist journalist Avram Steuerman-Rodion, one of the literary men who nurtured the boy's interest in literature.\n\nThe young Benjamin was an avid reader, primarily interested in the Moldavian classics of Romanian literature (Ion Neculce, Miron Costin, Dosoftei, Ion Creangă), Romanian traditionalists or Neoromantics (Vasile Alecsandri, Ion Luca Caragiale, George Coșbuc, Mihai Eminescu) and French Symbolists. In 1909, after graduating from School No. 1 (an annex of the Trei Ierarhi Monastery), he was admitted into the Alexandru cel Bun secondary school, where he did not excel as a student. A restless youth (he recalled having had his first love affair at age 12, with a girl six years his senior), Fondane twice failed to get his remove before the age of 14.\n\nBenjamin divided his time between the city and his father's native region. The latter's rural landscape impressed him greatly, and, enduring in his memory, became the setting in several of his poems. The adolescent Fondane took extended trips throughout northern Moldavia, making his debut in folkloristics by writing down samples of the narrative and poetic tradition in various Romanian-inhabited localities. Among his childhood friends was the future Yiddish-language writer B. Iosif, with whom he spent his time in Iași's Podul Vechi neighborhood. In this context, Fondane also met Yiddishist poet Iacob Ashel Groper—an encounter which shaped Fondane's intellectual perspectives on Judaism and Jewish history. At the time, Fondane became known to his family and friends as \"Mielușon\" (from \"miel\", Romanian for \"lamb\", and probably in reference to his bushy hairdo), a name which he later used as a colloquial pseudonym.\n\nAlthough Fondane later claimed to have started writing poetry at age eight, his earliest known contributions to the genre date from 1912, including both pieces of his own and translations from such authors as André Chénier, Joseph Freiherr von Eichendorff, Heinrich Heine and Henri de Régnier. The same year, some of these were published, under the pseudonym \"I. G. Ofir\", in the local literary review \"Floare Albastră\", whose owner, A. L. Zissu, was later a noted novelist and Zionist political figure. Later research proposed that these, like some other efforts of the 1910s, were collective poetry samples, resulting from a collaboration between Fondane and Groper (the former was probably translating the latter's poetic motifs into Romanian). In 1913, Fondane also tried his hand at editing a student journal, signing his editorial with the pen name \"Van Doian\", but only produced several handwritten copies of a single issue.\n\nFondane's actual debut dates back to 1914, during the time when he became a student at the National High School Iași and formally affiliated with the provincial branch of the nationwide Symbolist movement. That year, samples of lyric poetry were also published in the magazines \"Valuri\" and \"Revista Noastră\" (whose owner, writer Constanța Hodoș, even offered Fondane a job on the editorial board, probably unaware that she was corresponding with a high school student). Also in 1914, the Moldavian Symbolist venue \"Absolutio\", edited by Isac Ludo, featured pieces he signed with the pen name \"I. Hașir\". Among his National High School colleagues was Alexandru Al. Philippide, the future critic, who remained one of Fondane's best friends (and whose poetry Fondane proposed for publishing in \"Revista Noastră\"). Late in 1914, Fondane also began his short collaboration with the Iași Symbolist tribune \"Vieața Nouă\". While several of his poems were published there, the review's founder Ovid Densusianu issued objections to their content, and, in their subsequent correspondence, each writer outlines his stylistic disagreements with the other.\n\nDuring the first two years of World War I and Romania's neutrality, the young poet established new contacts within the literary environments of Iași and Bucharest. According to his brother-in-law and biographer Paul Daniel, \"it is amazing how many pages of poetry, translations, prose, articles, chronicles have been written by Fundoianu in this interval.\" In 1915, four of his patriotic-themed poems were published on the front page of \"Dimineața\" daily, which campaigned for Romanian intervention against the Central Powers (they were the first of several contributions Fondane signed with the pen name \"Alex. Vilara\", later \n\"Al. Vilara\"). His parallel contribution to the Bârlad-based review \"Revista Critică\" (originally, \"Cronica Moldovei\") was more strenuous: Fondane declared himself indignant that the editorial staff would not send him the galley proofs, and received instead an irritated reply from manager Al. Ștefănescu; he was eventually featured with poems in three separate issues of \"Revista Critică\". At around that time, he also wrote a memoir of his childhood, \"Note dintr-un confesional\" (\"Notes from a Confessional\").\n\nAround 1915, Fondane was discovered by the journalistic tandem of Tudor Arghezi and Gala Galaction, both of whom were also modernist authors, left-wing militants and Symbolist promoters. The pieces Fondane sent to Arghezi and Galaction's \"Cronica\" paper were received with enthusiasm, a reaction which surprised and impressed the young author. Although his poems went unpublished, his Iași-themed article \"A doua capitală\" (\"The Second Capital\"), signed \"Al. Vilara\", was featured in an April 1916 issue. A follower of Arghezi, he was personally involved in raising awareness about Arghezi's unpublished verse, the \"Agate negre\" (\"Black Diamonds\") cycle.\n\nRemaining close friends with Fondane, Galaction later made persistent efforts of introducing him to critic Garabet Ibrăileanu, with the purpose of having him published by the Poporanist \"Viața Românească\" review, but Ibrăileanu refused to recognize Fondane as an affiliate. Fondane had more success in contacting \"Flacăra\" review and its publisher Constantin Banu: on July 23, 1916, it hosted his sonnet \"Eglogă marină\" (\"Marine Eglogue\"). Between 1915 and 1923, Fondane also had a steady contribution to Romanian-language Jewish periodicals (\"Lumea Evree\", \"Bar-Kochba\", \"Hasmonaea\", \"Hatikvah\"), where he published translations from international representatives of Yiddish literature (Hayim Nahman Bialik, Semyon Frug, Abraham Reisen etc.) under the signatures \"B. Wechsler\", \"B. Fundoianu\" and \"F. Benjamin\". Fondane also completed work on a translation of the \"Ahasverus\" drama, by the Jewish author Herman Heijermans.\nHis collaboration with the Bucharest-based \"Rampa\" (at the time a daily newspaper) also began in 1915, with his debut as theatrical chronicler, and later with his Carpathian-themed series in the travel writing genre, \"Pe drumuri de munte\" (\"On Mountain Roads\"). With almost one signed or unsigned piece per issue over the following years, Fondane was one of the more prolific contributors to that newspaper, and frequently made use of either pseudonyms (\"Diomed\", \"Dio\", \"Funfurpan\", \"Const. Meletie\") or initials (\"B. F.\", \"B. Fd.\", \"fd.\"). These included his January 1916 positive review of \"Plumb\", the first major work by Romania's celebrated Symbolist poet, George Bacovia.\n\nIn 1917, after Romania joined the Entente side and was invaded by the Central Powers, Fondane was in Iași, where the Romanian authorities had retreated. It was in this context that he met and befriended the doyen of Romanian Symbolism, poet Ion Minulescu. Minulescu and his wife, author Claudia Millian, had left their home in occupied Bucharest, and, by spring 1917, hosted Fondane at their provisional domicile in Iași. Millian later recalled that her husband had been much impressed by the Moldavian teenager, describing him as \"a rare bird\" and \"a poet of talent\". The same year, at age 52, Isac Wechsler fell ill with typhus and died in Iași's Sfântul Spiridon Hospital, leaving his family without financial support.\n\nAt around that time, Fondane began work on the poetry cycle \"Priveliști\" (\"Sights\" or \"Panoramas\", finished in 1923). In 1918, he became one of the contributors to the magazine \"Chemarea\", published in Iași by the leftist journalist N. D. Cocea, with help from Symbolist writer Ion Vinea. In the political climate marked by the Peace of Bucharest and Romania's remilitarization, Fondane used Cocea's publication to protest against the arrest of Arghezi, who had been accused of collaborationism with the Central Powers. In this context, Fondane spoke of Arghezi as being \"Romania's greatest contemporary poet\" (a verdict which was later to be approved of by mainstream critics). According to one account, Fondane also worked briefly as a fact checker for \"Arena\", a periodical managed by Vinea and N. Porsenna. His time with \"Chemarea\" also resulted in the publication of his Biblical-themed short story \"Tăgăduința lui Petru\" (\"Peter's Denial\"). Issued by \"Chemarea\"s publishing house in 41 bibliophile copies (20 of which remained in Fondane's possession), it opened with the tract \"O lămurire despre simbolism\" (\"An Explanation of Symbolism\").\n\nIn 1919, upon the war's end, Benjamin Fondane settled in Bucharest, where he stayed until 1923. During this interval, he frequently changed domicile: after a stay at his sister Lina's home in Obor area, he moved on Lahovari Street (near Piața Romană), then in Moșilor area, before relocating to Văcărești (a majority Jewish residential area, where he lived in two successive locations), and ultimately to a house a short distance away from Foișorul de Foc. Between these changes of address, he established contacts with the Symbolist and avant-garde society of Bucharest: a personal friend of graphic artist Iosif Ross, he formed an informal avant-garde circle of his own, attended by writers F. Brunea-Fox, Ion Călugăru, Henri Gad, Sașa Pană, Claude Sernet-Cosma and Ilarie Voronca, as well as by artist-director Armand Pascal (who, in 1920, married Lina Fundoianu). Pană would later note his dominant status within the group, describing him as the \"stooping green-eyed youth from Iași, the standard-bearer of the iconoclasts and rebels of the new generation\".\n\nThe group was occasionally joined by other friends, among them Millian and painter Nicolae Tonitza. In addition, Fondane and Călugăru frequented the artistic and literary club established by the controversial Alexandru Bogdan-Pitești, a cultural promoter and political militant whose influence spread over several Symbolist milieus. In a 1922 piece for \"Rampa\", he remembered Bogdan-Pitești in ambivalent terms: \"he could not stand moral elevation. [...] He was made of the greatest of joys, in the most purulent of bodies. How many generations of ancient boyars had come to pass, like unworthy dung, for this singular earth to be generated?\"\n\nPressed on by his family and the prospects of financial security, Fondane contemplated becoming a lawyer. Having passed his baccalaureate examination in Bucharest, he was, according to his own account, a registered student at the University of Iași Law School, obtaining a graduation certificate but prevented from becoming a licentiate by the opposition of faculty member A. C. Cuza, the antisemitic political figure. According to a recollection of poet Adrian Maniu, Fondane again worked as a fact checker for some months after his arrival to the capital. His activity as a journalist also allowed him to interview Arnold Davidovich Margolin, statesman of the defunct Ukrainian People's Republic, with whom he discussed the fate of Ukrainian Jews before and after the Soviet Russian takeover.\n\nOver the following years, he restarted his career in the press, contributing to various nationally circulated newspapers: \"Adevărul\", \"Adevărul Literar și Artistic\", \"Cuvântul Liber\", \"Mântuirea\", etc. The main topics of his interest were literary reviews, essays reviewing the contribution of Romanian and French authors, various art chronicles, and opinion pieces on social or cultural issues. A special case was his collaboration with \"Mântuirea\", a Zionist periodical founded by Zissu, where, between August and October 1919, he published his studies collection \"Iudaism și elenism\" (\"Judaism and Hellenism\"). These pieces, alternating with similar articles by Galaction, showed how the young man's views in cultural anthropology had been shaped by his relationship with Groper (with whom he nevertheless severed all contacts by 1920).\n\nFondane also renewed his collaboration with \"Rampa\". He and another contributor to the magazine, journalist Tudor Teodorescu-Braniște, carried out a debate in the magazine's pages: Fondane's articles defended Romanian Symbolism against criticism from Teodorescu-Braniște, and offered glimpse into his personal interpretation of Symbolist attitudes. One piece he wrote in 1919, titled \"Noi, simboliștii\" (\"Us Symbolists\") stated his proud affiliation to the current (primarily defined by him as an artistic transposition of eternal idealism), and comprised the slogan: \"We are too many not to be strong, and too few not to be intelligent.\" In May 1920, another of his \"Rampa\" contributions spoke out against Octavian Goga, Culture Minister of the Alexandru Averescu executive, who contemplated sacking George Bacovia from his office of clerk. The same year, \"Lumea Evree\" published his verse drama fragment \"Monologul lui Baltazar\" (\"Belshazzar's Soliloquy\").\n\nAround the time of his relocation to Bucharest, Fondane first met the moderate modernist critic Eugen Lovinescu, and afterward became both an affiliate of Lovinescu's circle and a contributor to his literary review \"Sburătorul\". Among his first contributions there was a retrospective coverage of the boxing match between Jack Dempsey and Georges Carpentier, which comprised his reflections on the mythical power of sport and the clash of cultures. Although a \"Sburătorist\", he was still in contact with Galaction and the left-wing circles. In June 1921, Galaction paid homage to \"the daring Benjamin\" in an article for \"Adevărul Literar și Artistic\", calling attention to Fondane's \"overwhelming originality.\"\n\nA year later, Fondane was employed by Vinea's new venue, the prestigious modernist venue \"Contimporanul\". Having debuted in its first issue with a comment on Romanian translation projects (\"Ferestre spre Occident\", \"Windows on the Occident\"), he was later assigned the theatrical column. Fondane's work was again featured in \"Flacăra\" magazine (at the time under Minulescu's direction): the poem \"Ce simplu\" (\"How Simple\") and the essay \"Istoria Ideii\" (\"The History of the Idea\") were both published there in 1922. The same year, with assistance from fellow novelist Felix Aderca, Fondane grouped his earlier essays on French literature as \"Imagini și cărți din Franța\" (\"Images and Books from France\"), published by Editura Socec company. The book included what was probably the first Romanian study of Marcel Proust's contribution as a novelist. The author announced that he was planning a similar volume, grouping essays about Romanian writers, both modernists (Minulescu, Bacovia, Arghezi, Maniu, Galaction) and classics (Alexandru Odobescu, Ion Creangă, Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea, Anton Pann), but this work was not published in his lifetime.\n\nAlso in 1922, Fondane and Pascal set up the theatrical troupe \"Insula\" (\"The Island\"), which stated its commitment to avant-garde theater. Probably named after Minulescu's earlier Symbolist magazine, the group was likely a local replica of Jean Copeau's nonconformist productions in France. Hosted by the Maison d'Art galleries in Bucharest, the company was joined by, among others, actresses Lina Fundoianu-Pascal and Victoria Mierlescu, and director Sandu Eliad. Other participants were writers (Cocea, Pană, Zissu, Scarlat Callimachi, Mărgărita Miller Verghy, Ion Pillat) and theatrical people (George Ciprian, Marietta Sadova, Soare Z. Soare, Dida Solomon, Alice Sturdza, Ionel Țăranu).\n\nAlthough it stated its goal of revolutionizing the Romanian repertoire (a goal published as an art manifesto in \"Contimporanul\"), \"Insula\" produced mostly conventional Symbolist and Neoclassical plays: its inaugural shows included \"Legenda funigeilor\" (\"Gossamer Legend\") by Ștefan Octavian Iosif and Dimitrie Anghel, one of Lord Dunsany's \"Five Plays\" and (in Fondane's own translation) Molière's \"Le Médecin volant\". Probably aiming to enrich this program with samples of Yiddish drama, Fondane began, but never finished, a translation of S. Ansky's \"The Dybbuk\". The troupe ceased its activity in 1923, partly because of significant financial difficulties, and partly because of a rise in antisemitic activities, which put its Jewish performers at risk. For a while, \"Insula\" survived as a conference group, hosting modernist lectures on classical Romanian literature—with the participation of Symbolist and post-Symbolist authors such as Aderca, Arghezi, Millian, Pillat, Vinea, N. Davidescu, Perpessicius, and Fondane himself. He was at the time working on his own play, \"Filoctet\" (\"Philoctetes\", later finished as \"Philoctète\").\n\nIn 1923, Benjamin Fondane eventually left Romania for France, spurred on by the need to prove himself within a different cultural context. He was at the time interested in the success of Dada, an avant-garde movement launched abroad by the Romanian-born author Tristan Tzara, in collaboration with several others. Not dissuaded by the fact that his sister and brother-in-law (the Pascals) had returned impoverished from an extended stay in Paris, Fondane crossed Europe by train and partly by foot.\n\nThe writer (who adopted his Francized name shortly after leaving his native country) was eventually joined there by the Pascals. The three of them continued to lead a bohemian and at times precarious existence, discussed in Fondane's correspondence with Romanian novelist Liviu Rebreanu, and described by researcher Ana-Maria Tomescu as \"humiliating poverty\". The poet acquired some sources of income from his contacts in Romania: in exchange for his contribution to the circulation of Romanian literature in France, he received official funds from the Culture Ministry's directorate (at the time headed by Minulescu); in addition, he published unsigned articles in various newspapers, and even relied on handouts from Romanian actress Elvira Popescu (who visited his home, as did avant-garde painter M. H. Maxy). He also translated into French Zissu's novel \"Amintirile unui candelabru\" (\"The Recollections of a Chandelier\"). For a while, the poet also joined his colleague Ilarie Voronca on the legal department of L'Abeille insurance company.\n\nAfter a period of renting furnished rooms, Fondane accepted an offer from Jean, brother of the deceased literary theorist Remy de Gourmont, and, employed as a librarian-concierge, moved into the Gourmonts' museum property on Rue des Saints-Pères, some distance away from to the celebrated literary café \"Les Deux Magots\". In the six years before Pascal's 1929 death, Fondane left Gourmont's house and, with his sister and brother-in-law, moved into a succession of houses (on Rue Domat, Rue Jacob, Rue Monge), before settling into a historical building once inhabited by author Bernardin de Saint-Pierre (Rue Rollin, 6). Complaining about eye trouble and exhaustion, and several times threatened with insolvency, Fondane often left Paris for the resort of Arcachon.\n\nClaudia Millian, who was also spending time in Paris, described Fondane's new focus on studying Christian theology and Catholic thought, from Hildebert to Gourmont's own \"Latin mystique\" (it was also at this stage that the Romanian writer acquired and sent home part of Gourmont's bibliophile collection). He coupled these activities with an interest in grouping together the cultural segments of the Romanian diaspora: around 1924, he and Millian were founding members of the Society of Romanian Writers in Paris, presided upon by the aristocrat Elena Văcărescu. Meanwhile, Fondane acquired a profile on the local literary scene, and, in his personal notes, claimed to have had his works praised by novelist André Gide and philosopher Jules de Gaultier. They both were his idols: Gide's work had shaped his own contribution in the prose poem genre, while Gaultier did the same for his philosophical outlook. The self-exiled debutant was nevertheless still viewing his career with despair, describing it as languishing, and noting that there was a chance of him failing to earn a solid literary reputation.\n\nThe mid-1920s brought Benjamin Fondane's affiliation with Surrealism, the post-Dada avant-garde current centered in Paris. Fondane also rallied with Belgian Surrealist composers E. L. T. Mesens and André Souris (with whom he signed a manifesto on modernist music), and supported Surrealist poet-director Antonin Artaud in his efforts to set up a theater named after Alfred Jarry (which was not, however, an all-Surrealist venue). In this context, he tried to persuade the French Surrealist group to tour his native country and establish contacts with local affiliates.\n\nBy 1926, Fondane grew disenchanted with the communist alignment proposed by the main Surrealist faction and its mentor, André Breton. Writing at the time, he commented that the ideological drive could prove fatal: \"Perhaps never again will [a poet] recover that absolute freedom that he had in the bourgeois republic.\" A few years later, the Romanian writer expressed his support for the anti-Breton dissidents of \"Le Grand Jeu\" magazine, and was a witness at the 1930 riot which opposed the two factions. His anti-communist discourse was again aired in 1932: commenting on indictment of Surrealist poet Louis Aragon for communist texts (read by the authorities as instigation to murder), Fondane stated that he did believe Aragon's case was covered by the freedom of speech. His ideas also brought him into conflict with Pierre Drieu La Rochelle, who was moving away from an avant-garde background and into the realm of far right ideas. By the early 1930s, Fondane was in contact with the mainstream modernist Jacques Rivière and his \"Nouvelle Revue Française\" circle.\n\nIn 1928, his own collaboration with the Surrealists took shape as the book \"Trois scenarii: ciné-poèmes\" (\"Three Scenarios: Cine-poems\"), published by \"Documents internationaux de l'esprit nouveau\" collection, with artwork by American photographer Man Ray and Romanian painter Alexandru Brătășanu (one of his other contacts in the French Surrealist photographers' group was Eli Lotar, the illegitimate son of Arghezi). The \"cine-poems\" were intentionally conceived as unfilmable screenplays, in what was his personal statement about artistic compromise between experimental film and the emerging worldwide film industry. The book notably comprised his verdict about cinema being \"the only art that was never classical.\"\n\nWith time, Fondane became a contributor to newspapers or literary journals in France, Belgium, and Switzerland: a regular presence in \"Cahiers du Sud\" of Carcassonne, he had his work featured in the Surrealist press (\"Discontinuité\", \"Le Phare de Neuilly\", \"Bifur\"), as well as in \"Le Courrier des Poètes\", \"Le Journal des Poètes\", Romain Rolland's \"Europe\", Paul Valéry's \"Commerce\" etc. In addition, Fondane's research was hosted by specialized venues such as \"Revue Philosophique\", \"Schweizer Annalen\" and Carlo Suarès' \"Cahiers de l'Étoile\". After a long period of indecision, the Romanian poet became a dedicated follower of Lev Shestov, a Russian-born existentialist thinker whose ideas about the eternal opposition between faith and reason he expanded upon in later texts. According to intellectual historian Samuel Moyn, Fondane was, with Rachel Bespaloff, one of the \"most significant and devoted of Shestov's followers\". In 1929, as a frequenter of Shestov's circle, Fondane also met Argentinian female author Victoria Ocampo, who became his close friend (after 1931, he became a contributor to her modernist review, \"Sur\"). Fondane's essays were more frequently than before philosophical in nature: \"Europe\" published his tribute Shestov (January 1929) and his comments of Edmund Husserl's phenomenology, which included his own critique of rationalism (June 1930).\n\nInvited (on Ocampo's initiative) by the \"Amigos del Arte\" society of Buenos Aires, Fondane left for Argentina and Uruguay in summer 1929. The object of his visit was promoting French cinema with a set of lectures in Buenos Aires, Montevideo and other cities (as he later stated in a \"Rampa\" interview with Sarina Cassvan-Pas, he introduced South Americans to the work of Germaine Dulac, Luis Buñuel and Henri Gad). In this context, Fondane met essayist Eduardo Mallea, who invited him to contribute in \"La Nación\"s literary supplement. His other activities there included conferencing on Shestov at the University of Buenos Aires and publishing articles on several subjects (from Shestov's philosophy to the poems of Tzara), but the fees received in return were, in his own account, too small to cover the cost of decent living.\n\nIn October 1929, Fondane was back in Paris, where he focused on translating and popularizing some of Romanian literature's milestone texts, from Mihai Eminescu's \"Sărmanul Dionis\" to the poetry of Ion Barbu, Minulescu, Arghezi and Bacovia. In the same context, the expatriate writer helped introduce Romanians to some of the new European tendencies, becoming, in the words of literary historian Paul Cernat, \"the first important promoter of French Surrealism in Romanian culture.\"\n\nIn the mid-1920s, Fondane and painter János Mattis-Teutsch joined the external editorial board of \"Integral\" magazine, an avant-garde tribune published in Bucharest by Ion Călugăru, F. Brunea-Fox and Voronca. He was assigned a permanent column, known as \"Fenêtres sur l'Europe/Ferestre spre Europa\" (French and Romanian for \"Windows on Europe\"). With Barbu Florian, Fondane became a leading film reviewer for the magazine, pursuing his agenda in favor of non-commercial and \"pure\" films (such as René Clair's \"Entr'acte\"), and praising Charlie Chaplin for his lyricism, but later making some concessions to talkies and the regular Hollywood films. Exploring what he defined as \"the great ballet of contemporary French poetry\", Fondane also published individual notes on writers Aragon, Jean Cocteau, Joseph Delteil, Paul Éluard and Pierre Reverdy. In 1927, \"Integral\" also hosted one of Fondane's replies to the communist Surrealists in France, as \"Le surréalisme et la révolution\" (\"Surrealism and Revolution\").\n\nHe also came into contact with \"unu\", the Surrealist venue of Bucharest, which was edited by several of his avant-garde friends at home. His contributions there included a text on Tzara's post-Dada works, which he analyzed as Valéry-like \"pure poetry\". In December 1928, \"unu\" published some of Fondane's messages home, as \"Scrisori pierdute\" (\"Lost Letters\"). Between 1931 and 1934, Fondane was in regular correspondence with the \"unu\" writers, in particular Stephan Roll, F. Brunea-Fox and Sașa Pană, being informed about their conflict with Voronca (attacked as a betrayer of the avant-garde) and witnessing from afar the eventual implosion of Romanian Surrealism on the model of French groups. In such dialogues, Roll complains about right-wing political censorship in Romania, and speaks in some detail about his own conversion to Marxism.\n\nWith Fondane's approval and Minulescu's assistance, \"Priveliști\" also saw print in Romania during 1930. Published by Editura Cultura Națională, it sparked significant controversy with its nonconformist style, but also made the author the target of critics' interest. As a consequence, Fondane was also sending material to Isac Ludo's \"Adam\" review, most of it notes (some hostile) clarifying ambiguous biographical detail discussed in Aderca's chronicle to \"Priveliști\". His profile within the local avant-garde was also acknowledged in Italy and Germany: the Milanese magazine \"Fiera Letteraria\" commented on his poetry, reprinting fragments originally featured in \"Integral\"; in its issue of August–September 1930, the Expressionist tribune \"Der Sturm\" published samples of his works, alongside those of nine other Romanian modernists, translated by Leopold Kosch.\n\nAs Paul Daniel notes, the polemics surrounding \"Priveliști\" only lasted for a year, and Fondane was largely forgotten by the Romanian public after this moment. However, the discovery of Fondane's avant-garde stance by traditionalist circles took the form of bemusement or indignation, which lasted into the next decades. The conservative critic Const. I. Emilian, whose 1931 study discussed modernism as a psychiatric condition, mentioned Fondane as one of the leading \"extremists\", and deplored his abandonment of traditionalist subjects. Some nine years later, the antisemitic far right newspaper \"Sfarmă-Piatră\", through the voice of Ovidiu Papadima, accused Fondane and \"the Jews\" of having purposefully maintained \"the illusion of a literary movement\" under Lovinescu's leadership. Nevertheless, before that date, Lovinescu himself had come to criticize his former pupil (a disagreement which echoed his larger conflict with the \"unu\" group). Also in the 1930s, Fondane's work received coverage in the articles of two other maverick modernists: Perpessicius, who viewed it with noted sympathy, and Lucian Boz, who found his new poems touched by \"prolixity\".\n\nBack in France, where he had become Shestov's assistant, Fondane was beginning work on other books: the essay on 19th-century poet Arthur Rimbaud—\"Rimbaud le voyou\" (\"Rimbaud the Hoodlum\")—and, despite an earlier pledge not to return to poetry, a new series of poems. His eponymously titled study-portrait of German philosopher Martin Heidegger was published by \"Cahiers du Sud\" in 1932. Despite his earlier rejection of commercial films, Fondane eventually became an employee of Paramount Pictures, probably spurred on by his need to finance a personal project (reputedly, he was accepted there with a second application, his first one having been rejected in 1929). He worked first as an assistant director, before turning to screenwriting. Preserving his interest in Romanian developments, he visited the Paris set of \"Televiziune\", a Romanian cinema production for which he shared directorial credits. His growing interest in Voronca's own poetry led him to review it for Tudor Arghezi's Bucharest periodical, \"Bilete de Papagal\", where he stated: \"Mr. Ilarie Voronca is at the top of his form. I'm gladly placing my stakes on him.\"\n\nIn 1931, the poet married Geneviève Tissier, a trained jurist and lapsed Catholic. Their home on Rue Rollin subsequently became a venue for literary sessions, mostly grouping the \"Cahiers du Sud\" contributors. The aspiring author Paul Daniel, who became Rodica Wechsler's husband in 1935, attended such meetings with his wife, and recalls having met Gaultier, filmmaker Dimitri Kirsanoff, music critic Boris de Schlözer, poets Yanette Delétang-Tardif and Thérèse Aubray, as well as Shestov's daughter Natalie Baranoff. Fondane also enjoyed a warm friendship with Constantin Brâncuși, the Romanian-born modern sculptor, visiting Brâncuși's workshop on an almost daily basis and writing about his work in \"Cahiers de l'Étoile\". He witnessed first-hand and described Brâncuși's primitivist techniques, likening his work to that of a \"savage man\".\n\n\"Rimbaud le voyou\" was eventually published by Denoël & Steele company in 1933, the same year when Fondane published his poetry volume \"Ulysse\" (\"Ulysses\") with \"Les Cahiers du Journal des Poètes\". The Rimbaud study, partly written as a reply to Roland de Renéville's monograph \"Rimbaud le Voyant\" (\"Rimbaud the Seer\"), consolidated Fondane's international reputation as a critic and literary historian. In the months after its publication, the book earned much praise from scholars and writers—from Joë Bousquet, Jean Cocteau, Benedetto Croce and Louis-Ferdinand Céline, to Jean Cassou, Guillermo de Torre and Miguel de Unamuno. It also found admirers in the English poet David Gascoyne, who was afterward in correspondence with Fondane, and the American novelist Henry Miller. \"Ulysse\" itself illustrated Fondane's interest in scholarly issues: he sent one autographed copy to Raïssa Maritain, wife of Jacques Maritain (both of whom were Catholic thinkers). Shortly after this period, the author was surprised to read Voronca's own French-language volume \"Ulysse dans la cité\" (\"Ulysses in the City\"): although puzzled by the similarity of titles with his own collection, he described Voronca as a \"great poet.\" Also then, in Romania, B. Iosif completed the Yiddish translation of Fondane's \"Psalmul leprosului\" (\"The Leper's Psalm\"). The text, left in his care by Fondane before his 1923 departure, was first published in \"Di Woch\", a periodical set up in Romania by poet Yankev Shternberg (October 31, 1934).\n\nThe 1933 establishment of a Nazi regime in Germany brought Fondane into the camp of anti-fascism. In December 1934, his \"Apelul studențimii\" (\"The Call of Students\") was circulated among the Romanian diaspora, and featured passionate calls for awareness: \"Tomorrow, in concentration camps, it will be too late\". The following year, he outlined his critique of all kinds of totalitarianism, \"L'Écrivain devant la révolution\" (\"The Writer Facing the Revolution\"), supposed to be delivered in front of the Paris-held International Congress of Writers for the Defense of Culture (organized by left-wing and communist intellectuals with support from the Soviet Union). According to historian Martin Stanton, Fondane's activity in film, like Jean-Paul Sartre's parallel beginnings as a novelist, was itself a political statement in support of the Popular Front: \"[they were] hoping to introduce critical dimensions in the fields they felt the fascists had colonized.\" Fondane nevertheless ridiculed the communist version of pacifism as a \"parade of big words\", noting that it opposed mere slogans to concrete German re-armament. Writing for the film magazine \"Les Cahiers Jaunes\" in 1933, he expressed the ambition of creating \"an absurd film about something absurd, to satisfy [one's] absurd taste for freedom\".\n\nFondane left the Paramount studios the same year, disappointed with company policies and without having had any screen credit of his own (although, he claimed, there were over 100 Paramount scripts to which he had unsigned contributions). During 1935, he and Kirsanoff were in Switzerland, for the filming of \"Rapt\", with a screenplay by Fondane (adapted from Charles Ferdinand Ramuz's \"La séparation des races\" novel). The result was a highly poetic production, and, despite Fondane's still passionate defense of silent film, the first talkie in Kirsanoff's career. The poet was enthusiastic about this collaboration, claiming that it had enjoyed a good reception from Spain to Canada, standing as a manifesto against the success of more \"chatty\" sound films. In particular, French critics and journalists hailed \"Rapt\" as a necessary break with the \"comédie en vaudeville\" tradition. In the end, however, the independent product could not compete with the Hollywood industry, which was at the time monopolizing the French market. In parallel with these events, Fondane followed Shestov's personal guidance and, by means of \"Cahiers du Sud\", attacked philosopher Jean Wahl's secular reinterpretation of Søren Kierkegaard's Christian existentialism.\n\nDespite selling many copies of his books and having \"Rapt\" played at the Panthéon Cinema, Benjamin Fondane was still facing major financial difficulties, accepting a 1936 offer to write and assist in the making of \"Tararira\", an avant-garde musical product of the Argentine film industry. This was his second option: initially, he contemplated filming a version of Ricardo Güiraldes' \"Don Segundo Sombra\", but met opposition from Güiraldes' widow. While en route to Argentina, he became friends with Georgette Gaucher, a Breton woman, with whom he was in correspondence for the rest of his life.\n\nUnder contract with the Falma-film company, Fondane was received with honors by the Romanian Argentine community, and, with the unusual cut of his preferred suit, is said to have even become a trendsetter in local fashion. For Ocampo and the \"Sur\" staff, literary historian Rosalie Sitman notes, his visit also meant an occasion to defy the xenophobic and antisemitic agenda of Argentine nationalist circles. Centered on the tango, Fondane's film enlisted contributions from some leading figures in several national film and music industries, having Miguel Machinandiarena as producer and John Alton as editor; in starred, among others, Orestes Caviglia, Miguel Gómez Bao and Iris Marga. The manner in which \"Tararira\" approached its subject scandalized the Argentine public, and it was eventually rejected by its distributors (no copies survive, but writer Gloria Alcorta, who was present at a private screening, rated it a \"masterpiece\"). Fondane, who had earlier complained about the actors' resistance to his ideas, left Argentina before the film was actually finished. It was on his return trip that he met Jacques and Raïssa Maritain, with whom he and Geneviève became good friends.\n\nWith the money received in Buenos Aires, the writer contemplated returning on a visit to Romania, but he abandoned all such projects later in 1936, instead making his way to France. He followed up on his publishing activity in 1937, when his selected poems, \"Titanic\", saw print. Encouraged by the reception given to \"Rimbaud le voyou\", he published two more essays with Denoël & Steele: \"La Conscience malheureuse\" (\"The Unhappy Consciousness\", 1937) and \"Faux traité d'esthétique\" (\"False Treatise of Aesthetics\", 1938). In 1938, he was working on a collected edition of his \"Ferestre spre Europa\", supposed to be published in Bucharest but never actually seeing print. At around that date, Fondane was also a presenter for the Romanian edition of 20th Century Fox's international newsreel, \"Movietone News\".\n\nIn 1939, Fondane was naturalized French. This followed an independent initiative of the \"Société des écrivains français\" professional association, in recognition for his contribution to French letters. \"Cahiers du Sud\" collected the required 3,000 francs fee through a public subscription, enlisting particularly large contributions from music producer Renaud de Jouvenel (brother of Bertrand de Jouvenel) and philosopher-ethnologist Lucien Lévy-Bruhl. Only months after this event, with the outbreak of World War II, Fondane was drafted into the French Army. During most of the \"Phoney War\" interval, considered too old for active service, he was in the military reserve force, but in February 1940 was called under arms with the 216 Artillery Regiment. According to Lina, \"he left [home] with unimaginable courage and faith.\" Stationed at the Sainte Assise Castle in Seine-Port, he edited and stenciled a humorous gazette, \"L'Écho de la I C-ie\" (\"The 1st Company Echo\"), where he also published his last-ever work of poetry, \"Le poète en patrouille\" (\"The Poet on Patrolling Duty\").\n\nFondane was captured by the Germans in June 1940 (shortly before the fall of France), and was taken into a German camp as a prisoner of war. He managed to escape captivity, but was recaptured in short time. After falling ill with appendicitis, he was transported back to Paris, kept in custody at the Val-de-Grâce, and operated on. Fondane was eventually released, the German occupiers having decided that he was no longer fit for soldierly duty.\n\nHe was working on two poetry series, \"Super Flumina Babylonis\" (a reference to \"Psalm 137\") and \"L'Exode\" (\"The Exodus\"), as well as on his last essay, focusing on 19th-century poet Charles Baudelaire, and titled \"Baudelaire et l'expérience du gouffre\" (\"Baudelaire and the Experience of the Abyss\"). In addition to these, his other French texts, incomplete or unpublished by 1944, include: the poetic drama pieces \"Philoctète\", \"Les Puits de Maule\" (\"Maule's Well\", an adaptation of Nathaniel Hawthorne's \"The House of the Seven Gables\") and \"Le Féstin de Balthazar\" (\"Belshazzar's Feast\"); a study about the life and work of Romanian-born philosopher Stéphane Lupasco; and the selection from his interviews with Shestov, \"Sur les rives de l'Illisus\" (\"On the Banks of the Illisus\"). His very last text is believed to be a philosophical essay, \"Le Lundi existentiel\" (\"The Existential Monday\"), on which Fondane was working in 1944. Little is known about \"Provèrbes\" (\"Proverbs\"), which, he announced in 1933, was supposed to be an independent collection of poems.\n\nAccording to various accounts, Fondane made a point of not leaving Paris, despite the growing restrictions and violence. However, others note that, as a precaution against the antisemitic measures in the occupied north, he eventually made his way into the more permissive \"zone libre\", and only made returns to Paris in order to collect his books. Throughout this interval, the poet refused to wear the yellow badge (mandatory for Jews), and, living in permanent risk, isolated himself from his wife, adopting an even more precarious lifestyle. He was still in contact with writers of various ethnic backgrounds, and active on the clandestine literary scene. In this context, Fondane stated his intellectual affiliation to the French Resistance: his former Surrealist colleague Paul Éluard published several of his poems in the pro-communist \"Europe\", under the name of \"Isaac Laquedem\" (a nod to the Wandering Jew myth). Such pieces were later included, but left unsigned, in the anthology \"L'Honneur des poètes\" (\"The Honor of Poets\"), published by the Resistance activists as an anti-Nazi manifesto. Fondane also preserved his column in \"Cahiers du Sud\" for as long as it was possible, and had his contributions published in several other clandestine journals.\n\nAfter 1941, Fondane became friends with another Romanian existentialist in France, the younger Emil Cioran. Their closeness signaled an important stage in the latter's career: Cioran was slowly moving away from his fascist sympathies and his antisemitic stance, and, although still connected to the revolutionary fascist Iron Guard, had reintroduced cosmopolitanism to his own critique of Romanian society. In 1943, transcending ideological boundaries, Fondane also had dinner with Mircea Eliade, the Romanian novelist and philosopher, who, like their common friend Cioran, had an ambiguous connection with the far right. In 1942, his own Romanian citizenship rights, granted by the Jewish emancipation of the early 1920s, were lost with the antisemitic legislation adopted by the Ion Antonescu regime, which also officially banned his entire work as \"Jewish\". At around that time, his old friends outside France made unsuccessful efforts to obtain him a safe conduct to neutral countries. Such initiatives were notably taken by Jacques Maritain from his new home in the United States and by Victoria Ocampo in Argentina.\n\nHe was eventually arrested by collaborationist forces in spring 1944, after unknown civilians reported his Jewish origin. Held in custody by the Gestapo, he was assigned to the local network of Holocaust perpetrators: after internment in the Drancy transit camp, he was sent on one of the transports to the extermination camps in occupied Poland, reaching Auschwitz-Birkenau. In the meantime, his family and friends remained largely unaware of his fate. After news of his arrest, several of his friends reportedly intervened to save him, including Cioran, Lupasco and writer Jean Paulhan. According to some accounts, such efforts may have also involved another one of Cioran's friends, essayist Eugène Ionesco (later known for his work in drama).\n\nAccounts differ on what happened to his sister Lina. Paul Daniel believes that she decided to go looking for her brother, also went missing, and, in all probability, became a victim of another deportation. Other sources state that she was arrested at around the same time as, or even together with, her brother, and that they were both on the same transport to Auschwitz. According to other accounts, Fondane was in custody while his sister was not, and sent her a final letter from Drancy; Fondane, who had theoretical legal grounds for being spared deportation (a Christian wife), aware that Lina could not invoke them, sacrificed himself to be by her side. While in Drancy, he sent another letter, addressed to Geneviève, in which he asked for all his French poetry to be published in the future as \"Le Mal des fantômes\" (\"The Ache of Phantoms\"). Optimistically, Fondane referred to himself as \"the traveler who isn't done traveling\".\n\nWhile Lina is believed to have been marked for death upon arrival (and immediately after sent to the gas chamber), her brother survived the camp conditions for a few more months. He befriended two Jewish doctors, Moscovici and Klein, with whom he spent his free moments engaged in passionate discussions about philosophy and literature. As was later attested by a survivor of the camp, the poet himself was among the 700 inmates selected for extermination on October 2, 1944, when the Birkenau subsection outside Brzezinka was being evicted by SS guards. He was aware of impending death, and reportedly saw it as ironic that it came so near to an expected Allied victory. After a short interval in Block 10, where he is said to have awaited his death with dignity and courage, he was driven to the gas chamber and murdered. His body was cremated, along with those of the other victims.\n\nAs a young writer, Benjamin Fondane moved several times between the extremes of Symbolism and Neoromantic traditionalism. Literary historian Mircea Martin analyzed the very first of his as pastiches of several, sometimes contradictory, literary sources. These influences, he notes, come from local traditionalists, Romantics and Neoromantics—Octavian Goga (the inspiration for Fondane's earliest pieces), Grigore Alexandrescu, Vasile Alecsandri, George Coșbuc, Ștefan Octavian Iosif; from French Symbolists—Paul Verlaine; and from Romanian disciples of Symbolism—Dimitrie Anghel, George Bacovia, Alexandru Macedonski, Ion Minulescu. The young author had a special appreciation for the 19th century national poet, Mihai Eminescu. Familiar with Eminescu's entire poetic work, he was one of the young poets who tried to reconcile Eminescu's Neoromantic, ruralizing, traditionalism with the urban phenomenon that was Symbolism. While Fondane continued to credit Minulescu's radical and jocular Symbolism as a main influence on his own poems, this encounter was overall less significant than his enthusiasm for Eminescu; in contrast, Bacovia's desolate and macabre poetry left enduring traces in Fondane's work, shaping his depiction of provincial environments and even transforming his worldview.\n\nFondane's early affiliation with Ovid Densusianu's version of Romania's Symbolist current was, according to literary historian Dumitru Micu, superficial. Micu notes that the young Fondane sent his verse to be published by magazines with incompatible agendas, suggesting that his collaboration with \"Vieața Nouă\" was therefore incidental, but also that, around 1914, Fondane's own style was a \"conventional Symbolism\". Writing in 1915, the poet himself explained that his time with the magazine in question ought not be interpreted as anything other than conjectural. During his polemic with Tudor Teodorescu-Braniște, he defined himself as an advocate of an \"insolent\" Symbolism, a category defined by and around Remy de Gourmont. This perspective was further clarified in \"O lămurire...\", which explained how \"Tăgăduința lui Petru\" was to be read: \"A clear, although Symbolist, book. For it is, unmistakably, Symbolist. [...] Symbolism doesn't necessarily mean neologism, morbid, bizarre, decadent, confusing and badly written. But rather—if there is talent—original, commonsensical, depth, non-imitation, lack of standard, subconscious, new and sometimes healthy.\" From a regional point of view, the young Fondane is sometimes included with Bacovia in the Moldavian branch of Romanian Symbolism, or, more particularly, in the Jewish Moldavian subsection.\n\nThe various stylistic directions of Fondane's early poetry came together in \"Priveliști\". Mircea Martin reads in it the poet's emancipation from both Symbolism and traditionalism, despite it being opened with a dedication to Minulescu, and against Eugen Lovinescu's belief that such pastorals were exclusively traditionalist. According to Martin, \"Priveliști\" parts from its Romantic predecessors by abandoning the \"descriptive\" and \"sentimentalist\" in pastoral conventions: \"Everything seems designed on purpose to confound and defy the traditional mindset.\" Similarly, writer-critic Gheorghe Crăciun found the \"Priveliști\" texts contiguous with other early forms of Romanian modernism.\n\nNevertheless, much of the volume still adheres to lyricism and the conventional idyll format, primarily by identifying itself with the slow rhythms of country life. These traits were subsumed by literary historian George Călinescu into a special category, that of \"traditionalist Symbolism\", centered on \"that which brings man closer to Creation's interior life\". The same commentator suggested that the concept linked modernism and traditionalism through the common influence of Charles Baudelaire, whom Fondane himself credited as the \"mystical power\" behind \"Priveliști\". The cycle also recalls Fondane's familiarity with another pastoral poet, Francis Jammes. Of special note is an ode, \"Lui Taliarh\" (\"At Thaliarchus\"), described by Călinescu as the masterpiece of \"Priveliști\". Directly inspired by Horace's \"Odes I.9\", and seen by Martin as Fondane's will to integrate death into life (or \"plenary living\"), it equates existence with the seasonal cycle:\nFrom its traditionalist core, \"Priveliști\" created a modernist structure of uncertainty and violent language. According to Mircea Martin, the two tendencies were so intertwined that one could find both expressed within the same poem. The very preference for vitalism and the energy of wilderness, various critics assess, is a modernist reaction to the drama of World War I, rather than a return to Romantic ideals. In this interval, Fondane had also discovered the poetic revolution promoted by Tudor Arghezi, who united traditionalist discourse with modernist themes, creating new poetic formats. Martin notes that Fondane, more than any other, tried to replicate Arghezi's abrupt prosody and \"tooth and nail\" approach to the literary language, but lacked his mentor's \"verbal magic.\" The same critic suggests that the main effect of Arghezi's influence on Fondane was not in poetic form, but in determining the disciple to \"discover himself\", to seek his own independent voice. Paul Cernat also sees Fondane as indebted to Arghezi's mix of \"cruelty\" and \"formal discipline\". In contrast to such assessments, Călinescu saw Fondane not as an Arghezian pupil, but as a traditionalist \"spiritually related\" to Ion Pillat's own post-Symbolist avatar. This verdict was implicitly or explicitly rejected by other commentators: Martin argued that Pillat's omnipresent \"calm joy\", modulated with \"impeccable taste\", clashed with Fondane's \"tension\", \"surprises\" and \"intelligence superior to [his] talent\"; Cernat assessed that \"Priveliști\" was at \"the antipode\" of Pillat and Jammes, that its themes pointed to social alienation and a patriarchal universe gone \"off its rocker\".\n\nStatements made by the young Fondane, in which he explains his indifference toward the landscape as it is, and his preference for the landscape as the poet himself creates it, have been a traditional source for critical commentary. As Martin notes, this attitude led the poet and travel writer to express an apathy, or even boredom, in regard to the wild landscape, to promote \"withdrawal\" rather than \"adhesion\", \"solitude\" rather than \"communion\". However, as a way of cultivating a cosmic level of poetry, Fondane's work veered into synesthesia and vitalism, being commended by critics for its tactile, aural or olfactory suggestions. In one such poem, cited by Călinescu as a sample of \"exquisite freshness\", the author imagines being turned into a ripe watermelon. These works also part with convention in matters of prosody (with a modern treatment of alexandrines) and vocabulary (a stated preference for Slavic versus Romance terminologies). In addition, Martin, who declared himself puzzled at noting that Fondane would not publish some of his most accomplished poems of youth, made special note of their occasional disregard for Romanian grammar and other artistic licenses (left uncorrected by Paul Daniel on Fondane's explicit request). Some of the \"Priveliști\" poems look upon nature with ostentatious sarcasm, focusing on its grotesque elements, its rawness and its repetitiveness, as well as attacking the idyllic portrayal of peasants in traditionalist literature. Martin notes in particular one of the untitled pieces about Hertza region:\n\nLiterary historian Ovid Crohmălniceanu was the first to suggest, in the 1960s, that the underlying traits of such imagery made the post-Symbolist Fondane an Expressionist poet, who had detected \"the fundamental anarchy of the universe\". The verdict was echoed and amended by those of other critics. Martin finds that it applies to many of Fondane's early poems, where \"explosive\" imagery is central, but opines that, generally toned down by melancholy, their message too blends into a new form of \"crepuscular wisdom\". Scholar Dan Grigorescu stresses that the Neo-romantic and Symbolist element is dominant throughout the \"Priveliști\" volume and, contrary to Crohmălniceanu's thesis, argues that Fondane's projection of the self into the nature is not Expressionist, but rather a convention borrowed from Romanticism (except for \"perhaps, [...] the exacerbated dilatation\" in scenes in which terrified cattle are driven into town). In Grigorescu's interpretation, the volume has some similarities with the pastoral Expressionism of Romanian writers Lucian Blaga and Adrian Maniu, as well as with the wilderness paintings of Franz Marc, but is at \"the opposite pole\" from the \"morbid hallucination\" Expressionism of H. Bonciu and Max Blecher. He indicates that, overall, Fondane's contributions confuse critics by following \"contradictory directions\", a mix that \"hardly finds any grounds for comparison within [Romanian] poetry.\" In contrast, Paul Cernat sees both Fondane's poetry and Ion Călugăru's prose as \"Expressionist \"écorchés\"\", and connects Fondane's \"modern attitude\" to his familiarity with the poems of Arthur Rimbaud.\n\nThe introduction of rhetorical violence within a traditional poetic setting announced Fondane's transition into the more radical wing of the modernist movement. During his \"Priveliști\" period, in his articles for \"Contimporanul\", the poet stated that Symbolism was dead, and in subsequent articles drew a line between the original and non-original sides of Romanian Symbolism, becoming particularly critical of Macedonski. Defining his programmatic approach as leading, through the avant-garde, into a Neoclassical modernism (or a \"new Classicism\"), Benjamin Fondane argued: \"To be excessive: that is the only way of being innovative.\" His perspective, mixing revolt and messages about creating a new tradition, was relatively close to \"Contimporanul\"s own artistic program, and as such a variant of Constructivism. During his own transition from Symbolism, Fondane looked on the avant-garde itself with critical distance. Discussing it as the product of a tradition leading back to Stéphane Mallarmé, he reproached Cubism for displaying a limitation of range, and viewed Futurism as essentially destructive (but also useful for having created a virgin territory to support \"constructive man\"); likewise, he found Dada a solid, but limited, method of combating interwar period's \"metaphysical despair\".\n\nThe affiliation to the avant-garde came with a sharp critique of Romanian culture, accused by Fondane of promoting imitation and parochialism. During a period which ended with his 1923 departure, the young poet sparked polemic with a series of statements in which, reviewing the impact of local Francophilia, he equated Romania with a colony of France. This theory proposed a difference between Westernization and \"parasitism\": \"If a foreign intellectual direction is always useful, an alien soul is always a danger.\" He did not cease to promote foreign culture at home, but stated a complex argument about the need to recognize differences in culture: his global conclusion about civilizations, which he viewed as equal but not identical, built on Gourmont's theory about an \"intellectual constancy\" throughout human history, as well as on philosopher Henri Bergson's critique of mechanism. In parallel, Fondane criticized the cultural setting of Greater Romania, noting that it was so Bucharest-focused that Transylvanian authors only became widely known by attending the capital's Casa Capșa restaurant. In his retrospective interpretation of Romanian literature, the avant-garde essayist stated that there were precious few authors who could be considered original, primarily citing Ion Creangă, the peasant writer, as a model of authenticity. While stating this point in his \"Imagini și cărți din Franța\", Fondane cited in his favor a traditionalist culture critic, historian Nicolae Iorga.\n\nHowever, during a virtual polemic with Poporanism (hosted by \"Sburătorul\" in 1922), Fondane also questioned the originality and Thraco-Roman origin of Romanian folklore, as well as, through it, historical myths surrounding the Latin ethnogenesis: \"Present-day Romania, of obscure origins, Thraco-Roman-Slavic-Barbarian, owes its existence and present-day European inclusion to a fecund error [...]: \"it is the idea of our Latin origin\" [Fondane's italics].\" Likewise, the author put forth the thesis according to which traditionalists such as Mihail Sadoveanu and George Coșbuc invoked literary themes present not just in Romania's archaic tradition, but also in Slavic folklore. Fondane went on to draw a comparison between the idea of Jewish chosenness and that of Romanian Latinity, concluding that they both resulted in positive national goals (in the case of Romania and its inhabitants, that of \"becoming part of Europe\"). Paul Cernat found his perspective \"more reasonable\" than that of his \"Contimporanul\" colleagues, who speculated about creating a modernity on folkloric roots.\n\nScholar Constantin Pricop interprets Fondane's overall perspective as that of a \"constructive\" critic, citing a fragment of \"Imagini și cărți din Franța\": \"Let us hope the time will come when we may bring our personal contribution into Europe. [...] Until such time, let's keep a check on the continuous assimilation of foreign culture [...]; let's therefore return to cultural criticism.\" Commenting at length on the probable motivations of Fondane's discourse, Cernat suggests that, like many of his avant-garde colleagues, Fondane experienced a \"peripheral complex\", merging Bovarysme and frustrated ambition. According to Cernat, the poet surpassed this moment after experiencing success in France, and his decision to have \"Priveliști\" printed at home was intended as a special tribute to Romania and its language. There is however a pronounced difference between Fondane's French and Romanian work, as discussed by critics and by Fondane himself. The elements of continuity are highlighted in Crăciun's account: \"French literature and culture signified for Fundoianu a process of clarification and self-definition, but not a change of identity.\"\n\nSeveral of Fondane's exegetes have discussed the links between his apparent traditionalism and the classical themes of either secular Jewish culture or Judaism, with a focus on his Hasidic roots. According to Swedish researcher Tom Sandqvist (who discusses the Jewish background of many Romanian avant-garde authors and artists), the Hasidic and Kabbalah connection is enhanced by both the pantheistic vision of \"Tăgăduința lui Petru\" and the \"Ein Sof-like emptiness\" suggested in \"Priveliști\". Paul Cernat too argued that the traditionalist elements in Fondane's work reflected Hasidism as it was experienced in Galicia or Bukovina, as well as the direct influence of Iacob Ashel Groper. According to George Călinescu's analysis (originally stated in 1941), Fondane's origin within the rural minority of Romanian Jews (and not the urban Jewish mainstream) was of special psychological interest: \"The poet is a Jew from Moldavia, where Jews have almost pastoral professions, but are nevertheless prevented by a tradition of market agglomerations from fully enjoying the sincerity of rustic life.\" The fond memory of Judaic practice is notably intertwined with the \"Priveliști\" pastorals: \nFondane expanded on his interest in the Jewish heritage in his early prose and drama. The various pre-1923 articles, including his obituary pieces for Elias Schwartzfeld and Avram Steuerman-Rodion, speak at length about Jewish ethics (which Fondane described as unique and idealistic), assimilation and Jewish nationalism. They also offer his answer to antisemitism, including his case, relying on proof of Jewish exogamy, against all theories about a distinct Semitic race. In other such pieces, he comments at length on Groper's Yiddishist literature and corrects opinions expressed on the same topic by their common friend Gala Galaction. As he explains in this context, Groper quelled his adolescent identity crisis, helping him find a core Judaism, more \"vital\" to him than the political scope of Zionism. During these dialogues, Fondane recalled, he first discovered his interest in philosophy: he played the \"Sophist\", paradoxical and abstract, in front of the \"sentimental\" Groper. This antithesis also inspired the core essay in \"Iudaism și elenism\", where Fondane writes at length about the hostile dialogue between Jewish philosophy, in search of fundamental truths, and Greek thought, with its ultimate value of beauty.\n\n\"Tăgăduința lui Petru\", believed by Mircea Martin to be a sample of Fondane's debt to André Gide, is the first of his works to take inspiration from the Bible (in this case, looking beyond the Talmud). Also Biblical in subject, \"Monologul lui Baltazar\" has been interpreted by Crohmălniceanu as a negative comment on nihilism and the \"Übermensch\" theory, notions embodied by the protagonist Belshazzar, legendary ruler of Babylon during the Jewish captivity. Fondane's progressive focus on Jewish Biblical sources mirrored the Christian interests of his mentor Arghezi. Like Arghezi, Fondane wrote a series of \"Psalms\"—although, according to Martin, his tone was \"too cadenced and solemn for one to expect a confrontation or a touching confession\". However, Martin notes, the Jewish author either adopted or anticipated (depending on the reliability of his manuscripts' dating) Arghezi's poetry of exhortation and curses, in which ugliness, baseness and destitution speak directly to divinity. These sentiments are found in Fondane's \"Psalmul leprosului\", which the same critic identifies as \"the series' masterpiece\": \nThroughout and beyond his participation in the Surrealist milieus (an affiliation illustrated primarily by his filmmaker and popularizer activities, rather than by his literary creation), Benjamin Fondane remained an existentialist, primarily following Lev Shestov's views on the human condition. This came as a critique of the scientific method and rationalism as human explanations of the world, notably outlined in his own \"Faux traité d'esthétique\". Probably developed independently from Shestovist thought, his overall objection toward abstract projects has been likened by essayist Gina Sebastian Alcalay to the later stances of André Glucksmann or Edgar Morin. These attitudes shaped his assessments of Surrealism. In one of \"Integral\" chronicles, Fondane himself explained that the movement, described as superior to Dada's \"joyous suicide\", had created a \"new continent\" with its rediscovery of dreams. Poet and critic Armelle Chitrit notes that, in part, Fondane's later dissidence was also motivated on an existentialist level, since Surrealism \"had stopped asking questions\"; instead, she notes, Fondane \"believed neither in reason nor in any system based on it. It is folly, he wrote, to perpetuate the attempt to make man and history cohabitable. One of [S]hestov's rare disciples, he sets only the powers of life against those of chaos.\" As Fondane wrote to Claude Sernet, \"Rimbaud le voyou\" was in part at attempt at preventing the other Surrealists from confiscating Rimbaud's mythical status. According to Romanian-born writer Lucian Raicu, its \"somber\" tone and allusive language are also early clues that Fondane had a nightmarish vision of the political and intellectual climate. His Shestovist interpretation, opposing existence to ideas, was contested by intellectual figure Raymond Queneau: himself a former Surrealist, Queneau suggested that Fondane was relying on blind faith, having a distorted perspective on science, literature and the human intellect. Furthermore, he noted that, under the influence of Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, Fondane described reality exclusively in primitivist terms, as the realm of savagery and superstition.\n\nFondane's objection to the communist flirtations of the main Surrealist wing had roots in his earlier discourse: before leaving Romania, Fondane had criticized socialism as a modern myth, symptomatic of a generalized desecration, suggesting that Leninist and Labor Zionist projects were economically unsound. Much admired by Emil Cioran for his rejection of all modern ideology, the poet argued that a critical distance imposed itself between artists and social structures, and, although he too reacted against \"bourgeois\" culture, concluded that communism carried a greater risk for the independent mind. In particular, he objected to the Marxist theory on base and superstructure: although his planned address for the Writers' Congress spoke of Marxian economics as being justified by reality, it also argued that economic relationships could not be used to explain all historical developments. His critique of the Soviet Union as an equally \"bourgeois\" society also came with the argument that Futurism, not Surrealism, could transform into art the communist version of voluntarism.\n\nFondane found himself opposed to the general trend of intellectual partisanship, and took pride in defining himself as a politically independent skeptic. Around 1936, he reacted strongly against Julien Benda's rationalist political essays, with their overall critique of intellectual passions, describing them as revived and \"excruciatingly boring\" versions of positivism, but ignoring their primary, anti-totalitarian, agenda. However, \"La Conscience malheureuse\" (with essays on Shestov, Edmund Husserl, Friedrich Nietzsche and Søren Kierkegaard) was noted as Fondane's own contribution to the debate surrounding Popular Front activities and the rise of fascism: titled after a concept in Hegelian philosophy, which originally referred to the thinking process generating its own divisions, it referred to the possibility of thinkers to interact with the larger world, beyond subjectivity.\n\nRallying himself with the main trends of Jewish existentialism, the poet remained critical of other existentialist schools, such as those of Martin Heidegger and Jean-Paul Sartre, believing them to be overly reliant on dialectics, and therefore on rational thought; likewise, citing Kierkegaard as his reference point, Fondane criticized Jean Wahl for not discussing existential philosophy as an act of faith. His dislike for secular existentialism was also outlined in a text he authored shortly before his 1944 arrest, where he spoke of the Bible as being, \"whether or not it wants to\", the original reference for all existential philosophy. Geneviève Tissier-Fondane later recalled that her husband was \"profoundly Jewish\" to his death, but also that he would not abide by any formal regulation within the \"Halakha\" tradition. This approach also implied a measure of ecumenism: Jacques Maritain, who cultivated his relationship with Fondane across the religious and philosophical divides, described his friend as \"a disciple of Shestov but one inhabited by the Gospel\"; Fondane himself explained to Maritain that Shestov and himself were aiming for a new Judaic philosophy that would be equally indebted to the Christianity of Kierkegaard, Martin Luther and Tertullian. He was critical of Maritain's worldview, but remained a passionate reader of his work; in contrast, Geneviève attested that the Maritains' beliefs shaped her own, leasing her back into the Church.\n\nThe spiritual crisis experienced in France was the probable reason why Fondane refused to write poems between 1923 and 1927. As he stated in various contexts, he mistrusted the innate ability of words to convey the tragedy of existence, describing poetry as the best tool for rendering a universal \"wordless scream\", an \"ultimate reality\", or an eternal expression of things ephemeral. In his essays, he suggested that the invention of art, like the invention of theory and rhetoric, had deprived poets of their existential function; beyond letting themselves be guided by their art, he argued, writers needed to confirm that the principles of life, negative as well as positive, exist. He saw poets as waging an unequal battle with both scientific perspectives and moralism, urging them to place their unique faith \"in the mysterious virtue of poetry, in the existential virtue that poetry upholds\". \"Rimbaud le voyou\" was in part a study of how, during his self-exile to Harar, Rimbaud had not merely abandoned poetry for the sake of adventure, but rather transformed his lifestyle into a poetry of incertitude and personal ambition. As Fondane explained in his \"Baudelaire et l'expérience du gouffre\", a poet and thinker could also evidence the abyss he faced, and alleviate his own anxiety, through the use of irony: \"Laugh in the face of tragedy, or disappear!\"\n\nAccording to Cernat, his articles for \"Integral\" show Fondane as an ally of the \"anti-political\" and lyrical side of Surrealism, a poet placing his trust in \"the negative-soteriological, liberating function of poetry\". The impact of existentialist philosophy was even traced to the \"cine-poems\" by Martin Stanton (who called the pieces \"amazing\"). In contrast to the Surrealists, Fondane did not believe in a need to circulate poems as universal messages, but rather saw them as the basis for a very personal relationship with the reader: \"This is not a time for print. Poetry is seeking its friends, not an audience. [...] Poetry will be for the few—or it will not be at all.\" Chitrit, who parallels Fondane's definitions with the similar views of Romanian poet and Holocaust survivor Paul Celan, concludes: \"This is probably the closest that we can come to seeing contemporary poetry.\" Fondane's other literary works also evidence the impact of his philosophical preoccupations. With \"Le Féstin de Balthazar\", the writer modified his earlier \"Monologul\" by adopting Shestivist themes (introducing allegorical characters who discuss Aristotelianism, capitalism and revolution) and by introducing some elements from the burlesque. Originally conceived in 1918 and completed in 1933, \"Philoctète\" reworked Sophocles' play of the same title, interpreting it through the style of Gide's dramas.\n\n\"Ulysse\" was an epic poem in free verse, the first such work in Fondane's career, and testing a format later adopted in \"Titanic\" and \"L'Exode\". Although quite similar to Voronca's own work, which also used Homer's \"Odyssey\" as the pretext for a comment on social alienation, it included an additional allegory of Jewishness (according to critic Petre Răileanu, Voronca had stripped his own text of Jewish symbolism, in the hope of not entering a competition with Fondane). Fondane's 1933 text echoes his earlier intertextual Homeric references (present in poems he wrote back in 1914), but, to their adventurous escapism, it opposes the Ithaca metaphor—an ideal of stability in the assumption of one's destiny. Claude Sernet referred to \"Ulysse\" as \"painful and sober, a cry of anxiety, of revolt and resignation, a fraternal and noble song to mankind\". The poem is also Fondane's comment on the Wandering Jew story (the mythical figure is rescaled into an urban Ulysses), and, according to cultural historian Andrei Oișteanu, reinterprets the Christian prejudice about Jews being eternal \"witnesses\" of Christ's Passion. Together, such motifs intimated the writer's own experiences, leading various commentators to conclude that he too was \"the Jewish Ulysses\". Italian academic Gisèle Vanhese, who connects this lyrical discourse with Fondane's \"experience of the abyss\" concept, notes that ocean waters are the vehicles of nomadism in \"Ulysse\", while, in \"Titanic\", the same environment serves as a metaphor of dying.\n\nIn Cioran's account, Benjamin Fondane lived his final years permanently aware \"of a misfortune that was about to happen\", and built a \"complicity with the unavoidable\". The same is noted by German Romanian poet and Cioran exegete Dieter Schlesak, who suggests: \"Fondane was a man who wished to bear the absolute uncertainty of the outside; that which exists is an intermittent, not continuous, reality. But [true misfortune] is the boredom of faint unliving, [...] of things implied, these being the ones [Fondane] hated.\" Fondane's visions about history and the role of poetry were notably outlined in \"L'Exode\", a portion of which is dedicated to the powerlessness of Jews in front of prejudice. According to Oișteanu, this text, where the narrative voice speaks of sufferings and defects common in all humans, was probably inspired by the famous monologue in William Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\". Another part, called \"astonishingly prophetic\" and \"cynical apocalyptic\" by Chitrit, reads:\nSimilar themes were being explored by the \"Super Flumina Babylonis\" cycle, described by Sernet as \"a terrible foreshadowing of events into which peoples and continents were about to sink, into which the author himself was to be dragged without the possibility of return.\" Writing about the entirety of Fondane's French poetry (\"Le Mal des fantômes\"), poet and language theorist Henri Meschonnic argued that the Romanian author was unique in depicting \"the revolt and the flavor of life mixed into the sense of death\".\n\nAfter her husband's death (of which she was for long ignorant) and the end of the war, Geneviève Tissier-Fondane, aided by the Maritains, moved into Kolbsheim Castle, tutoring the children of Antoinette and Alexander Grunelius. A devout Catholic, she eventually retreated from public life, becoming a nun in the Congregation of Notre-Dame de Sion (dedicated to Catholic missionary work among the Jews). Relocating to the Montagne Sainte-Geneviève, she died, after a long battle with cancer, in March 1954. Fondane was also survived by his mother Adela, who died in June 1953 at age 94, and sister Rodica (d. 1967).\n\nThe writer was the subject of several visual portrayals by noted artists, some of whom were his personal friends. During his collaboration with \"Integral\" and \"unu\", Victor Brauner and Jules Perahim both drew his vignette portraits (the former as part of a series titled \"film unu\"). He is the subject of a 1930 sketch by Constantin Brâncuși, a 1931 Surrealist painting by Brauner (who also painted one of Adela Schwartzfeld), and an artistic photograph by Man Ray. The 1934 edition of \"Psalmul leprosului\" featured Fondane's portrait in the hand of graphic artist Sigmund Maur (the original version of which was dated to 1921). A posthumous image of the poet in military attire was drawn by Romanian-born artist Eugen Drăguțescu. Benjamin Fondane was also commemorated with a mention on the Panthéon plaque, among the \"Morts pour la France\" (reportedly, his name was added upon a request from Cioran). There is a similar landmark in Iași's Eternitatea cemetery, set up by the Writers' Union of Romania near his family grave.\n\nThe poet-philosopher left behind a large manuscript collection, a personal library and a set of works due for publishing. His book collection was split into individual documentary funds, some located in France and others in Romania. In February 1930, Benjamin Fondane explained that he did not consider revisiting his land of birth until such time as his earlier volumes would be printed, indicating that these included (in addition to \"Priveliști\"): \"Ferestre spre Europa\", \"Imagini și scriitori români\" (\"Images and Romanian Writers\"), \"Caietele unui inactual\" (\"The Notebooks of an Outdated Man\"), \"Probleme vesele\" (\"Merry Problems\"), \"Dialoguri\" (\"Dialogues\") and an introduction to the work of art critic Walter Pater. Among Fondane's other Romanian works, unpublished at the time of his death, were the prose poem \"Herța\" (\"Hertza\"), \"Note dintr-un confesional\" and many other prose fragments and poems, all preserved in Daniel's manuscript collection. According to Paul Daniel, part of the poet's book collection in Romania was left in the care of literary critic Lucian Boz, who sold it upon his departure for Australia. In France, the copyright to Fondane's work was passed on in the late 20th century to scholar Michel Carassou, who was personally involved in several publication projects.\n\nIn France, the caretaker of documentary enterprises regarding Fondane was for long Sernet (Voronca's brother-in-law), who released part of \"Super Flumina Babylonis\" and other previously unknown texts (published in various issues of \"Cahiers du Sud\" and other journals), while supervising a new edition of \"L'Honneur des poètes\", where Fondane was properly credited. In 1945, philosopher Jean Grenier edited the first-ever version of \"Le Lundi existentiel\". A Fondane reader (comprising \"L'Exode\") was being planned around 1946, and supposed to be published by Les Éditions de Minuit, with contributions from poets Jean Lescure and Paul Éluard. \"Baudelaire et l'expérience du gouffre\" was eventually published by Éditions Seghers in 1947, under the supervision of Jean Cassou (second edition 1972; third edition 1973). Sernet was also the author of the poem \"À Benjamain Fondane, déporté\" (\"To Benjamin Fondane, Upon His Deportation\"), reportedly dated June 3, 1944. Recollections of Fondane's activity and his friendship with Victoria Ocampo are also found in Ocampo's series \"Testimonios\" (\"Testimonies\").\n\nWith support from Culture Minister André Malraux, Sernet also published a 1965 bound version of \"L'Exode\" and \"Super Flumina...\", reconstructed from the fragmentary manuscripts. Also on Sernet's initiative, Le Chant du Monde record label and comedian Ève Griliquez released an LP album of public recitations from his work. Other collections of his written work were published in later years, including his \"Écrits pour le cinéma\" (\"Writings for the Cinema\", 1984), \"Le Féstin de Balthazar\" (1985), \"Le Lundi existentiel\" (1989), and \"Le Mal des fantômes\" (1996). His interviews with Shestov, left by the poet in Ocampo's care, were collected in 1982, as \"Rencontres avec Léon Chestov\" (\"Meetings with Lev Shestov\"). Fondane's notes on Dada, as well as other documents, saw print in 1996, as \"Le voyageur n'a pas fini de voyager\" (\"The Traveler Isn't Done Traveling\"). The following year, Fondane scholar Monique Jutrin discovered and published his manuscript speech for the 1935 Congress, \"L'Écrivain devant la révolution\". Another previously unknown text, the screenplay sketch \"Une journée d'ivresse\" (\"A Day of Drunkenness\"), was included by editors Carassou and Petre Răileanu in a critical edition of 1999.\n\nIn the Western world (including the Romanian diaspora), there were a few authors whose work was influenced directly by Fondane's, among them Voronca and David Gascoyne. Gascoyne, the author of \"I.M. Benjamin Fondane\" poem and recollection pieces on their friendship, spoke of the Romanian as a mentor, with a \"decisive and lasting influence\" on his own writings. France is home to a Benjamin Fondane Studies Society, which organizes an annual workshop in Peyresq. Since 1994, it publishes the academic review \"Cahiers Benjamin Fondane\", which has recovered and published much of Fondane's correspondence and political texts. In 2006, following a Fondane Society request, a square on Paris' Rue Rollin was renamed in honor of the Romanian-born writer. Three years later, on the 65th commemoration of Fondane's killing, the Mémorial de la Shoah museum hosted a special exhibit dedicated his life and literary work. In Israel, a fragment from his \"L'Exode\" is engraved in English and Hebrew versions on the entrance of Yad Vashem memorial.\n\nBy the late 1970s, Fondane's Romanian work was attracting researchers and authors of monographs from various other countries, in particular the United States (John Kenneth Hyde, Eric Freedman etc.) and Communist Czechoslovakia (Libuše Valentová). In West Germany, Fondane's poetic and philosophical contributions were in focus by 1986, when exiled poet Dieter Schlesak published translated samples in \"Akzente\" journal. Preceded by Gascoyne's French-to-English translation attempts from Fondane, American film editor Julian Semilian's contribution as a translator from Romanian is credited with having played an important part in introducing the English-speaking world to the writings of Fondane and various other Romanian modernists. The first-ever volume of Hebrew translations from Fondane's verse saw print in 2003, with support from Tel Aviv University. Other international echoes include the publication of Odile Serre's Romanian-to-French translations from his early poems.\n\nRecognition of Fondane's overall contribution was however rare, as noted in 1989 by Martin Stanton: \"[Fondane is] surely the most underestimated intellectual of the 1930s\". Writing some nine years later, Chitrit also argued: \"His works [...] are as important as they are unknown.\" Cioran, who in 1986 dedicated a portion of his \"Exercises in Admiration\" collection to his deceased friend, mentioned that \"Baudelaire et l'expérience du gouffre\", made memorable by its study of boredom as a literary subject, had since found numerous readers. Cioran kept a fond memory of his friend, and recalled not being able to pass on Rue Rollin without experiencing \"terrible pain\". Awareness of Fondane's philosophy was nevertheless judged unsatisfactory by scholar Moshe Idel. Speaking in 2007, he suggested that Fondane the philosopher remained less familiar to Jewish studies academics in Israel than his various counterparts in Germanic Europe.\n\nArgentinian director Edgardo Cozarinsky, who was inspired in his youth by Fondane's introduction of avant-garde films (preserved in the Argentine Film Archives), staged and narrated a dramatized version of his biography, performed at the Villa Ocampo. Fondane scholar Olivier Salazar-Ferrer also authored a theatrical adaptation of \"L'Exode\" (premiered by France's \"Théâtre de La Mouvance\" company in 2008).\n\nIn his native country, Benjamin Fondane was present in the memoirs of several authors. One special case is Arghezi, who, despite his disciple's admiration, left a sarcastic and intentionally demoralizing portrayal of Fondane in his 1930 volume \"Poarta Neagră\". A year after the poet's death at Auschwitz, Arghezi returned with a sympathetic obituary, printed in \"Revista Fundațiilor Regale\". Fondane was also the subject of a Surrealist poem in prose, or \"short-circuit\", by Stephan Roll, where he was referred to as \"a Don Juan of the brain's lineage from God\". A very hostile depiction of Fondane and other Jewish writers, noted for its antisemitic undertones, was present in the 1942 memoirs of writer Victor Eftimiu. A reflection of the late 1940s communization of Romania, Sașa Pană's recollection piece \"De la B. Fundoianu la Benjamin Fondane\" (\"From B. Fundoianu to Benjamin Fondane\"), published by \"Orizont\" review, reinterpreted some of the poet's activities, and avant-garde history in general, from a partisan Marxist vantage point. Later memoirs mentioning the writer include a piece by Adrian Maniu in the Cluj-based magazine \"Steaua\" (December 1963) and a new tribute by Pană in \"Luceafărul\" (October 1964). Pană's recollections were later turned into a larger narrative, the 1973 autobiographical novel \"Născut în 02\" (\"Born in '02\"). Fondane also features prominently in Claudia Millian's \"Cartea mea de aduceri-aminte\" (\"My Book of Recollections\"), published the same year as Pană's volume. Also in 1973, the former Surrealist campaigner Geo Bogza dedicated Fondane an eponymous prose poem, centered on an existential contradiction: \"To be born in Moldavia, in sweet, gentle Moldavia... and to end up in the furnaces at Auschwitz.\" Among the younger Romanian poets, who debuted during communism, Nichita Stănescu was influenced by \"Priveliști\" in some of his own earliest works, as was Andrei Codrescu.\n\nPosthumous Romanian editions of Fondane's works included the selection \"Poezii\" (\"Poems\"), edited by the former Surrealist author Virgil Teodorescu (Editura pentru Literatură, 1965), and Daniel's new version of \"Priveliști\" (Cartea Românească, 1974), followed in 1978 by the Martin and Daniel selection, and in 1980 by Teodorescu and Martin's \"Imagini și cărți\" (\"Images and Books\", grouping Fondane's French literary studies, as translated by Sorin Mărculescu). Translated by Romulus Vulpescu, \"Le poète en patrouille\" was featured in \"Manuscriptum\" review (1974). During communism, various Romanian scholars who dedicated significant portions of their work to Fondane studies; in addition to Martin, Ovid Crohmălniceanu and Dumitru Micu, they include: Paul Cornea, Nicolae Manolescu, Dan Mănucă, Marin Mincu, Dan Petrescu, Mihail Petroveanu and Ion Pop. In the 1980s, modern classical composer Doru Popovici completed the cantata \"In memoriam Beniamin Fundoianu\" (lyrics by Victor Bârlădeanu).\n\nWriting in 1978, Martin noted that the focus of such recoveries was on Fondane's poetry, while Fondane the thinker and \"informed commentator\", \"one of the most evolved critical voices in 1920s Romanian culture\", remained unfamiliar to Romanians. The limits on Fondane's posthumous circulation were partly dictated by the policies of Communist Romania. In 1975, the censorship apparatus (who followed national communist ideas about restricting references to Judaism) removed references to Fondane's ethnic and religious background from a reprint of Arghezi's 1945 text. In 1980, a version of his \"Mântuirea\" series, \"Iudaism și elenism\", was purged from \"Imagini și cărți\", on orders from the same institution. Martin's 1984 monograph, \"Introducere în opera lui B. Fundoianu\" (\"An Introduction to B. Fundoianu's Work\"), was saluted as \"penetrating\" by his colleague Gheorghe Crăciun. The same study is primarily noted by Paul Cernat as a \"problem-oriented\" text about the \"complexes\" of Romanian culture, and therefore an implicit reaction against the national communism promoted under Nicolae Ceaușescu.\n\nThe hidden parts of Benjamin Fondane's contribution became accessible only after the anti-communist uprising of 1989. In 1999, the Jewish community publishers, Editura Hasefer, issued \"Iudaism și elenism\" (with scholars Leon Volovici and Remus Zăstroiu as editors). The same year, the Federation of Jewish Communities of Romania published an anthology of his texts, \"Strigăt întru eternitate\" (\"A Shout unto Eternity\"), and Editura Echinox a concordance dictionary of his poetry (one of several such projects initiated by linguist Marian Papahagi). In 2004, Mircea Martin and Ion Pop also collected Fondane's political essays as \"Scriitorul în fața revoluției\" (titled after the Romanian version of \"L'Écrivain devant la révolution\"). Writing in 2001, Crăciun assessed that the poet was still \"non-integrated\" into his native Romanian culture, which mostly perceived him as estranged, and his work in the vernacular as traditionalist.\n\nEight years later, comparatist Irina Georgescu assessed that interest in the more unknown aspects of Fondane's work had been rekindled by public conferences and new monographs (among which she cites the contributions of scholars Mariana Boca, Nedeea Burcă and Ana-Maria Tomescu). \"Le Féstin de Balthazar\" was performed in its Romanian version (\"Ospățul lui Baltazar\"), directed by Alexandru Dabija for the Nottara Theater company. The 65th commemoration of Fondane's death was marked locally with several events, including the premiere of Andreea Tănăsescu's \"Exil în pământul uitării\" (\"Exile to the Land of Oblivion\"), a contemporary ballet and performance art show loosely inspired by his poetry. In 2006, the Romanian Cultural Institute set up the Benjamin Fondane International Award for Francophone literature in countries outside France. In 2016, Cătălin Mihuleac published a biographical short story (and eulogy), \"Ultima țigară a lui Fondane\" (\"Fondane's Last Cigarette\").\n\nFondane's literary posterity was also touched by an extended controversy, notably involving Mircea Martin and philosopher Mihai Șora. The scandal was ignited after October 2007, when Șora and poet Luiza Palanciuc set up the \"Restitutio Benjamin Fondane\" translation program, with support from Editura Limes and \"Observator Cultural\" magazine. Martin contested this initiative, arguing that he had earlier publicized his intent of editing a Romanian-language Fondane reader, and claiming legal precedence on copyrights. A parallel conflict ensued between Editura Limes and \"Observator Cultural\", after which the \"Restitutio\" program split into separate projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907450", "title": "Bronte, Ontario", "text": "Bronte, Ontario\n\nBronte is the community that makes up much of the west end of Oakville, in Ontario, Canada. Twelve Mile Creek (known informally as Bronte Creek) flows through the middle of town and empties into Lake Ontario. Main roads include Bronte Road (north-south), Lakeshore Road West (east-west, parallel to Lake Ontario) and Rebecca Street (east-west). Streets in the business section include Lakeshore, Jones, Marine, and Ontario Street. Bronte is also accessed via a superhighway (the Queen Elizabeth Way) located to the north of the former village. Riggs Road was planned but never opened. Other main roads include Third Line, Speers Road and Burloak Drive to the west (the latter was named after the boundary of Burlington and Oakville.)\n\nBronte is a former fishing village which became annexed in 1962 with the former Township of Trafalgar, forming the Town of Oakville, along with the other formerly autonomous communities, including Sheridan.\n\n\nThe urban area of Bronte is to the north, east and the southwest. The north-central part is industrialized while the west is mixed with some farmland, a former Petro-Canada refinery (which has closed and has yet to be dismantled as of 2010) and forests cover the northwest and includes Bronte Creek Provincial Park which cuts off Upper Middle Road. The park area is also used for trailers and tents. Farmland used to cover most of Bronte (except for the northwest) before suburban housing came in the 1960s and the 1970s. Lakeshore houses are situated along the shore of Lake Ontario. The narrow ravine of Bronte Creek is undeveloped, except at the mouth which serves as a harbour.\n\nBronte's neighbourhood stretches from Burloak Drive in the west to Fourth Line, and from Lake Ontario in the south to the Queen Elizabeth Way. Coronation Park, which has a large playground, lots of parking space, a field room, and sandy beaches, hosts the annual Waterfront Festival. Its greatest attraction is an outdoor stage fronting an area 256 feet deep and 152 feet wide, with a hillock at the side. During the Waterfront Festival, the east field has carnival rides such as 1001 Niches and Polar Express, and features game kiosks. The parking lot is turned into a string of kiosks offering food and product information. The stage has extra lighting installed with a projector screen, an autograph booth at the side, and a DJ booth in the middle.\n\nRail and bus service operates from Bronte GO Station, situated on the Lakeshore West line connecting Bronte to communities along the shore, including Toronto. Originally known as Oakville West, the station became known by its current name when it was rebuilt. The station boasts having more than 1,700 parking spaces and is located off Wyecroft Road with access from the South Service Road.\n\nBronte has a number of schools, including Queen Elizabeth Park (closed), Gladys Speers, Eastview and Brookdale (Public Elementary), St. Dominic and St. Joseph (Catholic Elementary), and Oakville Christian School, formerly John Wilson (Public Elementary). Thomas A. Blakelock (Public High) rounds out the list.\n\nAlthough the commercial centre is at Bronte Road and Lakeshore, the South Oakville Centre, (Hopedale Mall) located at Rebecca Street and Third Line Road provides additional retail businesses. Originally an L-shaped strip mall built in 1959 coincident with the development of the surrounding subdivision, it has undergone several expansions by which it has been enclosed with the closing of Seabourne Street between Tansley Drive and Rebecca Street.\n\nFounded in 1834, Bronte began as a small fishing village at the mouth of Twelve Mile Creek. The name Bronte was chosen as a tribute to the British Naval hero, Horatio Nelson, who was made Duke of Bronte by King Ferdinand III of Sicily. Bronte's etymological root is the Greek word βροντή which means thunder.\n\nSome of Bronte's original settlers were United Empire Loyalists and many of the streets were named for these founding fathers: Sovereign, Hixon, Nelson and Belyea.\n\nOne of the early industries in Bronte was stonehooking. Boats would gather stone slabs from shallow waters near the shore by hooking them from Lake Ontario for use in construction. The building at 49 Bronte Road built circa 1840 still remains as an example of construction using material stonehooked from the lake.\n\nIts post office dates from 1851. Bronte's first harbour was completed in 1856.\n\nIn the 1920s, Middle Road was built with 3 interchanges including Service Road. Middle Road became part of the Queen Elizabeth Way (QEW) in 1939.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Cities Service built a refinery just south of the QEW, west of Bronte Road. The refinery was later acquired by British Petroleum and subsequently, Petro-Canada. Another refinery to the west was built by Shell with its entrance off Rebecca Street. The Shell Refinery ceased operations in 198_. The Petro-Canada refinery was decommissioned in 2009 and now is a bulk storage facility.\n\nStreets in Bronte are numbered from east to west and lettered from A to L (or N?) from north to south. A housing boom started in the late 1950s south of the QEW. Starting in the late-1980s, housing developments began north of the QEW and westward towards Burlington.\n\nIn the 1960s, a highway linking north to Milton (Highway 25) moved from Guelph Line to Bronte Road. Later in the 1980s, an interchange for Burloak was added. This major arterial route is now not legally a highway, but a \"regional road\" but is, in fact, called \"The Veterans Highway.\"\n\nIn the 2000s, a new two-lane bridge was built to connect New Street at Mississaga Street and Rebecca Street at Bronte Road.\n\nA community called Lakeshore Woods was built where the former Shell Research Centre was located. Construction began in the 2000s and is planned for completion by 2010.\n\nIn early March 2006, Stoneboats restaurant, which was partly located in one of Bronte's most historical buildings (built in circa 1840), suffered heavy fire damage and was rebuilt. A large portion of the historical part of the building was destroyed.\n\nIn April 2009, the Bronte Business Improvement Association and the owners of the Bronte Village Mall presented a proposal for revitalizing the mall which includes residential, office and retail space, although it appears that the height of the new proposed structures does not conform to local bylaws.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907456", "title": "Nicholas Ashley-Cooper, 12th Earl of Shaftesbury", "text": "Nicholas Ashley-Cooper, 12th Earl of Shaftesbury\n\nNicholas Edmund Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 12th Earl of Shaftesbury, (born 3 June 1979) also known as Nick Ashley-Cooper, is an English peer, landowner and philanthropist. He succeeded his brother as Earl of Shaftesbury in 2005.\n\nHe also holds the subsidiary titles Baron Ashley and Baron Cooper.\n\nNicholas Ashley-Cooper was born on 3 June 1979, in London, the younger son of Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 10th Earl of Shaftesbury (1938–2004), and his Swedish wife Christina Eva Montan (born c. 1940), the daughter of Nils Montan, a former Swedish Ambassador to Germany. His godfathers were Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster, and Simon Elliot, later brother-in-law of Charles, Prince of Wales.\n\nHe had an elder brother, Anthony Nils Christian Ashley-Cooper (1977–2005), who in 2004 became 11th Earl of Shaftesbury, and also an older half brother and half sister from Lady Shaftesbury’s first marriage. \n\nHis father, the 10th Earl of Shaftesbury, was murdered in November 2004 by the brother of his third wife, Jamila, Countess of Shaftesbury, and was succeeded by his elder son. His widow, Jamila, is currently serving a twenty-year prison sentence as an accomplice to the murder. \n\nSix months later, on 15 May 2005, the 11th Earl died of a heart attack in Manhattan, New York, while visiting his younger brother, and Ashley-Cooper thus unexpectedly succeeded him in the earldom. \"The Daily Telegraph\" described the new Earl as “a tattooed young raver”. He then relocated to his family home from New York City and assumed the responsibilities of the earldom.\n\nBefore inheriting the family estates, Shaftesbury worked in television and music. He began as a strategic analyst with Discovery Networks Europe, a television network, then worked on Digital Strategy and Business Development for Terra Firma Capital Partners, after its acquisition of the music company EMI Group.\nHe was then part of a team that raised over $5 million for Saatchi Online, an online forum and art gallery, and finally was the chief operating officer of GoMix, an interactive music software platform company.\n\nOn 11 September 2010, in Dorset, Shaftesbury married Dinah Streifeneder (born 12 September 1980 in Munich), the daughter of Dr Fritz Streifeneder, a retired German orthopaedic surgeon, and Renata Leander-Streifeneder, an Argentinian physiotherapist. She spent her early life in Rome, Italy.\n\nThe Countess of Shaftesbury is a veterinary surgeon by profession and has taken the lead in the restoration of St Giles House.\n\nThe couple have three children. Their son Anthony Francis Wolfgang Ashley-Cooper, Lord Ashley, born on 24 January 2011, is his father's heir apparent and the only person in the line of succession to the earldom. A daughter, Lady Viva Constance Lillemor Ashley-Cooper, was born on 22 April 2012, and another daughter, Lady Zara Emily Tove Ashley-Cooper, on 17 October 2014.\n\nWimborne St Giles in East Dorset is the home base and centre of business of the Ashley-Coopers.\nThe village of Wimborne St Giles rests within the family estate itself. The Ashley family arrived in Dorset, originally from Wiltshire, where they owned the manor of Ashley, since the 11th century. The first ancestor to reside in Wimborne St Giles was Robert Ashley (born c. 1415), fifth great grandfather of Anthony Ashley Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury.\n\nBuilt in 1651, the family seat of St Giles House has fallen into disrepair and has been unoccupied for about 60 years. In 2001, St Giles House was recorded on the Register of Buildings at Risk, as a Grade I listed building, indicating neglect and decay. Buildings recorded on the Grade I list include those of \"exceptional interest, sometimes considered to be internationally important\".\n\nDiscussions regarding future use of St Giles House and the estate have been resumed following inheritance by the 12th Earl of Shaftesbury. Work on the house began in 2011 and since then the restoration has won several national awards including the 2014 Georgian Group Awards for the Restoration of a Georgian Country House, the 2015 Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Award for Building Conservation, the 2015 Historic Houses Association/Sotheby’s Restoration Award and the Historic England Angel Award, Best Rescue of a Historic Building or Site. This has helped secure the future of the house as a family home and as a venue for a wide range of activities including weddings, concerts and corporate events.\n\nDuring World War II, St Giles House was requisitioned and used as a girls school evacuated from London called, Miss Faunce's Parents' National Union School. At that time, the family took up residence at the dower house, known as Mainsail Haul.\n\n\nThe earl owns the bed and soil of Lough Neagh in Northern Ireland. It is the largest lake in the United Kingdom. The lough supplies 40 percent of the region's drinking water and is also used as a sewage outfall (in a system only permissible through British Crown immunity). Discussions over the future management of the Lough have been ongoing with the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\nShaftesbury is an ambassador for the spinal cord injuries charity Wings For Life, a charity he began supporting following his own spinal injury. Shaftesbury has competed in several marathons and ultra-marathons to benefit charitable organisations..\n\n"}
{"id": "1907465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907465", "title": "Assia Djebar", "text": "Assia Djebar\n\nFatima-Zohra Imalayen (30 June 1936 – 6 February 2015), known by her pen name Assia Djebar (), was an Algerian novelist, translator and filmmaker. Most of her works deal with obstacles faced by women, and she is noted for her feminist stance. She is \"frequently associated with women's writing movements, her novels are clearly focused on the creation of a genealogy of Algerian women, and her political stance is virulently anti-patriarchal as much as it is anti-colonial.\" Djebar is considered to be one of North Africa's pre-eminent and most influential writers. She was elected to the Académie française on 16 June 2005, the first writer from the Maghreb to achieve such recognition. For the entire body of her work she was awarded the 1996 Neustadt International Prize for Literature. She was often named as a contender for the Nobel Prize for Literature.\n\nDjebar was born Fatima-Zehra Imalayen on 30 June 1936 in Cherchell, Algeria, to Tahar Imalhayène and Bahia Sahraoui, a family of Berber origin. She was raised in Cherchell, a small seaport village near Algiers in the Province of Aïn Defla. Djebar's father was an educator, teaching the French language at Mouzaïaville, a primary school she attended. Later, Djebar attended a Quranic private boarding school in Blida, where she was one of only two girls. She studied at Collège de Blida, a high school in Algiers, where she was the only Muslim in her class. She attended the École normale supérieure de jeunes filles in 1955, becoming the first Algerian and Muslim woman to be educated at France's most elite schools. Her studies were interrupted by the Algerian War, but she later went on to continue her education in Tunis.\n\nIn 1957, she chose the pen name Assia Djebar for the publication of her first novel, \"La Soif\" (\"The Thirst\"). Another book, \"Les Impatients\", followed the next year. Also in 1958, she and Ahmed Ould-Rouïs began a marriage that would eventually end in divorce. Djebar taught at the University of Rabat (1959-1962) and then at the University of Algiers.\n\nIn 1962, Djebar returned to Algeria and published \"Les Enfants du Nouveau Monde\", and followed that in 1967 with \"Les Alouettes Naïves\". She lived in Paris between 1965 and 1974 before returning to Algeria again. She remarried in 1980 to the Algerian poet Malek Alloula. The couple lived in Paris, where she had a research appointment at the Algerian Cultural Center.\n\nIn 1985, Djebar published \"L'Amour, la fantasia\" (translated as \"Fantasia: An Algerian Cavalcade\", Heinemann, 1993), in which she \"repeatedly states her ambivalence about language, about her identification as a Western-educated, Algerian, feminist, Muslim intellectual, about her role as spokesperson for Algerian women as well as for women in general.\"\n\nIn 2005, Djebar was elected to France's foremost literary institution, the Académie française, an institution tasked with guarding the heritage of the French language and whose members, known as the \"immortals\", are chosen for life. She was the first writer from North Africa to be elected to the organization. and the fifth woman to join the Academy. Djebar was a Silver Chair professor of Francophone literature at New York University.\n\nDjebar was known as a voice of reform for Islam across the Arab world, especially in the field of advocating for increased rights for women.\n\nDjebar died in February 2015, aged 78.\n\nIn 1985, she won the Franco-Arab Friendship Prize, for \"L'Amour la Fantasia.\"\n\nIn 1996, Djebar won the prestigious Neustadt International Prize for Literature for her contribution to world literature.\n\nThe following year, she won the Marguerite Yourcenar Prize.\n\nIn 1998, she won the International Prize of Palmi.\n\nIn 2000, she won the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade.\n\nOn 30 June 2017 Google dedicated a Doodle to the novelist for the 81st anniversary of her birth. The Doodle reached all the countries of the Arab World.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907469", "title": "Heart in Motion", "text": "Heart in Motion\n\nHeart in Motion is the eighth studio album, and twelfth album overall by Christian pop singer Amy Grant, released on March 5, 1991. The album features Grant's biggest worldwide hit, \"Baby Baby\" and was certified 5× platinum in the United States, selling over five million copies.\n\nIn contrast to its predecessor, the more acoustic \"Lead Me On\", \"Heart in Motion\" consists of songs that were more heavily processed, as was the style of mainstream music at the time. In addition, unlike \"Lead Me On\", \"Heart in Motion\" contains few overtly religious songs, with most of the lyrics for the songs on the album dealing with love or other life issues which would not be the exclusive concern of devout Christians. A couple of songs on the album, however, were openly Christian in their content, such as \"Ask Me\", which describes how a woman's faith helps her to heal from child sexual abuse, and \"Hope Set High\", both of which were hits on Christian radio. Another song with an overtly Christian theme is \"You're Not Alone\" which references a greater power despite edgy features like whipcracks and a guitar solo.\n\n\"Heart In Motion\" was a pop music blockbuster upon its release going to the Top Ten of the \"Billboard\" 200 (as well as No. 1 of the Christian albums chart for 32 weeks), and selling five million copies by the end of 1997. The first single from the album, \"Baby Baby\" – more or less the title cut, as the album's title is drawn from this track – hit the No. 1 position on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and the Adult Contemporary chart. The following four singles also performed well on the pop and AC charts: \"Every Heartbeat\" (No. 2 Hot 100, No. 2 AC), \"That's What Love Is For\" (No. 7 Hot 100, No. 1 AC), \"Good for Me\" (No. 8 Hot 100, No. 4 AC), and \"I Will Remember You\" (No. 20 Hot 100, No. 2 AC). The album was listed at No. 30 in the 2001 book, \"CCM Presents: The 100 Greatest Albums in Christian Music\" and was certified 5x platinum by the RIAA for sales of over 5 million copies, making it the best-selling Christian music album ever released.\n\nThe album also received a nomination at the Grammy Awards of 1992 for Album of the Year, which was awarded to \"Unforgettable... with Love\" by Natalie Cole.\n\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (United States)\nAlbum - International\nSingles - \"Billboard\"/\"CCM Magazine\" (United States)\nSingles - International\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907475", "title": "Spring 3100", "text": "Spring 3100\n\nSpring 3100 is a magazine published by the New York Police Department for current and retired members of the service. It was first published in March 1930. The name comes from the very old phone number for calling the NYPD, SPring 7-3100. Before 1971 the magazine enjoyed higher levels of circulation and had 35,000 subscribers.\n\nIn May 1971 the magazine temporarily folded, and in February 1972 resumed publication. It was also not published from 1979 to 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907476", "title": "Pieman River", "text": "Pieman River\n\nThe Pieman River is a major perennial river located in the west coast region of Tasmania, Australia.\n\nFormed by the confluence of the Mackintosh River and Murchison River, the Pieman River rises in what is now known as Lake Rosebury, an artificial lake formed by the Bastyan Dam. The river flows generally west and northwest and then west again, joined by 21 tributaries including the Mackintosh, Murchison, Marionoak, Ring, Wilson, Stitt, Huskisson, Stanley, Heemskirk, Paradise, Owen Meredith, Savage, Whyte and Donaldson rivers before emptying into Hardwicke Bay and reaching its mouth in the Southern Ocean. The river descends over its course.\n\nThe river is impounded at Bastyan by the Bastyan Dam (and adjacent hydroelectric power station to form Lake Rosebury; and at Reece by the Reece Dam (and adjacent hydroelectric power station to form Lake Pieman. Both reservoir and power stations from part of the Hydro Tasmania-operated Pieman River Power Development. The construction of the power development scheme also altered the route of the Emu Bay Railway, and submerged a variety of rail heritage sites in the vicinity of the river, notably parts of the Wee Georgie Wood Railway or North Farrell Tramway line.\n\nThe Aboriginal Tasmanians knew the river as \"Corinna\", which is the Peerapper word for the thylacine.\n\nThe once-common suggestion that the river's English name comes from a convict \"The Pieman\" Alexander Pearce who was responsible for one of the few recorded instances of cannibalism in Australia, is not correct. \"The Pieman\" was in fact Thomas Kent of Southampton, a pastry-cook who was transported to Van Diemen's Land in 1816. After a long series of offences in the colony, he was sent to the Macquarie Harbour Penal Station in 1822 but subsequently escaped, and was recaptured near the mouth of the river which now bears his nickname. The river has significant timber, mining and industrial heritage along its shores.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907502", "title": "Polochic River", "text": "Polochic River\n\nThe Polochic River () is a long river in eastern Guatemala. It flows eastwards through a deep valley and flows into Lake Izabal at . The river is navigable for to Panzós. It was used many years ago to transport coffee and timber, but most commercial transport in the river valley is now carried out by truck.\n"}
{"id": "1907503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907503", "title": "Barbara Kulaszka", "text": "Barbara Kulaszka\n\nBarbara Kulaszka (1952/1953 – June 15, 2017) was a Canadian lawyer who practised law in Brighton, Ontario, known for her work with far right causes, defending alleged Nazi war criminals and Holocaust deniers, and free speech cases.\n\nKulaszka earned a law degree and was admitted to the Law Society of Upper Canada in 1980. She began her law practice in 1987 and acted with Doug Christie as co-counsel to Holocaust denier Ernst Zündel in the 1980s, and then assisted Christie as a legal researcher in a subsequent Zündel case in the 1990s. She also assisted Christie in the defence of alleged Nazi war criminal Imre Finta, who was acquitted in 1990 (see \"R v Finta)\".\n\nIn 1990, she represented former Nazi rocket scientist Arthur Rudolph when he entered Canada and unsuccessfully sought visitor status when the government ruled he was inadmissible due to his suspected culpability in war crimes. Rudolph ultimately left Canada of his own accord and an immigration hearing held in his absence, at which he was represented by Kulaszka, ruled that Rudolph could not return to Canada due to his use of slave labour to produce V-2 missiles during World War II.\n\nShe addressed meetings of Paul Fromm's Canadian Association for Free Expression. In 2005, she defended Heritage Front leader Marc Lemire before the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal against a complaint filed against him by Richard Warman. While losing the case, resulting in Lemire receiving a lifetime ban from publishing hate speech on the internet, the case is credited with resulting in the decision of the Canadian government to repeal Section 13.1 of the Canadian Human Rights Act which had given the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal jurisdiction over the communication of hate speech online. More recently, she unsuccessfully defended the operators of the conservative online forum Free Dominion after they were sued for defamation by Warman. Her legal practice was based in Brighton, Ontario.\n\nOn June 15, 2017, Kulaszka died of lung cancer at the age of 64.\n\nHer memorial service, held in a Toronto Public Library branch in Etobicoke on July 12, 2017, became a source of controversy due to plans to have speeches by white nationalists such as Paul Fromm and former Heritage Front leader Marc Lemire; Jewish and anti-racist groups urging the library to cancel the booking due to fears that it would promote hate speech and Holocaust denial.\n\nMayor John Tory\nwas among those calling on the library to cancel the event.\n\nKulaszka edited \"Did Six Million Really Die? – Report of the Evidence in the Canadian \"False News\" Trial of Ernst Zündel\", 1988 and wrote a second book, \"The Hate Crimes Law in Canada, 1970–1994: Effects and Operation\". Both books were published by Zündel's Samisdat Publishers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907513", "title": "Big Drum", "text": "Big Drum\n\nBig Drum is a genre and a musical instrument from the Windward Islands. It is a kind of Caribbean music, associated mostly closely with the music of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Music of Guadeloupe, Carriacou in Grenada and in the music of Saint Kitts and Nevis.\n\nAll big drum celebration is accompanied by the boula drum. The word boula can refer to at least four different drums played in the Caribbean music area.\n\nThe Guadeloupean \"boula\" is a hand drum, similar to the \"tambou bèlè\", and is used in \"gwo ka\" and special occasions likes wakes, wrestling matches and Carnival celebrations. It is a hand drum that plays low-pitched sounds and is played single-handed and transversally.\n\nThe \"boula\" of Carriacou is also a hand drum, now most often made of rum casks. It is also called the \"tambou dibas\", and is used in the Big Drum tradition.\n\nThe \"boula\" of Trinidad and Tobago accompanies the stick-fighting dance called \"kalenda\", and is a double-headed barrel drum, played open-handed.\n\nThe inhabitants of Carriacou perform the \"Big Drum\" or \"Nation\" dance which celebrates their West African ancestors that were brought to the island during slavery. These Big Drum dances are usually performed at \"Maroons\" village festivals or fetes, where food and drink are prepared. They can also be danced at wakes and tombstone feasts in honor of dead relatives or marriage ceremonies, tombstone raisings, fishing boat launchings and in the case of ill-health or ill-fortune. On each occasion, the main focus is twofold: remembering lineage and respecting ancestors. The music consists of singing and chanting typically joined by three drums, shakers and maracas. \nGwo ka is the French creole term for Big drum.\n\nThe Guadeloupean \"boula\" is a hand drum, similar to the \"tambou bèlè\", and is used in \"gwo ka\" and special occasions likes wakes, wrestling matches and Carnival celebrations. It is a hand drum that plays low-pitched sounds and is played single-handed and transversally.\n\nBig Drum is played in Saint Kitts and Nevis, alongside a kettle drum, and a fife during Carnival and Culturama celebrations.\n\nVincentian big drums are traditionally made from tree trunks, but are more often made from rum kegs now. The socially aware or satirical lyrics are usually performed by a female singer called a \"chantwell\", and is accompanied by dancers in colorful skirts and headresses. Big Drum is commonly performed at weddings and other celebrations, especially the launches of boats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907519", "title": "Chuck Scarborough", "text": "Chuck Scarborough\n\nCharles Bishop Scarborough III (born November 4, 1943) is an American television journalist and author. Since 1974, he has been the lead news anchor at WNBC, the New York City flagship station of the NBC Television Network, and has also appeared on NBC News. He currently anchors the daily 6:00 pm WNBC news.\n\nA native of Pittsburgh and a graduate of the University of Southern Mississippi, Scarborough served in the United States Air Force and currently has a commercial pilot certificate. His career in television began in Mississippi as a reporter at WLOX-TV in Biloxi and later WDAM-TV in Laurel, before moving to WAGA-TV in Atlanta.\n\nScarborough's first major market anchoring job came in 1972, at WNAC-TV in Boston. He was originally hired as part of a two-man anchor team with respected New England journalist Lee Nelson, but was soon made the solo anchor of the station's news broadcasts. In addition to his anchor work, he was called on to host a weekly program called \"Mass Reaction\", in which the public was invited to the studio to question news broadcasters and newsmakers.\n\nIn his final broadcast on WNAC-TV, Scarborough ended the newscast with a commentary in which he identified the issue of race as the most important challenge facing Boston. A scant few months later, Boston erupted into racial unrest as the result of a federal court order to end its policy of de facto racial segregation in the public schools. While WNAC had been the perennial trailer among Boston's three VHF television news broadcasts, with Scarborough as anchor the station managed to best its rivals in the 6pm newscast ratings.\n\nScarborough joined NBC News in March 1974 as sole anchor of WNBC-TV's then-new 5:00 PM newscast, \"NewsCenter 4\" (later renamed \"News 4 New York\"). Eventually, he became the station's lead anchor at 6pm and 11pm. In 2003, he became the unofficial \"dean\" of New York-area television news anchors when WABC-TV anchor Bill Beutel retired after 37 years. He surpassed Beutel as New York's most tenured English-language news anchor in 2011. Five years later, Scarborough succeeded Rafael Pineda of Spanish-language WXTV as the longest-serving anchor in New York television history. For much of his first 20 years with NBC, he occasionally appeared on the network as a correspondent and often anchored the network's prime-time news updates.\n\nAt WNBC, he has worked alongside Marv Albert, Len Berman, Jack Cafferty, Dr. Frank Field, John Hambrick, Pat Harper, Pia Lindstrom, Sue Simmons, Michele Marsh, Al Roker, and Tom Snyder, among others.\n\nScarborough was the host of the syndicated programs \"Images – A Year in Review\" and \"Memories...Then and Now\" in the late 1980s-early 1990s, and also co-anchored the NBC network documentary series \"Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow\" with Maria Shriver and Mary Alice Williams.\n\nThe 11:00 pm broadcast on July 14, 2017, marked Scarborough's last as a regular anchor in that time slot after 42 years, as he cut back on his schedule to working only the 6pm. Taking his place at 11 was Stefan Holt, the son of \"NBC Nightly News\" anchor Lester Holt. Scarborough has since appeared several times on the 11:00pm edition, filling in when Holt has time off.\n\nScarborough has won 36 local Emmy Awards, and was one of the first inductees into the New York State Broadcasters Association Hall of Fame in 2005. He was inducted alongside Sue Simmons, his co-anchoring partner from 1980 until Simmons' retirement in June 2012. They were together longer than any other anchor team in New York City television history.\n\nScarborough is married to Ellen Ward Scarborough, and was married previously to Anne Ford and Linda Gross. He has two children, Chad and Elizabeth. His daughter Elizabeth has followed in her father's footsteps as a television journalist. He and his family reside in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nScarborough is not related to MSNBC anchor Joe Scarborough, who coincidentally, was also named Charles Scarborough.\n\nScarborough has written three novels: \n\n\"Aftershock\" was made into a made for television movie, \"\" in 1999, airing on the CBS television network.\n\nScarborough appeared in \"The Adjustment Bureau\", reporting a story for WNBC about the film's protagonist, David Norris (Matt Damon), and in two episodes of the NBC sitcom \"Veronica's Closet\".\n\nScarborough and Simmons are mentioned in the Fountains of Wayne song \"Traffic & Weather\" from their 2007 album of the same name.\n\nIn season 7, episode 8 of the NBC comedy \"30 Rock\", the protagonist Liz Lemon jokes that Chuck Scarborough is anatomically a woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907522", "title": "Sue Simmons", "text": "Sue Simmons\n\nSue Simmons (born May 27, 1942) is a retired news anchor who was best known for being the lead female anchor at WNBC in New York City from 1980 to 2012. Her contract with WNBC expired in June 2012 and WNBC announced that it would not renew it. Her final broadcast was on June 15, 2012.\n\nSimmons grew up in the Manhattan neighborhood of Greenwich Village; her father was John Simmons, a jazz bassist whose compatriots included Louis Armstrong, Art Tatum, John Coltrane, Billie Holiday, Benny Goodman, Lena Horne and Nat King Cole.\n\nShe graduated from Julia Richman High School in 1961 and decided to work instead of going on to college.\n\nShe began her career as a consumer action reporter at WTNH-TV in New Haven, Connecticut. She was with WBAL-TV in Baltimore from 1974 to 1976 where she was an anchor for the station's Action News and Baltimore At One broadcasts. From 1976 to 1980 she was a reporter and anchor at WRC-TV in Washington, DC, an NBC owned-and-operated station.\n\nFrom 1980 to 2007, she was a co-anchor for WNBC's Live at Five news broadcast. She worked with several co-anchors, including Jack Cafferty, Tony Guida, Matt Lauer, Dean Shepherd, Jim Rosenfield, Perri Peltz, and David Ushery. In 2007, Live at Five broadcast for the final time. Weeknights at 11 p.m., she co-anchored with Chuck Scarborough. On March 7, 2012, WNBC announced that it would not renew its contract with Simmons; the contract expired in June. Simmons' final broadcast was on June 15, 2012; she received farewells from long time co-workers, as well as numerous sports figures and celebrities. Simmons was replaced on the 11 p.m. newscast by Shiba Russell.\n\n\"Chuck and Sue\" (as they were known in New York) were together since Simmons' arrival at WNBC—the longest run for an anchor team in New York City television history. She was one of the highest paid local anchors in New York, making $5 million a year.\n\nSimmons was referenced in the song \"Traffic and Weather\" by the power pop band Fountains of Wayne.\n\nEach Groundhog Day, Simmons did an on-air facial impression of a groundhog at the end of the broadcast.\n\nOn June 23, 2017, Simmons returned to WNBC for a tribute to Gabe Pressman, longtime reporter for the station who died earlier in the day at age 93.\n\nOn May 12, 2008, as a live news teaser was played, Simmons was heard loudly exclaiming, \"What the fuck are you doing?\" It was later revealed that her remark was directed at distracted co-anchor Chuck Scarborough. She later apologized on-air for her inappropriate language. The incident has been mocked in several sketches on CBS's \"Late Show with David Letterman\". Simmons has stated that she was normally notified proactively when the show was broadcasting live, because she had a reputation for being caught on the air during candid moments. On that particular occasion, she had not been notified, and she uttered the profanity while attempting to get the attention of Scarborough, who was preoccupied with his computer.\n\nIn November and December 2010, Simmons was away from her job while she underwent back surgery. On January 3, 2011, she returned to work. However, when she returned from surgery she was no longer a part of the 6 p.m. newscast and only co-anchored the 11 p.m. newscast.\n\nSue Simmons made her acting debut as herself in the fourteenth season premiere episode of the NBC legal drama, \"\". Simmons went on to guest star as herself on NBC comedy series \"30 Rock\". She has also appeared in other television series and films in the role of a newscaster, including: \"The First Wives Club\" (1996), \"\" (1998) and \"Elementary\" (2012).\n"}
{"id": "1907530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907530", "title": "Edd Kalehoff", "text": "Edd Kalehoff\n\nEdward Woodley Kalehoff Jr. (born September 1, 1945) is an American television music composer.\n\nComposer of about 1,000 pieces, mainly for television, his credits include many of the music cues used on \"The Price Is Right\" (although the 1972 theme is officially attributed to Sheila Cole ) and the Nickelodeon game show \"Double Dare\"; a music package for ABC Sports that updated and expanded the \"Monday Night Football\" theme; the 1991 theme song for \"Labatt Blue Jays/Expos Baseball on TSN\" in Canada; music for WNBC-TV's famous 1992 promotional campaign \"We're 4 New York\"; and many television news music and station image packages used on stations such as WEWS-TV in Cleveland, WJBK-TV in Detroit, and WNYW-TV, WCBS-TV and WNBC-TV in New York City. The \"NBC Stations\" package composed in 1995 for WNBC was used by the station until 2003. Due to its long run as the music package for WNBC, it is widely known in the Tri-State Region. His most recent work is the new theme for the \"PBS NewsHour\" as part of a new on-air look launched on July 20, 2015.\n\nHe has long been associated with Score Productions and Mark Goodson Productions and is a favorite composer.\n\nCurrently Kalehoff is the chosen composer for ABC News and is a member of BMI who calls him a \"legend\" along the lines of Mike Post.\n\nKalehoff is a noted keyboard player, being a featured performer in the documentary film \"Moog\" and keyboardist for several albums by The Roches. He was prominently featured in a 1973 television commercial for Schaefer Beer as \"Edd Kalehoff at the MOOG synthesizer\" playing his rendition of the company's jingle.\n\nAs a record producer, he produced several albums including ones for The Roches and Andrea McArdle.\n\nHe was born and raised in Jackson, Mississippi. His father Edward Woodley (\"Woody\") Kalehoff Sr. was a well-known musician who played piano in the White House for both presidents Roosevelt and Truman.\nHe was married to Broadway actress and singer Andrea McArdle, and their daughter Alexis has appeared in many Broadway productions. The couple divorced in August, 2011. He has two sons, Max and Rex, from his first marriage.\n\nIt was speculated on a 2003 episode of \"The Howard Stern Show\" that Kalehoff receives an estimated $250,000 per year from his compositions that are still used on \"The Price Is Right\".\n\n\nSource: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0435664/\n\n"}
{"id": "1907541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907541", "title": "Lycopodium clavatum", "text": "Lycopodium clavatum\n\nLycopodium clavatum (common club moss, stag's-horn clubmoss, running clubmoss, or ground pine) is the most widespread species in the genus \"Lycopodium\" in the clubmoss family.\n\n\"Lycopodium clavatum\" is a spore-bearing vascular plant, growing mainly prostrate along the ground with stems up to long; the stems are much branched, and densely clothed with small, spirally arranged microphyll leaves. The leaves are 3–5 mm long and 0.7–1 mm broad, tapered to a fine hair-like white point. The branches bearing strobili or spore cones turn erect, reaching above ground, and their leaves are modified as sporophylls that enclose the spore capsules or sporangia. The spore cones are yellow-green, long, and broad. The horizontal stems produce roots at frequent intervals along their length, allowing the stem to grow indefinitely along the ground. The stems superficially resemble small seedlings of coniferous trees, though it is not related to these. \n\"Lycopodium clavatum\" has a widespread distribution across several continents. There are distinct subspecies and varieties in different parts of its range:\n\nAlthough globally widespread, like many clubmosses, it is confined to undisturbed sites, disappearing from farmed areas and sites with regular burning. As a result, it is endangered in many areas. In the UK it is one of 101 species named as a high priority for conservation by the wild plant charity Plantlife.\n\nCommon names for this species include wolf's-foot clubmoss, common clubmoss, wolf-paw clubmoss, running ground-pine, running pine, running moss, princess pine, and others.\n\nThe spores of this moss, \"lycopodium powder\", are explosive if present in the air in high enough densities. They were used as flash powder in early photography and magic acts.\n\nBioactive secondary metabolites in clubmosses include triterpenoids with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor activity isolated from this species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907548", "title": "Extended Data Services", "text": "Extended Data Services\n\nExtended Data Services (now XDS, previously EDS), is an American standard classified under Electronic Industries Alliance standard CEA-608-E for the delivery of any ancillary data (metadata) to be sent with an analog television program, or any other NTSC video signal.\n\nXDS is used by TV stations, TV networks, and TV program syndication distributors in the US for several purposes. \n\nHere are some of the most common uses of XDS:\n\n\nXDS is also used by the American TV network ABC for their Network Alert System (NAS). NAS is a one-way communication system used by ABC to inform and alert their local affiliate stations across the US of information regarding ABC's network programming (such as program timings & changes, news special report information, etc.), using a special decoder manufactured for ABC by EEG Enterprises , a manufacturer of related equipment for the TV broadcast industry such as closed captioning and general-purpose XDS encoders. The CBS Television Network uses a similar method to transmit three separate internal messaging services to stations: one for programming departments, one for master control operations, and one for newsrooms.\n\nMany standard definition receivers produced by Dish Network encode XDS data into their output signal. Data encoded includes time of day, program name, program description, program time remaining, channel identification, and content rating. This data is obtained from the satellite service's EPG and replaces any data which may have been present when the signal was uplinked.\n\nXDS uses the same line in the vertical blanking interval as closed captioning (NTSC line 21), and shares the available second video field bandwidth with the closed captioning channels CC3 and CC4, and with the text channels TXT3 and TXT4.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907549", "title": "Oneirogen", "text": "Oneirogen\n\nAn oneirogen, from the Greek ὄνειρος \"óneiros\" meaning \"dream\" and \"gen\" \"to create\", is that which produces or enhances dream-like states of consciousness. This is characterized by an immersive dream state similar to REM sleep, which can range from realistic to alien or abstract. Many dream-enhancing plants such as dream herb (\"Calea zacatechichi\") and African dream herb (\"Entada rheedii\"), as well as the hallucinogenic diviner's sage (\"Salvia divinorum\"), have been used for thousands of years in a form of divination through dreams, called oneiromancy, in which practitioners seek to receive psychic or prophetic information during dream states. The term \"oneirogen\" commonly describes a wide array of psychoactive plants and chemicals ranging from normal dream enhancers to intense dissociative or deliriant drugs. Effects experienced with the use of oneirogens may include microsleep, hypnagogia, fugue states, rapid eye movement sleep (REM), hypnic jerks, lucid dreams, and out-of-body experiences. Some oneirogenic substances are said to have little to no effect on waking consciousness, and will not exhibit their effects until the user falls into a natural sleep state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907556", "title": "Nights (character)", "text": "Nights (character)\n\nNiGHTS is a video game character from the games \"Nights into Dreams\" and \"\", developed and published by Sega. Nights is a \"Nightmaren\" who resides in Nightopia, a dream world where the dreams of all human beings are acted out every night.\n\nNaoto Ohshima was the original \"Nights\" creator and designer, while Kazuyuki Hoshino was the character designer for the video game \"Nights into Dreams\". The character design incorporated Japanese, European, and American stylistics in order to give Nights as universal an appeal as possible. In the context of the games, Nights is a part of every human's subconscious, and so was purposely designed to be neither male nor female. By the time of the sequel, \"\", Ohshima had left Sega, and Kazuyuki Hoshino was placed in charge of character design for the game. Takashi Iizuka, the lead game designer, felt that, with Hoshino, they captured the style used for the character in the original game.\n\nNights' personality is described by Iizuka as \"a mirror of the child's personality.\" Nights' speaking role in \"Journey of Dreams\" was performed by Julissa Aguirre, who gave the character a British-English accent to suit the style of the game. In addition, Nights was made genderless, leaving the impression of the character \"totally up to the player\", according to Iizuka.\n\nNights wears a purple jester-style hat and outfit, with a diamond-shaped, red jewel on the chest. In the miniseries published by Archie Comics, this was said to be a piece of a red Ideya (the personality orb which contains courage) that broke off and latched onto the character's chest.\n\nYuji Naka and Naoto Ohshima explained that the character is \"not a hero from the good dreams, but a hero from the nightmares. In other words, there's just a little bit of a scary element to him. He's cute but frightening. He has a dual male/female character image. With that image in mind we then bring in the circus like element. The nightmare world is similar to the circus. In the darkness a single spot-light shines, creating the vividly coloured stage. This kind of element is included inside the nightmare's darkness to show the beauty of the place. So with the Nights character and the Nightmarens all gathered together it gives the impression of a circus group. Although Nights looks a little like a jester, when you find him in your dreams wonderful things happen and a new hope is born within.\"\n\nNights behaves childishly, never for a moment thinking of the consequences of their actions, for example sometimes scaring people just for fun, but mostly Nights' actions can be considered chivalrous. Nights is also merciful, as shown with Reala in \"Journey of Dreams\". Nights likes new and unusual things, but hates being bound and told what to do. Nights dislikes Wizeman for confining them and denying them their freedom. Sometimes, when very relaxed, Nights will pull out an invisible flute and start playing \"Dreams Dreams\", the game's theme song.\n\nNights has the ability to transform into just about anything, an ability that was expanded upon in the sequel with the introduction of each persona mask. Even without the persona masks, Nights is still able to change forms and abilities as desired.\n\nNights can also create small portals called \"Paraloops\" with their Twinkle Dust if the dust is spread to form a closed circle.\n\nNights comes from the dream world of Nightopia (also referred to in-game as the Night Dimension) and takes shape according to the thoughts, ideas, personalities, and will of the Visitors (humans from the real world). Nights lives alongside Owl, a brown owl who acts as elder and guide in the sequel, and the Nightopians. Nights, however, is a Nightmaren and henceforth their origin is the dark realm of Nightmare. Nights attempts to stop Wizeman from taking over Nightopia.\n\nNights is kind towards the children (Claris, Elliot, Will, and Helen) in both games, helping all four of them to defeat Wizeman on two separate occasions.\n\nNights shows disrespect for Owl on a regular basis, but also shows a sort of friendship with the bird. Owl often seems frustrated with Nights' rambunctious behaviour, and his lectures are often to no avail.\n\nNights was once loyal to Wizeman, but eventually began to view what Wizeman was doing as wrong and in need of being stopped. Nights also wished to have free will, which Wizeman didn't allow; Nights therefore decided to rebel. Their hatred for each other is strong and neither show mercy in battle.\n\nNights' relationship with Reala appears complicated. Nights still holds Reala as a friend, or at least a former one. Reala often plays on Nights' mercy, using it as an opportunity to imprison Nights. Reala sometimes refers to Nights as a \"sibling\" and, in almost every instance in the sequel, will try and talk Nights into surrendering before starting a fight.\n\nNights first appeared in the video game \"Nights into Dreams\" on the Sega Saturn. The second game in the series, \"Nights: Journey of Dreams\", is on the Wii. Sega Superstars for PlayStation 2 features a game with Nights, which utilized the EyeToy peripheral. Nights also appeared in the sampler game \"Christmas Nights\" on the Sega Saturn. Takashi Iizuka reported that he is very interested in making \"Nights 3\", but it is the management's decision whether or not to proceed.\n\nNights has appeared in many other games besides the series, including \"Sonic Adventure\" (in the Casinopolis level), \"Sonic Adventure 2\" (in the City Escape and Radical Highway levels), \"Shadow the Hedgehog\" (in Lethal Highway, the title screen appears in a billboard without any text), and also in \"Sonic Adventure\" and \"Sonic Adventure 2\", the player can raise a chao that resembles Nights. Nights also appears in \"Sonic Pinball Party\", \"Sonic Shuffle\", \"Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg\", \"Sega Superstars\", both \"Sonic Riders\" and \"\" (as a secret character) and \"Sega Superstars Tennis\". Nights also makes a cameo appearance in \"Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing\" as the flagman, and later appears playable alongside Reala in \"Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed\". The character also makes a cameo appearance in a downloadable level of Sonic Lost World. The level is named Nightmare Zone, which consists of multiple boss battles from the original game in the series.\n\nNights has also made a guest appearance in \"Phantasy Star Online I & II Plus\", in Episode 2.\n\nNights has also appeared in Archie Comics' \"Worlds Unite\" crossover between its \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" and \"Mega Man\" titles, where they are one of many Sega and Capcom heroes recruited by Miles \"Tails\" Prower and Air Man to battle Sigma.\n\nIn Sega's \"Shenmue series\", Nights appears in the form of two capsule toys, NiGHTS 1 & NiGHTS 2, that protagonist Ryo Hazuki can collect from one of the various machines scattered throughout \"Shenmue\" and \"Shenmue II\".\n\nNights was a runner-up for \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s Coolest Mascot of 1996 (behind Mario).\n"}
{"id": "1907558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907558", "title": "Deberny &amp; Peignot", "text": "Deberny &amp; Peignot\n\nDeberny & Peignot (Fonderie Deberny et Peignot) was a French type foundry, created by the 1923 merger of G. Peignot & Fils and Deberny & Cie. It was bought by the Haas Type Foundry (Switzerland) in 1972, which in turn was merged into D. Stempel AG in 1985, then into Linotype GmbH in 1989, and is now part of Monotype Corporation.\n\nStarting in 1925, Deberny & Peignot type was distributed in the United States by Continental Type Founders Association.\n\nThese typefaces were produced by Deberny & Peignot:\n\nDeberny & Peignot's release of \"Univers\" in 1957 was the first typeface to be manufactured simultaneously as hand-set type, Monotype mechanical type, and photo type, bridging all the technological advances that had developed over the history of typesetting to that time. The company produced twenty-one width and weight variations of \"Univers\" complete with an innovative numbering system that identified each characteristic, and dispensing with historical names, such as \"bold\" and \"extra bold.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907571", "title": "1602: New World", "text": "1602: New World\n\n1602: New World is a five-issue Marvel Comics limited series and is the sequel to the \"1602\" limited series, and as such is set in the year 1602 in the same continuity as the original series and picks up where \"1602\" left off. This time the story is written by Greg Pak and illustrated by Greg Tocchini.\n\nThe story takes place largely on Roanoke Island, which is governed by Ananias Dare. His daughter Virginia and Peter Parquagh (this world's Spider-Man) are fighting an invasion of dinosaurs, and tensions between the colonists and Native Americans are increasing, with Englishman Norman Osborne attempting to cheat the natives out of the island. Unrest about metahumans is also increasing, led by newspaperman J. Jonah Jameson. Osbourne is quick to blame this on the natives and Rojhaz (this world's Captain America).\n\nThis world's Hulk (David Banner) has apparently killed King James, and is wondering where his allegiances lie. He is identified on Roanoke Island by Peter. Banner is an enemy of the colony after attempting to kill Sir Nicholas Fury, and is almost executed, but is reprieved and taken by the dinosaurs.\n\nIn London, King James, who is still alive, tells Lord Iron (this world's Iron Man) to retrieve Banner, whom the King is worried about. Iron's arrival in the New World with Rhodes and Captain Ross is violent. Dare is ultimately arrested for treason for his declaration of independence.\n\nOsborne and Ross plot to capture the Source, which gives the metahumans their power, but Peter interferes and tells their plans to policeman Dougan. Virginia forces Iron and Rhodes to forswear their loyalty to the English.\n\nDougan, the Spider (Peter), and Dougan's men free Ananias. while fighting begins between the natives and the English. with the Spider. The natives and the Hulk arrive and begin to fight the English and Lord Iron. Osborne orders native chieftain Marioac to give him the Source, but is told that it died when Rojhaz left. Virginia orders everybody to stop fighting.\n\nLord Iron makes amends to Banner. Iron and Rhodes decide to stay at the colony, and rebuild Jameson's printing press. Banner leaves with the English soldiers to be executed. The colonists and natives make peace, and Osborne is tried and imprisoned for his crimes.\n\nJames VI of Scotland and I of England, His firm belief in the Divine Right of Kings and strong views on witchcraft (including the witchbreed) mean he is cast as something of a villain.\n\nVirginia Dare, the daughter of Ananias Dare, and the first English child born in the Americas. In this world, the Roanoke Colony did not disappear in the 1580s. Inspired by a legend that Virginia was killed in the shape of a white deer, Gaiman gives his version shapeshifting powers. Gaiman has revealed he has told fans that he created Virginia Dare without a Marvel character basis to provide a unique and fully American character to tie in the \"1602\" universe with our real world.\n\nPeter Parquagh, Peter works at the newspaper run by Jonah Jameson. Near the end of the \"1602\" series he was bitten by spider giving him strange powers. When he dons a webbed mask and a leather doublet, Parquagh becomes 'The Spider'. Peter also appears to have some feelings for Virginia, even though he is too shy to express them. He is the Spider-Man of 1602.\n\nDavid Banner, was an advisor to James VI and I. Towards the end of \"1602\" he is caught in the energies of the Anomaly and becomes a brutish monster. He is this world's Incredible Hulk. Uncommonly, The Hulk himself is the hero, being a noble man, seeking to defend the native Indians from the colonists. David Banner is an evil man, a torturer and assassin, who lives in fear of the more noble Hulk, even considering himself damned and lost as a witchbreed.\n\nNorman Osborne wants to trick the Native Americans into selling the island of Roanoke. However, they have been educated in the English language by 'Rojhaz' (Captain America from the future) and see the flaw in his contract. He seeks to turn the colony against the natives, because he believes that the natives are hiding something of great value. He may become this world's Green Goblin.\n\nLord Iron is a Spaniard weaponeer, famous for his inventions, who was captured during the war against England and forced by long weeks of torture to manufacture new and deadly weapons. He since had a grudge against the man who tortured him—David Banner. We can assume that the painful tortures he was forced to endure had damaged his heart, as the piece of shrapnel damaged the heart of his \"modern\" counterpart. He wears a suit of armour powered by electricity, and he is this world's Iron Man. Despite his allegiance, he has no special loyalty towards King James, and merely seeks revenge on David Banner, and by association, the Hulk.\n\nJonah Jameson, an Irish-accented newspaper owner in the New World. Exactly like his Marvel Universe counterpart, J. Jonah Jameson, including his dislike of people with \"powers\". His newspaper is called the \"Daily Trumpet\", rather than the \"Bugle\".\n\nRhodes is Lord Iron's Moorish engineer. His Marvel Universe counterpart is James Rupert Rhodes, or War Machine.\n\nCaptain Ross is the English captain of the vessel that transports Lord Iron to the New World. He is the 1602 manifestation of Marvel's General Thunderbolt Ross, since both men were charged with subduing the Incredible Hulk and his human counterpart.\n\nDougan was once part of Fury's army, and was the only member of it to go with the main cast of 1602 to Doom's castle and the new world. Dougan stayed in New World and became the head of the police force, becoming a friend to Dare. He is the counterpart of this worlds Dum Dum Dugan, who is a member of the organization run by Fury.\n\nMarioac is the leader of the local Native Americans who are feuding with the colonists. She becomes a sort of friend to both Peter and Banner, and is portrayed as a little magical or supernatural. She is not based on a character in the traditional Marvel Universe\n\nGovernor Dare is the governor of the colony and a wise and heroic man, although not based on a Marvel character.\n\n\"1602: New World\" was collected as a trade paperback, published in January 2006 ()\n\n"}
{"id": "1907573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907573", "title": "Rafael Pineda (television journalist)", "text": "Rafael Pineda (television journalist)\n\nJulio Rafael Pineda (born December 20, 1937) is a retired Cuban-American television news reporter who spent four decades as anchor for the Spanish language station WXTV, the Univision affiliate in New York City.\n\nBorn in Baracoa, Cuba, he immigrated to the United States before his 20th birthday. He began his career at the Spanish-language station WXTV in 1968.\n\nPineda was the lead news anchor on WXTV until 1988, when he became host of the first Spanish-language local interview program in the tri-state area, \"Punto y Aparte\" until it ended a year later, in 1989. He led WXTV to first place among New York's Spanish language newscasts and was the first Spanish-speaking news anchor to interview both political figures and celebrities, such as Bill Clinton and Desi Arnaz. \n\nOn June 5, 2005, Pineda was honored by Union City, New Jersey with a star on the Walk of Fame at Union City's Celia Cruz Park.\n\nOn October 24, 2013, Pineda announced during the 6 P.M. newscast his plans to retire on Friday, December 20, 2013. He served 41 years total at WXTV, longer than any New York City anchor before Chuck Scarborough reached 42 years with WNBC in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1907580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907580", "title": "The McDonaldization of Society", "text": "The McDonaldization of Society\n\nThe McDonaldization of Society is a 1993 book by sociologist George Ritzer. Ritzer suggests that in the later part of the 20th century the socially-structured form of the fast-food restaurant has become the organizational force representing and extending the process of rationalization into the realm of everyday interaction and individual identity. McDonald's of the 1990s serves as the case model. The book introduced the term McDonaldization to learned discourse as a way to describe a social process which produces \"mind-numbing sameness\", according to a 2002 review of a related academic text.\n\nIn \"McDonaldization\" Ritzer expands and updates central elements from the work of Max Weber and produces a critical analysis of the impact of social-structural change on human interaction and identity. The central theme in Weber's analysis of modern society was the process of rationalization; a far-reaching process whereby traditional modes of thinking were replaced by an ends/means analysis concerned with efficiency and formalized social control. Weber argued that the archetypal manifestation of this process was the bureaucracy; a large, formal organization characterized by a hierarchical authority structure, well-established division of labor, written rules and regulations, impersonality and a concern for technical competence. Bureaucratic organizations not only represent the process of rationalization, the structure they impose on human interaction and thinking furthers the process, leading to an increasingly rationalized world. The process affects all aspects of everyday life. \n\n"}
{"id": "1907592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907592", "title": "Matthew 2:13", "text": "Matthew 2:13\n\nMatthew 2:13 is the thirteenth verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The magi have left after paying homage to the young Jesus. In this verse an angel warns Joseph that he must flee.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:13.\n\nThis verse opens a clear second section of Matthew 2 launching a series of dream inspired wanderings by the Holy Family. Its content is closely linked with the second half of Matthew 1. Joseph, after being ignored in the first half of the chapter, is again the central character. As in Matthew 1 Joseph is contacted by God in a dream. This verse is again clear that the child is not Joseph's.\n\nEgypt was the logical place to seek refuge it was outside the dominions of King Herod and throughout the Old Testament it was the standard place of exile for those unsafe in Israel. At the time it had a large Jewish population, with about a third of Alexandria being Jewish. Both regions were at the time part of the Roman Empire, making travel between them easy and relatively safe. The trip to Egypt occurs nowhere else in the New Testament gospels. The mention of Egypt is in keeping with Matthew's interest in Old Testament sources, with the links to Moses being the most prominent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907593", "title": "José Bosingwa", "text": "José Bosingwa\n\nJosé Bosingwa da Silva (born 24 August 1982) is a Portuguese former footballer who played as a right back.\n\nAn attacking fullback, his pace and ability to get up and down the flanks created problems for the opposition. He spent most of his professional career with Porto and Chelsea, winning 13 honours overall including the UEFA Champions League with both clubs: 2004 with the former and 2012 with the latter.\n\nA Portuguese international since 2007, Bosingwa represented the nation at Euro 2008 and the 2004 Summer Olympics, earning a total of 27 caps.\n\nBorn in Mbandaka, Zaire to a Portuguese father and a Congolese mother, Bosingwa moved with his parents at a very young age to Seia in the Portuguese hinterland, in the Guarda District. He was the youngest of the couple's ten children.\n\nBosingwa was picked as a youth to play for Boavista FC, making his professional debut on loan to S.C. Freamunde in the Segunda Liga and appearing sparingly as the northern club finished last. He started his career as a midfielder.\n\nAfter two full seasons with Boavista, Bosingwa signed with neighbouring FC Porto – coached by José Mourinho – for 2003–04. He was used sparingly in his first year, playing in only 13 Primeira Liga games; he made his UEFA Champions League debut on 16 September 2003 in a 1–1 away draw against FK Partizan, appearing in a further seven matches in the club's victorious campaign.\n\nFully established as a right-back and Porto's first-choice since 2004–05, after the departures of Paulo Ferreira and veteran Carlos Secretário, Bosingwa was a vital element in the team's conquest of another three league titles in four years. The campaign ended on a sour note as, in May, he was at the wheel of his jeep when excess speed and wet road conditions led to a serious accident, with the vehicle skidding off the motorway and rolling down an embankment before bursting into flames. Four other footballers travelled alongside him, including Boavista player Nélson. All escaped alive, but one of them, Sandro Luís (player of modest Grupo Desportivo os Minhocas), had to have his left foot amputated as a result of the accident, which took place in Valongo; years later, Bosingwa was made to pay €175.000 in compensation.\n\nOn 11 May 2008, Porto announced that Bosingwa had come to verbal agreements with Chelsea for €20.6 million (£16.3 million), with 20% of the transfer fee going to a third party called International Football – Gestão e Assessoria de Carreiras. He put pen to paper on a three-year deal and joined the London club after Euro 2008, along with Portugal national team boss Luiz Felipe Scolari and fellow international Deco; on 16 July he was officially presented with the number 16, but switched to No. 17 after exchanging with Scott Sinclair.\n\nBosingwa made his Premier League debut for the Blues on 17 August 2008, starting in a 4–0 home win against Portsmouth. His first Champions League appearance came the next month, against FC Girondins de Bordeaux (same venue, same result). He scored his first goal for them against Stoke City on 27 September, adding a second with a stunning left-foot attempt against West Bromwich Albion, scoring from 25 yards in a 3–0 away win.\n\nOn 1 February 2009, Bosingwa was involved in an incident on the field where he stamped Liverpool player Yossi Benayoun directly in the back, without making any attempt to play the ball. Although referee Mike Riley did not see it, assistant Mo Matadar would later claim to have seen the incident, signalling a foul at the time but subsequently awarding Chelsea a throw-in; in the days following the match, the Football Association claimed that FIFA regulations prevented them from imposing disciplinary sanctions, as no booking or sending off was issued.\n\nBosingwa was banned for three European matches as a result of comments he made about the refereeing of the Champions League semi-finals second leg clash against FC Barcelona (6 May 2009, 1–1 draw in England) on Portuguese television. He stated \"I don't know whether he's a referee or a thief\", but later apologised for his choice of words. The ban was later reduced to two games on appeal.\n\nOn 19 June 2009, FC Bayern Munich chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge conceded defeat in his club's attempt to sign Bosingwa, who remained at Stamford Bridge. He sustained a knee injury in October, being rendered unavailable for the rest of the season (the team won the title, but under league rules he had not made sufficient appearances for a medal). Chelsea announced in early March that he required further surgery, ruling him out of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOn 16 October 2010, exactly one year after his injury, Bosingwa returned to action against the same opponent, Aston Villa playing the last 15 minutes in a 0–0 away draw at Villa Park after replacing compatriot Ferreira in the second half– both were relegated to the bench by Branislav Ivanović.\n\nIn the 2011–12 season, following the appointment of countryman André Villas-Boas as manager, Bosingwa returned to the starting lineup. On 27 August 2011, he scored his first goal in three years after a 25-yard strike against Norwich City in a 3–1 home win.\n\nOn 23 October 2011, in a game against Queen's Park Rangers, Bosingwa was controversially sent off by referee Chris Foy after a challenge with Shaun Wright-Phillips, as Chelsea went on to lose 0–1 away, with Didier Drogba also being dismissed for foul play. In late November, he started in the Champions League group stage match at Bayer 04 Leverkusen as left back, playing out of position to replace injured Ashley Cole in an eventual 1–2 defeat.\n\nOn 24 April 2012, Bosingwa played a vital role in the match against Barcelona for the Champions League semi-finals: he replaced injured Gary Cahill after only 12 minutes, and helped his side record a 2–2 draw at the Camp Nou and a 3–2 aggregate win; for most of the match he had to play as centre-back, as John Terry was also sent off before half-time.\n\nIn his natural position, Bosingwa played the full 120 minutes in the Champions League final against FC Bayern Munich, as Chelsea won 4–3 on penalties and became the first club from London to win the tournament. With the back four being commended for their ability to keep the strong opposing forward line at bay, he himself received plaudits for his efforts against winger Franck Ribéry; Shortly after, however, along with teammates Drogba and Salomon Kalou, he was told he could leave once his contract expired the following month.\n\nOn 17 August 2012, Bosingwa signed a three-year deal with Queens Park Rangers. He scored his first goal for his new club on the 28th, netting against Walsall in a 3–0 home win in the season's Football League Cup.\n\nIn December 2012, Bosingwa was fined two weeks' wages for refusing to sit on the bench for a league game against Fulham. When QPR sealed their relegation in April 2013 after a 0–0 draw at Reading, he was seen on TV cameras to be smiling as he left the pitch, which angered teammate Joey Barton and fans alike; three months later, he left the club by mutual consent.\n\nOn 29 July 2013, Bosingwa signed a three-year contract with Trabzonspor in the Turkish Süper Lig, for a €2.1 million salary in the first two seasons and to €1.6 million in the last. He left in early November 2015 claiming unpaid wages but, in the following transfer window, returned to the club and agreed to a half-year deal for €0.5 million plus €1,000 per match.\n\nDue to his consistent performances at club level, Bosingwa received his first call-up to the Portuguese national team in May 2007, for a UEFA Euro 2008 qualifier away to Belgium, replacing Miguel in the second half of the 2–1 win on 2 June. After overtaking the Valencia CF player as first-choice, he started all four matches in the final stages in Austria and Switzerland as the country exited in the quarter-finals, being included in the team of the tournament.\n\nBosingwa also represented Portugal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, and the 2004 UEFA European Under-21 Championship. Although he played for the country at under-21 level, he was also eligible to represent the Democratic Republic of Congo if he made an application to apply in 2004; subsequently, he was invited by the African nation to appear for them in the 2006 World Cup qualifying campaign.\n\nOn 8 November 2011, Bosingwa withdrew himself from international football until the removal of manager Paulo Bento. The latter claimed that the player was left out of the Euro 2012 qualifying matches against Bosnia and Herzegovina due to questions about his attitude and mentality; the Portuguese Football Federation criticized the player for his decision and the timing of his statement.\n\nAfter more than three years of absence, on 7 November 2014, Bosingwa was called up by new manager Fernando Santos for a Euro 2016 qualifier against Armenia and a friendly with Argentina.\n\nPorto\n\nChelsea\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "1907594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907594", "title": "McAtee", "text": "McAtee\n\nMcAtee is an Irish surname. The name is an Anglicisation of the Gaelic \"Mac an tSaoi\", meaning \"son of the scholar\" or \"son of the wise man\". \n\n"}
{"id": "1907595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907595", "title": "Price River", "text": "Price River\n\nThe Price River is a river in eastern Utah, United States.\n\nThe river originates in the Wasatch Plateau in central Utah and flows southeastward through Price Canyon, alongside U.S. Route 6, to the cities of Helper and Price. The river flows along the northeastern edge of the San Rafael Swell to the ghost town of Woodside, at which point it proceeds to the east, joining the Green River in Gray Canyon after flowing a distance of . Range Creek is one of its tributaries. The average discharge is approximately 337 cfs.\n\nIt is generally believed that the Price River was named after LDS Bishop William Price of Goshen, Utah, who explored the region in 1869. The town of Price was later named after the river.\n\nThe Scofield Reservoir was formed by the construction of the Scofield Dam in 1946. There are plans to build a second dam on the river, upstream from the Scofield Dam, called the Gooseberry Narrows Dam. The proposal has met with opposition out of concern for environmental impacts on trout fisheries in the Price River headwaters and the planned diversion of the water impounded by the dam out of the Colorado River basin to supplement the irrigation systems of the Sanpete Valley. As a result of the planned dam the Price River was included on the American Rivers list of the top ten endangered rivers in the United States in 2005.\n\nThe Price is a small, shallow river and is normally unnavigable. However, during springtime flows, the below the Scofield Dam to Castle Gate contain Class I to V whitewater. The river has become increasingly popular with canoeists and kayakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907601", "title": "Kongsvoll", "text": "Kongsvoll\n\nKongsvoll (\"Kongsvold Fjeldstue\") is a historic mountain lodge built on the site of a former inn located in the Drivdalen valley in the municipality of Oppdal in Trøndelag county, Norway. The original inn dated to the 12th century. The oldest buildings of the present mountain lodge date from the 18th century.\n\nNearby is found the Kongsvoll Alpine Garden of NTNU.\n\nKongsvold Fjeldstue is located along the Pilgrim´s Route (\"Pilegrimsleden\") and Old Kings' Road (\"Kongeveien\") between the cities of Oslo and Trondheim. During his reign, King Eystein I of Norway ordered the construction of mountain stations (\"fjellstue\") along the route that pilgrims followed in visiting the shrine of St. Olav in Trondheim. These stations, including Kongsvoll, were inns where pilgrims crossing the mountain passes could find food and shelter. This one was built along the Driva river in Oppdal.\n\nThe oldest buildings presently at the site date from 1720. The original inn was located about from where the lodge is now located. In 1701, a landslide damaged the inn. This resulted in a decision to move Kongsvold to the current location. In 1712, construction of the new Kongsvold lodge was started, but during the Great Northern War, Kongsvold and the other mountain lodges in the Dovre Region were burned. Reconstruction of the lodge began in 1720.\n\nDuring the period 1979 - 1990, there was major restoration work completed on the historic lodge. The lodge has an exhibition about the history of the area and a collection of historical artifacts from the operation of the former inn. The Kongsvoll railway station is located from Kongsvoll.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907612", "title": "Armenians in India", "text": "Armenians in India\n\nThe association of Armenians with India and the presence of Armenians in India are very old, and there has been a mutual economic and cultural association of Armenians with India. \n\nThe earliest documented references to the mutual relationship of Armenians and Indians are found in Cyropaedia (Persian Expedition), an ancient Greek work by Xenophon (430 BC – 355 BC). These references indicate that several Armenians traveled to India.\n\nAn archive directory (published 1956) in Delhi, India states that an Armenian merchant-cum-diplomat, named Thomas Cana, had reached the Malabar Coast in 780 using the overland route. Armenians had trading relations with several parts of India, and by the 7th century a few Armenian settlements had appeared in Kerala, an Indian state located on the Malabar Coast.\n\nThe Ottoman and the Safavid conquests of the Armenian highlands in the 15th century CE meant that many Armenians dispersed across the Ottoman and Safavid empires, with some eventually reaching Mughal India. During the period of Akbar, Armenians -- such as Akbar's wife Mariam Begum Saheba and a Chief Justice Abdul Hai -- gained prestige in the empire. While Armenians gained prestige serving as governors and generals elsewhere in the empire such as Delhi, Lahore and the Bengal, living in enclosed colonies and establishing churches. Armenians worked as merchants, gun-smiths, gunners, priests and mercenaries for some of the Islamic rulers of India, with many noted to have served in the armies of various nawabs in Bengal and Punjab, such as Khojah Petrus Nicholas and Khojah Gorgin Khan.\n\nThomas Cana was an affluent merchant dealing chiefly in spices and muslins. He was also instrumental in obtaining a decree, inscribed on a copperplate, from the rulers of Malabar, which conferred several commercial, social and religious privileges for the Christians of that region. In current local references, Thomas Cana is known as \"Knayi Thomman\" or \"Kanaj Tomma\", meaning \"Thomas the merchant\".\n\nAn additional incentive for Armenian settlements in India was an Armenian agreement with the British East India Company. The agreement was signed in London, on 22 June 1688, and a Julfan merchant, resident in London at the time, signed the treaty on behalf of the “Armenian Nation.” Competing with the Portuguese and the French, the British wanted to boost the Armenian presence in India, and the agreement accorded special trading privileges to the Armenians, as well as equal rights with British subjects regarding the freedom of residence, travel, religion, and unrestricted access to civil offices.\n\nSeveral centuries of presence of Armenians resulted in the emergence of a number of several large and small Armenian settlements in several places in India, including Agra, Surat, Mumbai, Kanpur, Chinsurah, Chandernagore, Calcutta, Saidabad, a suburb of Murshidabad, Chennai, Gwalior, Lucknow, and several other locations currently in the Republic of India. Lahore and Dhaka – currently respectively in Pakistan and Bangladesh, – but, earlier part of Undivided India, and Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, also had an Armenian population. There were also many Armenians in Burma and Southeast Asia.\n\nAkbar (1556–1605), the Mughal emperor, invited Armenians to settle in Agra in the 16th century, and by the middle of the 19th century, Agra had a sizeable Armenian population. By an imperial decree, Armenian merchants were exempted from paying taxes on the merchandise imported and exported by them, and they were also allowed to move around in the areas of the Mughal Empire where entry of foreigners was otherwise prohibited. However, for the Armenians, who were recognized by the emperors for their innovative skills, earned their exceptional status in India. In 1562, an Armenian Church was constructed in Agra.\n\nAurangzeb (1658–1707), a Mughal Emperor, issued a decree which allowed Armenians to form a settlement in Saidabad, a suburb of Murshidabad, then the capital of Mughal subah (province) of Bengal. The imperial decree had also reduced the tax from 5% to 3.5% on two major items traded by them, namely piece goods and raw silk. The decree further stipulated that the estate of deceased Armenians would pass on to the Armenian community. By the middle of the 18th century, Armenians had become a very active, vibrant merchant community of Bengal. In 1758, Armenians had built a Church of the virgin Mary in Saidabad's Khan market.\n\n16th century onwards, the Armenians (mostly from Persia) formed an important trading community in Surat, the most active Indian port of that period, located on the western coast of India. The port city of Surat used to have regular sea borne to and fro traffic of merchant vessels from Basra and Bandar Abbas. Armenians of Surat built two Churches and a cemetery there, and a tombstone (of 1579) in Surat bears Armenian inscriptions. The second Church was built in 1778 and was dedicated to Mary. A manuscript written in Armenian language in 1678 (currently preserved in Saltikov-Shchedrin Library, St. Petersburg) has an account of a permanent colony of Armenians in Surat.\n\nLandmarks of contributions made to the city of Chennai still exist. Woksan, an Armenian merchant who had amassed a fortune from trade with the Nawab of Arcot, invested a great amount in buildings. The Marmalong Bridge, with many arches across the river Adyar was constructed by him, and a huge sum of maintenance donated to the local authorities. Besides building rest houses for pilgrims, he built the Chapel of Our Lady of Miracles in Madras. The only reminder of the bygone era is the Holy Virgin Mary church of 1772 at 2/A Armenia Street, South Black Town (this area is now called Georgetown).\n\n\nThe Armenians settled in Chinsurah, near Kolkata, West Bengal, and in 1688 built a Church there which is now known as Armenian Church of the Holy Nazareth This is the second oldest Church in Bengal and is still in well preserved on account of the care of the Calcutta Armenian Church Committee.\n\nAfter Armenia's independence from USSR, many Armenian-Indians chose to return to their ancestral homeland. Now there are hardly 100 Armenians in India, mostly in Kolkata. Kolkata still has about 150 Armenians and they still celebrate Christmas on 6 Jan, and Easter. Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day is also observed in Armenian Church, Kolkata. The Armenian Church of Holy Nazareth, located in Brabourne Road, Kolkata was constructed in 1734 and is the oldest Church in Kolkata. The best known Armenian institution in India is the Armenian College and Philanthropic Academy (est. 1821) better known as the Armenian College, in Kolkata, funded by endowments and donations. The management of the college was handed over to the Armenian Holy See of Echmiadzin of the Armenian Apostolic Church some years ago. There are presently around 125 children studying there from Armenia, Iran and Iraq and the local Armenian population. There is also the Armenian Sports Club (est. 1890). It is still active.\n\nMost Armenians in Armenia are Apostolic Orthodox and adhere to the Armenian Apostolic Church and are under the jurisdiction of the Holy See of Echmiadzin. In February 2007, Karekin II, Catholicos of All Armenians visited India. In Delhi he met with the President of India. He also visited Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata. There are many Armenian Apostolic Orthodox churches in India:\n\n\n\nPresident Levon Ter-Petrossian visited India in December 1995 and signed a Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation. Foreign Minister Vartan Oskanian traveled to India in December 2000. India's Minister of State for External Affairs Mr. Digvijay Singh visited Armenia in July 2003. President Robert Kocharian, accompanied by several Ministers and a strong business delegation, visited India in October–November 2003. \n\nThe Armenia-India Friendship Society (within the Armenian Society for Friendship and Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries) regularly marks India's Republic and Independence Days.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907629", "title": "Hughes Television Network", "text": "Hughes Television Network\n\nHTN Communications, better known as Hughes Television Network (HTN) and formerly Sports Network, was an American television network created by Richard Eugene Bailey. The company is now in the business of providing video and audio services to sports networks.\n\nIt never lived up to its dream of being the nation's fourth television network, following the demise of the DuMont Television Network. HTN limited itself to broadcasting sports events, including the Stanley Cup Finals, PBA Bowling and special programming, including the Muppets special \"The Frog Prince\", and provided facilities links to a loose network of stations, who were usually independents or affiliates of ABC, CBS, or NBC.\n\nIn 2013, HTN Communications merged with The Switch.\n\nOriginally working as chief network coordinator at ABC in 1954, Richard Eugene Bailey conceived of a cost-effective means of broadcasting away Major League Baseball games to their home cities. The idea came from the BBDO advertising agency, who appealed to Bailey on behalf of advertisers, Schaefer Beer and Lucky Strike cigarettes, to save money on their broadcast of Brooklyn Dodgers games; Bailey came up with the concept of \"streamlining transmission operations.\" This innovation for covering away games became the basis for the Sports Network.\n\nBailey capitalized his company with $1,000. In December 1956, Bailey met with sponsors, ad agencies and the baseball teams' representatives at Chicago's Hotel Knickerbocker to get SNI off the ground. In 1956, the first operational year, the network had 300 television and 1,200 radio broadcasts of major league baseball games.\n\nIn the fall 1956, SNI started showing Cleveland Browns football games. In later years, they acquired rights to Big Ten and Atlantic Coast Conference basketball. SNI's coverage of the 1963 NCAA final, where Loyola University Chicago upset the University of Cincinnati, was a ratings smash, with a larger audience than CBS' hit westerns \"Have Gun – Will Travel\" and \"Gunsmoke\".\n\nBy the early sixties, the Browns (still on SNI) were the only NFL team not signed to a major TV network. At the insistence of new commissioner Pete Rozelle, the Browns dropped SNI when the entire league signed a collective television contract with CBS in 1962.\n\nAfter Howard Hughes failed to purchase a controlling interest in ABC in 1968, Hughes' Hughes Tool Company purchased the Sports Network and was renamed the Hughes Television Network, with Dick Bailey continuing as president.\nOn a staggered schedule in May 1971, \"The Frog Prince\" was shown on HTN with 150 stations including WCBS-TV and sponsored by RJR Foods.\nParamount Pictures purchased the Network including its satellite time in planning for Paramount Programming Service in 1976. Paramount sold HTN to Madison Square Garden in 1979. In 1986, Joseph M. Cohen, a Madison Square Garden executive, led an investment group in purchasing HTN from Madison Square Garden. IDB Communications purchased the company in 1989. \nIn March, 1991, HTN purchased fiber optic transmission services from Vyvx NVN to supplement its existing satellite network. In 1995, HTN was purchased by Globecast.\n\nIn 2003, Cohen acquired the Network again.\n\nAs Sports Network, the Network broadcast on a network basis sports programming in the following sports: auto racing, baseball, basketball (pro and college), bowling, boxing, dog shows, football (pro and college), frostbite sailing, golf, gymnastics, horse racing, iceboating, ice hockey, jai alai, lacrosse, polo, skiing, soccer, swimming, tennis, track and wrestling.\n\nSNI pick up rights for: \n\nAccording to the book \"Monday Night Mayhem\" (Reed Business Information, 1988), the National Football League received a bid from HTN for broadcast rights to \"Monday Night Football\"; this, while negotiations with ABC were nearing a standoff. HTN was reportedly offering a significantly higher price than any other network, including ABC. Reportedly, had Hughes made the deal, half of ABC's affiliates would have carried the HTN football games anyway, including at least one ABC owned-and-operated station. Ultimately, the league agreed that it would be in the NFL's best interests to sign with an established network, eventually striking a deal with ABC for a lower amount than Hughes was offering.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907631", "title": "Nathan (son of David)", "text": "Nathan (son of David)\n\nNathan () was the third of four sons born to King David and Bathsheba in Jerusalem. He was a younger brother of Shammuah (sometimes referred to as Shammua or Shimea), Shobab, and Solomon. Although Nathan is the third son raised by David and Bathsheba, he is the fourth born to Bathsheba. The first son died before he could be named. \n\n[For an alternative view of this, see under 'Other Sons of David' below.]\n\nNathan was the first child of Bathsheba that she was given the right to name. Her first child died as an infant before being given a name, and Shammuah and Shobab were given names by David and Nathan the prophet. Biblical writer Carl Hagensick suggests that she chose the name Nathan in honour of Nathan the prophet, her counselor.\n\nNathan is mentioned as the son of David in and in and .\n\nThroughout the Hebrew Bible Nathan is referred to when listing the sons of David. \nFirst in 2 Samuel 5:14,\n\"And these be the names of those that were born to him in Jerusalem; Shammuah, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,\"\n\nIn 1 Chronicles 3:5\n\"And these were born to him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel:\"\n\nThe last specific mention of Nathan appears in 1 Chronicles 14:4\n\"Now these are the names of his children which he had in Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,\"\n\nThere are also instances in the Hebrew Bible where the name Nathan is mentioned, but it is unknown whether it is referring to Nathan the prophet or Nathan the son of David. One instance of this appears in the first book of the Book of Kings. In it states\n\"Azariah son of Nathan—in charge of the district governors;\" when listing the chief officials of Israel under the reign of Solomon. The passage does not specify if it is the son of Nathan the prophet or Nathan the son of David.\n\nIn the New Testament, the genealogy of Jesus according to the Gospel of Luke traces Jesus' lineage back to King David through the line of Nathan, which was the line of His mother, Mary the Gospel of Matthew traces it through Solomon, the line of Joseph, his legal father. Matthew was a Jew, and therefore interested in recording Jesus' correct lineage. Luke was a physician, and more interested in the accuracy of Jesus' lineage. Specifically, in the genealogy of Jesus according to Luke, Jesus' lineage connects to Nathan through the biblical figure Heli, the son of Matthat. Meanwhile, the Gospel of Matthew makes no mention of Nathan. Rather, in Jesus' lineage is connected to Jacob which eventually relates Jesus to Solomon rather than Nathan. \n\nOne conventional explanation for these differences, from as early as John of Damascus, is that Nathan is the ancestor of the Virgin Mary, while Solomon is the ancestor of Mary's husband Joseph. The blood curse on the line of Jeconiah who was a descendant in the line of Solomon, so the genealogy in Matthew is tainted with a blood curse from Jeconiah all the way to Joseph. No descendant of Jeconiah would qualify as King of Israel. \n\nAnother explanation for these differences is yibbum, as offered by St. John Damascene: \"One ought also to observe this, that the law was that when a man died without seed, this man's brother should take to wife the wife of the dead man and raise up seed to his brother.\" From this he proposes it is possible that \"on the death of Mathan, Melchi, of the tribe of Nathan, the son of Levi and brother of Panther, married the wife of Mathan, Jacob's mother, of whom he begat Heli. Therefore Jacob and Heli became brothers on tile mother's side, Jacob being of the tribe of Solomon and Heli of the tribe of Nathan. Then Heli of the tribe of Nathan died without any children, and Jacob his brother, of the tribe of Solomon, took his wife and raised up seed to his brother and begat Joseph. Joseph, therefore, is by nature the son of Jacob, of the line of Solomon, but by law he is the son of Heli of the line of Nathan.\"\n\nOne other explanation frequently proposed by modern scholars is that biblical genealogy is often based on theology rather than factual history. For example, the title \"Son of God\" is used frequently. However, this title would not have been used in the earliest Gospel writings. This explains the differences in genealogies, as Matthew and Luke wrote for different audiences.\n\nNathan is a son born to David and Bathsheba. The first book of the Books of Chronicles has a passage that states the sons of David born to him in Hebron, before recounting their sons and then nine more sons and one daughter of David who were also born to him in Jerusalem.\n\n1 Chronicles 3:1-4 states \"\nThese were the sons of David born to him in Hebron:\nThe firstborn was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel;\nthe second, Daniel the son of Abigail of Carmel;\nthe third, Absalom the son of Maakah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;\nthe fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;\nthe fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;\nand the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah.\nThese six were born to David in Hebron, where he reigned seven years and six months.\"\n\nIt then lists 4 sons of David and Bathsheba. However we know that their first son died. In 2 Samuel 11 this son is never named. It is therefore possible that he was called Shimea (or Shammua and ) but equally possible, more likely even, that this is a surviving son, although the Bible does not mention him again. We also know from that Solomon was their second son. Assuming that Solomon is mentioned last as the most important, if the others are listed in order this would make Nathan the fourth or fifth son born by Bathsheba (= Bathshua) and therefore tenth or eleventh of David's sons.\n\n1 Chronicles 3:6-9 recounts the others born in Jerusalem. \"There were also Ibhar, Elishua, Eliphelet, Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet—nine in all. All these were the sons of David, besides his sons by his concubines. And Tamar was their sister.\" \n\nThis means Nathan is one of his nineteen (or twenty) legitimate sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907635", "title": "Pelagie Islands", "text": "Pelagie Islands\n\nThe Pelagie Islands (; ), from the Greek , meaning \"open sea\", are the three small islands of Lampedusa, Linosa, and Lampione, located in the Mediterranean Sea between Malta and Tunisia, south of Sicily. To the northwest lie the island of Pantelleria and the Strait of Sicily. All three islands are part of the \"comune\" of Lampedusa. Geographically, part of the archipelago (Lampedusa and Lampione) belongs to the African continent and it is an Italian maritime exclave in the Tunisian continental shelf; politically and administratively the islands fall within the Sicilian province of Agrigento and represent the southernmost part of Italy.\n\nDespite pockets of agriculture, the islands are unnaturally barren due to wanton deforestation and the disappearance of the native olive groves, juniper and carob plantations. Fifty years ago much of the landscape was farmland bounded by dry stone walls but today, the local economy is based on fishing – sponge fishing and canning – supplemented by tourism in Lampedusa.\n\nOf particular ecological concern in the islands is the protection of the Loggerhead sea turtle (\"Caretta caretta\") which is endangered throughout the Mediterranean as a result of its nesting sites being taken over by tourism. In Italy the beaches of on Linosa and on Lampedusa are two of the last remaining sites where the turtle regularly lays its eggs, the others (larger) being in southern Calabria (close to Reggio Calabria). The nature reserve, covering all three islands, was instituted in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907640", "title": "National Film Preservation Foundation", "text": "National Film Preservation Foundation\n\nThe National Film Preservation Foundation (NFPF) is an independent, nonprofit organization created by the U.S. Congress to help save America's film heritage. Growing from a national planning effort led by the Library of Congress, the NFPF began operations in 1997. It supports activities nationwide that preserve American films and improve film access for study, education, and exhibition. The NFPF's top priority is saving orphan films, so called because are not protected by commercial interests and are unlikely to survive without public support. Through its grant programs, the NFPF has helped archives, historical societies, libraries, museums, and universities from all 50 states preserve American films and make them available to the public.\n\nThe National Film Preservation Foundation was created by the U.S. Congress in 1996, at the recommendation of the Library of Congress, following four years of hearings and research conducted by the Library's National Film Preservation Board. The \"National Film Preservation Act of 1996\" (Public Law 104-285, Title II), signed into law on October 11, 1996, charged the NFPF to \"encourage, accept, and administer private gifts to promote and ensure the preservation and public accessibility of the nation's film heritage\" and authorized federal funds to advance this work. The NFPF started operations a year later in 1997 as an independent federally chartered grant-giving public charity and the nonprofit charitable affiliate of the Library of Congress's National Film Preservation Board. Since 1996 Congress has increased the NFPF's authorization twice, in 2005 via the \"Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005\" (Public Law 109-9) and in 2008 via the \"Library of Congress Sound Recording and Film Preservation Programs Reauthorization Act of 2008\" (Public Law 110-336). Funding received through the NFPF's authorization is secured through the Library of Congress and goes directly to the field for film preservation projects.\n\nFederal funding received by the NFPF is made available through competitive grants. The program is open to American nonprofit and public institutions of all sizes and experience levels. Awards are made by expert panels, which are recruited from the preservation and scholarly communities and serve on behalf of the NFPF Board. To receive an award, institutions must pledge to provide public access to their films and to store them under cool-and-dry conditions that will extend their useful life. Films preserved through the NFPF are made available for education and shared with the public via screenings, exhibits, DVDs, broadcasts, and the Internet. Since starting its grant program in 1998, the NFPF has assisted 239 institutions across all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico and has helped save more than 1,870 films. Films preserved through NFPF grants range from silent-era films to industrials, documentaries, newsreels, culturally significant home movies, avant-garde works, and independent productions.\n\nThe NFPF also organizes, secures funding for, and manages cooperative projects that enable film organizations—large and small—to join forces on national and international projects. Some of its previous and current projects include:\n\nThe NFPF publishes DVD sets and books that promote the preservation of American film. For more than a decade, the NFPF's \"Treasures from American Film Archives\" DVD series has made available preservation work from the archival community. Created in collaboration with archives, scholars, and musicians, the sets present long unseen American films with new musical accompaniment, onscreen program notes, and a printed catalog. Besides the \"Treasures\" DVDs, the NFPF has also published two reference books, \"The Field Guide to Sponsored Films\" (2006) and \"The Film Preservation Guide: The Basics for Archives, Libraries, and Museums\" (2004).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907643", "title": "Jan Němec", "text": "Jan Němec\n\nJan Němec (12 July 1936 – 18 March 2016) was a Czech filmmaker whose most important work dates from the 1960s. Film historian Peter Hames has described him as the \"enfant terrible of the Czech New Wave.\"\n\nNěmec's career as a filmmaker started in the late 1950s when he attended FAMU. At that time, Czechoslovakia was a communist state subservient to the USSR, and artistic and public expression was subject to censorship and government review. However, thanks largely to the failure of purely propagandist cinema in the early 1950s and the presence of important and powerful people such as Jan Procházka within the Czechoslovak film industry, the 1960s led to an internationally acknowledged creative surge in Czechoslovak film that became known as the Czech New Wave, in which Němec played a part.\n\nFor graduation, Němec adapted a short story by Arnošt Lustig based on the author's experience of the Holocaust. Němec would return to Lustig's writing to direct the influential film \"Diamonds of the Night\" (1964), also based on the Holocaust. That film follows the fate of two boys who escape from a train taking them to a concentration camp. It is noted for its dramatic subjectivization of the experience of the Holocaust using experimental techniques including flashbacks, simulated hallucinations, and an unusual double ending that leaves the viewer in doubt as to the fate of its protagonists. It was his first major success, and while it passed the censors' reviews, it helped lay the foundation for the political movement that was coming. The film has since been called an aesthetic and technical milestone in the exploration of human experience under extreme conditions.\n\nHis best known work is \"A Report on the Party and the Guests\" (1966). Its plot revolves around a group of friends on a picnic who are invited to a bizarre banquet by a charismatic sadist, played by Ivan Vyskočil, who eventually bullies most of them into blind conformity and brutality while those who resist are hunted down. The film received a particularly bad reception from the authorities as Vyskočil in the film had a remarkable likeness to Lenin, though according to Peter Hames this was accidental. Moreover, the cast consisted of various dissident Czechoslovak intellectuals of the day, including Josef Škvorecký. The film was viewed as being so subversive to the Communist state that Antonín Novotný, the president, was said to \"climb the walls\" on viewing it and Němec's arrest for subversion was considered.\n\nHowever, before the political fallout from this was able to take effect, he managed to have one more feature approved: \"Martyrs of Love\" (1966). Perhaps in consideration of the previous troubles he had suffered, the film was completely apolitical, but nevertheless its surrealist lyrical style did not endear it to the authorities. In 1967 Němec made a short film \"Mother and Son\" (1967) during three days at Amsterdam film festival. The film won an award at the Oberhausen Film Festival.\n\nHe was in the middle of shooting a documentary about Prague Spring for US producer when Warsaw Pact invasion happened. He smuggled his footage of invasion to Vienna, where it was broadcast on Austrian television. He edited the footage together with the Prague Spring documentary and released the film as \"Oratorio for Prague\". It received standing ovations in New York Film Festival in the fall of 1968. Němec's footage would eventually be used by countless international news organizations as stock footage of the invasion. Philip Kaufman's film adaptation of \"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\" (1988) used footage from the film; Němec also served as an advisor.\n\nNěmec was fired from Barrandov and subsequently only made a short documentary film about ambulence \"Mezi 4 - 5 minutou\" in 1972. He emigrated in 1974. He was given a warning by the government that \"... if he came back, they would find some legal excuse to throw him in jail.\" From 1974 to 1989, he lived in Germany, Paris, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States. He stayed in the United States for twelve years. Unable to work in traditional cinema, he was a pioneer in using video cameras to record weddings, including documenting the nuptials of the Swedish royal family.\n\nAfter the fall of communism in Czechoslovakia in 1989, he returned to his native country, where he had made several films, including \"Code Name Ruby\" (1997) and \"Late Night Talks with Mother\" (2000), which won the Golden Leopard at Locarno.\n\nHe had been a professor at his alma mater, FAMU, since 1996.\n\nIn 2014, he protested against the president of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman by returning the medals given to him by the first president of the Czech Republic Václav Havel.\n\nHe married costume designer and screenwriter Ester Krumbachová in 1963; they divorced in 1968. In 1970 he married singer Marta Kubišová; they divorced in 1973. He married his third wife Veronica Baumann, a Czech language teacher, in 1984; they divorced in 2003. He married film editor Iva Ruszelakova shortly after. In May 2003, Němec became a father. Němec died of an illness on 18 March 2016; he was 79.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907645", "title": "Perim", "text": "Perim\n\nPerim ( [\"Barīm\"]), also called Mayyun in Arabic, is a volcanic island in the Strait of Mandeb at the south entrance into the Red Sea, off the south-west coast of Yemen and belonging to Yemen. It administratively belongs to Bab al-Mandab District, Taiz Governorate. The island of Perim divides the strait of Mandeb into two channels.\n\nThe island was occupied by Great Britain from 1857 to 1967.\n\nPerim is called the island of Diodorus (\"Diodori insula\") by Pliny the Elder and by the author of the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\". \"Perim\" possibly derives from the Arab term \"Barim\" (chain) associated with the history of the Straits and one of its Arab names, the other Arab name being Mayyun. The Portuguese called it Majun or Meho (from Mayyun), although Albuquerque had solemnly named the island \"Vera Cruz\" in 1513. On many British and French maps of the 17th and 18th century the island is called \"Babelmandel\", as the Straits are. Some early 19th century navigation guides still call it the island of Bab-el-Mandeb although they may mention that it is also called Perim. By the time the British permanently occupied the island in 1857, the name \"Perim\" had come into general usage.\n\nPerim island is an eroded fragment of the southwest flank of a late Miocene volcano whose center was on the southwesternmost tip of Arabia. The volcano is the westernmost of the east–west line of six central vent volcanoes (the Aden line) that extends 200 km (125 mi) along the coast of Arabia from Perim to Aden. It is believed that the volcanism is related to an eastward-propagating rift produced before the most recent stage of sea-floor spreading in the Gulf of Aden.\n\nPerim is crab-shaped, 5.63 km (3.5 mi) long and 2.85 km (1.77 mi) wide. It has a surface area of 13 km (5.0 sq mi) and rises to an altitude of 65 m (213 ft). Perim encloses a deep and comparatively large natural harbour on the southwestern coast. The fishing village of Mayyun is located at the bottom of the bay.\n\nThe island divides the 32 km (20 mi) wide Bab-el-Mandeb into two: the Large Strait, with an average width of 17 km (11 mi), and the Small Strait, varying from 5 km to 2.5 km (3 mi to 1.5 mi) in width. The Large Strait is generally deep water varying from about 100 fathoms or more in the middle channel to about 3 to 6 fathoms close to the coastal reefs. The depth of the Small Strait varies from 12 to 15 ½ fathoms and is free from navigational changes in the fairway but strong and irregular tidal streams make navigation hazardous. There have been frequent shipwrecks in the vicinity of Perim, particularly in the Small Strait.\n\nThe absence of fresh water on the island has always been one of the major difficulties impeding permanent settlement. Although there are occasional heavy rains, there may be stretches of eight months or more without rain; the long-term average rainfall (in 1821–1912) was about 60 mm per year. Vegetation is very scarce.\n\nThe straits of Bab-el-Mandeb were probably witness to the earliest migrations of modern humans out of Africa roughly 60,000 years ago. At this time the oceans were much lower because so much water was frozen in Ice Age glaciers and the straits were much shallower or dry.\n\nDespite its sheltered natural harbour and strategic location at the entrance of the Red Sea, Perim was largely bypassed by written history until the middle of the 19th century, in good part because the bare, waterless island could not easily sustain life. As a result, only fishermen and pearl divers lived there seasonally, building reed huts with material brought from elsewhere.\n\nIn 1513, Afonso de Albuquerque, as part of the Portuguese bid to seize control of the trade routes to the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, attacked Aden near the entrance to the Red Sea but failed to capture the fortified city. Having failed in his main objective, he nonetheless sailed for the Red Sea. The Red Sea pilots of those days lived on an island close to Perim and one was secured by sending forward as a decoy an Indian-built ship. The passage of the first Portuguese ship through the Bab-el-Mandeb was the occasion for much ceremony. After having spent some time at the island of Kamaran in preparation for an attack on Jeddah that could not be carried out due to contrary winds, the fleet left Kamaran on its return journey. Perim, which Albuquerque named Vera Cruz, was inspected and pronounced unfit for a fortress due to lack of water.\n\nDuring the following years, the Portuguese tried several more times to conquer Aden and gain the mastery of the Red Sea, harassing shipping and battling the Egyptian Mamluk, then Ottoman navies, which gradually gained the upper hand. These actions as well as the sending of an annual fleet to blockade the Bab-el-Mandeb and prevent Indian merchant ships from entering the Red Sea most likely involved frequent use of Perim’s natural harbour. By the time the Ottomans captured Aden from its local ruler in 1538, the Red Sea was fast becoming a Turkish lake. The Ottoman fleet remained in firm control of the Red Sea, the Bab-el-Mandeb and Aden until the 1630s when the Turks were expelled from Yemen and the south half of the Red Sea.\n\nA French naval squadron may have used Perim's natural harbor in the course of a punitive expedition against nearby Mocha in 1737. In 1799, the island was briefly occupied by the British East India Company in preparation for the invasion of Egypt.\n\nIn 1856, seeing in the French-sponsored Suez Canal project a devious trick to promote French power at Britain’s expense, Prime Minister Palmerston agreed to the occupation of Perim as one of many options to counter assumed French political and military ambitions in Egypt and the Red Sea. In December 1856, Lord Elphinstone, the governor of Bombay, wrote to the Resident of Aden that \"on the subject of Perim, [..] we have been directed to occupy the island, and that it is the intention of Her Majesty's government that a lighthouse should be built there.\" He added that since the island had already been taken possession of in the name of the East India Company in 1799, it was considered as a part of the dependencies of India, and therefore no formalities of any kind was necessary. The Resident immediately proceeded to organize a small landing party for the peaceful occupation of the uninhabited island. The actual decision to occupy might have been precipitated by an unfounded report that the French, who were said to have been surveying the area for some time, had dispatched a frigate from Réunion to annex the island. The declared reason for the occupation, however, was the urgent need to erect a lighthouse at the entrance of the notoriously dangerous Bab el Mandeb and indeed, after much bickering about the location and other factors, an 11-meter high lighthouse was finally built and inaugurated on 1 April 1861. This important light did not prevent the treacherous waters around Perim from continuing to claim many vessels.\n\nPerim was attached to Aden, itself a dependency of the Bombay Presidency, British India. For the next two decades, the only sign of British occupation was the lighthouse and a small detachment from the Aden garrison. Otherwise, the barren waterless island was left to the few fishermen and Somali herders who went there. Occasional proposals by an Aden coaling company to open a branch on the island did not materialize.\nWhile Aden had a fine natural harbour, it became ineffective starting in the mid-19th century as iron and steel ships of greater draught were being built. Starting in the 1860s, many of the larger steamers had to stay well off Aden Harbour, making the process of coaling and taking in provisions both time-consuming and hazardous. This deficiency was not to be overcome until dredging and re-dredging projects began in earnest in the early 1890s.\nIn 1881, a complete outsider, Hinton Spalding of London, was granted permission to start a coaling station on Perim, whose inner harbour could accommodate vessels of any draught. With the backing of a number of large ship-owners, he launched the Perim Coal Company (PCC) and on 29 August 1883 the first steamer was coaled in Perim Harbour. This marked the beginning of a struggle between Aden and Perim for the Red Sea coaling business that was to be waged by the two ports until the mid-1930s.\nDuring those 50 years, Perim was to be entirely geared to coaling: the harbour, roads and coolie accommodations were laid out for this purpose and no other interests or activities were allowed to hinder the coaling. As for Perim’s lack of water, it was no more a drawback than at Aden: both ports supplied water from condensers to the ships since Aden water, delivered from out of town, was considered too brackish for the purpose. Before long the PCC was also able to grab the lion’s share of the salvage business due to it being very near the most dangerous waters in the area.\n\nBetween 1923 and 1927 more coal was being loaded at Perim than at Aden. However, Perim’s decline came fast due to its failure to grab a share of the fast-growing oil fuel business that was cornered by Aden as coal-burning steamers were being retired. The PCC went bankrupt in 1935 and Perim slipped back into insignificance.\n\nDuring the First World War, the Turks in Arabia sent a force to threaten Aden and the British communications along the Red Sea. This included an assault on Perim on June 14 and 15 of 1915 when Turks landed on the north coast of the island. They were driven off by a detachment of the 23rd Sikh Pioneers garrisoned on the island under the command of Captain A.G.C. Hutchinson. The troops on the mainland facing the island were subsequently pushed back by troops from Aden supported by the Royal Navy and by the end of the year all threat to the island of Perim had been removed.\n\nThe British presence continued until 1967 when the island became part of the People's Republic of South Yemen. Before the handover, the British government had put forward before the United Nations a proposal for the island to be internationalised as a way to ensure continued security of passage and navigation in the Bab-el-Mandeb, but it was refused.\n\nSoon after independence in November 1967, South Yemen extended its territorial waters to 12 miles, which would include the waters between Perim and the mainland. Despite fears expressed by the British government and others, there was no interference with international shipping, until 1971 when the new radical Marxist government of what was now the People’s Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) allowed a group of PFLP guerillas to attack an Israel-bound tanker in the Bab-el-Mandeb from Perim. During the October War, South Yemeni artillery on Perim, along with Egyptian naval units, imposed an undeclared blockade at the southern entrance of the Red Sea. However, after the 1973 blockade, there were to be no further cases of interference with international shipping. The PDRY established close political and military ties with the Soviet Union which resulted in Soviet naval forces gaining access to the former British naval base at Aden as well as to the islands of Perim and Socotra. This strong Soviet military presence faded rapidly after the 1986 military coup in South Yemen and the advent of Perestroika under Mikhail Gorbachev.\n\nAfter the Houthi takeover in Yemen, the Houthis moved to capture Perim island to consolidate their influence and gain access to the important trade route across the Bab-el-Mandeb strait. Most of Perim's native inhabitants which numbered around 4,500 were originally banished from the island during the British - Soviet satellite states split to form the island as a military base. After the beginning of the 2015 Yemen civil war, some of the originally displaced Perim natives joined the Saudi-led intervention in Yemen to regain the island from the Houthis. The local Yemeni inhabitants launched an assault on the Houthis with the support of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces. The native Perim islanders eventually defeated the Houthis in a violent battle that lasted a couple of hours and led to a power plant being destroyed. The Houthis accused the coalition of being \"invaders\". The Houthis planted multiple mines in the island and according to the local native leader, there's still a lot of obstacles to return the island to normal life.\n\nIn 2008, a $200-billion mega-project for the construction of a transcontinental bridge linking Yemen and Djibouti via Perim Island, the Bridge of the Horns, was announced by a Dubai-based company, Al Noor Holding Investments. At around , it would be one of the longest bridges in the world and its suspension portion the longest. However, in June 2010 it was announced that the start of Phase I, the bridge between the mainland of Yemen and Perim, was delayed until a framework agreement between Djibouti and Yemen was signed. As of May 2018, nothing more has been heard of the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907652", "title": "Mike Patterson (American football)", "text": "Mike Patterson (American football)\n\nMichael Antonio \"Mike\" Patterson (born September 1, 1983) is a former American football defensive tackle. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the first round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football for the USC Trojans.\n\nPatterson is originally from Sacramento, California, but while visiting some family in Los Alamitos, California in between 8th and 9th grades, he decided to stay down there so that he could play football at Los Alamitos High School. He had decided this only after attending a summer football camp with his cousin Jorrel and enjoying the game very much.\n\nPatterson became a very good player even though he had never played at all prior to the summer camp. As a junior in high school, Patterson was named to the Long Beach Press-Telegram Dream Team second-team and All-Sunset League first-team honors. In his senior year, he earned Prep Star All-American, SuperPrep All-Far West, Prep Star All-Western Region, Long Beach Press-Telegram Best of the West second team, Los Angeles Times All-Orange County, Orange County Register All-Orange County first-team, Long Beach Press-Telegram Dream Team first-team and All-Sunset League honors.\n\nUSC defensive line coach Ed Orgeron recruited Patterson based on raw talent, and fought to sell the recruit on first-year head coach Pete Carroll, who eventually relented.\n\nFor the USC Trojans, Patterson was a first team All-American. Patterson played four years and helped win two National Championships with USC. He started for three years and played mainly as a nose tackle, but also a defensive tackle. During his senior year, Patterson was the subject of double coverage by many other teams.\n\nHe was nicknamed \"Baby Sapp\" because of the similar playing style to that of former NFL defensive tackle Warren Sapp; however, Patterson has since developed and is unique with his style of play now.\n\nPatterson was a sociology major at USC.\n\nPatterson was selected by the Philadelphia Eagles with the 31st overall pick in the 2005 NFL Draft out of the University of Southern California.\n\nHe started the 2005 season as second string, but started his first ever NFL game on September 25, 2005 when starter Darwin Walker was injured. When Walker returned to the lineup four games later, Patterson went back to second string. On December 11, 2005, Patterson was moved permanently to the starting left defensive tackle position and remains there. In 2005, Patterson was regarded as one of the best rookie defensive linemen in the NFL. He recorded the most tackles (38) in the season out of all the Eagles' defensive line and he had more sacks (3.5) than any other Eagles' defensive tackle or rookie defensive tackle in the NFL.\n\nPatterson will go down in Eagles lore for having the longest fumble recovery in team history. On the afternoon of September 24, 2006, Patterson picked up a fumble on the Eagles' own 2-yard line and ran 98 yards for a touchdown against the San Francisco 49ers.\n\nOn November 2, 2006, Patterson signed a 7-year contract extension through the 2016 season.\n\nDuring training camp before the 2011 season he collapsed and suffered a seizure. Patterson was diagnosed with cerebral arteriovenous malformation. He still started in the first 15 games of the season, missing the final game due to influenza. He underwent brain surgery on January 26, 2012, but he was not medically cleared to participate in training camp in 2012. He was placed on the active/non-football illness list on July 22, 2012. Patterson was released on February 25, 2013.\n\nPatterson signed with the New York Giants on April 3, 2013. On Monday, March 31, 2014, the New York Giants re-signed Patterson.\n\nKey\n\nAt USC, Patterson met his eventual fiancee, Bianca, who was a resident adviser for his student housing. One of his college roommates, Jonathan Abrams, is now a journalist for \"The New York Times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1907653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907653", "title": "XDS", "text": "XDS\n\nXDS could refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907668", "title": "SP-1 switch", "text": "SP-1 switch\n\nSP-1 (Stored Program 1) was the name of a computerized telephone exchange (a so-called switching office) manufactured by Northern Electric (later Northern Telecom and now Nortel Networks beginning in 1972) in Canada. It was introduced in 1971 (as stated in a Northern Telecom print ad that is included (page 55) in a history of Nortel, written by Peter C. Newman who was commissioned by Nortel to write it. Copyright is 1995. No ISBN.)\n\nAs indicated by the name \"Stored Program\", the SP-1 introduced computer control to the telephone switching market. (AT&T's #1ESS preceded the SP-1 by several years.)\n\nA central computer controlled the operation of the switch. Switch behavior was determined by the operation of a computer program. \n\nWith its use of computer hardware and software control, the SP-1 marked an evolutionary step in telephony design. It was an intermediate form between the previous generation of electromechanical systems and the next generation of fully digital systems. Like the previous generation of systems, the SP-1 was an analog switch that used a special form of mechanical relay (Minibar crossbar switch) to provide the voice connections. The voice signal remained in the analog domain throughout the exchange, with the crossbar switches providing a metallic path to connect the end points of a call together. However the SP1 replaced the previous generation's complex relay-based controllers (markers) with a modern Harvard architecture electronic computer, with separate data and program memories. SSI DTL logic was used throughout. Two types of memory was used - ferrite sheet memory for the CPU and Piggyback Twistor memory for the storage of program and routing information. A number of variations on the base switch were available. A \"two wire\" version for local service, a four wire version for toll service. Two/four wire versions were also available as was a TOPS variant that was used to provide Operator services. The first four wire switch (four wire-tops, i.e., it provided toll switching and operator services) was placed in service in Thunder Bay circa 1972. The operator service consoles (CRTs) used an Intel 4004 processor.\n\nThe next generation of systems evolved from the SP1 design to replace the analog switch with a digital technology. \nSP-1 proved the feasibility of software-controlled systems for telephony. It set the stage for the introduction of fully digital systems with the development of the DMS (Digital Multiplex Systems) by Nortel in the 1970s. (Nortel's SL-1 (PBX) was Nortel's first fully digital switching system, and it was introduced in service in 1975.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1907678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907678", "title": "Brookfield East High School", "text": "Brookfield East High School\n\nBrookfield East High School is a four-year public secondary school located in Brookfield, Wisconsin. The school is part of the Elmbrook School District, and is accredited by the North Central Association. Its rival is Brookfield Central High School, also located in Brookfield. Brookfield East's music department received the Grammy \"Signature Gold\" award in the spring of 1999. Brookfield East was one of 16 schools selected of more than 1200 nationwide. The school also received a $5,000 grant, which was used to commission an original work for the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907691", "title": "Pinzón Island", "text": "Pinzón Island\n\nPinzón Island, sometimes called Duncan Island (after Adam Duncan, 1st Viscount Duncan), is an island in the Galápagos Islands, Ecuador.\n\nPinzón is home to giant Galápagos tortoises of the endemic subspecies \"Chelonoidis duncanensis\", Galápagos sea lions and other endemic species. It has no visitor facilities and a permit is required to visit.\n\nIt has an area of 18 km and a maximum altitude of 458 meters.\n\nPinzón marks the geographical center of the Galápagos Islands, but neither of the two main Galápagos tree species are present. In the humid zone a unique species of daisy tree is found.\n\nDuring January 2012, invasive rodents were removed from the island by The Galápagos National Park, assisted by Island Conservation to benefit the Pinzón Giant Tortoise. An infestation of non-native rats began in the mid 18th century with the arrival of European sailors. The rats devastated the tortoise population by eating their eggs and young hatchlings that were too small to defend themselves. In December 2014, after 100 years the first new generation of tortoise hatchlings were spotted on Pinzón.\n"}
{"id": "1907692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907692", "title": "NHL All-Star Celebrity Challenge", "text": "NHL All-Star Celebrity Challenge\n\nThe NHL All-Star Celebrity Challenge was a benefit hockey game to raise money for Hockey's All-Star Kids and Children's Hospital Los Angeles. The games featured celebrities teaming up with NHL alumni on two teams led by Jerry Bruckheimer and David E. Kelley. The teams were named Bruckheimer's Bad Boys and Kelley's Heroes.\n\nPresented by Microsoft Windows XP, the NHL All-Star Celebrity Challenge was held in Los Angeles at the Staples Center on Wednesday, January 30, 2002.\n\nBruckheimer's Bad Boys\n\nKelley's Heroes\n\nUnchosen from Draft\nAssistant coaches\nTrainers\n"}
{"id": "1907698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907698", "title": "Mataiapo", "text": "Mataiapo\n\nA mataiapo or mata'iapo is a hereditary chiefly title in the Cook Islands. The head of a sub-tribe, subject to the \"ariki\" (paramount chief) as far as the whole tribe is concerned and owing him traditional allegiance, but otherwise largely independent as head of his own family group and owning land in his own right.\n\nToday they still accord the \"ariki\" respect and assist in matters concerning land, traditional ceremonies and so forth. In pre-Christian times, the \"mataiapo\" were traditionally appointed by the \"ariki\" and given their titles in recognition of bravery in warfare or service to the \"ariki\". With their titles came land and respect.\n\nThey are invested by the \"ariki\" in huge ceremonies that still take place today. A significant act in the ceremony is when the \"mataiapo\" bites the ear of a whole roasted pig (usually the largest to be found in the village) which immediately indicates that the person has become a \"mataiapo\".\n\nAfter the arrival of European missionaries, women were allowed to hold the titles of \"ariki\", \"mataiapo\" and \"rangatira\". The latter is a sub-chief, and in ancient times were usually the brothers or sisters of the \"ariki\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1907707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907707", "title": "Saint Patrick's Seminary and University", "text": "Saint Patrick's Seminary and University\n\nSaint Patrick's Seminary and University in Menlo Park, California is a Roman Catholic post-graduate seminary whose primary mission is the formation of clergy for Western and Pacific Rim dioceses. It is located on a historic, beautifully landscaped 40 acre campus in Menlo Park, California, 35 miles south of San Francisco, in the heart of Silicon Valley. Since its founding, on September 20, 1898, by San Francisco Archbishop Patrick William Riordan, with a faculty from the Sulpician order and thirty-four young men, the seminary and university has grown considerably. In over 100-years, it has formed more than 2,000 priests. This school is governed by the Archdiocese of San Francisco in association with its other sponsoring western and Pacific Rim dioceses.\n\nThe Archbishop of San Francisco, Most Reverend Salvatore J. Cordileone, serves as the President and Chancellor of the Seminary and University. The President-Rector is Rev. Daniel B. Donohoo. The seminary and university is fully accredited as a graduate educational institution by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada, the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, and the Congregation for Catholic Education in Rome. In the Spring 2018 semester, the seminary had an enrollment of 53 men, representing 11 dioceses.\n\nThe second Archbishop of San Francisco, Archbishop Patrick William Riordan established St Patrick's Seminary in Menlo Park in 1898, in cooperation with the Society of Saint Sulpice—a French-based order of priests dedicated to educating (forming) future priests. To thank the generous Irish laypersons and clergy who helped to fund and support the Seminary, Riordan named it in honor of Saint Patrick of Armagh, the Apostle of Ireland. By this time, the Sulpician order had committed five priests, three Frenchmen and two Americans to staff the seminary. The first rector was Rev. Father Jean-Baptiste Vuibert, S.S. On August 24, 1898, the seminary was solemnly dedicated by Riordan, joined by Bishops George Montgomery of Los Angeles and Thomas Grace of Sacramento, along with more than 100 clergy. On September 20, 1898 the seminary received 31 high school students and 3 college-level students. The first annual commencement exercises took place on May 31, 1899 and were presided over by Riordan. As the seminary continued to develop, a Department of Philosophy was established with six students. In 1903, the Little Sisters of the Holy Family arrived from Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada, to take care of the domestic services such as cooking, laundry and cleaning. They have since returned to Canada due to a lack of religious vocations, but currently working in their stead are the Oblates of Jesus the Priest.\n\nThe Society of Saint Sulpice withdrew completely from St. Patrick's Seminary & University on June 30, 2017.\n\nStudents are admitted to Saint Patrick Seminary on the recommendation of their diocesan bishop after intensive psychological testing and rigorous interviews. The program consists of four years of spiritual, academic and pastoral formation in residence. Following the second year of studies, a candidate undergoes a year of intensively supervised pastoral experience. Normally, a candidate is called to the diaconate by his bishop in the fall semester of his last year, to serve in a local parish for the remainder of that year before being called to the presbyterate.\n\nAll candidates undergo formation which includes daily participation in the Liturgy of the Hours and the Eucharist, as well as spiritual exercises and special devotions. For continued studies at Saint Patrick's, all candidates must conform to the standards of moral and academic fitness required by the seminary in accordance with its directives and prescriptions for its program of priestly formation. Candidates deemed unsuitable for seminary life or for the priesthood are either put on probation or dismissed outright from the seminary community.\n\nNotable alumni and staff include:\n"}
{"id": "1907711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907711", "title": "Public holidays in the Solomon Islands", "text": "Public holidays in the Solomon Islands\n\nThe people of the Solomon Islands observe these holidays nationally.\n\n\nEach province in the Solomon Islands has its own Province Day. If a Province Day falls on a Sunday, the public holiday is on the following Monday:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907716", "title": "Nth Man: The Ultimate Ninja", "text": "Nth Man: The Ultimate Ninja\n\nNth Man: The Ultimate Ninja is a comic book about an American ninja set in an unspecified near future where World War III has started. It was written by Larry Hama between 1989 and 1990, based largely on his success writing the \"\" comic, which he wrote concurrently with The Nth Man (and also features a modern ninja as one of the main characters). Nth Man and Alfie O'Meagan first appeared in \"Marvel Comics Presents\" #25 (August 1989). The series was meant to last for 24 issues, but was cancelled after 16. In spite of this, Hama was able to resolve the storyline early. Ron Wagner, who penciled the series for its entire run, attributes its commercial failure to its being set in a standalone universe instead of the popular Marvel Universe, as well as the absence of costumed characters.\n\nThe series starts in medias res, with American soldiers parachuting into war-torn Moscow, in an attempt to rescue the Nth Man. Using TV news commentary as a plot exposition device, it is revealed that the war was caused by Alfie O'Meagan, using his psychic abilities to neutralize all nuclear weapons on the planet, upsetting the balance of power.\n\nDuring the course of the story, we learn that Alfie has grown up in an orphanage alongside John Doe (the \"Nth Man\" of the title). Doe was adopted by an elderly Japanese man, who worked for the CIA's \"Black Ops\" division. Doe was raised as a ninja, taught to kill without regret. While in the orphanage, O'Meagan had visions of possible futures (the \"could-be's\"), and over time his powers grew, so that he was able to control matter and produce other effects that were against the physical laws of the universe.\n\nThe storyline is complex, following numerous characters through war zones, plague-ridden post-Apocalyptic landscapes, inside a video game, alien worlds, and various points in time and space. Alfie gains vast power, while losing his sanity. When the Soviet Union launches biological weapons, Alfie's attempt to turn them harmless backfires.\n\nUsing a narrative jump of one year (which was forced upon writer Larry Hama in order to wrap up the story, due to the cancellation of the series), we see that the biological weapons were turned into a mutagenic virus, and millions are transformed into psychotic, cannibalistic \"moots\". The conclusion of the story makes use of a paradox, and Doe and O'Meagan are shown to be responsible for their own origins.\n\nThe series is not set within the primary setting of the Marvel Universe and the characters of those series are treated as fictional comic book characters. O'Meagan draws upon those comics as inspiration transforming his size and appearance to resemble that of Galactus, and that of a female character to resemble the Silver Surfer.\n\nThe name \"Alfie O'Meagan\" can be recognized as a pun on Alpha and Omega. The first and last letters of the Greek alphabet were used in the Book of Revelation to describe the Judeo-Christian God as the beginning and the end. That and the secular English idiom's use of the phrase to denote \"the beginning and end\" provide a clue to the time-twisting resolution to the Nth Man saga.\n\nAlfie O'Meagan (his adopted name) is first portrayed a child, with various psychic abilities including clairvoyance and precognition. He calls his visions the \"could-be's\" and can somehow allow others to see them as well, especially his only childhood friend John Doe. As Alfie grows older, his powers vastly increase, giving him abilities such as mind control, teleportation, and telekinesis which can re-arrange molecules on a massive scale.\n\nAlfie is troubled by nightmares as a child, and his strange behavior and the odd events which occur around him cause him to be victimized by both orphanage bullies, and the drunk and abusive man who runs the orphanage. While comic books serve as a means of escape, eventually he realizes that his powers can be used for revenge against his tormentors.\n\nAlfie eventually uses his psychic powers to stop all the world's nuclear weapons from working. This has the unexpected side-effect of triggering a conventional war between the USSR and the USA, which ultimately becomes World War III.\n\nThe Excalibur team of superheroes ran into Alfie O'Meagan in his alternate reality in \"Excalibur\" (vol. 1) #27. Here Alfie had assumed a form and giant stature similar to that of Galactus, except for the helmet which he only wore on one occasion. After a fight in which Rachel Summers ferociously unleashed the full power of the Phoenix Force on Alfie in his Galactus form and brought him to his knees, the team was sent back to their native reality, Earth-616, when Nightcrawler pushed \"Cancel\" on the remote control of Alfie's television, which nullified everything that had occurred.\n"}
{"id": "1907717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907717", "title": "Shiva crater", "text": "Shiva crater\n\nThe Shiva Crater is a geologic structure, which is hypothesized by Sankar Chatterjee and colleagues to be a diameter impact structure. This geologic structure consists of the Bombay High and Surat Depression. They lie beneath the Indian continental shelf and the Arabian Sea west of Mumbai, India. Chatterjee named this structure after Shiva, the Hindu god of destruction and renewal. It is presently (2019) on the list of probable impact craters based on three-step confidence level criteria of Anna Mikheeva of Russian Academy of Sciences (1 for probable, 2 for potential, 3 for questionable), applied to the impact sites that have appeared several times in the literature and/or have been endorsed by the Impact Field Studies Group (IFSG) and/or Expert Database on Earth Impact Structures (EDEIS).\n\nChatterjee argues that the Shiva Crater was formed around 65 million years ago, about the same time as a number of other impact craters and the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary / K-Pg boundary). Although the site has shifted since its formation because of sea floor spreading, the formation is approximately long by wide. It is estimated that this proposed crater would have been made by an asteroid or comet approximately in diameter.\n\nAt the time of the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction, India was located over the Réunion hotspot of the Indian Ocean. Hot material rising from the mantle flooded portions of India with a vast amount of lava, creating a plateau known as the Deccan Traps. It has been hypothesized that either the crater or the Deccan Traps associated with the area are the reason for the high level of oil and natural gas reserves in the region.\n\nUnlike typical known extraterrestrial impact structures, Shiva is teardrop shaped, roughly . It is also unusually rectangular. Chatterjee argues that the low angle of an impact combined with boundary fault lines and unstable rock led to this unusual formation. The age of the structure is inferred from the Deccan Traps which overlie part of it.\n\nThe proposed Shiva Crater and other possible impact craters along with the Chicxulub have led to the hypothesis that multiple impacts caused the massive extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous period. Chatterjee is confident that Shiva was one of many impacts, stating that \"the K-T extinction was definitely a multiple-impact scenario.\" Other theories have argued that since the Chicxulub impact is believed by some researchers to have occurred \"earlier\" than the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs, Shiva's impact was enough to cause the mass extinction by itself. Evidence published in a 2013 \"Science\" article by Paul R. Renne at the University of California at Berkeley suggests that the Chicxulub crater is in fact within the time frame of when the mass extinction occurred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907724", "title": "David Baas", "text": "David Baas\n\nDavid Andrew Baas (born September 28, 1981) is a former American football center. He played college football for the University of Michigan, and was recognized as a consensus All-American and the top college center. The San Francisco 49ers selected him in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft, and he was a member of the New York Giants' Super Bowl XLVI championship team against the New England Patriots.\n\nBaas was born in Bixby, Oklahoma. He attended Riverview High School in Sarasota, Florida, and was a letterman in high school football and track and field for the Riverview Rams. In football, he was awarded \"USA Today\" All-USA honors. During his junior year, he recorded a school-record 70 pancake blocks.\n\nBaas attended the University of Michigan, where he played for coach Lloyd Carr's Michigan Wolverines football team from 2001 to 2004. He earned first-team All-Big Ten Conference honors three times. He started at left guard until the middle of his senior season, when he was moved to center. As a senior in 2004, he was the Hugh H. Rader awardee as the Wolverines' best offensive lineman, a finalist for the Outland Trophy, given to college football's best interior lineman, and a co-recipient of the Rimington Trophy, awarded to college football's top center. He was also recognized as a consensus first-team All-American in 2004. He majored in general studies.\n\nThe 49ers drafted Baas in the second round (33rd overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played in 13 games in 2005 and started in 5 of them. Baas' first game was in the historical Mexico City game on October 2 against the Arizona Cardinals as a special teams player. On December 4, he made his first start as a right guard against the same Cardinals team when Eric Heitmann was moved to center.\n\nBaas played in all 16 games in 2006, mainly as a special teams player and as an extra eligible tackle on the offensive line.\n\nIn 2007, Baas started in 8 of the 15 games that he played in at right guard, after then-starter Justin Smiley was put on injured reserve with a shoulder injury.\n\nHe was re-signed to a one-year contract on April 13, 2010.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, Baas signed with the New York Giants as an unrestricted free agent. Baas was the starting center during Super Bowl XLVI in which the Giants defeated the New England Patriots.\n\nIn the August 18, 2013 preseason game against the Colts, David Baas sprained his MCL in the first quarter and underwent an MRI and additional tests. The Giants reported Baas could be out for 3–6 weeks. The Giants fell to the Colts 20-12 in the game. Due to injuries, Baas appeared in only 3 games for the Giants during the 2013 regular season, the last being a week 7 game against the Minnesota Vikings. In that game, he suffered a knee injury and was placed on injured reserve following the game.\n\nOn March 10, 2014, Baas was waived/failed physical from the Giants, designated as a post-June 1 cut. It was reported Baas may never play again due to neck and knee injuries.\n\nBaas played center during his tenure with the Giants\n\nBaas is married to his wife, Elizabeth, and they reside in Lakewood Ranch, Florida.\n\nWhile with the Giants, he was a resident of Ridgewood, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907728", "title": "National Radio Systems Committee", "text": "National Radio Systems Committee\n\nThe National Radio Systems Committee (NRSC) is an organization sponsored by the Consumer Technology Association (CTA) and the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). Its main purpose is to set industry technical standards for radio broadcasting in the United States. While regulatory authority rests with the FCC, it usually adopts NRSC recommendations, such as RBDS and spectral masks. For U.S. television, the NTSC sets standards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907739", "title": "Brodney Pool", "text": "Brodney Pool\n\nBrodney Depaul Pool (born May 24, 1984) is a former American football safety in the National Football League (NFL) for the Cleveland Browns and New York Jets. He played college football at Oklahoma.\n\nPool attended Westbury High School, where he was a five star recruit. As a junior, he had 114 tackles and 4 interceptions. During his senior season, he tallied 75 tackles and 11 interceptions (school record) at free safety. As a running back, he had 40 carries for 159 yards (3.975-yard avg.), 2 rushing touchdowns, 3 receptions for 112 yards (37.3-yard avg.) and 2 receiving touchdowns. \n\nHe also lettered in track.\n\nPool accepted a football scholarship from the University of Oklahoma. In 2002, as a true freshman he appeared in 12 games, playing mainly on special teams and making 11 tackles (7 solo). \n\nAs sophomore, he became a starter at free safety, registering 68 tackles (41 solo), 2 sacks, 6 passes defensed, one forced fumble, one blocked kick and 7 interceptions (fourth in school history).\n\nAs a junior, he was on the Thorpe and Nagurski Watchlists, posted 92 tackles (led the team), 65 solo tackles, 9 passes defensed (led the team) and 2 interceptions. He declared for the NFL Draft at the end of the season.\n\nHe finished his college career with 171 tackles, 9 interceptions, 15 passes defensed, 2 sacks, 2 forced fumbles and one fumble recovery He was a part of two Big 12 championship teams (2002 and 2004).\n\nPool was selected by the Cleveland Browns in the second round (34th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. Although he did not start during his rookie season, he appeared in 13 games mostly as a safety, registering his first interception. He registered 25 tackles, one sack, one interceptions, 7 passes defensed, 10 special teams tackles and 2 fumble recoveries.\n\nIn 2006, he lost out the battle for the starting free safety position to Sean Jones, but started 3 games at cornerback due to injuries to Leigh Bodden, Daylon McCutcheon and Gary Baxter. He posted 54 tackles, one interception, 10 passes defensed, one sack, 20 special teams tackles and 2 fumble recoveries.\n\nIn 2007, he became the regular starter at free safety, making 72 tackles, 6 passes defensed and 2 interceptions, one of which was returned for a Browns' franchise record 100 yards against the Baltimore Ravens on November 18.\n\nIn 2008, he started 15 games after missing the season opener. He recorded 65 tackles, 3 interceptions, 4 passes defensed, one sack, one forced fumble and one fumble recovery.\n\nIn 2009, he missed the last 5 games of the regular season after suffering a concussion and being placed on the injured reserve list, but still tied for the team lead with 4 interceptions. He also had 48 tackles, 10 passes defensed, one sack and 2 special teams tackles. He wasn't given a contract offer as a restricted free agent at the end of the year because of his concussion history.\n\nOn March 11, 2010, Pool signed a one-year deal as an unrestricted free agent with the New York Jets valued at $1.3 million. He finished the regular season with 63 tackles, one interception, 9 passes defensed, 2 special teams tackles, one forced fumble and one fumble recovery. \nHe made his first career postseason start and his first career postseason appearance against Indianapolis Colts on Wild Card weekend, making 7 tackles (one for loss), as the Jets won 17-16. On January 23, he recorded his first career postseason interception in the AFC Championship Game against the Pittsburgh Steelers. However, the Jets lost 24-19, falling one game short of the Super Bowl for the second straight season. \n\nOn August 3, 2011, he signed a one-year deal with the Jets. He appeared in 14 games (6 starts), posting 37 tackles, a half sack, one interception, 3 passes defensed and 6 special teams tackles. He missed 2 games with a knee injury.\n\nOn March 15, 2012, Pool signed as a free agent with the Dallas Cowboys, reuniting with former Browns defensive coordinator Rob Ryan. He failed his conditioning test upon arriving at camp, before passing it on his second attempt. On August 6, he was released one week into the start of training camp.\n\nKey\n\nOn January 16, 2015, Pool accepted a quality control coaching position at Baylor University on the staff of Art Briles.\n\nHis mother Rose, was the Westbury High School athletic director and an assistant track coach at the University of Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907741", "title": "YES Network", "text": "YES Network\n\nThe Yankee Entertainment and Sports Network (YES) is an American pay television regional sports network that is owned by Yankee Global Enterprises (the largest shareholder with 26%), Sinclair Broadcast Group (which owns 20%), Amazon (which owns 15%), and The Blackstone Group, RedBird Capital and Mubadala Investment Company, which each own 13%. Primarily serving New York City, New York and the surrounding metropolitan area, it broadcasts a variety of sports events, as well as magazine, documentary and discussion programs; however, its main emphasis is focused on games and team-related programs involving the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball (owned by minority partner Yankee Global), the NBA's Brooklyn Nets, the WNBA's New York Liberty and New York City FC of Major League Soccer.\n\nYES Network's offices are based at the Chrysler Building in Midtown Manhattan. YES programs, including Yankees and Nets pre- and post-game shows, are produced in studios that are located in Stamford, Connecticut. The channel is available on cable and IPTV providers in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania; it is available nationally on some cable systems (as part of a designated sports tier), via satellite on DirecTV, and regionally on Frontier, AT&T U-verse, Verizon Fios, and Cox Communications.\n\nYES is the product of a holding company founded in 1999 called YankeeNets, created out of a merger of the business operations of the Yankees and the New Jersey Nets. One of the reasons behind the operational merger was to allow both teams to gain better leverage over their own broadcast rights; each party believed that it would obtain better individual deals, if they negotiated the rights collectively.\n\nTwo years earlier in 1997, Cablevision – which at the time had owned the Nets' television broadcaster, SportsChannel New York (later known as Fox Sports Net New York, and now known as MSG Plus) – became the sole owner to the television rights of all seven Major League Baseball, NBA and NHL teams in the New York City market when it acquired the competing MSG Network (previously owned by Viacom through its 1994 purchase of the network's former parent Paramount Communications), which had held the broadcast rights to the Yankees since 1989. This led to monopoly-like tactics, including the shift of some games to the cable-exclusive MSG Metro Channels, which had very limited distribution as Cablevision, Comcast and Time Warner Cable routinely fought over carriage agreements. Cablevision attempted to buy the Yankees outright, but could not agree to acceptable terms with George Steinbrenner and his partners.\n\nTo exit its MSG/Cablevision deal, the Yankees would have to give them the right to match any new right agreement and show a judge that a third party was willing to purchase their rights and launch a channel. Thus, new YankeeNets CEO Harvey Schiller hired IMG to provide a valuation for the prospective YankeeNets sport channel. IMG came back with an offer to partner on the channel with a guaranteed rights fees of $838 million. In 2000, YankeeNets and IMG proposed a forming a sports channel valued as high as $2.4 billion. Cablevision sued considering its valuing as \"outlandish\" to block the channel. In April 2001, the suite was settled such that in June 2001, YankeeNets paid to MSG to have the Yankee's TV right returned to them. IMG had been replaced by other investors, Goldman, Sachs & Company, the Quadrangle Group, Leo Hindery Jr., chief executive of the network, and Amos Hostetter Jr., a billionaire cable veteran, who in total had a 40% share of the channel.\n\nIn late 2003, the Yankees and Nets decided to part ways, with the Nets being sold to a group led by real estate developer Bruce Ratner. The sale did not include the Nets' ownership stake in YES (NJ Holdings), which remained with the pre-merger owners of the team. As part of the sale, the Nets signed a long-term deal to keep the team's game telecasts on YES. In 2004, YankeeNets was renamed Yankee Global Enterprises, which owns the Yankees and the minority share in YES as separate companies. Therefore, the Yankees technically do not own YES. The Yankees, however, receive a rights fee from YES that is somewhat higher than MSG previously paid.\n\nIn 2007, Goldman Sachs' and former Nets owner Ray Chambers' share in the network was put up for sale. In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on acquiring a 49% stake in YES. As a consequence, each of the network's previous owners had their ownership stakes reduced. As a result of the sale to Fox, the Yankees agreed to keep their games on the network through 2041, which would be the network's 40th year of existence. News Corporation's interest in YES was transferred to 21st Century Fox (owned by Rupert Murdoch, who also remained the owner of News Corporation), when the former company spun off its U.S. entertainment holdings into a separate company in July 2013.\n\nIn September 2013, rights to Fox Sports Networks' national programming (previously held by MSG Plus, which had previously operated as FSN New York) were transferred to YES. On January 25, 2014, 21st Century Fox became the network's majority owner by purchasing an additional 31% share of YES Network from someone, increasing the company's ownership interest from 49% to 80%.\n\nIn 2014, the YES Network announced an average 223,000 households in Yankees game broadcasts. On May 14, 2017, YES Network aired Derek Jeter's number retirement ceremony. It got an average 724,000 viewers and a 5.79 rating in the New York City area, the highest non-game program for the network.\n\nOn December 14, 2017, The Walt Disney Company announced plans to acquire 21st Century Fox following the divestiture of certain assets. While it originally included the Fox Sports Networks chain and YES Network, the Department of Justice ordered that they be sold on antitrust grounds due to Disney's ownership of ESPN.\n\n\"Bloomberg News\" reported that the sale of stakes in YES to Fox contained a clause giving the Yankees rights to buy them back in the event of a change in ownership. On November 11, 2018, the \"New York Post\" reported that the Yankees had invoked the right of first refusal to acquire YES in the event that the sale of Fox Sports Networks to was successful, formally bidding 9 days later in a joint deal with Blackstone Group to get the 80% stake back. The Yankees also appointed the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, RedBird Capital Partners, and Mubadala Investment Company to assist with their bid for the network. Amazon, who was expected to bid for other FSN networks, instead bid for the 80% stake that Yankees want back, desiring to provide streaming services for the network.\n\nOn March 8, 2019, Fox News reported that the Yankees had reached a deal to re-purchase Fox's share in the network for $3.5 billion, with Sinclair (who ended up being the final suitor for Fox Sports Networks, and is also collaborating with the Chicago Cubs on a new regional network), Amazon.com, and The Blackstone Group holding minority shares. Mubadala Development Company, a United Arab Emirates’ sovereign wealth fund, and RedBird Capital were reported as minority investors. The deal closed on August 29, 2019.\n\nOn March 20, 2020, WCBS-TV began to present its local newscasts from the YES Network studio set, due to the closure of the CBS Broadcast Center in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. Said station broadcast Yankees games on free to air television produced by YES from 2002 to 2004.\n\nIn addition to live coverage of Yankees and Nets games, their respective pre-game and post-game shows and (as circumstances warrant) live press conferences, YES has produced various original programs, some of which have won local New York Emmy Awards. Other original programming featured on YES includes: \n\nSince the network's debut, YES has aired select telecasts of the Yankees' minor league farm teams, primarily the Class-A (short season) Staten Island Yankees of the New York–Penn League. Those games are produced by YES, utilizing the same graphics and announcers as seen during game telecasts of the major league Yankees.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006, YES also broadcast games from the Yankees' former Class-AAA team, the Columbus Clippers of the International League. Those games were produced locally in Columbus, Ohio. After the 2006 season, the Yankees ended their affiliation with the Clippers, and became affiliated with the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders (formerly the Yankees and Red Barons). YES has only televised one RailRiders game, Masahiro Tanaka's minor league rehab start, the team also has local coverage within its Scranton/Wilkes-Barre market.\n\nThe network has also broadcast various college sports events including football and basketball games from the Ivy League, basketball games from the Big 12 Conference (through ESPN Plus) and rebroadcasts of Notre Dame Fighting Irish football games. It also carries the coaches' shows of Notre Dame and the Penn State Nittany Lions. In 2011, YES began airing live broadcasts of college basketball games involving the Fordham University. As part of the formation of its programming deal with Fox Sports Networks, in September 2013, YES began broadcasting select FSN-produced college sports events intended for national broadcast on its regional sports networks, including football and basketball games from the Atlantic Coast Conference.\n\nIn 2000, YankeeNets entered into a marketing agreement with the New York Giants; this included awarding YES the exclusive rights to the NFL franchise's magazine programs (including \"Giants Online\" and \"Giants on Deck\", which continued to air on the network after the YankeeNets breakup). The Giants' relationship with YES Network ended in 2007, at which time its team-related programming moved to Fox owned-and-operated station WNYW (channel 5) and MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station WWOR-TV (channel 9), a duopoly owned by Fox Television Stations (whose sister company, the Fox network, owns broadcast rights to most games from the Giants home conference, the National Football Conference).\n\nYankeeNets also maintained a similar relationship with English football club Manchester United. YES broadcast tape-delayed and classic United games produced by the team-owned Manchester United TV in the network's earlier days.\n\nThe YES Network also produces Yankees game broadcasts shown over-the-air on WPIX-TV using the same on-air talent seen on the cable network. From 2002 to 2004, WCBS-TV carried the Yankees broadcasts, with WWOR taking over those rights later. WLNY-TV held the local broadcast television rights to the Nets but no longer does. The Yankees package is also simulcast on other television stations in the team's designated market region.\n\nYES also offers a Spanish-language feed of all of its Yankees game telecasts through the second audio program; this feed can also be heard on New York radio station WADO (AM), which current holds the contract to carry the Yankees' Spanish-language broadcasts.\n\nThe network attempted to secure television rights to the New Jersey Devils, formerly owned by an affiliate of YankeeNets; after the team was sold to a different ownership group, the Devils opted to renew their contract with MSG Network and FSN New York in 2005, under a long-term agreement.\n\nYES broadcasts NBA TV's daily news and fantasy basketball shows (usually in the form of rebroadcasts, but occasionally showing live telecasts in the early morning drive time hours) and \"The Marv Albert Show\". For a couple of years during the early 2000s, YES and NBA TV also both aired reruns of the basketball-centered drama series \"The White Shadow\". The network also previously aired \"This Week in Baseball\" during the week throughout the Major League Baseball regular season, following each episode's original Saturday broadcast on Fox.\n\nAs part of a multi-year agreement with MP & Silva, YES aired tape delayed broadcasts of Premier League, FA Cup and UEFA Champions League matches involving Arsenal F.C.. In addition to airing Arsenal matches, the network aired select archived match telecasts, as well as the team's magazine shows, \"Arsenal World\" and \"Arsenal 360\". This agreement ended at the start of the 2012–13 Premier League season. Arsenal would get picked up by ONE World Sports while YES would gain partnership with Manchester City FC.\n\nIn December 2014, YES announced it had acquired local broadcast rights to New York City FC of Major League Soccer, a subsidiary of Manchester City FC. Yankee Global Enterprises owns a 20% minority stake in the club, which is majority-owned by City Football Group.\n\nYES also acquired the local broadcast rights to the WNBA's New York Liberty in 2019 after the team was sold by the Madison Square Garden Company to Brooklyn Nets minority owner Joseph Tsai.\n\n\nSince the network's launch in 2002, longtime Yankee Stadium public address announcer Bob Sheppard has served as a continuity announcer for YES' network identifications and programming schedules. Recordings of Sheppard are still used occasionally even though Sheppard died in 2010. Ian Eagle also sometimes provides continuity for on-air promotions during the Nets season, beginning 2019, he is joined by Joe Tolleson, who provides network continuity during the NYCFC season.\n\n\nYES2 is a gametime-only overflow feed of YES Network, which broadcasts select Nets games on rare occasions when the Nets and Yankees are scheduled to play at the same time. The feed is carried in both standard and high definition on most cable providers in the New York metropolitan area and nationwide on DirecTV.\n\nYES Network HD is a 1080i high definition simulcast feed of the network, which is carried on select cable providers (including Comcast, Cablevision, DirecTV, RCN, Charter Spectrum and Verizon FiOS). , YES is currently owned by YES majority owner Yankee Global Enterprises and before the Disney acquisition (Fox's SportsTime Ohio and other networks; all of those were acquisitions rather than Fox-launched networks) that transmitted their HD simulcasts in 1080i, rather than the company's preferred 720p format.\n\nWhen it launched in mid-July 2004, YES HD initially only televised all Yankees home games, as well as away games involving the New York Mets and Boston Red Sox, in high definition. In 2005, YES began televising all Yankees games played east of the Mississippi River in high definition, with the network's HD telecasts expanding to encompass virtually all of the Yankees and Nets games in 2006. In addition to game telecasts, the network now also broadcasts all of its studio shows in HD. All YES-produced Yankees and Nets game telecasts aired on WWOR-TV began broadcasting in HD in September 2006; however while the HD feed of the games is available to these outlets, the HD telecasts were not necessarily distributed to television stations outside of the New York City area that simulcast WWOR's game broadcasts.\n\nIn April 2007, YES converted the aspect ratio of its primary standard definition feed from full-screen to a letterboxed format, which is a downconversion from the high definition feed. The network's use of the AFD #10 broadcast flag to transmit its HD feed in this manner for broadcast in SD predates its use by other national cable networks such as Fox News Channel, ESPN and CNN.\n\nYES Network borrowed time on Cablevision's \"iO TV 1300\" service and on DirecTV to carry the first baseball game ever transmitted in 3D on July 10 and 11, 2010, when the Yankees faced the Seattle Mariners; the 3D telecast of the game was also distributed to other cable providers.\n\nYES Network maintains a national feed available to select cable providers outside of the New York City market – including Spectrum (as well as areas once served by Bright House Networks (on its systems in Tampa and Orlando), Verizon FiOS (in certain markets). The feed does not include the network's live game telecasts (with alternate programming airing in their place), however it does carry the pre-game and post-game shows that bookend Yankees and Nets games aired by YES within the market. This feed differs from the satellite feed of the network available on DirecTV, in which Yankees and/or Nets games can be viewed outside of the teams' markets through a subscription to MLB Extra Innings and/or NBA League Pass.\n\nAt its launch, YES became embroiled in a carriage dispute with Cablevision (which attempted to purchase the Yankees in 1998 and carried the team's games on MSG Network at the time of the channel's launch), leaving the Yankees' game telecasts not available to the provider's game telecasts for an entire year; this led the New York state government to intervene and serve as negotiator for a temporary carriage agreement between YES and Cablevision. In 2004, the two sides eventually signed a long-term contract to carry the network on Cablevision's New York area systems. This situation was very similar to another lengthy dispute that Cablevision entered into with MSG Network, after that network assumed the regional cable television rights to the Yankees in 1989 from Cablevision-owned SportsChannel New York.\n\nDish Network remains the only pay television provider available in the New York City area that does not carry YES Network. The satellite provider has indicated that it would not offer the network unless it negotiates a lower per-channel subscriber fee due to concerns that the rates the network offered could force the provider to increase the pricing of its programming packages. YES, however, has a most favored nation clause with all of its cable and satellite providers, in which all of the network's other carriage agreements would be voided if it lowered its subscriber rate for a single provider. Former YES minority owner Goldman Sachs also maintains an ownership stake in Dish Network parent Echostar.\n\nTime Warner Cable relocated YES from channel 30 to channel 53 on its New York City area systems in March 2008, soon after the New York City Council approved a measure to provide the Yankees public funding to build a new stadium. Simultaneously, Time Warner Cable moved business news channel Bloomberg Television to YES' former channel 30 slot, all while renegotiating its ten-year contract with Mayor Michael Bloomberg (owner of Bloomberg Television parent Bloomberg L.P.) and the city of New York.\n\nIn 2016, Comcast (who are part owners of Sportsnet New York) dropped the YES Network. The blackout ended on March 31, 2017, just in time for the start of the 2017 New York Yankees season.\n\nIn 2003, Don Zimmer (then employed with the Yankees as a bench coach) expressed criticism of team owner George Steinbrenner in interviews with certain local media outlets. After this came to light, it was later rumored that, in response, Steinbrenner ordered YES not to show Zimmer on-camera during its Yankee telecasts.\n\nIn April 2005, YES declined to broadcast pre-game Opening Day festivities celebrating the Boston Red Sox' 2004 World Series championship win prior to its telecast of a Red Sox home game against the Yankees at Fenway Park. YES was roundly criticized for this move, including its decision to use a fixed camera shot focused tightly on correspondent Kimberly Jones as she described the events surrounding her in general terms. Yankees players not only witnessed the ceremonies, but graciously applauded them from the top steps of their dugout. Perhaps due to this incident, YES broadcast the majority of the ceremonies honoring the Red Sox' celebration of the 100th Anniversary of Fenway Park in 2012.\n\nDuring the 2005 season, New York City area newspapers reported that the post-game questions asked to Yankees manager Joe Torre by Kimberly Jones were being sent to her by top-level team executives (quite possibly on directives from George Steinbrenner), and that Torre did not feel comfortable answering them. For the 2006 and 2007 seasons, Torre, who had been paid a fee by YES to give exclusive interviews after each Yankees game, ended his agreement with the network. YES now sends its reporter to the regular pre-game and post-game media sessions with other broadcast outlets.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907745", "title": "Edward Condon", "text": "Edward Condon\n\nEdward Uhler Condon (March 2, 1902 – March 26, 1974) was a distinguished American nuclear physicist, a pioneer in quantum mechanics, and a participant in the development of radar and nuclear weapons during World War II as part of the Manhattan Project. The Franck–Condon principle and the Slater–Condon rules are co-named after him.\n\nHe was the director of the National Bureau of Standards (now NIST) from 1945 to 1951. In 1946, Condon was president of the American Physical Society, and in 1953 was president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nDuring the McCarthy period, when efforts were being made to root out communist sympathizers in the United States, Edward Condon was a target of the House Un-American Activities Committee on the grounds that he was a 'follower' of a 'new revolutionary movement', quantum mechanics; Condon defended himself with a famous commitment to physics and science.\n\nCondon became widely known in 1968 as principal author of the \"Condon Report\", an official review funded by the United States Air Force that concluded that unidentified flying objects (UFOs) have prosaic explanations. The lunar crater Condon is named for him.\n\nEdward Uhler Condon was born on March 2, 1902, in Alamogordo, New Mexico, to William Edward Condon and Carolyn Uhler. His father was supervising the construction of a narrow-gauge railroad, many of which were built in the area by logging companies. After graduating from high school in Oakland, California in 1918, he worked as a journalist for three years at the \"Oakland Inquirer\" and other papers.\n\nHe then attended the University of California, Berkeley, initially joining the College of Chemistry; when he learned that his high school physics teacher had joined the faculty, he switched majors to take classes in theoretical physics. Condon earned his bachelor's degree in three years and his doctorate in two. His Ph.D. thesis combined work by Raymond Thayer Birge on measuring and analyzing band spectral intensities and a suggestion by James Franck.\n\nThanks to a National Research Council fellowship, Condon studied at Göttingen under Max Born and at Munich under Arnold Sommerfeld. Under the latter, Condon rewrote his Ph.D. thesis using quantum mechanics, creating the Franck–Condon principle. After seeing an ad in \"Physical Review\", Condon worked in public relations at Bell Telephone Laboratories in fall 1927, in particular promoting their discovery of electron diffraction.\n\nCondon taught briefly at Columbia University and was associate professor of physics at Princeton University from 1928 to 1937, except for a year at the University of Minnesota. With Philip M. Morse, he wrote \"Quantum Mechanics\", the first English-language text on the subject in 1929. With G.H. Shortley, he wrote the \"Theory of Atomic Spectra\", \"a bible on the subject from the moment of its 1935 publication\".\n\nHe was associate director of research at the Westinghouse Electric Company in Pittsburgh, beginning in 1937, where he established research programs in nuclear physics, solid-state physics, and mass spectroscopy. He then headed the company's research on microwave radar development. He also worked on the equipment used to isolate uranium for use in atomic bombs. He served as a consultant to the National Defense Research Committee during World War II and helped organize MIT's Radiation Laboratory. On May 11, 1940, Condon showcased his machine called the Nimatron at the 1940 New York World Fair. Condon filed for the patent on April 26, 1940 and got it on September 24, 1940 for his innovating machine, Nimatron.\n\nIn 1943, Condon joined the Manhattan Project. Within six weeks, he resigned as a result of conflicts about security with General Leslie R. Groves, the project's military leader. General Groves had objected when Condon's superior J. Robert Oppenheimer held a discussion with the director of the project's Metallurgical Lab at the University of Chicago. In his resignation letter, he explained: From August 1943 to February 1945, Condon worked as a part-time consultant at Berkeley on the separation of U-235 and U-238. Condon was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1944. Following the war, Condon played a leading role in organizing scientists to lobby for civilian control of atomic energy rather than military control under strict security. He worked as science adviser to Senator Brien McMahon, chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Atomic Energy, which wrote the McMahon-Douglas Act, enacted in August 1946, that created the Atomic Energy Commission, placing atomic energy under civilian control. Adopting an internationalist viewpoint, Condon favored international scientific cooperation and joined the American-Soviet Science Society.\n\nU.S. Commerce Secretary (and former U.S. Vice President) Henry A. Wallace came to know Condon and in October 1945 recommended him as director of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS, now known as NIST). President Harry S. Truman agreed to nominate him. The Senate confirmed his nomination without opposition. Condon served as NBS director until 1951.\n\nDuring the 1940s, Condon's security clearance status was repeatedly questioned, reviewed, and re-established.\n\nOn May 29, 1946, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover wrote a letter intended for President Truman that named several senior government officials as part of a Soviet network. It described Condon as \"nothing more or less than an espionage agent in disguise.\" (Decades later Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan called it \"baseless corridor talk.\") The Truman administration ignored Hoover's charges.\n\nOn March 21, 1947, Truman signed United States Executive Order 9835 AKA the \"Loyalty Order.\" In the same month, Congressman J. Parnell Thomas, head of the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), furnished information to the \"Washington Times-Herald\" that denigrated his loyalty in two articles published. Thomas had several reasons to make a prominent case of Condon. He had no sympathy for the scientific community's international spirit in the first place and could use the ongoing controversy to argue for an increase in his committee's appropriation, to bolster opposition to the Condon-supported McMahon Act, and to attract favorable coverage during election season. The Department of Commerce cleared Condon of disloyalty charges on February 24, 1948.\nNevertheless, a HUAC report dated March 2, 1948 stated, \"It appears that Dr. Condon is one of the weakest links in our atomic security\". Condon responded: \"If it is true that I am one of the weakest links in atomic security that is very gratifying and the country can feel absolutely safe for I am completely reliable, loyal, conscientious and devoted to the interests of my country, as my whole life and career clearly reveal\". On March 3, 1948, Senator Dennis Chávez (Dem-NM) read into the \"Congressional Record\" an article by Marquis Childs, which stated: On March 5, 1948, Representative George MacKinnon (Rep-MN) stated: \"Mr. Speaker, today's paper carries the story that the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Harriman, has refused to respond to a congressional subpoena to supply information with respect to one Dr. Condon. I am not presuming to pass on the facts in that case, but I do wish to point out that this follows the same pattern of Secrecy as the administration has been following with respect to congressional subpoenas throughout this entire session.\" On March 6, 1948, a \"Washington Post\" editorial stated, \"There is an abundance of precedent for the Secretary's refusal to turn over his department's loyalty board files on Dr. Edward U. Condon.\" The \"Post\" also objected to an alternative proposal to send files on the Condon case to the top-level \"Loyalty Review Board\" in the Civil Service Commission. The Commerce Department's own loyalty board had already cleared Condon, and the \"Post\" argued that this decision should stand. On March 8, 1948, Representative Chester E. Holifield (Dem-CA) noted: \"...calling the attention of the Members to H. R. 4641, a bill which I introduced December 4, 1947. The purpose of this bill is to prescribe the procedures of investigating committees of the Congress and to protect the rights of parties under investigation by such committees. If this bill could be enacted, it would extend to a world-famous scientist, such as Dr. E. U. Condon, the same protection which is now available to a chicken thief or a traffic violator; that is, the right of defense against his accusers. Character assassination under the cloak of congressional immunity by a Member of Congress or a Congressional committee is a dangerous and abominable travesty.\" On March 9, 1948, Representative Glen H. Taylor (Dem-ID), then Progressive Party vice presidential candidate, stated: On the same day, Representative Emanuel Celler (Dem-NY) stated: On the same day, Representative Leo Isacson (ALP-NY) stated, \"It is no coincidence that this attack on Dr. Condon—an attack abhorred and shamed in all responsible opinion of press and science comes at this particular moment—at this moment when the House Committee on Un-American Activities seeks the most swollen appropriation it has ever Ventured to ask of a Congress.\" Holifield added, \"The technique used by the committee counsel is biased and prejudiced... We have a flagrant example... in the partial report on Dr. Condon... I want to comment here on the use of the word “partial”... The committee counsel omitted a line of the [FBI] letter... 'There is no evidence to show that contacts between this individual and Dr. Condon were related to this individual's espionage activities'... This man, Dr. Condon, has been pilloried before the American people now for over 8 months. He has asked for a chance to tell his story; that chance has been denied\"\nDefenders included Albert Einstein and Harold Urey. The entire physics department of Harvard and numerous professional organizations wrote Truman on Condon's behalf. The Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists held a dinner on April 12, 1948, to demonstrate support, with nine Nobel Prize winners among the sponsors. The National Academy of Sciences, by contrast, considered only a statement criticizing HUAC's procedures rather than defending Condon. Despite widespread support among its members (275 to 35), the National Academy of Sciences' leadership did not release a statement, and instead opted to speak privately with Rep. Thomas. On July 15, 1948, the Atomic Energy Commission granted Condon a security clearance, allowing him to access classified information at NIST.\n\nIn September 1948, at the Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), President Truman, with Condon sitting nearby on the dais, denounced Rep. Thomas and HUAC on the grounds that vital scientific research \"may be made impossible by the creation of an atmosphere in which no man feels safe against the public airing of unfounded rumors, gossip and vilification\". He called HUAC's activities \"the most un-American thing we have to contend with today. It is the climate of a totalitarian country\". Condon opposed any cooperation with Congressional attempts to identify security risks within the scientific community. In June 1949, in a sharply critical letter to Oppenheimer, who had provided information to HUAC about a colleague, he wrote: \"I have lost a good deal of sleep trying to figure out how you could have talked this way about a man whom you have known for so long, and of whom you know so well what a good physicist and good citizen he is.\" In July 1949, he testified before a Senate subcommittee that was considering rules governing the operation of Senate committees. He criticized Thomas and the HUAC for holding closed hearings and then leaking information that denigrated his loyalty and that of other scientists. He said that the committee denied his and his colleagues' requests for public hearings so they could respond.\n\nIn 1949, Edward R. Murrow had colleague Don Hollenbeck contribute to the innovative media-review program, \"CBS Views the Press\" over the radio network's flagship station WCBS. Hollenbeck discussed Edward U. Condon, Alger Hiss, and Paul Robeson. Regarding Condon, Hollenbeck critiqued anti-communists for going about their business the wrong way: (Here, Hollenbeck was placing Condon in the \"freedom-loving non-Communist\" camp.)\n\nWith his record finally cleared in 1951, Condon left government to become head of research and development for the Corning Glass Works. He said his $14,000 annual government salary was his reason for the move. President Truman issued a statement of praise: \"You have served in a most critical position with continued and loyal attention to your duties as director, and by reason of your standing among scientists and the supervision you have given to the bureau's activities, you have made of it a more important agency than it has ever been before\". Two Republican Congressmen asserted that Condon was being investigated as a security risk and was leaving \"under fire\", a charge the Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer denied.\n\nOn December 27, 1951, Condon was elected to head the AAAS in 1953. In September 1952, Condon, in testimony before a Congressional committee, had his first opportunity to deny under oath all charges of disloyalty that had been made against him. The HUAC concluded in its annual report for 1952 that Condon was unsuited for a security clearance because of his \"propensity for associating with persons disloyal or of questionable loyalty and his contempt for necessary security regulations\". On December 30, 1952, Condon assumed the presidency of the AAAS at its annual meeting, where, according to the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", \"The tremendous ovation by his fellow members accompanying his induction was a further affirmation of their faith in his loyalty and integrity\".\n\nFive months later Condon's clearance was revoked as was standard when someone left government service. He was granted a security clearance once more on July 12, 1954. It was announced on October 19 and then suspended by Secretary of the Navy Charles S. Thomas on October 21. Vice President Nixon took credit for the suspension, and the Atomic Scientists of Chicago charged \"political abuse of the national security system\", though Secretary Thomas denied Nixon had played a role. Condon withdrew his application for clearance and in December resigned from Corning because the company was seeking government research contracts and he lacked the clearance necessary for participating in military research. After citing the security reviews he had passed over the years, he said: \"I am unwilling to continue a potentially indefinite series of reviews and re-reviews\". Corning had paid Condon's clearance-related legal expenses while he worked there.\n\nIn 1958, Condon wrote that his decision reflected his belief that the Eisenhower administration \"was committed by policy to the persecution of scientists, or, at the very least, to a callous indifference toward what others were doing to attack and discredit them. I decided the situation was hopeless, and that I had done all that could be reasonably expected of me in having resisted these forces for seven long years\".\nYears later, Carl Sagan reported how Condon described one encounter with a loyalty review board. A board member stated his concern: \"Dr. Condon, it says here that you have been at the forefront of a revolutionary movement in physics called...quantum mechanics. It strikes this hearing that if you could be at the forefront of one revolutionary movement...you could be at the forefront of another\". Condon said he replied: \"I believe in Archimedes' Principle, formulated in the third century B.C. I believe in Kepler's laws of planetary motion, discovered in the seventeenth century. I believe in Newton's laws...\" and continued with a catalog of scientists from earlier centuries, including the Bernoulli, Fourier, Ampère, Boltzmann, and Maxwell. He once said privately: \"I join every organization that seems to have noble goals. I don't ask whether it contains Communists\".\n\nCondon was professor of physics at Washington University in St. Louis from 1956 to 1963 and then at the University of Colorado Boulder from 1963, where he was also a fellow of the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, until retiring in 1970.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1968, Condon directed Boulder's UFO Project, known as the Condon Committee. He was chosen for his eminence and his lack of any stated position on UFOs. He later wrote that he agreed to head the project \"on the basis of appeals to duty to do a needed public service\" on the part of the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. Its final report concluded that unidentified flying objects had prosaic explanations. It has been cited as a key factor in the generally low levels of interest in UFOs among mainstream scientists and academics.\n\nCondon was also president of the American Institute of Physics and the American Association of Physics Teachers in 1964. He was president of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science (1968–69) and was co-chairman of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy (1970). He co-edited the \"Handbook of Physics\" with Hugh Odishaw of the University of Arizona. He received the Frederic Ives Medal awarded by the Optical Society in 1968. On his retirement, his colleagues honored him with the publication of a \"Festschrift\".\n\nCondon married Emilie Honzik (1899-1974). They had two sons and a daughter. The son, Joseph Henry Condon (15 February 1935 — 2 January 2012) was a physicist (Ph.D., Northwestern University) and engineer, who worked at Bell Labs on digital telephone switches and co-invented the Belle chess computer.\n\nCondon was a self-described \"liberal.\"\n\nCondon died age 72 on March 26, 1974, in Boulder Colorado Community Hospital.\n\nThe National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) gives an annual award named for Condon. The Condon Award recognizes distinguished achievements in written exposition in science and technology at NIST. The award was initiated in 1974.\n\nThe crater Condon on the Moon is named in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907751", "title": "WMBC", "text": "WMBC\n\nWMBC may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907758", "title": "AXA Tower", "text": "AXA Tower\n\nAXA Tower, also known as 8 Shenton Way (;) and formerly The Treasury and Temasek Tower, is the 16th-tallest skyscraper in the city of Singapore, with at . The tower is currently the tallest cylindrical building in the world.\n\nBuilt in 1986 as Treasury Building, it has 52 stories and is one of the prominent buildings in the business district. The tower houses 16 double deck elevators supplied by Otis. Singapore's present Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong, once had his office in the building. The building was renamed to Temasek Tower () when the Ministry of Finance relocated to \"The Treasury\" on High Street. Advertising agency BBDO Worldwide hosts its Asia Pacific Headquarters in there.\n\nIn April 2007, CapitaLand sold Temasek Tower to MGP Raffle Pte Ltd. Temasek Tower is now known as the AXA Tower. The building also houses the Embassy of Belgium on the 14th floor.\n\nThe structure consists of steel beams cantilevered from a cylindrical concrete core. This allows full 360° views at the perimeter, unobstructed by perimeter columns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907760", "title": "Da Lench Mob", "text": "Da Lench Mob\n\nDa Lench Mob was an American hip hop group from Los Angeles, California, United States, associated with Ice Cube. The group consisted of rappers Shorty, T-Bone, J-Dee and Maulkie. Their Islamic and social politically inspired-lyrics garnered much attention.\n\nThe group made its debut on Ice Cube's first solo album, \"AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted\". At that time, the name referred to all of the performers on the album (including Ice Cube), rather than the distinct group it would become.\n\nWith Ice Cube as its executive producer, Da Lench Mob released its debut album, \"Guerillas in tha Mist\", in 1992. At this time the group consisted of J-Dee, Shorty and T-Bone, who were also pictured on the album cover. The video for the album's lead single, also titled \"Guerillas in tha Mist\", became popular in the fall of 1992. The 2004 video game \"\" featured \"Guerillas in tha Mist\", appearing on the fictional radio station Radio Los Santos.\nIn 1993, J-Dee was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison, and was dropped by Lench Mob Records. He claims to be innocent. Instead of disbanding, the group brought in a South Central Los Angeles-based rapper called Maulkie (former member of the Ruthless Records group Yomo & Maulkie) for its second album \"Planet of da Apes\", released in 1994. They broke up soon afterwards due to a rift over money and other differences.\n\nShorty died on June 16, 2019.\n"}
{"id": "1907768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907768", "title": "Grant High School (Portland, Oregon)", "text": "Grant High School (Portland, Oregon)\n\nPresident Ulysses S. Grant High School (commonly Grant High School) is a public high school in the Grant Park neighborhood of Portland, Oregon, United States.\n\nGrant opened in September 1924, with 1,191 students. Many of the schools in the Portland Public School district that were built between 1908 and 1932 were designed by architects Floyd Naramore and George Jones. However, so many schools were being built simultaneously in Portland in the early 1920s, that the district had to hire another architectural firm to design Grant High School, which was in the Classical Revival style by architects Knighton and Howell. In November 1923, the bricklayers working on Grant went on strike after the district tried to cut costs by using a maintenance worker to lay bricks.\n\nAfter the Vanport flood in May 1948, Grant was home to the Vanport Extension Center (now Portland State University) through the summer of that year.\n\nFunded by a $482 million bond measure approved in 2012, A two-year modernization project of Grant High School began in June 2017 and was completed in the summer of 2019. The interior of the building was gutted and has been completely rebuilt. The project includes a new three-story common area, a new gymnasium, seismic retrofitting, and additional classroom space.\n\nIn the 2016–2017 school year, Grant's student population was 67.8% white, 8.2% African American, 6.8% Hispanic, 4.7% Asian, 0.6% Native American, 0.2% Pacific Islander, and 11.7% mixed race. About 25% of Grant's students live out of boundaries and transfer in. \n\nIn 2008, 92% of the school's seniors received a high school diploma. Of 443 students, 388 graduated, 39 dropped out, six received a modified diploma, and ten were still in high school in 2009. In 2009, 27% of the students were transfers into the school.\n\nGrant High School houses the last installment of the Japanese Immersion Program, a 13-year immersion program, begun at Richmond Elementary and continued at Mt. Tabor Middle School.\n\nGrant's Constitution Team has been the state champion twelve times (2002, 2004–2009, 2011, 2013, 2015, 2017, and 2018), and has won the national competition three times (2013, 2015, 2018). \n\nIn 2011, Grant's student newspaper, \"The Grantonian\", was replaced by the 36-page full-color monthly \"Grant Magazine.\" In its first year, the magazine won Best In Show at the Oregon Fall Press day. It has also won the Columbia University Scholastic Press Association's Gold Crown award three years in a row, from 2014 through 2016.\n\nGHS's mascot is the Grant General, in honor of its namesake General Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nThe men's basketball team is one of the most successful programs in Oregon. Grant has produced 10 D1 Recruits since 1997. Some previous General recruits have chosen to play college basketball at Vermont, UCLA, Oregon, Nebraska, SMU, Saint Marys, UNLV, Idaho, Washington, San Diego St, and other schools. Grant has won state championships in 1969, 1986, 1988, 2008, 2018. Coach Robert Key has been the head coach since 2014 and has a career record of 94-47. \n\n"}
{"id": "1907770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907770", "title": "Dispersive mass transfer", "text": "Dispersive mass transfer\n\nDispersive mass transfer, in fluid dynamics, is the spreading of mass from highly concentrated areas to less concentrated areas. It is one form of mass transfer.\n\nDispersive mass flux is analogous to diffusion, and it can also be described using Fick's first law:\n\nwhere c is mass concentration of the species being dispersed, E is the dispersion coefficient, and x is the position in the direction of the concentration gradient. Dispersion can be differentiated from diffusion in that it is caused by non-ideal flow patterns (i.e. deviations from plug flow) and is a macroscopic phenomenon, whereas diffusion is caused by random molecular motions (i.e. Brownian motion) and is a microscopic phenomenon. Dispersion is often more significant than diffusion in convection-diffusion problems. The dispersion coefficient is frequently modeled as the product of the fluid velocity, \"U\", and some characteristic length scale, \"α\":\n"}
{"id": "1907778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907778", "title": "H2O (miniseries)", "text": "H2O (miniseries)\n\nHO is a Canadian political drama two-part miniseries that first aired on the CBC Television October 31, 2004. It starred Paul Gross and Leslie Hope, with former politician Belinda Stronach making a cameo appearance. Written by Gross and John Krizanc and directed by Charles Binamé, it was nominated for five Gemini Awards and four DGC Craft Awards. It won one Golden Nymph Award for best actor (Paul Gross).\n\nIn the midst of negotiations with the United States Secretary of State, the Prime Minister of Canada dies in a canoeing accident. His son Tom McLaughlin (Paul Gross) returns from overseas to deliver the eulogy at his father's state funeral. The attention it receives propels him into politics and he ultimately becomes Prime Minister. The investigation into his father's death, however, reveals that it was no accident and raises the possibility of assassination. McLaughlin accepts the U.S. President's plan to develop the Great Recycling and Northern Development Canal to help the United States with their water shortage. Sgt. Leah Collins (Leslie Hope) and Member of Parliament Marc Lavigne (Guy Nadon) slowly piece together evidence of a conspiracy that threatens Canada's existence.\n\nFilming took place all over the city of Ottawa. Some of the bigger locations included Earnscliffe and the Parliament Buildings of Canada.\n\n\"The Trojan Horse\", featuring McLaughlin's continuing political ambitions and struggles in the wake of the events of \"HO\", premiered on CBC on Sunday, 30 March 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907779", "title": "Cook Islands Māori", "text": "Cook Islands Māori\n\nCook Islands Māori is an Eastern Polynesian language that is the official language of the Cook Islands. Cook Islands Māori is closely related to New Zealand Māori, but is a distinct language in its own right. Cook Islands Māori is simply called Māori when there is no need to disambiguate it from New Zealand Māori, but it is also known as Māori Kūki 'Āirani (or Maori Kuki Airani), or, controversially, Rarotongan. Many Cook Islanders also call it \"Te reo Ipukarea\", literally \"the language of the Ancestral Homeland\".\n\nCook Islands Māori became an official language of the Cook Islands in 2003; from 1915 until then, English had been the only official language of the Cook Islands.\n\nThe Te Reo Maori Act 2003 states that Māori: \nPukapukan is considered by scholars and speakers alike to be a distinct language more closely related to Sāmoan and Tokelauan than Cook Islands Māori. It belongs to the Samoic subgroup of the Polynesian language family. The intention behind including Pukapukan in the definition of Te Reo Maori was to ensure its protection.\n\nThe dialects of the East Polynesian varieties of the Cook Islands (collectively referred to as Cook Islands Māori) are:\n\nCook Islands Māori is closely related to Tahitian and New Zealand Māori, and there is a degree of mutual intelligibility with both of these languages.\n\nThe language is theoretically regulated by the \"Kopapa Reo\" created in 2003, but this organisation is currently dormant.\n\nThere is a debate about the standardisation of the writing system. Although the usage of the macron (־) \"te makarona\" and the glottal stop \"amata\" (ꞌ) (/ʔ/) is recommended, most speakers do not use the two diacritics in everyday writing. The Cook Islands Māori Revised New Testament uses a standardised orthography (spelling system) that includes the diacritics when they are phonemic but not elsewhere.\n\n\nCook Islands Māori is an isolating language with very little morphology. Case is marked by the particle that initiates a noun phrase, and like most East Polynesian languages, Cook Islands Māori has nominative-accusative case marking.\n\nThe unmarked constituent order is predicate initial: that is, verb initial in verbal sentences and nominal-predicate initial in non-verbal sentences.\n\n\nMost of the preceding examples were taken from \"Cook Islands Maori Dictionary\", by Jasper Buse with Raututi Taringa edited by Bruce Biggs and Rangi Moeka'a, Auckland, 1995.\n\nLike most other Polynesian languages (Tahitian, New Zealand Māori, Hawaiian, Samoan, Tongan ...), Cook Islands Māori has two categories of possessives, \"a\" and \"o\".\n\nGenerally, the \"a\" category is used when the possessor has or had control over the initiation of the possessive relationship. Usually this means that the possessor is superior or dominant to what is owned, or that the possession is considered as alienable. The \"o\" category is used when the possessor has or had no control over the initiation of the relationship. This usually means that the possessor is subordinate or inferior to what is owned, or that the possession is considered to be inalienable.\n\nThe following list indicates the types of things in the different categories:\n\n– Movable property, instruments,\n\n– Food and drink,\n\n– Husband, wife, children, grandchildren, girlfriend, boyfriend,\n\n– Animals and pets, (except for horses)\n\n– People in an inferior position\n\nTe puaka a tērā vaꞌine : the pig belonging to that woman;\nā Tere tamariki : Tere's children;\nKāre ā Tupe mā ika inapō : Tupe and the rest didn't get any fish last night\n\nTāku ; Tāꞌau ; Tāna ; Tā tāua ; Tā māua…. : my, mine ; your, yours ; his, her, hers, our ours…\n\nKo tāku vaꞌine tēia : This is my wife;\nKo tāna tāne tērā : That's her husband;\nTā kotou ꞌapinga : your possession(s);\nTā Tare ꞌapinga : Tērā possession(s);\n\n– Parts of anything\n\n– Feelings\n\n– Buildings and transport (including horses)\n\n– Clothes\n\n– Parents or other relatives (not husband, wife, children…)\n\n– Superiors\n\nTe 'are o Tere : The house belonging to Tere;\nō Tere pare : Tere's hat;\nKāre ō Tina no'o anga e no'o ei : Tina hasn't got anywhere to sit;\n\nTōku ; Tō'ou ; Tōna ; Tō tāua ; Tō māua…: my, mine ; your, yours ; his, her, hers ; our, ours …\n\nKo tōku 'are tēia : This is my house;\nI tōku manako, ka tika tāna : In my opinion, he'll be right;\nTēia tōku, tērā tō'ou : This is mine here, that's yours over there\n\nPia : Polynesian arrowroot\n\nKata : laugh at; laughter; kata 'āviri : ridicule, jeer, mock\n\nTanu : to plant, cultivate land\n\n'anga'anga : work, job\n\nPōpongi : morning\n\nTātāpaka : a kind of breadfruit pudding\n\n'ura : dance, to dance\n\nTuātau : time, period, season ; ē tuātau 'ua atu : forever\n\n'īmene : to sing, song\n\nRiri : be angry with (ki)\n\nTārekareka : entertain, amuse, match, game, play game\n\nAlthough most words of the various dialects of Cook Islands Māori are identical, but there are some variations:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907780", "title": "David Quinn (actor)", "text": "David Quinn (actor)\n\nDavid Quinn is an American actor, entrepreneur and teacher, currently serving as the IB Diploma Coordinator in The International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme at a high school in the Seattle area. In 2014, he founded The High School Counselor Challenge, a national social-media campaign with the goal of getting more public-school counselors from underserved communities to one of the admission profession's premier gatherings: The annual NACAC conference.\n\nAs an educator, Quinn is a 2009 Recipient of the US Presidential Scholars Program's Teacher Recognition Award. In 2013, Quinn was honored by Northwestern University as one of the Distinguished Secondary Teachers in America. In 2013, he was selected as a Claes Nobel Educator of the Year and named one of the top ten educators in America.\n\nQuinn began acting at the age of four, starting out as a regular on the enduring children's program Sesame Street. Between 1986–1988, he was the host of 3-2-1 Contact, the educational science series produced for The Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). In 1988, he hosted the TV series \"I Have AIDS, A Teenager's Story\" with noted AIDS advocate, Ryan White. The program won the Peabody Award. As a teen, Quinn went to noted performing arts training center Stagedoor Manor in New York for many summers, and roomed with friend Jon Cryer. In 1985, Quinn performed in the original Live Aid concert in Philadelphia, singing in the show's finale with the group \"Children to Children\". During his television career, Quinn appeared in numerous commercials and television programs before embarking on simultaneous careers in business and education.\n\nIn 1993, Quinn left acting for the field of secondary education. He earned a B.A. (English/Anthropology-Archaeology) and an M.Ed. from the University of Washington. While at the University of Washington, Quinn co-founded Allrecipes.com and became a founding partner of the Pinpoint Venture Group, which invests in startup companies in the Pacific Northwest. In 2003, he was a recipient of the Puget Sound Business Journal's 40 Under 40 Award, honoring young leaders in Seattle's business and philanthropic community. In April 2006, Quinn sold Allrecipes to Readers Digest. Quinn also founded ZC Entertainment in Los Angeles, which creates celebrity-based charity events for major corporations. In August 2007, Quinn sold ZC Entertainment to SportsQuest, Inc. In 2010, Quinn returned to filmmaking, serving as Associate Producer of Order of Chaos, starring Milo Ventimiglia.\n\nCurrently, Quinn serves as an Artistic Advisor to the American Playwriting Foundation and sits on the advisory board of SeriesFest, a showcase for new pilots from established and emerging content creators. Previously, Quinn served on the Board of Trustees of the 5th Avenue Theatre and on the Board of Directors of the Seattle Repertory Theatre.\n"}
{"id": "1907815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907815", "title": "Raymond Villeneuve", "text": "Raymond Villeneuve\n\nRaymond Villeneuve (born September 11, 1943) is a founding member of the Front de libération du Québec(FLQ), a violent Quebec separatist movement, responsible various acts of violence in Canada.\n\nVilleneuve remained out of the spotlight as he was volunteering for the Parti Québécois from 1988 until the 1995 referendum. He then became \"fed up\" and created the Mouvement de libération nationale du Québec(MLNQ), espousing both his preference for peace and his preparedness for violence.\n\nOn September 23, 1996, Villeneuve appeared on \"Le Point du Jour\", a popular morning show on CKVL hosted by Pierre Pascau. While on the show, he made some offensive comments against Jews and Anglophones, including that bombs or Molotov cocktails could be used against Anglophone activist Howard Galganov. The following Sunday, Villeneuve published a newsletter, \"La Tempête\" (\"The Storm\", in which he denounced Montreal's English speaking Jews for their longstanding opposition to the Quebec separatist movement and Bill 101 and sent this warning: \"\"What will happen on the day after the victory to those communities who refused to prove conciliating towards the people of Quebec? Independence will come sooner or later and these communities must prepare now for cohabitation in harmony and agreement with the choice of Quebecers\".\" The incident put the mainstream separatist movement on the defensive as the Federal Liberal Party tried to link Bloc Quebecois leader Michel Gauthier to Villeneuve's remarks.\n\nFollowing a statement from Premier Lucien Bouchard disassociating himself and the Parti Québécois government from these comments, Villeneuve clarified that he hadn't intended to be taken literally. \"I meant we will use political force. We will be the commandos, the troops\", he explained.\n\nOn the September 11 attacks: \"\"I'm really jealous of [what happened in New York]. Those types of actions, we could never do that. But me, I was thinking about tank trucks. Apparently even Bin Laden has thought about that. Blowing up tank trucks is way easier than hijacking planes. It could happen in Toronto or it could happen in the West Island of Montreal where there are a lot of Canadians.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "1907827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907827", "title": "Sonoma Academy", "text": "Sonoma Academy\n\nSonoma Academy is a nonprofit, private coed college preparatory high school located in Santa Rosa, California in the United States. It is the only independent high school in Sonoma County. Head of School Janet Durgin won a 2015 \"North Bay Business Journal\" Nonprofit Leadership Award.\n\nIn 2016, 85% of teachers had an advanced degree. Sonoma Academy has a very robust STEM program, with 5 math and science related AP courses.\n\nSonoma Academy also has a strong humanities division. Freshmen, sophomores and juniors take classes which combine literature, writing and history. Students of all grade levels have the opportunity to select from a diverse and constantly changing catalog of humanities electives.\n\nStudents are required to take one of three foreign languages: Spanish, French or Mandarin. They must also take at least one class in the visual, musical or performing arts.\n\nSonoma Academy has 10 varsity athletic teams which compete in the NCS (North Coast Sectionals) League including soccer, baseball, basketball & tennis, as well as 4 junior varsity athletic teams. 57% of the student body participated in an organized sport during the 2015–16 school year.\n\nThe Sonoma Academy baseball team made national news in the spring of 2016 when the team tossed a national record 6 consecutive no hitters.\n\nStudents have the opportunity to participate in two main artistic performances each year: typically a musical in the fall and a theatrical performance in the spring. Past fall performances have included Urinetown, Much Ado About Nothing and American Idiot. In addition, many theatre and music classes put on showcases at the end of each semester.\n\nParliamentary debate, Policy debate, and over half a dozen speech events are available to students at Sonoma Academy. Debaters from SA won the 2014 Jon Schamber Invitational Tournament at the University of the Pacific, and 4 teams have gone to the Tournament of Champions. In 2016, the varsity parliamentary team was ranked third in the nation. Both the speech and debate teams are affiliated with the Golden Gate Speech Association.\n\nSonoma Academy has many \"campus dogs\" that can be found throughout the day. There is Reba, a black Labrador retriever who is an emotional therapy dog; Josie, a yellow Labrador retriever; Bento, a fawn pug; Jojo, a mixed-breed terrier; Freckles, a Pomeranian; Maggie, a goldendoodle; Jasper, a Havanese mix; Panxho, a miniature poodle; Moby, a Boston terrier; Charlotte, a miniature poodle mix; and Champ, the unofficial \"Head of School.\"\n\nEmma Cline\n"}
{"id": "1907833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907833", "title": "Frank Parsons (social reformer)", "text": "Frank Parsons (social reformer)\n\nFrank Parsons (November 14, 1854 – September 26, 1908) was an American professor, social reformer, and public intellectual. Although he was educated as an engineer at Cornell University, he passed the Massachusetts state bar examination and became a lawyer in 1881. Parsons was a lecturer at Boston University School of Law for more than a decade and taught at Kansas State Agricultural College from 1897 to 1899. As a leading social commentator of the Progressive Era, Parsons authored a dozen books and more than 125 magazine and journal articles on a wide range of reform topics, including currency reform, regulation of monopolies, municipal ownership, establishment of direct democracy, and other matters. Parsons is also widely regarded as the father of the vocational guidance movement.\n\nFrank Parsons was born on November 14, 1854, in Mount Holly, New Jersey, the son of an Anglo-Saxon family with American antecedents dating back to the time of the American Revolution. The family was highly intellectual in proclivity, with a number of physicians, lawyers, and teachers dotting the family tree, particularly on Frank's mother's side.\n\nIntellectually talented from an early age, Frank was enrolled in Cornell University at the age of 15 and graduated after just three years with a Bachelor's degree in civil engineering.\n\nParsons took a job as a civil engineer for a railroad located in Western Massachusetts upon graduation but he lost this position when the firm collapsed amidst the Panic of 1873.\n\nAfter relatively brief stints as a common laborer and a public school teacher, Parsons decided to go into the legal profession, preparing for the Massachusetts bar examination for one year before taking and passing the exam in 1881.\n\nUnfortunately, Parsons experienced a health failure shortly after passing the bar exam and found himself compelled to move the New Mexico Territory in search of recovery. Parsons would remain in that state for three years. Parsons established a legal practice in New Mexico but soon tired of the profession. Instead, Parsons was employed by the publishing firm of Little, Brown and Company as a writer of law textbooks. Several volumes were produced during the course of this association.\n\nWith textbook publications came academic recognition, and in 1892 Parsons was added to the staff as a lecturer at Boston University School of Law. He would remain in that position for the greater part of the rest of his life, leaving only in 1905 on account of competing research interests.\n\nParson's position at Boston University only occupied part of the academic year, leaving him free to work on other projects and in other capacities for much of the year. He joined the staff of Kansas State Agricultural College in 1897, in the wake of a recent Populist electoral victory in that state and the advent of a new liberal administration at that school.\n\nParsons became interested in the ideas of economic rationalization during the Progressive Era of the 1890s. It was a time of great disparity between wealthy plutocrats, often exercising monopoly power over the economy through organized associations called trusts, and a frequently impoverished working class, racked by periodic depressions such as the 1873 event which had cost Parsons his first job.\n\nWith his characteristic energy, Parsons threw himself into the systematic study of many of the topics espoused by muckraking journalists and intellectuals of the day. A series of books followed, including tomes on monetary reform \"(Rational Money,\" 1898), market dysfunction in the communications industry \"(The Telegraph Monopoly,\" 1899), public ownership of monopoly industries \"(The City for the People,\" 1899), substitution of democracy for oligarchy \"(Direct Legislation,\" 1900), and the abuses of the railroad industry \"(The Trusts, the Railroads, and the People,\" 1906).\n\nIn December 1895, Parsons ran for Mayor of Boston, as the candidate for the Municipal Reform Party—\"a fusion of prohibitionists, labor, populists, and socialists\". He finished third in a field of three, with 0.8% of the vote.\n\nIn addition to his steady stream of books and pamphlets, Parsons wrote extensively for the periodical press, contributing more than 125 articles to B.O. Flower's progressive monthly, \"The Arena\" and other publications. In addition to his prolific work for \"The Arena,\" Parsons was named a contributing editor to the social democratic monthly \"The American Fabian\" in 1896.\n\nIn addition to his writing activities, Parsons also emerged as a prominent public speaker, serving as a lecturer for the National Direct Legislation League, as head of the lecture department of the Social Reform Union, and as President of the National League for Promoting Public Ownership of Monopoly. In the course of his activity, Parsons came to be recognized as a national expert on public ownership of utilities. In 1906, he was commissioned by the National Civic Federation to travel to Great Britain to study the incidence of municipal ownership and its outcomes in that country.\n\nParsons also served as dean of the extension division of Ruskin College in Trenton, Missouri.\n\nFrank Parsons died Sept. 26, 1908, in Boston, Massachusetts. He was 53 years old at the time of his death.\n\nA memorial service in Parsons' honor was held October 25, 1908, at the People's Church in Washington, D.C.. In the eulogy by Rev. Alexander Kent, Parson's was remembered as a consistent analyst striving to advance the general weal:\n\"There were few men whose ability was so completely devoted to the public good... The problem of human betterment was always uppermost in his thought. He was continually at work tracing the evils from which men suffer to their source, and showing how they might be avoided or at least greatly lessened. He was a consistent opponent of that individualism which pits men against each other in the struggle for existence, and an earnest advocate of that individuality that fits men for useful membership in the social body, and so draws them together in mutual fellowship and service.\"\n\nParsons' papers are housed at Yale University Library in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nThe posthumous publication in 1911 of Parson's manuscript, \"Choosing a Vocation,\" and its so-called \"talent-matching approach\" proved to be massively influential with a generation of educationalists. Parson's book remains regarded as a classic in the field and Parsons is still in the 21st Century remembered as \"the founder of the vocational guidance movement.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907834", "title": "Vodafone New Zealand", "text": "Vodafone New Zealand\n\nVodafone New Zealand is a telecommunications company operating in New Zealand. It was a subsidiary of the London-listed company Vodafone Plc. On July 31, 2019 the sale of Vodafone New Zealand Limited to a consortium comprising Infratil Limited and Brookfield Asset Management Inc. was settled. Vodafone is New Zealand's largest mobile phone operator, based in Auckland, and was formed in 1998, after Vodafone purchased BellSouth's New Zealand operations. The company employs over 3,000 people and has operations nationwide, with its main offices based in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. The company is part of New Zealand Telecommunications Forum.\n\nThe company has invested millions of dollars in its 3G network, improving capacity in congested urban areas. It has New Zealand's first 4G LTE network and continues to maintain its 2G network. In February 2013, Vodafone New Zealand launched their LTE network which is currently available in 54 centres in total. In June 2014, Vodafone was ranked the fastest mobile network on the planet by speed-testing service Ookla.\n\nIn October 2006, Vodafone bought ihug, New Zealand's third largest Internet service provider and now provides Internet service under the Vodafone New Zealand brand name. In 2012 Vodafone also bought TelstraClear, making it NZ's second largest ISP.\n\nIn June 2016, Sky TV and Vodafone agreed to merge, with Sky TV purchasing 100% of Vodafone NZ operations for a cash payment of $1.25 billion NZD and issuing new shares to the Vodafone Group. Vodafone UK was to get 51% stake of the company. However, the proposed merger was rejected by the Commerce Commission which saw a plunge in Sky TV's shares.\n\nVodafone has over 2.3 million customers nationwide.\n\nAccording to the Commerce Commission's Annual Telecommunications Monitoring Report from December 2018, Vodafone's market share in the mobile market was 41%, Spark with 32% and Two Degrees Mobile with 21%. The remainder of the market is made up of MVNO operators, Skinny with 5% and the rest with 1%. \n\nBellSouth had 138,000 customers when it was purchased by Vodafone in November 1998. The company's main rival was Telecom New Zealand (now Spark), New Zealand's second largest telecommunications company behind Vodafone. Telecom had the advantage that it had a 6-year head-start on BellSouth, however this advantage slipped away in recent years.\n\nAfter Vodafone took over Bellsouth, it expanded network coverage to compete more effectively with Telecom. Vodafone has constantly increased its market share and surpassed Telecom in mobile customers.\n\nOn 31 October 2012, Vodafone acquired 100% of TelstraClear from Australian company Telstra.\n\nVodafone operates a GSM (2G) mobile phone network at 900 MHz and 1800 MHz, a UMTS (3G) network at 900 MHz and 2100 MHz, and a 4G LTE network at 700 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz and 2600 MHz. It states that the network provides service in \"Our mobile network covers over 98.5% of the population, with 4G extended coverage to over 93%\".\n\nVodafone operates a nationwide GSM service in the 900 MHz band. In areas with high demand there are additional GSM services operating in the 1800 MHz band, usually from existing 900 MHz cell sites, to provide more capacity. Areas with both 900 MHz and 1800 MHz service cover most major business districts and large shopping malls. In recent years Vodafone has also established some cell sites that only provide 1800 MHz service where it is difficult to release spectrum for more 900 MHz cell sites. Most phones sold since the mid-1990s support both bands.\n\nIn March 2016 Vodafone New Zealand announced plans to shut down its 2G (GSM) network, beginning with voice and messaging services. Vodafone's Spokesperson Elissa Downey commented that they would keep the GSM network running until 2025, although it would only support devices using GSM data such as electricity meters that send readings over the network, and that they would be announcing the end date for its 2G voice service soon. In early August 2016, however, it was reported that Vodafone was reconsidering its choice to shut down the network, with Spokesperson Andrea Brady stating that the 2G network \"will not be switched off anytime soon as it continues to serve customers across New Zealand\". This announcement came following the company's criticism of rival operator Spark's billboard campaign that claimed \"Vodafone's 2G network is shutting down\" and invited customers to \"switch before [they're] ditched\", despite neither Spark, nor its child division Skinny Mobile – whom the campaign was run under – operating a compatible 2G network. The campaign was denounced by Vodafone as \"pretty misleading\", shortly followed by the announcement that 2G voice services would not be ended any time soon. As of December 2016 Vodafone has not confirmed a date for the termination of its 2G voice network.\n\nIn the main centres, Vodafone operates UMTS (3G) service using the 2100 MHz band. UMTS service is often provided from the same cell site as 900 MHz and/or 1800 MHz GSM services. Most of the existing 900 MHz sites were built in the 1990s when it was not expected that a 2100 MHz network would be built, hence the existing 900 MHz network was not at all optimised for 2100 MHz service. Due to the fact that 900 MHz and 1800 MHz signals propagate further than 2100 MHz signals, there were many areas beyond 2100 MHz coverage where UMTS phones would have to hand down to 900 MHz or 1800 MHz GSM service. In recent years Vodafone has established many individual 2100 MHz UMTS sites to enhance 3G coverage.\n\nIn rural areas, Vodafone has installed 900 MHz UMTS (3G) service alongside their existing 900 MHz GSM (2G) service. The 900 MHz UMTS service has roughly the same coverage area as 900 MHz GSM service, so instances of UMTS service being handed down to GSM should occur far less often in rural areas than in areas covered by the 2100 MHz network. However many older UMTS phones only support 2100 MHz service so these phones will hand down to 900 MHz GSM even though there is UMTS service available at 900 MHz.\n\nRural Broadband Initiative (RBI) coverage: Vodafone have a contract with the New Zealand government to provide fixed cellular access to the internet with antennas mounted on the outside of buildings, homes and businesses at speeds of at least 5Mbit/s. Much of the coverage as of 2015 is on 900Mhz 3G (hands down to 2G as a backup). By January 2016, Vodafone has actively extended its 4G network throughout key rural areas, and was on track to deliver speeds as high as 100Mbit/s.\n\nRBI is sold by many ISPs and can include voice services and internet services designed to give similar plans and pricing as landline. Vodafone wholesales RBI services over cellular to many ISPs, any ISP may provide RBI services over cellular, ADSL and UFB fibre, what ever is the available at the customers rural property (urban areas are excluded from RBI offerings).\n\nVodafone offers 4G LTE coverage across New Zealand, claiming coverage to over 96% of the population. Vodafone uses frequencies at 700 MHz (Band 28), 1800 MHz (Band 3), and 2600 MHz (Band 7) for 4G.\n\n4G was originally considered an \"add-on\" and was included in three higher level plans and the Vodafone Red plans. The 700 MHz 4G LTE frequency used in New Zealand is APT band 28 and was first launched by Vodafone in Papakura on 21 July 2014.\n\nVodafone launched its 5G service in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Queenstown on December 10, 2019, with plans to roll out the service to other cities in 2020.\n\nVodafone NZ also provides services for mobile virtual network operators. This means other companies can resell Vodafone's network services (data, telephone and SMS) under their own brand name. Their customers connect to Vodafone's network as any other Vodafone customer would, but instead of seeing \"Vodafone NZ\" as the network operator, they will see the name of the company they pay for these services.\n\nMVNO networks do not have their own cellular equipment, so customers connect to Vodafone's network constantly, instead of jumping between networks. Current MVNOs running on Vodafone's network include: Black + White Mobile.\n\nThis is different from 2degrees, who offloads customers onto the Vodafone network when they are not in a 2degrees mobile coverage zone. 2degrees has a roaming agreement with Vodafone NZ, and as such, their customers roam only on the network when they have no coverage, otherwise they connect to 2degrees' own equipment.\n\nIn New Zealand all mobile phone numbers start with 02. Vodafone is allocated the 021 prefix with other networks being allocated other prefixes – such as 022 to 2degrees, and 027 to Spark. However Number portability was introduced to the New Zealand market on 2 April 2007 which means that customers can bring, for example, their 021 prefixed number to Spark or 2degrees. Within New Zealand, the network is sometimes referred to in speech by its prefix—i.e. 'Are you 021?' instead of 'Are you with Vodafone?'.\n\nVodafone used to operate the 029 prefix on behalf of TelstraClear, in addition to its own 021 prefix. TelstraClear customers, mostly corporates, used to be able to get mobile numbers under this prefix; these customers were billed by TelstraClear instead of being billed directly by Vodafone. In 2007 this agreement lapsed, and in 2008 some of these customers were transitioned to Telecom who serviced them initially with CDMA2000 technology. Those TelstraClear 029 customers not transitioned to Telecom New Zealand remained with Vodafone. Subsequently, TelstraClear joined Telecom as a MVNO operator, but that relationship soured and TelstraClear re-signed with Vodafone in 2009 and remains on the Vodafone network.\n\nSpark NZ (formerly Telecom New Zealand), Vodafone's rival, has fixed 10-digit numbers under its 0272-0279 prefix, which allows approximately 7 million possible numbers. Telecom originally had mixed 9-digits and 10-digits number using the older 025 prefix. The 027 prefix with only 10-digit numbers simplified its numbering system at the time of launching its CDMA network. The older 025 prefix was phased out with its now redundant AMPS and TDMA networks.\n\nOn Wednesday 10 August 2005 Vodafone introduced a new 3G network employing the UMTS technology widely used in Europe and elsewhere. Using this standard, Vodafone now offers Video Calling, music downloads, SKY mobile TV and other services from its Vodafone live! portal.\n\nVodafone began rolling out HSPA+ data services on its UMTS network in 2011; at the time of writing (May 2012), Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch have coverage. HSPA+ is capable of a theoretical maximum 168 Mbit/s download speed and 22 Mbit/s upload speed, although higher speeds are only supported in areas with an excellent radio signal.\n\nVodafone launched HD Voice on 7 November 2013 - a high definition voice call technology. This technology works over 3G with HD Voice compatible phones on Vodafone to Vodafone voice calls.\n\nThe first iPhone 3G released on 11 July 2008 was sold by Vodafone in Auckland, New Zealand to 22-year-old student Jonny Gladwell at 12:01 am NZST. The iPhone 3G was only available to customers on the Vodafone network. 3G coverage for iPhone 3G was limited to major urban centres, as the phone operated on 850, 1900 and 2100 MHz bands; Vodafone's 3G network uses 900 and 2100 MHz. (The 850 MHz 3G band is used by Spark NZ). 900 MHz capability was added from the iPhone 3GS and subsequent models of iPhone.\n\nSubsequent launches of iPhone models in New Zealand have typically been a few weeks after the worldwide release. The iPhone 5, iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c are CAT3 4G devices and can be used on Vodafone's 4G LTE network on the 1800 MHz frequency. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models are CAT4 4G devices and also support the APT 700 MHz frequency (Band 28) in addition to Vodafone's 1800 MHz frequency.\n\nVodafone offers copper-based ADSL and VDSL services. (Vodafone has previously purchased two other ISPs, Paradise.net and Clearnet.)\n\nVDSL is a faster xDSL technology available to consumers and businesses based on location. This technology will only function within a certain proximity to the local copper exchange. This technology is used to deliver the BizBroadband and BizNet packages, as well as the IP Voice products (IP FeatureLine, IP Connect, IP Gateway, IP Clarity).\n\nVodafone also offers DOCSIS cable modem broadband within the former TelstraClear's network.\n\nVodafone announced plans to upgrade its cable network to DOCSIS 3.1, in order to support gigabit speeds. This upgrade is scheduled for June, 2016.\n\nVodafone currently offers many different speeds on the cable network. The standard plan provides up to 50 Mbit/s download and 2 Mbit/s upload, with a faster plan offering 900 Mbit/s download with 100 Mbit/s upload also available.\n\nVodafone's cable network is available in the following areas:\n\nVodafone offers a range of Ultra-Fast Broadband (fibre) products.\n\nVodafone operates a hybrid internet television (IPTV) pay television network formerly owned by TelstraClear under the brand \"Vodafone TV\". It is delivered over cable and fibre broadband, available in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch, Whangarei, Palmerston North and Dunedin.\n\nCustomers receive Freeview channels via a Digital TV recorder and can subscribe to Sky TV channels. No content is sourced by Vodafone itself except 36 Vodafone pay-per-view channels. Selected content is available in High Definition.\n\nIn September 2010 TelstraClear released their own PVR called the T-BOX. The launch followed the release by parent company Telstra (AU) of a similar product.\n\nAs of June 2011, TelstraClear ceased all analogue transmission on its cable network.\n\nVodafone TV allows customers to add Sky channel packages to their accounts and also access various OTT media streaming apps.\n\n\n\nBetween 2006 and 2009 Vodafone ran a series of advertisements and promotions which were found to be misleading and led to complaints - and eventually a series of large fines in 2011 and 2012 after action was taken by the Commerce Commission under the Fair Trading Act. Vodafone NZ issued an apology for this incident\n\nTelstraClear had its beginnings in New Zealand with SKY Cable in the Kapiti Coast district, It then became Kiwi Cable, Clear Communications in 1990, and Telstra New Zealand in 1996.\n\nTelstra NZ slowly expanded its operations in the business market bundling Telecom New Zealand services distributed as a reseller with its own network services. It installed switches in Auckland and Wellington to manage incoming and outgoing international traffic and maintained interconnect agreements with Telecom New Zealand, Clear Communications and some smaller service providers.\n\nIn 1999 Saturn Communications was sold by its parent company, Austar United Communications, to a new joint venture with Telstra that became known as TelstraSaturn.\n\nTelstraClear was then created by the merger of Telstra's TelstraSaturn and Clear Communications in December 2001. Austar United Communications held an initial investment of 42% in TelstraClear before selling it back to Telstra.\n\nIn 2004 TelstraClear made its first acquisition in the IT market with the purchase of Sytec, mainly for its IP telephony and security skills, in particular the specialist managed security subsidiary DMZGlobal. In 2007 Sytec was formally introduced into the TelstraClear's Enterprise and government division and the brand retired, but the DMZGlobal brand was retained and invested in.\n\nIn July 2012 Vodafone NZ approached Telstra to purchase TelstraClear for a payment of $840 million and $450 million that TelstraClear had in its accounts. On 30 October the Commerce Commission approved the takeover bid, and on 31 October the sale was completed. The 31 March 2013 was the final trading day of TelstraClear.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907840", "title": "III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps", "text": "III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps\n\nThe III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps (\"III. (germanisches) SS-Panzerkorps\") was a German Waffen-SS armoured corps which saw action on the Eastern Front during World War II. The \"(germanische)\" (lit. Germanic) part of its designation was granted as it was composed primarily of foreign volunteer formations.\n\nThe corps was formed in April, 1943 as a headquarters for the SS Division Wiking and SS Division Nordland. The corps was placed under the control of former Wiking commander SS-Obergruppenführer Felix Steiner. After training, the corps took part in operations against Yugoslav partisans. The corps was then sent to a quiet sector in Army Group North, now made up of the Nordland Division and the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade Netherlands. By this stage, Wiking had been sent south and came under the control of Army Group South's Eighth Army.\n\nForced back by the 1944 Soviet winter offensive, the corps participated in the Battle for the Narva Bridgehead in the summer of 1944. It then retreated with the rest of the army group across Estonia and into the Courland Peninsula. Transferred to the Oder Front and placed under Steiner's 11th SS Panzer Army, the corps participated in Operation Solstice before being assigned as the reserve corps to 3rd Panzer Army.\n\n\n\n15 June 1944 — Narva Front\n\n\n16 September 1944\n\n"}
{"id": "1907841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907841", "title": "Abraham ben Abraham", "text": "Abraham ben Abraham\n\nAbraham ben Abraham (, lit. \"Avraham the son of Avraham\") (c. 1700 – May 23, 1749), also known as Count Valentine (Valentin, Walentyn) Potocki (Pototzki or Pototski), was a purported Polish nobleman (\"szlachta\") of the Potocki family who converted to Judaism and was burned at the stake by the Roman Catholic Church because he had renounced Catholicism and had become an observant Jew. According to Jewish oral traditions, he was known to the revered Talmudic sage, the Vilna Gaon (Rabbi Elijah Ben Shlomo Zalman [1720–1797]), and his ashes were interred in the relocated grave of the Vilna Gaon in Vilna's new Jewish cemetery.\n\nAlthough the Orthodox Jewish community accepts the teachings about Abraham ben Abraham, including the involvement of the Vilna Gaon,\n\nThere are several versions of this story, especially among the Jews of Lithuania, Poland, and Russia, who know and still refer to Potocki as the \"Ger Tzedek\" (\"righteous proselyte\") of Vilna (Vilnius). Virtually all Jewish sources agree that he was a Polish nobleman who converted to Judaism and was burned at the stake by the Roman Catholic Church at Vilnius on May 23, 1749 (7 Sivan 5509, corresponding to the second day of the Jewish holiday of Shavuot in the Diaspora), because he had renounced Catholicism and had become an observant Jew.\n\nMultiple oral histories, backed up by several 19th-century and later printed versions of the story, from many Jewish communities over the past 250 years, serve as evidence of Potocki's story. Jewish oral traditions teach many more details of Avraham ben Avraham's life and death.\n\nThere is also one contemporary written account from 1755, by Rabbi Yaakov Emden. ויקם עדות ביעקב דף כה, ב (Vayakam Edus b'Yaakov, 1755, p. 25b). A rough translation:\nA few years ago, it happened in Vilna the capital of Lithuania that a great prince from the family of Pototska converted. They captured him and imprisoned him for many days thinking they could return him to their religion. He knew that he would not escape harsh tortures and a cruel death if he would not return. They wanted to save him from the death and punishment that would await him if he held out. He paid no attention to them or to the begging of his mother the countess. He was not afraid or worried about dying in all the bitter anguish they had done to him. After waiting for him for a long time, they tried to take it easy on him for the honor of his family. He ridiculed all the temptations of the priests who would speak to him every day because he was an important minister. He scorned them and laughed at them, and chose death of long and cruel agony, to the temporary life of this world. He accepted and suffered all from love, and died sanctifying God's name. May he rest in peace.\n\nAs to why there are few full sources, the Jewish view is reflected in this excerpt from the Shema Yisrael Torah Network website:\nThere are a few reasons why there are so few contemporary sources about the ger tzedek story. It can be assumed that the noble Pototzki family, which was a religious Polish-Catholic family, was not happy that one of their sons defected to Judaism. The Pototzki family was said to have generally dealt kindly with the Jews living on its lands. Mentioning the conversion would have been interpreted as an open provocation of the area's ruler, which would have not resulted in any good. In addition, undoubtedly the conversion of one of the upper-class gentiles aroused great interest among the populace, and his refusal to return to their faith caused them great embarrassment ... Nevertheless, we believe the words of our rabbis, which clearly indicate that there was a connection between the Gra (i.e. the Vilna Gaon) and the Ger Tzedek.\nIn his lecture on the topic, Prof. Sid Leiman quotes an author from a century ago who related the same reason - heard from a member of the Pototzki family.\n\nPolish author Józef Ignacy Kraszewski, based on the story written in Hebrew from 1766 by Judah Hurwitz, \"Ammudei Beit Yehuda\" in Amsterdam relates that young Potocki and his friend Zaremba, who traveled from Poland to study in a seminary in Paris, became interested in an old Jew whom they found poring over a large volume when they entered his wine shop. This Jew might have been their own countryman, Menahem Man ben Aryeh Löb of Visun, who was tortured and executed in Vilna at the age of seventy (July 3, 1749). Tradition has brought this Jewish martyr into close connection with the \"Ger Tzedek\", but fear of the censor has prevented writers in Russia from saying anything explicit on the subject. His teachings and explanations of the Old Testament, to which they, as Roman Catholics, were total strangers, so impressed them that they prevailed upon him to instruct them in the Hebrew language. In six months they acquired proficiency in the Biblical language and a strong inclination toward Judaism. They resolved to go to Amsterdam, which was one of the few places in Europe at that time where a Christian could openly embrace Judaism. But Potocki first went to Rome, whence, after convincing himself that he could no longer remain a Catholic, he went to Amsterdam and took upon himself the covenant of Abraham, assuming the name of Avraham ben Avraham (\"Abraham the son of Abraham\"; \"the son of Abraham\" is the traditional styling of a convert to Judaism, as Abraham was the first who converted to Judaism from polytheism).\n\nPotocki's parents got word of his leave from the seminary in Paris and the rumors that he had converted to Judaism and began searching for him. Potocki then fled from France and hid in a synagogue in Vilna, wearing a long beard and peyot like the Perushim (devout Jews who separated themselves from the community to learn and pray). When the Vilna Gaon heard of his whereabouts, he advised him to hide instead in the small town of Ilye (Vilna Governorate). There a Jewish tailor who sewed uniforms for Polish bureaucrats overheard some clients talking about the fugitive divinity student and suspected that the stranger in the synagogue might be he. Later this tailor's son, who liked to disturb the men studying in the synagogue, was sharply rebuked by Potocki; some say Potocki grabbed the boy by the ear and pulled him out the door. The tailor reported him to the Bishop of Vilna, and Potocki was arrested.\n\nPotocki's parents visited him in prison and begged him to renounce his Judaism publicly, promising to build him a castle where he could practice the religion privately. According to Rabbi Ben-Zion Alfes, the Maggid of Vilna, Potocki refused his mother, saying, \"I love you dearly, but I love the truth even more\".\n\nAfter a long imprisonment and a trial for heresy, Potocki was condemned to death by being burned alive at the stake. After the decree was handed down, the Vilna Gaon sent Potocki a message offering to rescue him using Kabbalah. Potocki refused, preferring instead to die \"al kiddush Hashem\" and inquired of the Vilna Gaon which blessing he should make immediately before his death. The Vilna Gaon answered, \"...m'kadesh es Shimcha be'rabbim\" (Who sanctifies His Name in public) and sent Alexander Süsskind of Grodno as an emissary to hear and answer \"Amen\". His mother used all her influence to procure a pardon for him, but the execution was moved up one day so that she would not be able to deliver it in time.\n\nPotocki was executed in Vilna on the second day of the Jewish holiday of Shavuot. It was unsafe for any Jew to witness the burning; nevertheless, one Jew, Leiser Zhiskes, who had no beard, went among the crowd and succeeded by bribery in securing some of the ashes of the martyr, which were later buried in the Jewish cemetery. Potocki walked proudly to the execution site, singing a song that was later sung in the Volozhin yeshiva and that was also sung by Rabbi Isser Zalman Meltzer after Yom Kippur. Some sources say that Rabbi Alexander Ziskind, author of \"Yesod VeShoresh HaAvodah\", stood near Potocki and said \"Amen\" to the blessing he said before he died.\n\nFollowing Potocki's execution, the town that had furnished the firewood for the execution burned down. There was also an unusual number of fires in Vilna, and a building that stood opposite the execution site bore a black stain from the \"smoke and fumes of the burning\". No amount of paint or whitewashing would remove the stain, and finally, the building was taken down. The authorities would not allow a monument to be erected over Potocki's ashes, but a \"strange tree\" grew at the site. Those who tried to cut down the tree were mysteriously injured in the process. Around 1919 a tomb was erected over the ashes and Jews came to pray there. Following the destruction of the old cemetery of Vilna by the Nazis during World War II, a new cemetery was built and the Vilna Gaon was interred in a new \"ohel\". Potocki's ashes were reinterred alongside the Vilna Gaon's grave, and an inscribed stone memorial to him was mounted on the wall of the \"ohel\".\n\nPotocki's comrade Zaremba returned to Poland several years before him, married the daughter of a great nobleman, and had a son. He remained true to the promise to embrace Judaism and took his wife and child to Amsterdam, where, after he and his son had been circumcised, his wife also converted to Judaism; they then went to the Land of Israel.\n\nAccording to Jewish tradition, following Avraham ben Avraham's death, the Vilna Gaon believed that the spiritual constitution of the world had become altered in such a way that a Jew was no longer bound to wash his hands in the morning (\"netilat yadayim\") within four \"amot\" (cubits) of his bed, as explicitly taught in the codes of Jewish law such as the Shulchan Aruch and other halachic works. Rather, a Jew's entire house would be considered as four \"amot\" for this mitzvah. This custom, begun at Avraham ben Avraham's death, commenced with the Vilna Gaon and later became the practice of the Slabodka yeshiva in Europe, becoming today the routine of many leading Israeli rabbis who follow the Slabodka tradition.\n\nMany secondary sources – encyclopaedias of Jewish culture, history and religion – include an entry on Potocki, a Polish magnate and member of the powerful Potocki family, who converted to Orthodox Judaism in 18th-century Netherlands and who, after his return to Vilna, was tried by an Inquisition court which sentenced him to burning at the stake. Historians (ex. Janusz Tazbir, Jacek Moskwa, Rimantas Miknys and Magda Teter) who have studied the story of Potocki, however, believe it to be invented, although it is unknown when or by whom (Moskwa points to a possibility that the author was Kraszewski himself, who is known to have invented some tales he claimed were true). Teter mentioned that the story (\"a carefully crafted tale of conversion\") was likely created and developed as a \"response to a number of challenges that the Polish Jewish community faced from the mid-eighteenth century\".\n\nPolish historian Janusz Tazbir asserted that the story – he uses the term \"legend\" – originated at the turn of the 19th century and was published in a Jewish periodical issued in London as \"The Jewish Expositor and Friend of Israel\" (vol. 8, 1822). He notes that the literary version of the legend was created by Józef Ignacy Kraszewski, a well-known Polish writer of the 19th century, author of numerous historical novels, who included the story about Potocki in the third volume of the history of Vilna (1841), \"Wilno od początków jego do roku 1750\" (1840–1842), in which he claims to have followed a Hebrew original, thought by some to be from \"Ammudei Beit Yehudah\" (Judah Hurwitz, Amsterdam 1766). (Extant copies of \"Ammudei Beit Yehudah\" contain no reference to the story other than a brief mention of the execution of the elderly Rabbi Mann in Wilno). The story was then popularised through Russian translations, and there is evidence that a cult of Potocki's grave in Vilna has existed until the Jewish cemetery (at Pióromont also known as Snipiszki quarter) was destroyed by Nazis during World War II and later by the Soviets. Some sources claim his remains were rescued along with those of Vilna Gaon, though it is said that there is no modern monument or grave clearly identified as Potocki's in Vilna or elsewhere. However, historian Sid Leiman has identified what he thinks is a likely Potocki's grave by examination of the gravestones near the Vilna Gaon's.\n\nTazbir claimed that the tragic fate of Potocki, passed through Jewish oral tradition, remains unconfirmed by 18th-century Polish or Jewish primary sources and that there is no evidence in any archives or genealogy tree that Potocki existed. However, it has since been noted that the basic facts were related in a work published by Rabbi Jacob Emden in 1756, as noted above. In this work, Rabbi Emden wrote (page 25b) \"... what occurred in our times, a few years ago, in Wilno the head of Lithuania, that a great nobleman of the family Potocki converted and was seized and incarcerated ...\".\n\nTazbir also notes that the Polish nobility was guaranteed the freedom of faith (by acts like Neminem captivabimus and the Warsaw Confederation), and capital punishment was extremely rare. (though see also Iwan Tyszkiewicz). He argues that the described fate should have caused an uproar among the Polish nobility (consider, for example, the case of Samuel Zborowski), and would be the only historical example of execution by burning of a nobleman – yet no contemporary source from the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth mentions this event even in a passing reference. In addition, it is difficult to believe that the death at the stake of a Polish aristocrat, from one of the most powerful Polish magnate families, charged with a religious crime, was not echoed in any of the diaries or polemical writings concerning religion and tolerance, topics in which the Polish nobility, and the entire European Enlightenment, were particularly interested. Tazbir has concluded that \"the court trial and death of Walentyn Potocki should be recognised as a historical legend deprived of all source–material foundations\".\n\nSome have suggested that the Potocki legend is an embellishment of a different story. A report published in the July 1753 edition of The London Magazine describes the story of a very similar execution. The correspondent dated his report June 11, two days after the end of the Shavuot holiday. It describes \"an apostate named Raphael Sentimany, a native of Croatia\", who converted to Judaism at the age of 12 and adopted the name Abraham Isacowicz. The report describes his imprisonment and execution in Wilno as the Potocki legend describes. The report also states that he was executed on June 9, which was the second day of Shavuot, just as in the Potocki story. The only important differences between the Sentimany execution and the Potocki legend are that the martyr's Jewish surname was Isacowicz, called Rafael Sentimany rather than Valenty Potocki, was killed in 1753 rather than 1749, and that he was a Croatian immigrant rather than a Polish noble. Raphael Sentimany is also mentioned in the anonymous British work \"Admonitions from the Dead, in Epistles to the Living\", published in 1754, in a manner suggestive of the wide exposure of the original report of Abraham ben Abraham's execution.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907850", "title": "Michigan Mayhem", "text": "Michigan Mayhem\n\nThe Michigan Mayhem was a minor league professional basketball team based in Muskegon, Michigan that competed in the Continental Basketball Association. In the CBA's 2004-05 season the Mayhem finished third in the league's Eastern Conference. The team played its home games at the L.C. Walker Arena.\n\nThe team had previously played in nearby Grand Rapids, Michigan where they were known as the Grand Rapids Hoops and Grand Rapids Mackers. The Mayhem roster included two ex-NBA players, Sam Mack and Roy Tarpley.\n\nCiting a lack of community support, the team announced on June 22, 2006, that it would not return for a third season.\n"}
{"id": "1907855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907855", "title": "Winthrop House", "text": "Winthrop House\n\nJohn Winthrop House (commonly Winthrop House) is one of twelve undergraduate residential Houses at Harvard University. It is home to approximately 400 upperclass undergraduates. \n\nWinthrop house consists of two buildings, Standish Hall and Gore Hall, originally freshman dormitories built in 1912. In 1931 they were joined as John Winthrop House, one of the seven original Harvard houses in which students reside from sophomore through senior years. Historically, Winthrop was also one of the first Harvard houses open to Catholic and Jewish students. Winthrop House maintains an affiliation with Davenport College at Yale University.\n\nThe house's name honors two notable men who shared the name \"John Winthrop\"—the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, as well as his descendant, an 18th-century astronomer who was both a Harvard professor and president of the university. The house shield is from the Winthrop family coat of arms: a lion with three chevrons in the background. In heraldric language, the blazon of the house shield is \"Argent three chevrons Gules overall a lion rampant Sable.\"\n\nThe current interim faculty deans of Winthrop House are Mark Gearan and Mary Herlihy-Gearan, who were appointed following the College's decision not to renew Ronald S. Sullivan Jr. and Stephanie Robinson in 2019. Sullivan and Robinson succeeded Stephen Peter Rosen and Mandana Sassanfar in 2009.\n\nThe first John Winthrop (1588-1649) was a member of the English gentry. In 1630, at the age of 41, Winthrop sold his home and sailed for New England, recording his visions that the New World could be a \"city on a hill.\" He served as leader of the Massachusetts Bay Company, then later became the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, a position he held for over sixteen years. \n\nHis great-great-great-grandson John Winthrop (1714-1779) was the Hollis Professor of Mathematicks and Natural Philosophy from the age of 24 until his death at 65. Regarded as the first American astronomer, Winthrop also served briefly as the president of Harvard from 1773-1774. \n\nThe two halls which would become Winthrop House were built in the same year and share many attributes. Both are four-story U-shaped buildings surrounding courtyards, with a gated open side facing the Charles River. Their facades are based on Sir Christopher Wren's late-17th-century garden wing of the Hampton Court Palace.\n\nThe present Gore Hall maintains the memory of Christopher Gore, who had bequeathed funds for construction (1841) of a prior Gore Hall, which was demolished about the time the present Gore Hall was built.\nIt contains the Winthrop House dining hall in a below-street-level space at its center. In the corresponding spot, Standish Hall contains the Winthrop House Library, which holds the largest private collection of John Singleton Copley portraits. When Standish was still a stand-alone dormitory for freshmen, what is now the library was then its dining hall.\n\nTwo gates at opposite ends of the Yellowwood Courtyard, both built in 1914, connect Gore and Standish Halls. The front entrance, facing Mill Street, is the Winthrop Gate. The house shield is welded in the front. \n\nOn the river side stands the Fly Club Gate, an English Baroque structure named after one of Harvard's male-only final clubs whose members provided a grant to build it. The panther symbol of the Fly Club is centered within the ironwork above the entry, and inscribed is the dedication: \"For Friendships Made in College the Fly Club in Gratitude has Built this Gate.\"\nStein Club is a themed event featuring beer and snacks for Winthrop Residents every other Thursday evening. It is usually held in Winthrop's Junior Common Room. Winthrop House sells beer steins annually with the house crest on them to be used at the stein clubs, though having one is not required to partake. Recent Stein Club themes include \"Kung Fu,\" \"Comedy Night,\" \"Oktoberfest,\" \"Regatta,\" and others. Stein Club is one of the most well attended events held in the house. Although many believe that Edward Kennedy began Winthrop's Stein Club tradition, this is not true. The origin of this apocryphal story is a humorous article that appeared in the \"Harvard Independent\".\n\nThe Winthrop Arbella Ball is the house's annual spring formal dance. It is named after the Arbella, the ship upon which the first John Winthrop ventured to the new World. The ball typically features a live band playing under a beautiful tent before a temporary dance floor set up in the Gore Courtyard, and a reception in the Winthrop Junior Common Room.\n\nThropstock is Winthrop's annual spring carnival, held in late April or early May. Thropstock typically features blow-up rides and games in the courtyard, a picnic lunch, cotton candy, and live music by Harvard student bands. Recent performers include Plan B for the Type A's, So Long Princess, and others.\n\nWinthrop House's most famous former inhabitant was President John F. Kennedy. Harvard University maintains Kennedy's former senior year dorm room in Gore Hall as a private room for guests of the university, especially political notables who visit the Kennedy School of Government. The room has been renovated and redecorated by the Institute of Politics in order to make it more accommodating to visiting guests. The study is furnished with a plaque commemorating the late President Kennedy, a leather couch, and a large rug, along with framed photographs of Kennedy. The Kennedy Suite's bedroom has two twin beds, as well as a shelf of books written by and about President Kennedy.\n\nOther notable Winthrop alumni include United States Massachusetts Senators Edward Kennedy (D) and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr (R; He lost his seat to the aforementioned JFK. He was actually a resident of Standish Hall, which is now part of Winthrop House); Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke; CEO of Goldman Sachs Lloyd Blankfein; UCLA professor and national security expert Amy Zegart; Berkeley professor and torture expert John Yoo; Clinton administration Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin; United States Representative Barney Frank (D); conservative African-American activist Alan Keyes; conservative anti-tax lobbyist Grover Norquist; Nixon administration cabinet official and Watergate figure Elliot Richardson; Harvard Law School Professor Charles Nesson; Minnesota Speaker of the House Paul Thissen; Beauty and the Geek Season 3 winner Alan \"Scooter\" Zackheim; and Comedian and comedy writer BJ Novak . During his freshman year, the nuclear weapons pioneer J. Robert Oppenheimer lived in Standish Hall. Author James von der Heydt served as Resident Dean of Winthrop House in 2006. Gabe Newell briefly lived in Winthrop House prior to leaving the university.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907858", "title": "Quebec City Council", "text": "Quebec City Council\n\nThe Quebec City Council () is the governing body in the mayor–council government in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. The council consists of a mayor, and of 21 representatives representing the 21 city council districts, with a president by borough in the elected representatives. The current council majority is composed of 16 Équipe Labeaume councillors, led by the mayor Régis Labeaume. The main opposition party is Québec 21 led by Jean-François Gosselin, which has three seats. Démocratie Québec has one seat.\n\n\"Elected in the 2017 Quebec municipal elections\"\n\"* Borough presidents\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907859", "title": "Cabot House", "text": "Cabot House\n\nCabot House is one of twelve undergraduate residential Houses at Harvard University. Cabot House derives from the merger in 1970 of Radcliffe College's South and East House, which took the name South House (also known as \"SoHo\"), until the name was changed and the House reincorporated in 1984 to honor Harvard benefactors Thomas Cabot and Virginia Cabot. The house is composed of six buildings surrounding Radcliffe Quadrangle; in order of construction, they are Bertram Hall (1901), Eliot Hall (1906), Whitman Hall (1911), Barnard Hall (1912), Briggs Hall (1923), and Cabot Hall (1937). All six of these structures were originally women-only Radcliffe College dormitories until they were integrated in 1970. Along with Currier House and Pforzheimer House, Cabot is part of the Radcliffe Quad.\n\nThe current Faculty Deans of Cabot House are Rakesh Khurana (Professor at Harvard Business School and Dean of Harvard College) and his wife Stephanie Khurana. Prior Masters include then-Radcliffe President Mary Bunting and \"New Republic\" publisher Martin Peretz.\n\nIn 1970, Harvard and Radcliffe began to experiment with co-educational housing. 150 Harvard students from the River Houses (including former Dean of Harvard College Benedict Gross) switched places with 150 Radcliffe students from the Quadrangle. Ten years later the experiment was taken to its logical conclusion, as the last all-male dorm, Straus Hall in Harvard Yard, went co-ed. Today, all Harvard dormitories, including the three Houses of the Quadrangle, house both men and women.\n\nIn 1961 Radcliffe College began to organize the brick buildings of the Radcliffe Quad into residential colleges in the style of Harvard. These Houses were styled North, South, and East, in reference to the cardinal directions of the building clusters.\n\nCabot House (originally named South House) was formed in 1970 when East House and the original South House were merged. Anna Maria Abernathy held the title of Head of House, and she and her husband Fred served as Cabot’s first House Masters (now Faculty Dean). In 1971, Mary Bunting, President of Radcliffe, began her tenure as House Master.\n\nBertram Hall, Radcliffe’s first permanent dormitory, was built in 1901 and donated by Mrs. David Pulsifer Kimball in memory of her son. In 1906, Eliot Hall, also donated by Mrs. Kimball, was built in honor of Grace Hopkinson Eliot, wife of Harvard President Charles W. Eliot. Alexander Wadsworth Longfellow, Jr, designed both Bertram and Eliot Halls. Barnard Hall was built in 1912 and named for Augusta Barnard and her husband. Briggs Hall, named for Radcliffe’s second president, LeBaron Russell Briggs, was constructed in 1923, and Cabot Hall, named in honor of Ella Lyman Cabot, member of the Radcliffe Governing Board from 1902 to 1934, followed in 1937. The sixth building, Whitman Hall, was completed in 1911 and named for Sarah Wyman Whitman, the creator of two of the stained glass windows in Memorial Hall and a member of the Radcliffe Governing Board for several years. The Faculty Deans’ residence is located at 107 Walker Street. A residential wood-frame house at 103 Walker Street is the Senior Tutor’s residence.\n\nWhile the outside of the brick dormitories has remained unchanged, renovations to the House 19 years ago and to the dining area in the summer of 2002 provide new facilities and newly configured suites more in line with the \"vertical hallway\" arrangements of the River dormitories.\n\nThe Cabot House shield was adopted when South House became Cabot House, in 1984. The shield is the coat of arms used by the Boston Brahmin Cabots after whom the House is named, though, the shield is not their heraldic achievement; the coat of arms actually belongs to the French family Chabot, to whom the Boston Cabots have no relation.\n\nCabotoix have a unique affection for their shield, its red fish in particular. They are the inspiration for the common House cheer, \"Go Fish!\"—a play on the popular card game. Cabotoix feature their coat of arms on various apparel, including polo shirts, rugby shirts, and hooded sweatshirts. The standard coloration is used, or its inverse.\n\nThe House Office also has an antique copy of the Cabot Shield which had been hanging in the dining hall before the renovations. Oddly, this shield's colors are drastically different, although the shield still features the same general design and motto: the field is black and the perch are silver, and the crest is a white scallop shell. While the origin of this scheme is unknown, hese colors are identical to those of Trumbull College, Cabot's sister college at Yale.\n\nThe standard arms are described heraldically as follows: Or, three chabots, haurient, gules. Crest: an escallop, or.\n\nThe Cabot family motto is 'Semper Cor,' meaning 'Always Heart'; this motto is shared by Cabot House.\n\nThe House colors, red and gold, are derived from the House shield; black, one of Radcliffe's colors, is an unofficial color, featured in much House apparel.\n\nCabot's Dining Hall is very different from those at the River. Unlike other House Dining Halls, Cabot's is not enormous, paneled in mahogany and decorated with oil paintings, marble busts, and medieval tapestries. The dining hall—completed during the 1987 renovations of the Quad, replacing what is now the JCR as the House's cafeteria—is an intimate and bright space. Located beneath the Moors Hall (Pforzheimer House) terrace, the three-tiered room is painted white, its floors carpeted; as the long wall facing the Quad is almost entirely glass, it is bathed in natural light throughout the day. The servery likewise is bright and airy, with knotty pine walls and earthenware tile floors. It is one of the most recently renovated House serveries, completed in 2002.\n\nMore than serving merely as the House cafeteria, the Dining Hall is the center of House activity. Aside from being the site of hours-long, social dinners, each evening the Dining Hall fills with students who work together on problem sets and projects for various subjects.\n\nCabot House Stein Club is the Junior Common Room beer-appreciation society to which every member of the Junior Common Room (that is, all House residents) automatically belongs. Every other Thursday evening throughout the school year, Stein Club meets in one of Cabot's six Living Rooms, usually in Briggs or Barnard Hall, or in the dining hall. At each meeting, students socialize over various types of ale, purchased by the House Committee. Each year, ceramic steins are ordered which bear the House insignia and the name of the owner. Stein Club attendance is very high in Cabot; tutors and the Faculty Dean are also known to attend for a beer and fraternization.\n\nCabot Café is a coffee shop located in Cabot House at Harvard University. It is the only House with a coffee shop that is completely student run and operated. The Café offers coffee, espresso drinks, hot chocolate, tea, chai, cookies, and more. Cabot Café serves as a venue for student performers and other on-campus events. Since opening in September 2011, Cabot Café has become a social space on campus, with students trekking from all the other Houses to hang out with friends or study.\n\nThe Cabot House Theatre Board manages the Cabot Theatre. The theater traces its roots back to the Cabot Experimental Theater in the 1960s. Every year, the Theatre Board puts on a student-run musical. The 2019 musical was Footloose (musical).\n\nCabot fields a strong intramural sports squad each year. Cabot holds the record for most consecutive Straus Cups (awarded to the House with the most intramural points accrued during the school year) with seven wins between 1994 and 2001.\n\nTo raise money for student events, the House Committee holds a Dutch Auction each spring. Students and tutors can offer a service or object to be auctioned. In past years, students have offered to write theme songs for individual House members, to clean rooms, to go on a date, and so on; Cabot alum Rivers Cuomo donated an autographed copy of Weezer's new album during his senior year.\n\nThe Auctioneer for the Dutch Auction is usually a prominent member of the House or the House Committee. Dutch Auctions are known for being wild events, with heated bidding wars and drunken revelry. \n\nA newly adopted tradition popularized by Seinfeld, Festivus is a very popular dinner during the month of December featuring cuisine from a multitude of cultures around the globe.\n\nThe current Cabot Faculty Deans are Stephanie and Rakesh Khurana. Rakesh is a professor at Harvard Business School.\n\nPrevious Faculty Deans (then known as House Masters) have included Jay M. Harris, Dean of Undergraduate Education and Wolfson Professor of Jewish Studies; Jim Ware, Frederick Mosteller Professor of Biostatistics; Jurij Striedter, Curt Hugo Reisinger Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures; and Rulan Chao Pian, Professor of Music and East Asian Languages and Civilizations, the first non-white House Master in Harvard's history.\n\nAllston Burr Resident Dean Tiffanie Ting assumed her position in the summer of 2014.\n\nResident Tutors are academicians and/or professionals who live in the House and provide academic, career and life guidance to House residents while undertaking further studies, research and professional ventures. Resident Tutors at Cabot House have included:\n\nCabot House comprises the following six halls:\n\n\nCabot, Whitman, Briggs and Barnard are connected by a series of tunnels in the basement. The Dining Hall, JCR, and Grand Entry also serve to connect these buildings above ground. Bertram and Eliot Halls, the oldest, are not connected to the rest of the house, but are a short distance away, co-located on the Radcliffe Quadrangle. The Faculty Deans' Residence and Resident Dean's Residence, 107 and 103 Walker Street, respectively, are located directly across the street from the rest of the house, and are the only such residences in the Harvard House system not to be physically connected to the rest of the house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907861", "title": "Fort Wayne Fury", "text": "Fort Wayne Fury\n\nThe Fort Wayne Fury was a professional basketball team in the Continental Basketball Association (CBA) from 1991 through the cessation of the CBA on February 8, 2001.\n\nThe team played at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The Fury finished as the league's runner-up in the 1996 season. Former members of the team include former Indiana University standouts Damon Bailey and Greg Graham, NBA guard/forward Stephen Jackson, former multiple-time World Heavyweight Championship (professional wrestling) wrestler Kevin Nash, Mikki Moore, Lloyd Daniels and Percy Miller, better known as the rapper, \"Master P\". The original Fury coach was Gerald Oliver. NBA Hall of Famer Rick Barry also served as head coach of the team at one point. Another former coach was Keith Smart, who went on to coach the Cleveland Cavaliers of the NBA. Smart then went on to spend one season as the head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA and was the head coach of the Sacramento Kings until June 2013, when he was replaced by Mike Malone as the new head coach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907881", "title": "Giacomo Beltrami", "text": "Giacomo Beltrami\n\nGiacomo Costantino Beltrami (1779 – January 6, 1855) was an Italian jurist, author, and explorer, best known for claiming to have discovered the headwaters of the Mississippi River in 1823 while on a trip through much of the United States (later expeditions determined a different source, however). Beltrami County in Minnesota is named for him. He had an extensive network of notable figures for friends and acquaintances, such as members of the powerful Medici family.\n\nBeltrami was born in the city of Bergamo in the northern Italian region of Lombardy, the 16th of 17 children. His exact birth date is unknown because a fire in the area destroyed baptismal records in 1793. He apparently had a fair amount of schooling in literature, law, and other subjects before leaving to become a soldier for the Cisalpine Republic in 1797. The republic was an extension of France at the time, and Beltrami worked his way into the Napoleonic government after becoming a Mason. Years later, when the Marche region again came under purview of the papal government, he was questioned for his activities.\n\nBeltrami was married to the sister of Count Pietro Bastogi, a notable Italian railway financier.\n\nIn 1809, Beltrami became the friend of Giulia Spada dei Medici. When she died at the age of 39 in 1820, he put together a collection of different writings in her honor. He was distraught by her death, and this, combined with pressures about his background during French occupation, led him to begin traveling. He visited a number of different cities in Europe, reaching Liverpool, England in 1822. From there, he set out to the United States on a voyage that proved to be very treacherous. He finally arrived in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania after more than two months on the ocean in December 1822 or January 1823.\n\nIn the U.S. he also began visiting a number of different cities. He eventually began a voyage down the Ohio River with the intention of following it to the Mississippi and then south to New Orleans, Louisiana. However, while onboard he met with the prominent United States Indian agent, Lawrence Taliaferro, who was planning to travel upriver on the Mississippi. Beltrami soon became obsessed with the idea of finding the river's source. In 1823, the two later joined with Stephen H. Long as they traveled upriver to Fort Saint Anthony.\n\nBeltrami followed Long and Taliaferro as they went about exploring and mapping, and interacting with the local Native American tribes. However, in July, after about three months of this, tension began to grow between Beltrami and the others. He eventually split from their expedition in August, when the group had reached Pembina, and instead set off with some Ojibwe Indian guides on his personal quest to find the source of the river. After only a week and a half, his guides abandoned him and he had to carry on alone, seeking help from other natives that he came across.\n\nAt some point during this trip, Beltrami collected two indigenous flutes, which he later sent back to Italy along with his collection of Native American artifacts. One of these flutes provides us with the oldest extant Native American flute, and is now in the collection of the Museo Civico di Scienze Naturali in Bergamo, Italy.\n\nOn August 28, he found what he believed was the source of the Mississippi, as well as the Red River of the North. He named the place Giulia after his departed friend, and named eight other nearby lakes after her children. He began the return trip downriver to Fort Saint Anthony. Beltrami then continued south to his original destination of New Orleans, finally arriving in December.\n\nIn the city, he began writing an account of his travels thus far. By late January, it was completed, and it was published a few months later.\n\nBy that time, Beltrami was on another voyage through Mexico where he collected Aztec objects, classified plants and animals, and observed the area's political system. Particularly because of his work with flora, he would eventually be included in several scientific societies of France.\n\nHe returned to New Orleans in 1825, but soon left to return to Philadelphia where many copies of his book were being stored. The Catholic church was also displeased, and condemned him and his work. By November, he was hob-nobbing with elites at festivities surrounding the opening of New York's Erie Canal.\n\nAfter some trips to Haiti, Santo Domingo, and elsewhere, Beltrami made a return trip across the Atlantic in 1826, arriving in London in the late part of the year. He moved to Paris two years later, and joined several scientific societies through the early 1830s.\n\nIn 1834, Beltrami moved to Heidelberg, Germany and befriended Josef Anton Mittermaier, a notable jurist of the time. A few years later he finally returned to his estate in Filottrano. He attempted to have his books published in Italy, but the church-led government denied his requests. In his final years, he patterned his life on that of Franciscan friars, and called himself \"Fra Giacomo.\" Most of his time was spent working in his house and garden. He died there in 1855.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907886", "title": "The Donovans", "text": "The Donovans\n\nThe Donovans is an Australian Aboriginal country band. It comprises the Donovan brothers and Troy Russell. They won a Deadly Award in 2004.\n\nThey are members of a large musical family who were profiled in an episode of ABC's Dynasties television series. \nThey are multi-talented, sharing drums as well as lead and rhythm guitar.\n\n\nThe Donovans have played with the likes of Col Hardy, Jimmy Little, Roger Knox, Vic Simms and Troy Cassar Daley.\n\nMichael, Ashley and Merv have recently completed studio work on \"Changes\", a CD they have released with their niece, Emma Donovan.\n\n\n\n\nThe Donovan brothers look forward to a line-up of performances prior to the album's release.\n\nPlays drums and bass. Moved to Dubbo to teach music in 2004. Troy has made an award-winning documentary (The Foundation 1963 - 1975; Chilifilms and Mongreldogs Production; 2002.)\nBegan playing with the Donovans after meeting Michael at Eora College.\n\nThe Donovans won the award for Band of the Year at The Deadly Awards in 2004. They were nominated for two awards in 2003.\n\nThey have played at the Tamworth Country Music Festival, the 2004 Survival Concert at La Perouse and the 2004 Yaban Concert at Redfern, Sydney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907888", "title": "Louis Straker", "text": "Louis Straker\n\nSir Louis Hilton Straker, KCMG (born February 23, 1944 in Layou) is a politician and is the Second Deputy Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. He has been Deputy Prime Minister since 2015. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Commerce and Trade from 2001 to May 17, 2005 when he was transferred to the Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing during a cabinet reshuffle. He became Foreign Minister again in December 2005. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George in December 2005.\n\nLouis, better known as \"The Terminator\" was raised in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines by his father Bertram Augustus Straker.\n\nHe was educated at the Layou Government school, then to the Emmanuel High school an later gained higher education at the Hunger College, New York.\n\nIn the 2001 general election his party gained 69.2% of the vote. The Unity Labour Party gain government and Louis Straker was elected to house of parliament.\n\nIn the 2015 general election his party gained 52.28% of the vote with a total of 34,246 of the votes. Louis was once again elected to house of parliament for Central Leeward.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907897", "title": "Quikkit Glass Goose", "text": "Quikkit Glass Goose\n\nThe Quikkit Glass Goose is an American two-seat biplane amphibious aircraft, designed by Tom Scott and marketed for homebuilding by Quikkit of Dallas, Texas.\n\nThe Glass Goose is based on the earlier Sea Hawker, which was designed by Garry LeGare in 1982 and sold through his firm Aero Gare as the Sea Hawk and, later, Sea Hawker. LeGare sold the rights to the aircraft to Aero Composites in 1986, which sold them again two years later to (unrelated) Aero Composite Technologies.\n\nTom Scott purchased a Sea Hawker kit in October 1984 and completed the aircraft in March 1986, constructing the aircraft according to the plans. He was not happy with the resulting aircraft and over five years incorporated improvements to address performance and stability shortcomings. The final design has more wing area, a larger hull surface and improved pylon aerodynamics, plus many other improvements. This redesign became the Glass Goose kit.\n\nThe Glass Goose features a cantilever biplane layout, without interplane struts, a two-seats-in-side-by-side configuration enclosed cockpit under a bubble canopy, retractable tricycle landing gear and a single engine in pusher configuration.\n\nThe aircraft is made from composites. Its span wing has an area of . Standard engines used are Lycomings, although the eight-cylinder Jabiru 5100 and Mazda Wankel engines have also been employed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907903", "title": "Arnhim Eustace", "text": "Arnhim Eustace\n\nArnhim Ulric Eustace (born 5 October 1944) was a Vincentian politician and economist. He served as the third Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and is the former Leader of the Opposition and former president of the New Democratic Party (NDP) after resigning in 2016.\n\nEustace is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of East Kingstown in the House of Assembly of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\nOn 27 October 2000, Eustace, then a political neophyte, succeeded James Fitz-Allen Mitchell as the leader of the NDP, and on 28 March 2001, the NDP was defeated in the 2001 general election in which the party was reduced from 8 to 3 seats, producing a majority government for the Unity Labour Party.\n\nIn the 7 December 2005 general elections, Eustace's NDP also won 3 seats. In the 13 December 2010 general election, Eustace's NDP saw an increase in the popular vote to 48.67%, winning 7 seats in a close election. The number required to form a majority in the House of Assembly of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is 8, and the incumbent ULP formed government with a one-seat majority.\n\nArnhim Eustace is an alumnus of the St Vincent Boys' Grammar School. He attended Sir George William University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, where he earned a BSc in Economics and a MSc in Development Economics from University of Windsor (now Concordia) in Ontario, Canada.\n\nAt the age of 27, Eustace became the youngest permanent secretary in St. Vincent and the Grenadines when he was so assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture. His ascendancy was cut short when in 1976 he resigned from the civil service on a point of principle. For roughly one year after his departure he fished, literally, the waters off Edinboro, until Sir William Demas flew into St. Vincent to recruit the young economist into the Caribbean Development Bank.\n\nIn 1977, Eustace and his family relocated to Barbados where, with the exception of roughly one year, they lived for the next 16 years, his full tour of duty with the CDB. There he rose from Administrative Officer through the ranks of the institution, ultimately becoming Director of Projects, third in the line of seniority at the regional institution, before repatriating to St. Vincent in 1993.\n\nIn 1985 Eustace was for 18 months seconded by the CDB to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) which assigned him to the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines to review and implement changes to the public finance system and to manage government finances as Director General of Finance and Planning.\n\nUpon his 1993 return to St. Vincent, Eustace was appointed Fiscal Adviser to the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\nIn 1998, he resigned from the public service and ran for political office, winning the East Kingstown parliamentary seat (which he has won for the past 4 consecutive elections by increasing margins of victory). Following the 1998 general elections, he was appointed Minister of Finance, Planning and the Public Service. Later that year he was offered the post of Deputy Secretary General of the British Commonwealth Secretariat in London, which he declined. Fifty-three countries constitute the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1998 Eustace was chairman of WIBDECO as well as the Joint Venture Holding Companies in the UK. He headed the Windward Islands negotiating team for the acquisition of GEEST Bananas (including the GEEST shipping fleet) in a joint venture with Fyffes of Ireland. Eustace was chairman of the National Insurance Scheme (NIS). He was also the Government Director on the board of the East Caribbean Group of Companies (ECGC).\n\nIn 2000, Eustace was elected leader of the New Democratic Party and upon the October 2000 retirement of Sir James Mitchell, was appointed prime minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines until the NDP's loss at the March 2001 General Elections.\n\nEustace remains president of The New Democratic Party and Leader of the Opposition. In the three general elections his party has contested since he took the helm, the NDP has risen from 3–12 to 7–8, within narrow reach of forming government.\n\nIn 2016, Eustace resigned as both Leader of the Opposition and President of the New Democratic Party after holding the two positions for 15 years.\n"}
{"id": "1907910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907910", "title": "Narsinh Mehta", "text": "Narsinh Mehta\n\nNarsinh Mehta, also known as Narsi Mehta or Narsi Bhagat , was a 15th-century poet-saint of Gujarat, India, notable as a bhakta, an exponent of Vaishnava poetry. He is especially revered in Gujarati literature, where he is acclaimed as its \"Adi Kavi\" (Sanskrit for \"first among poets\"). His bhajan \"Vaishnav Jan To\" was Mahatma Gandhi's favourite and has become synonymous with him.\n\nNarsinh Mehta was born in a Nagar Brahmin family at Talaja and later moved to Junagadh in Saurashtra peninsula of modern-day Gujarat. His father held an administrative post in a royal court. He lost his parents when he was five years old. He could not speak until the age of eight. He was raised by his grandmother Jaygauri.\n\nHe married Manekbai probably in the year 1429. Mehta and his wife stayed at his brother Bansidhar's house in Junagadh. However, Bansidhar's wife (Sister-in-law or \"bhabhi\") did not welcome Narsinh very well. She was an ill-tempered woman, always taunting and insulting Narsinh Mehta for his devotion (Bhakti). One day, when Narasinh Mehta had enough of these taunts and insults, he left the house and went to a nearby forest in search of some peace, where he fasted and meditated for seven days by a secluded Shiva lingam until Shiva appeared before him in person. On the poet's request, the Lord took him to Vrindavan and showed him the eternal \"raas leela\" of Krishna and the Gopis. A legend has it that the poet, transfixed by the spectacle, burnt his hand with the torch he was holding, but he was so engrossed in the ecstatic vision that he was oblivious to the pain. Mehta, as the popular account goes, at Krishna's command, decided to sing His praises and the nectarous experience of the \"rasa\" in this mortal world. He resolved to compose around 22,000 kirtans or compositions.\n\nAfter this divine experience, the transformed Mehta returned to his village, touched his sister-in-law's feet as reverence, and thanked her for insulting him for had she not made him upset, the above episode would not have occurred.\n\nIn Junagadh, Mehta lived in poverty with his wife and two children, a son named Shamaldas, and a daughter for whom he had special affection, Kunwarbai. He revelled in devotion to his heart's content along with sadhus, saints, and all those people who were Lord Hari's subjects – Harijans – irrespective of their caste, class or sex. It also seems that he must have fallen into a somewhat ill repute amongst the Nagars following incidents like accepting invitation to sing glories of Lord Krishna in association of devotees belonging to lower social strata. The Nagars of Junagadh despised him and spared no opportunity to scorn and insult him . By this time, Mehta had already sung about the rasaleela of Radha and Krishna. The compositions are collected under the category of Shringar compositions. They are full of intense lyricism, based upon pastimes of conjugal love between the Supreme Lord and His most intimate devotees - the Gopis and are not without allegorical dimensions.\n\nSoon after his daughter, Kunwarbai's marriage (around 1447) to Shrirang Mehta of Una's son, Kunwarbai conceived and it had been a custom for the girl's parents to give gifts and presents to all the in-laws during the seventh month of pregnancy. This custom, known as Mameru, was simply out of the reach of materialistically poor Narsinh who had hardly anything except intransient faith in his Lord. How Krishna helped his beloved devotee is a legend depicted in 'Mameru Na Pada'. This episode is preserved vividly in the memory of Gujarati people by compositions by later poets and films. Other famous legends include: 'Hundi (Bond)' episode and 'Har Mala (Garland)' episode. The episode in which none other than Shamalsha Seth cleared a bond written by poverty-stricken beloved, is famous not only in Gujarat but in other parts of India as well. The Har Mala episode deals with the challenge given to Mehta by Ra Mandalika (1451–1472), a Chudasama king, to prove his innocence in the charges of immoral behaviour by making the Lord Himself garland Narsinh. Mehta depicts this episode. How Sri Krishna, in the guise of a wealthy merchant, helped Mehta in getting his son married is sung by the poet in \"Putra Vivah Na Pada\". He went to Mangrol where, at the age of 79, he is believed to have died. The crematorium at Mangrol is called 'Narsinh Nu Samshan' where one of the sons of Gujarat and more importantly a great Vaishnav was cremated. He will forever be remembered for his poetic works and devotion to Lord Krishna. He is known as the first poet of Gujarati Adi Kavi.\n\nDarshana Dholakiya had studied the development of biography of Narsinh Mehta. She has divided the development in three stages; biography from his poetry which is autobiographical in nature, biography emerging from poetry of poets born between Krishnadas and Premanand, biography written by poets after Premanand. She considers second stage very important because an image of Narsinh Mehta's personality was established during this period.\n\nNo year is mentioned in his compositions. So there is difference of opinions among scholars about his time.\n\nThe mention of Junagadh king Mandalika is considered to establish his date. No independent poem of the event of garland is found in the biographical poems of the poets of second period like Krishnadas, Vishnudas, Govind, Vishwanath Jani or Premanand but the event of garland is mentioned in some poems.\n\nA poem on the event of garland is independently found in the autobiographical poems said to be composed by Narsinh. The oldest manuscript dated Samvat 1675 has seven poems (\"pada\") which also mentions Mandalika. So it can be said that the contemporaneity of Mandalika and Narsinh was established by Samvat 1675. One poem on the event of garland even mentions Samvat 1512 as the date of event but the authenticity is not established. So it is known that the contemporaneity of Mandalika and Narsinh is popular in old as well as new traditions. One question emerge from that why did Mandalika tested him even though he was mentioned as a religious Vaishnava in other sources. This Mandalika must have been Mandalika III ( or Samvat 1506–1527) and was defeated by Mahmud Begada. His defeat is connected to the test of Narsinh. Other reasons for his defeat mentioned are the curse of Charan lady Nagbai and his relation with wife of his minister Vishal.\n\nIn older traditions, there is no mention of his clan. Names of his parents or brother is not mentioned either.\n\n\"Narsain Mehtanu Akhyan\" (written after Samvat 1705) mentions one Parvat Mehta but he was not related to Narsinh Mehta and he is just mentioned as a devotee.\n\nVallabhdas' \"Shamaldasno Vivah\" gives information about his clan and ancestry. Purushottam is mentioned as his grandfather. His \"gotra\" is Kashyap. His Veda division and his family deities (\"Kuladevta\" and \"Kuladevi\") is also mentioned. The following family tree is mentioned in it:\n\n\"Draupadi Pattavidhan\" composed by Rangildas, son of Trikamdas, mentions that Trikamdas was mentioned in Narsinh's clan. But it can be taken as the common Nagar clan.\n\nSeveral pedigrees are recorded later but they differ from each other. One pedigree even mentions Narsinh as an uncle of Parvatdas though Parvatdas is commonly mentioned as an uncle of Narsinh. So authenticity of these pedigrees are questionable. Vallabhdas' \"Shamaldas no Vivah\" has years of Narsinh arranged so it seems that he had tried to establish his biography.\n\nSo Dholakiya opines that the authentic pedigree of Narsinh Mehta has not survived.\n\nThe exact location of the non-reverend Shivalinga worshiped by Narsinh is not mentioned in old as well as new traditions.\n\n\"Shamaldas No Vivah\", purportedly composed by Narsinh himself, mentions the place as Gopinath. Later work \"Narsain Mehtanu Akhyan\" mentions it as Gopeshwar. Some scholars mentions Gopnath near Talaja as the place but it is dubious because Narsinh had worshiped it in forest while the Gopnath is on the seashore. It must have been near Junagadh because mention of forest.\n\nAs he worshiped Shiva after leaving home, it can be said that his family tradition was Shaivism. He became Vaishnava due to Shiva. It is mentioned that other Nagars opposed him due to his Vaishnava tradition. Vishwanath Jani's \"Mosalacharitra\" mentions that a Nagar opposed him saying that he is not \"vipra\" (Brahmin) because he is Vaishnava. So Dholakiya opines that the event of Shiva may have originated to make his Vaishnava devotion acceptable.\n\nHarivallabh Bhayani opines that the Vaishnava devotion was prevalent in Narshin's time and it is not unusual that he was devotee of Vaishnava. He also mentions the \"Vaishnava\" surname among Nagars.\n\nNo education or profession other than religious devotion is mentioned in his poetry. It is said that he became poet due to grace of god but Bhayani opines that, if we consider \"Chaturi\" as his full or partial composition, its language, style and emotion establishes Narsinh's knowledge of literary traditions and creativity. Narsinh must have known \"Geet Govind\", Vedant etc. It works seem influenced by Marathi poets like Namdev. So he must have studied according to his Nagar family tradition.\n\nNarsinh was opposed in his Nagar society but the opposition was not strong as much seen in other saint-poets like Meera and Kabir of that era.\nThe reasons behind opposition seem his acceptance of Vaishnava tradition even though his family tradition was Shaiva, his attitude towards society and poor and his friendly devotion to god in view of orthodox society. His life events matches events of several popular saint-poets like Surdas, Tulsidas, Meera, Kabir, Namdev and Sundarar. While several saint-poets are not involved in household, Narsinh was involved in household even after his commitment to devotion. He lived with his family and he did not had any followers.\n\nMehta is a pioneer poet of Gujarati literature. He is known for his literary forms called \"pada (verse)\", \"Akhyana\" and \"Prabhatiya\" (morning devotional songs).\nOne of the most important features of Mehta's works is that they are not available in the language in which Narsinh had composed them. They have been largely preserved orally. The oldest available manuscript of his work is dated around 1612, and was found by the noted scholar Keshavram Kashiram Shastri from Gujarat Vidhya Sabha. Because of the immense popularity of his works, their language has undergone modifications with changing times. Mehta wrote many bhajans and Aartis for lord Krishna, and they are published in many books. The biography of Mehta is also available at Geeta Press.\n\nFor the sake of convenience, the works of Mehta are divided into three categories:\n\nSee: \"Vaishnav jan to\", his popular composition.\n\nThe first Gujarati talkie film, \"Narsinh Mehta\" (1932) directed by Nanubhai Vakil was based on Narsinh Mehta's life. It was devoid of any miracles due to Gandhian influence. The bilingual film \"Narsi Mehta\" in Hindi and \"Narsi Bhagat\" in Gujarati (1940) directed by Vijay Bhatt included miracles and had paralleled Mehta with Mahatma Gandhi. \"Narsaiyo\" (1991) was a Gujarati television series telecast by the Ahmedabad centre of Doordarshan starring Darshan Jariwala in lead role. This 27-episode successful series was produced by Nandubhai Shah and directed by Mulraj Rajda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907913", "title": "Quikkit", "text": "Quikkit\n\nQuikkit is a manufacturer of kitplanes located in Dallas, Texas. The firm was founded in 1992 by Tom Scott to market the Glass Goose amphibious aircraft, a substantially revised version of the Aero Composites Sea Hawker design that Scott purchased the rights to after the previous manufacturer ceased business.\n"}
{"id": "1907917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907917", "title": "Arun Kolatkar", "text": "Arun Kolatkar\n\nArun Balkrishna Kolatkar (Marathi: अरुण बालकृष्ण कोलटकर) (1 November 1932 – 25 September 2004) was an Indian poet who wrote in both Marathi and English. His poems found humor in many everyday matters. He exerted profound influence on modern Indian poets including Ranjit Hoskote. His first collection of English poetry, \"Jejuri\" won the Commonwealth Writers' Prize in 1977. His Marathi verse collection \"Bhijki Vahi\" won a Sahitya Akademi Award in 2005. An anthology of his works, \"Collected Poems in English\", edited by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, was published in Britain by Bloodaxe Books in 2010. He was awarded the Commonwealth poetry price for his poetry \"Jejuri\"\nTrained as an artist from the J. J. School of Art, he was also a noted graphics designer.'The Bus' is a fine poem from epic Jejuri.In this poem the poet describes its journey by State Transport Bus in Maharashtra.The poet and other pilgrims are going to Jejuri to visit the temple of God Khandoba.\n\nKolatkar was born in Kolhapur, Maharashtra, where his father Tatya Kolatkar was an officer in the Education department. He lived in a traditional patriarchal Hindu extended family, along with his uncle's family. He has described their nine-room house as \"a house of cards. Five in a row on the ground, topped by three on the first, and one on the second floor.\". The floors had to be \"plastered with cowdung every week\".\n\nHe attended Rajaram High School in Kolhapur, where Marathi was the medium of instruction. After graduation in 1949, much against his father's wishes, he joined S. B. College of Arts, Gulbarga, where his childhood friend Baburao Sadwelkar was enrolled. His college years saw a \"mysterious phase of drifting and formal as well as spiritual education\", and he graduated in 1957.\n\nIn 1953, he married Darshan Chhabda (sister of well-known painter Bal Chhabda). The marriage was opposed by both families, partly because Kolatkar was yet to sell any of his paintings.\n\nHis early years in Mumbai were poor but eventful, especially his life as an upcoming artist, in the Rampart Row neighborhood, where the Artists' Aid Fund Centre was located. Around this time, he also \ntranslated Tukaram into English. \n\nThis period of struggle and transition has been captured in his Marathi poem ‘The \nTurnaround’:\n\nAfter many years of struggle, he started work as an art director and graphic designer in several advertising agencies like Lintas. By mid-60s he was established as a graphic artist, and joined Mass Communication and Marketing, an eclectic group of creatives headed by \nthe legendary advertiser Kersy Katrak. It was Katrak, himself a poet, who pushed Kolatkar into bringing out Jejuri. Kolatkar was, in advertising jargon, a ‘visualizer’; and soon became one of Mumbai's most successful art directors. He won the prestigious CAG award for advertising six times, and was admitted to the CAG Hall of Fame.\n\nBy 1966, his marriage with Darshan was in trouble, and Kolatkar developed a drinking problem. This went down after the marriage was dissolved by mutual agreement and he married his second wife, Soonu.\n\nAn old woman is a well known poem by Arun Kolatkar .It is an extract from the famous poetry \"Jejuri\".The poem is about the old beggar woman.She requests the poet speaker to help her. In the beginning he wasn't ready to help her after seeing her miserable state, he felt pity.Finally he gives a small change in her hand.\n\nHis Marathi poems of the 1950s and 1960s are written\n\"in the Bombay argot of the migrant working classes and the underworld, part\nHindi, part Marathi, which the Hindi film industry would make proper use of\nonly decades later\". For instance, consider the following, which intersperses Hindi dialect into the Marathi: \n\nTo match this in his English translation, he sometimes adopts \"a cowboy variety\": \nIn Marathi, his poetry is the quintessence of the modernist as manifested in the 'little magazine movement' in the 1950s and 1960s. His early Marathi poetry was radically experimental and displayed the influences of European avant-garde trends like surrealism, expressionism and Beat generation poetry. These poems are oblique, whimsical and at the same time dark, sinister, and exceedingly funny. Some of these characteristics can be seen in \"Jejuri\" and \"Kala Ghoda Poems\" in English, but his early Marathi poems are far more radical, dark and humorous than his English poems. His early Marathi poetry is far more audacious and takes greater liberties with language. However, in his later Marathi poetry, the poetic language is more accessible and less radical compared to earlier works. His later works \"Chirimiri\", \"Bhijki Vahi\" and \"Droan\" are less introverted and less nightmarish. They show a greater social awareness and his satire becomes more direct. Bilingual poet and anthologist Vilas Sarang assigns great importance to Kolatkar's contribution to Marathi poetry, pointing to \"Chirimiri\" in particular as \"a work that must give inspiration and\ndirection to all future Marathi poets\".\n\nHe won the Kusumagraj Puraskar given by the Marathwada Sahitya Parishad in 1991 and Bahinabai Puraskar given by Bahinabai Prathistan in 1995. \nHis Marathi poetry collections include:\n\nKolatkar was among a group of post-independence bilingual poets who fused the diction of their mother tongues along with international styles to break new ground in their poetic traditions; others in this group included Gopalakrishna Adiga\n(Kannada), Raghuvir Sahay (Hindi), Dilip Chitre (also Marathi), Sunil Gangopadhyay, Malay Roy Choudhury (Bengali), etc.\n\nMarathi devotional poetry and popular theater (\"tamasha\") had early influences on Kolatkar. American beat poetry, especially of William Carlos Williams had later influences on him. Along with friends like Dilip Chitre, he was caught up in the modern shift in Marathi poetry which was pioneered by B. S. Mardhekar.\n\nWhen asked by an interviewer who his favorite poets and writers were, he set out a large multilingual list. While the answer is part rebuff, the list is indicative of the wide, fragmented sources he may have mined, and is worth quoting in full: \n\nKolatkar was hesitant about bringing out his English verse, but his very first book, Jejuri, had a wide impact among fellow poets and littérateurs like Nissim Ezekiel and Salman Rushdie. Brought out from a small press, it was reprinted twice in quick succession, and Pritish Nandy was quick to anthologize him in the cult collection, \"Strangertime\". For some years, some of his poems were also included in school texts.\n\nThe poem sequence deals with a visit to Jejuri, a pilgrimage site for the local Maharashtrian deity Khandoba (a local deity, also an incarnation of Shiva). In a conversation with poet Eunice de Souza, Kolatkar says he discovered Jejuri in ‘a book on temples and legends of Maharashtra… there was a chapter on Jejuri in it. It seemed an interesting place’. Along with his brother and a friend, he visited Jejuri in 1963, and appears to have composed some poems shortly thereafter. \nA version of the poem \"A low temple\" was published soon in a little magazine called \"Dionysius\", but both the original manuscript and this magazine were lost. Subsequently, the poems were recreated in the 1970s, and were published in a literary quarterly in 1974, and the book came out in 1976.\n\nThe poems evoke a series of images to highlight the ambiguities in modern-day life. Although situated in a religious setting, they are not religious; in 1978, an interviewer asked him if he believed in God, and Kolatkar said: ‘I leave the question alone. I don’t think I have to take a position about God one way or the other.’\n\nBefore Jejuri, Kolatkar had also published other poem sequences, including \"the boatride\", which appeared in the little magazine, \"damn you: a magazine of the arts\" in 1968, and was anthologized twice. A few of his early poems in English also appeared in Dilip Chitre's \"Anthology of Marathi poetry 1945-1965\" (1967). Although some of these poems claim to be 'English version by poet', \"their Marathi originals were never committed to paper.\" (this is also true of some other bilingual poets like Vilas Sarang.\n\nA reclusive figure all his life, he lived without a telephone, and was hesitant about bringing out his work. It was only after he was diagnosed with cancer that two volumes were brought out by friends – the English poetry volumes \"Kala Ghoda Poems\" and \"Sarpasatra\" (2004).\n\n\"Sarpa Satra\" is an 'English version' of a poem with a similar name in \"Bhijki Vahi\". It is a typical Kolatkar narrative poem like \"Droan\", mixing myth, allegory, and contemporary history. Although Kolatkar was never known as a social commentator, his narrative poems tend to offer a whimsical tilted commentary on social mores. Many poems in \"Bhijki Vahi\" refer to contemporary history. However, these are not politicians' comments but a poet's, and he avoids the typical Dalit -Leftist-Feminist rhetoric.\n\nWhile \"Jejuri\" was about the agonized relationship of a modern sensitive individual with the indigenous culture, the Kala Ghoda poems are about the dark underside of Mumbai's underbelly. The bewilderingly heterogeneous megapolis is envisioned in various oblique and whimsical perspectives of an underdog. Like \"Jejuri\", \"Kala Ghoda\" is also 'a place poem' exploring the myth, history, geography, and ethos of the place in a typical Kolatkaresque style. While \"Jejuri\", a very popular place for pilgrimage to a pastoral god, could never become Kolatkar's home, \"Kala Ghoda\" is about exploring the baffling complexities of the great metropolis. While \"Jejuri\" can be considered as an example of searching for a belonging, which happens to be the major fixation of the previous generation of Indian poets in English, Kala Ghoda poems do not betray any anxieties and agonies of 'belonging'. With \"Kala Ghoda Poems\", Indian poetry in English seems to have grown up, shedding adolescent `identity crises’ and goose pimples. The remarkable maturity of poetic vision embodied in the \"Kala Ghoda Poems\" makes it something of a milestone in Indian poetry in English.\n\nAfter his death, a new edition of the hard to obtain \"Jejuri\" was published in the New York Review Books Classics series with an introduction by Amit Chaudhuri (2006). Near his death, he had also requested Arvind Krishna Mehrotra to edit some of his uncollected poems. These poems were published as \"The Boatride and Other Poems\" by Pras Prakashan in 2008. His \"Collected Poems in English\", edited by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, was published in Britain by Bloodaxe Books in 2010.\n\nHe was survived by his wife Soonu Kolatkar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907924", "title": "Ahobilam", "text": "Ahobilam\n\nAhobilam is a village and holy site in the Allagadda mandal of Kurnool district in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is surrounded by picturesque hills of the Eastern Ghats with several mountain hills and gorges. It is the centre of worship of Narasimha, the lion-headed avatar of Vishnu, to whom the nine Hindu temples and other shrines all dedicated. The main village and a temple complex are at Lower Ahobilam. Upper Ahobilam, about 8 kilometres to the east, has more temples in a steep gorge. \n\nThe temple consists of nine shrines to Narasimha, located around a 5 KM circle. In addition to the nine shrines, there is a temple for Prahaladavarada Varadhan in the foothills of the mountain. Due to security reasons and the difficulty in performing daily worship, many of the utsava vigrahas of the nine shrines are kept in this temple. To visit the entire group still involves some relatively arduous walking.\n\nThe main Narashima temples at each site were built or expanded by the kings of Vijayanagara in the 15th and 16th centuries, then sacked by the Mughals in 1578, then restored and expanded at various times, up to the present day. As they stand, they are a mixture of work from all these periods. \n\nAhobilam is traditionally regarded as the place where Vishnu in the form of Narasimha killed the rakshasa Hiranyakashipu in order to save his devotee Prahlada. The legend says that Narasimha emerged from a rock pillar to kill the rakshasha. The moment is represented in a number of murti in the various temples. Also, Garuda prayed for a vision of Narasimha in the form of Avathara, to fulfil his wish, and settled in nine forms across the hills in Ahobilam.\n\nAhobilam is located at . It is located in Nallamala Forest, along the Eastern Ghats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907927", "title": "Dean Butterworth", "text": "Dean Butterworth\n\nDean Butterworth is an English–American musician who is noted for working with English singer Morrissey, in 2005 became the drummer for American band Good Charlotte after they parted with their previous drummer, Chris Wilson, and in fall 2014 became the permanent drummer for American pop rock band Sugar Ray (after having toured with them since spring/summer 2013).\n\nDean Butterworth was born in Rochdale, Greater Manchester, England. He moved to the United States at age 10 and started learning to play the drums at age 12. During the early years he focused on the intricacies of jazz and fusion drumming, but after experiencing the chameleon-like way in which Stewart Copeland of The Police switched fluidly from one style to another, often within the same song, he began to branch out into many different styles. His stepfather, Patrick Shanahan, was also an influence on his drumming, advising him to learn a wide variety of musical styles.\n\nIt is the versatility he gained then which later allowed Butterworth to work with many different artists, including blues legend John Lee Hooker. He is a supporter of Rochdale A.F.C.\n\nIn May 2005, after Good Charlotte parted with their drummer due to drug use and inability for Chris Wilson to tour, Butterworth was called in as a temporary replacement. He performed on their 2007 album \"Good Morning Revival\". On the eve of the release of their next studio album the temporary membership was turned into a permanent one.\n\nThe band released their fifth studio album, \"Cardiology\", in November 2010.\n\nButterworth worked with Joel and Benji Madden from Good Charlotte on their band the Madden Brothers, drumming on their album \"Greetings from California\", released in 2014.\n\nHis third album with Good Charlotte and their sixth overall \"Youth Authority\" was released in July 2016. His fourth and their seventh \"Generation Rx\" was released in September 2018.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2001, Butterworth was one of The Innocent Criminals, the band of Ben Harper. Butterworth sang, played the piano and guitar and wrote his own songs. One of the songs he co-wrote with Harper is \"She's Only Happy in the Sun\", from the album \"Diamonds on the Inside\".\n\nIn 2002 Butterworth toured with Morrissey. In 2003 he worked with surfer and musician Donavon Frankenreiter, on whose self-titled album he plays the drums and sings, with fellow ex-Innocent Criminals David Leach on percussion.\n\nIn the fall of 2003, Butterworth laid down drum tracks for a song with Scott Shriner, the current bassist of Weezer; Justin Shekoski, guitarist for Saosin; and Anthony Green, singer for Saosin at the time. The song, entitled \"I've Been Dying To Reach You\", was allegedly recorded to test out the new home studio of John Feldmann, producer and singer for Goldfinger. The song was originally released only on the internet, but a version was later released as \"Dear Child (I've Been Dying To Reach You)\" on Green's debut album \"Avalon\" in 2008.\n\nIn 2004, Butterworth toured once more with Morrissey.\n\nButterworth recorded drums for the Used on their third album, \"Lies for the Liars\", after their former drummer, Branden Steineckert, was kicked out of the band.\n\nHe drummed for the Cab on their album \"Symphony Soldier\", released on August 23, 2011.\n\nHe is also the drummer and band leader of the house band for the NBC game show \"Hollywood Game Night\".\n\nIn 2016, Butterworth became a permanent member of Sugar Ray along with Kristian Attard, replacing Bivona brothers, after being a touring member since 2013.\n\nIn 2017, Butterworth drummed for Hollywood Undead on their album Five.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907931", "title": "Michael V. Ciresi", "text": "Michael V. Ciresi\n\nMichael \"Mike\" V. Ciresi is a prominent trial attorney and was a Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party candidate for the United States Senate from Minnesota. He dropped out on March 10, 2008. Ciresi gained his public reputation by litigating several high-profile mass tort cases. Ciresi is the former Chairman of the Executive Board of the Minneapolis firm Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP, a 250-lawyer firm he joined in 1971. He left in 2015 to form his own firm.\n\nHe was counsel to the State of Minnesota and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota against the American tobacco industry, suing in 1994 as the second of eventually 46 states to join in the tobacco litigation. Ciresi's Minneapolis law firm, Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi, of which he was the chair, settled with the tobacco companies in 1998 with an agreement for the tobacco defendants to pay the state of Minnesota $6 billion. The law firm donated $30 million to the Minneapolis Foundation in 1998, a contribution made possible by the settlement fee; at the time, the gift was thought to be the largest contribution from a law firm to a community foundation. Ciresis has been on the Board of Trustees of his alma mater, the University of St. Thomas, and on the Board of Governors of the University of St. Thomas School of Law. He has served on the board of Regions Hospital Foundation and Minnesota Early Learning Foundation.\n\nCiresi's law firm was mentioned in the press for the legal fees collected in the 1998 tobacco settlement, variously reported as between $440 million and $558 million . The fees were to be paid over two years , in contrast to the 25-year annual payment scheme used to pay the plaintiffs of the case, the State of Minnesota. The fees were funded directly by tobacco companies.\n\nAs a result of the 1998 Minnesota tobacco settlement, Ciresi came to be known as a wealthy man and philanthropist, appearing regularly in the national and local press. According to \"Forbes\" magazine, with Ciresi among the highest-paid lawyers in the USA, \"Cigarette money alone put these ten lawyers on the top-earning list—and it's likely to keep them there for the next 25 years.\" The magazine listed Ciresi's personal annual income at $14.4 million in 2000. \"Forbes\" speculated that Ciresi would use his newfound wealth and prominence to run for political office, which soon proved correct.\n\nCiresi served as counsel to the Government of India against Union Carbide over the Bhopal catastrophe. He was counsel to women rendered infertile by the Copper 7 IUD and to the families of women killed by the Dalkon Shield IUD.\n\nCiresi ran in the 2000 Senate primary for the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (DFL), spending several million dollars of his own money on the campaign. Ciresi ran as a self-described progressive moderate, and was endorsed by the Sierra Club and the Minnesota Nurses' Association. Ciresi was handily defeated by Mark Dayton, an heir to the founders of Target Corporation, in the four-way DFL primary. Dayton then came from behind in the polls to defeat first-term incumbent Republican Senator Rod Grams in the general election.\n\nDayton announced in early 2005 that he would not seek a second term. Although Ciresi indicated an interest in the race and registered the domain name ciresiforsenate.com within 48 hours of Dayton's announcement, he announced on February 7 that he would not seek the nomination.\nHe would have faced Hennepin County district attorney Amy Klobuchar and Ford Bell in the DFL primary.\n\nOn April 18, 2007, Ciresi announced that he would seek the DFL endorsement] for the Senate seat held by Norm Coleman. Other Democrats in the race included author and satirist Al Franken, professor and author Jack Nelson-Pallmeyer, and Human Rights Activist Jim Cohen. On March 10, 2008, Ciresi announced his withdrawal from the primary>\n\nOn June 7, 2008, the Minnesota DFL endorsed Franken. Ciresi was widely reported on June 11 as saying he was \"leaving all options on the table\" when questioned about a possible primary run against Franken. But Ciresi eventually dropped out of the race without challenging Franken in the primary.\n"}
{"id": "1907932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907932", "title": "Battle Skipper", "text": "Battle Skipper\n\nThe OVA focuses mostly on the girls of St Ignacio's School for girls than the mecha itself. There are two clubs to join: , where admission is said to lead to ultimate success; or , which is said to teach the values of common courtesy in the world.\n\nThree freshmen join the Etiquette club rather than the popular Debutante Club and soon discover its founding members are part of a secret task force called Exters (ExStars in the dubbed version). Fan service is a predominated feature in the transformation sequence. The battles are not only for school hierarchy, but to save the world.\n\nThe story opens as Sayaka Kitaouji takes off from space and head towards Earth in her private shuttle where Todou briefs her on Uruyasu's stocks. On Earth, at St. Ignacio's School for Girls, two freshmen Saori Tachibana and Shihoko Sakaki head towards Orientation Day in the school's auditorium. Sayaka makes a powerful speech in order to receive more members for the already popular Debutante Club. Etiquette Club VP Rie Shibusawa tries her best to make a speech herself but ends up failing as president Reika Ayanokoji looks on in disbelief. The failed speech inspires Shihoko to join the Etiquette Club and brings Saori and their newfound friend Kanami Ezaki to the clubhouse. Once inside, arrows came flying out. Saori ducks under one, Kanami chops another in midair, but Shihoko was hit with the arrow. Luckily, it was a prop arrow. Reika and Rie explain everything about the Etiquette Club in detail to the new girls in hopes of improving their skills. At the end of the day, Sayaka heads off campus and informs Todou to take some men and rob the Mitsuido Bank, a bank that finances most of Uruyasu. Later that night, Saori, Shihoko and Kanami each sneak into the Etiquette Clubhouse and try to uncover its secret. They soon discover an underground base with Battle Skippers. Each of the girls pilot the Battle Skippers to where Reika and Rie are: the Mitsuido Bank. To the shock of Reika and Rie and even Todou's men, the new girls arrived and stopped the robbery. Todou decided to cut his losses and run, but his associates were soon captured by Reika and Rie and handed them over to the authorities. Back at base, Rie scolded Kanami, Saori and Shihoko for their reckless and foolish act, but Reika calmed her down and decided to welcome the girls as official members of Exters.\n\nWith the Mitsuido Bank robbery a bust, Sayaka takes her anger out on Todou for his cowardice. In order to get back in her good graces, Todou hatches a plan to lure of the new members of Exters to deliver the AIES to Makuhari. Sayaka accepts his offer and warns him not to disappoint her again. Back at school in the Etiquette Club, Rie rides Saori, Shihoko and Kanami like a drill sergeant to make them stronger and powerful pilots. Nearby, the robbers from the Mitsuido heist are joined by another man and Todou steps out in a priest's outfit. The next day, Saori heads off to school alone and is confronted by Todo's gang who try to rape her until Todou assaults them and knocks them down. Saori is immediately awe-struck with Todo who introduces himself as \"Brother Gilbert\". At school, Todou becomes the substitute teacher and easily gains Saori's trust. She hoped to kiss him to repay him for saving her life, but instead Todou slips a drug into her mouth which has hypnotic effects. Soon, Saori was ordered under hypnosis to retrieve the AIES from her Battle Skipper and bring it to him and to make sure to dispose of anyone who interferes. However, the remaining Exters snap Saori out of her trance and explain Todou's deceit. Infuriated that she was used, Saori unleashes her anger on Todou, but not before his men destroy the base and rescue him. The Exters chase the Makuhari Battle Skippers all over Tokyo and Saori decides to use the AIES combat software to pay back Todou. However, Todou has tricks up his sleeve as well as his Battle Skipper and 3 other Makuhari Battle Skippers form a giant robot. Reika and Rie use their own Battle Skippers to form a powerful ring of energy to destroy the giant robot and force Todou and his men to retreat. Back at their ruined base, Reika reveals to the Exters the true base known as \"Josephine Rose\".\n\nHaving figured out the identities of the Exters, Sayaka hopes to be rid of them once and for all. She had the principal of St. Ignacio's force the Etiquette Club to disband within 24 hours or face expulsion. Reika knows this is all a Makuhari plot and heads towards their main building. Upon arrival, she is held captive. At night, the remaining Exters hold off Sayaka's Four Divas (leaders of the sports clubs who do Sayaka's dirty work). Kanami easily disposes of the Four Divas and join Rie, Saori and Shihoko in Josephine Rose to rescue Reika. Suddenly, a large fortress appears with Sayaka and Todou at the helm hoping to bring down the Exters forever, but Josephine Rose held its own and unleashes its own power to knock out the flying fortress. As if things weren't bad for Sayaka, her mother overheard everything happening at school. She informs Sayaka that she's reinstated the Etiquette Club in order to teach her humility and modesty, and should a cowardly act be repeated, there would be consequences. Sayaka swallows her pride and accepts her loss and calls a retreat. The show ends with the Exters proud of defending their club, their honor and the rest of the world.\n\n\nThe Battle Skippers are tank like robots each with an AIES expert system connected to enhance the pilot's movement.\nThe manufacturers names are , , and . The Battle Skippers piloted by the Exters are Uruyasu while those piloted by the Debutante Club are Makuhari. Saori's Battle Skipper has a Kansai accent while Rie's has more of an Osaka dialect (\"country\" dialect in the dub).\n\nThe Battle Skippers of Uruyasu\n\nThe Battle Skippers of Makuhari\n\nOther Battle Skippers\n"}
{"id": "1907934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907934", "title": "Poniatowski, Wisconsin", "text": "Poniatowski, Wisconsin\n\nPoniatowski is an unincorporated community, in the town of Rietbrock, Marathon County, Wisconsin, United States. The area is geographically notable for being less than one mile away from the 45°N, 90°W point.\n\nPoniatowski is also being considered as one of few undiscovered Polish communities due to the group of Polish settlers established their village after Rietbrock in 1879, naming after Polish leader and general Józef Poniatowski.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907941", "title": "William Scott Wilson", "text": "William Scott Wilson\n\nWilliam Scott Wilson (born 1944, Nashville, Tennessee) is known for translating several works of Japanese literature, mostly those relating to the martial tradition of that country. He is recognized by The American Literary Translator's Association (ALTA) as \"today’s foremost translator of classic Samurai texts.\" Mr. Wilson is also described as the world's foremost expert on the warrior's philosophy of Bushido. He served as a Consular Specialist for the Consulate General of Japan in Seattle (1980)--Heading the trade section and advising the Consul on political and economic matters.\n\nAccording to Florida International University Professor Michael Weissberg, \"William Scott Wilson is possibly the most important scholar in the area of Japanese Edo period texts in the last century\". Wilson has brought historical Chinese and Japanese thought, philosophy, and tactics to the West in his translations of famous East Asian literature.\n\nOn November 3, 2015 Wilson was inducted into the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Rosette, for \"promoting understanding of Japan through the introduction of Japanese Literature in the United States.\"\n\nWilson received Japan’s Foreign Minister’s Commendation from the Consulate General of Japan in Miami, Masakazu Toshikage on November 15, 2005. According to the Consulate Press release:\nThe award is \"conferred upon individuals or groups that have rendered especially distinguished service in strengthening the relationship between Japan and other countries. Through his literary works and translations, Mr. Wilson has contributed greatly to increased cultural understanding and friendship between the US and Japan.\"\n\n\"Mr. Wilson is a premier author and translator of samurai literature. He completed his first translation, Hagakure, while living in a farmhouse in Japan...His first original work, The Lone Samurai: The Life of Miyamoto Musashi, was published in 2004. He has done extensive research on Japanese philosophy and Bushido, the way of the samurai.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907943", "title": "Kambagiri", "text": "Kambagiri\n\nThe Kambagiri Swamy temple is located in Peapully Mandal, surrounding villages are Uppala Padu, Nereducheralla, Burugula, Boincheruvu palli and Racherla.Dhone Taluk in the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Kambagiri swamy is very powerful Hindu god. The way to reach the temple is to reach Dronachellam (Dhone) by train and then take a bus to Kommemarri or Boorugula to reach the village Racherla. There is a Ghat road to the temple from Racherla. Lord Vishnu appears in the form of a varanus here. He is popularly known as Kambagiri Rama and Kambagiri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy.In summer, there is a huge water problem and it is very hot. Every year on the full moon day of Chatra (15 days after Ugadi), a Tirunnalla takes place which is attended by lakhs of devotees. Special government buses run to aid the devotees. Kambagiri Swami brothers are 7.\n\nBrothers:\n\n\nKambagiri swami is an archaic poetic way of describing Lord NaraSimha Swami and he has two wives - Sadda Lakkama and Sadda Lakshmamma. Devotees believe that their prayers and desires come true in a short span.\n\nIn erra malla forest the temple is very cute full showing and every moon lite temple showing very colourful. In dhone Bus Stand Kommamuri Bus, or racharla, or Yadiki or Banaganapalli buses are going on this route.\n\nKurnool Dt. Banaganapalli bus you should debus in Garladinne bus stop. change bus or other travel direct kambagiri swami temple.\n\nKurnool Dt. From Banganapalli bus stand you go Dhone bus or Peapully bus through Garladinne. again change bus or other travel direct kambagiri swami temple.\n\nAnantapur Dt. From Yadiki you go on burgula bus or racharla or garladenne bus.\n\nPresently this temple is maintaining Kurnool Dt. Owk village Chella Rama Krishna Reddy and families. This temple Pujari is Madhu swami.\n\nChella Rama Krishna Reddy garu Present Koilakuntla Segment Congress MLA in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nWe will update coming days, Kambagiri swami total story.\n\nFrom Hyderabad it is nearly 350 kilometres, another shortcut route is from owk to uppalpadu buses are available from there it is near so many devotees going by walk it is accent route, in long back\n"}
{"id": "1907945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907945", "title": "Maikel Aerts", "text": "Maikel Aerts\n\nMaikel Aerts (; born 26 June 1976 in Eindhoven) is a retired Dutch goalkeeper.\n\nHe started his career at FC Den Bosch. He played 107 games for Den Bosch (1994–2001), nine games for Belgian side Germinal Beerschot Antwerpen (2001–2002) and 72 games for RBC Roosendaal (2002–2005), and then moved to Feyenoord Rotterdam who loaned him back to RBC for another season before joining Feyenoord's first team set-up.\n\nAfter some serious mistakes during the 2005–06 season, he was banned to the bench by coach Erwin Koeman and as of July 2006 Feyenoord decided to leave him out of the squad. Aerts was transferred to Willem II from Tilburg.\n\nOn 3 February 2007, he played his first Eredivisie match for Willem II against Heracles Almelo. On 3 June 2010, he left the Netherlands and signed a two-year contract with Hertha BSC. After two seasons he was released. As he could not find a new club, he ended his career.\n\nOn 6 July 2017, he was hired as a goalkeeper coach at FC Eindhoven.\n\nAerts is the nephew of three time K-1 World Grand Prix Champion Peter Aerts.\n"}
{"id": "1907946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907946", "title": "Aero Composite Technologies", "text": "Aero Composite Technologies\n\nAero Composite Technologies was a kitplane manufacturer based in Somerset, Pennsylvania. It purchased the rights to the Sea Hawker amphibious aircraft from Aero Composites in 1988 and marketed them for a short time before being forced into receivership amidst bad publicity that the design had developed.\n"}
{"id": "1907953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907953", "title": "Aero Gare", "text": "Aero Gare\n\nAero Gare was a kitplane manufacturer founded by Gary LeGare in Mojave, California to marketed the Sea Hawker amphibious aircraft. It sold all rights to the design to Aero Composites in 1986.\n"}
{"id": "1907958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907958", "title": "Will Smith (defensive end)", "text": "Will Smith (defensive end)\n\nWilliam Raymond Smith III (July 4, 1981 – April 9, 2016) was an American football defensive end in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for Ohio State and was drafted by the New Orleans Saints in the first round of the 2004 NFL draft, where he played for the entirety of his career. Smith was shot and killed during an altercation after an alcohol related traffic crash.\n\nSmith was born on July 4, 1981 in Queens, New York, to William and Lisa Smith. He was raised in Utica, New York. At Proctor High School in Utica, Smith was a \"USA Today\" All-American pick, and was rated by Prep Football Report as the best defensive line prospect in the state. As a senior, he had 20 sacks.\n\nSmith was a four-year letterman at Ohio State from 2000 to 2003, he helped lead the Buckeyes to the 2002 BCS National Championship, and he was named a first-team All-American the following year.\n\nSmith was selected as the 18th pick in the first round of the 2004 NFL Draft by the New Orleans Saints. He had a successful rookie season with 30 tackles and 7.5 sacks. In 2005, he had 48 tackles and 8.5 sacks and played well enough that the Saints did not re-sign Darren Howard thus making Smith the starter opposite Charles Grant for the 2006 season. Smith gradually established himself as one of the premier defensive ends in the NFL. In his first season as a full-time starter, Smith became a leader of the defensive line and emerged as one of the NFL’s top defensive ends. He was voted to the Pro Bowl and finished tied for 14th in the NFL with a career-best 10.5 sacks. Smith played in 14 games, sitting out the finale with the Saints having clinched a playoff berth and also missing one contest with a knee injury. The club’s No. 1 pick in 2004 was a force from his arrival in New Orleans, notching 33.5 sacks in four seasons. His 26.0 sacks in his first three-season are the second-most in club history in so short a span (Charles Grant, 27.5, 2002–04).\n\nIn 2006, he was named to his first Pro Bowl as a starter.\n\nSmith recorded a team high 7 sacks, 66 tackles and a safety in 2007. He sacked Carolina Panthers starting QB David Carr early in the season, ending Carr's season.\n\nIn 2008, The Saints agreed to terms with Smith on a six-year, $70 million contract with $26 million guaranteed. The deal made him the third highest paid defensive end in the NFL.\n\nOn December 2, 2008, Smith was one of six players suspended for use of Bumetanide a diuretic, which can be used as a masking agent for steroid use. It is believed that the diuretic was found in StarCaps, a weight-loss supplement that he had been taking. Smith's original punishment was announced as a four-game suspension, covering the final four games of the 2008 regular season. Enforcement of the suspension was delayed as other players challenged the decision through federal and state courts, and the league allowed all players involved in the matter to continue playing pending a final resolution of the case. Smith's suspension was later reduced to a two games and an additional two lost paychecks, and was served at the beginning of the 2011 NFL season.\nUnder new defensive coordinator Gregg Williams in 2009, Smith had a career high 13.0 sacks, 49 tackles, 3 forced fumbles, and one interception. He was honorable mention All-Pro by AP and \"SN\". In 2010, he had 39 tackles and 5.5 sacks.\n\nIn 2011, Smith had 35 tackles and 6.5 sacks. On May 2, 2012, Smith was suspended by the NFL for the first four games of the 2012 season because of his alleged role in the New Orleans Saints bounty scandal. Smith's suspension was ultimately overturned on appeal to former commissioner Paul Tagliabue. Smith started all 16 games of the 2012 season, and was credited with 58 tackles and six sacks.\n\nFor the 2013 season, Smith was slated to move to the outside linebacker position in the 3–4 defense favored by the Saints' new defensive coordinator, Rob Ryan. However, Smith suffered a knee injury (a torn ACL) in the Saints' third preseason game, against the Houston Texans on August 25, 2013, and was reported to be out for the season. On August 27, the Saints placed Smith on injured reserve, ending his season.\n\nOn February 12, 2014, Smith was released by the team.\n\nOn April 5, 2014, Smith signed with the New England Patriots. He was released on August 24, 2014 during the preseason.\n\nSmith was married to Racquel (née Joseph). They had two children together and he had another child from a previous relationship.\n\nOn April 9, 2016, Smith was involved in a traffic collision in which a Hummer, driven by 28-year-old Cardell Hayes, was rear-ended by Smith's Mercedes SUV in an ongoing confrontation that allegedly started with Smith's vehicle rear-ending the Hummer. The final collision caused Hayes' vehicle to collide with the vehicle in front of him, and was hard enough to break the rear window in the Mercedes. Moments earlier and less than two blocks away, in the Lower Garden District of New Orleans, Smith's vehicle had been hit by Hayes' vehicle. Smith's vehicle contained Smith, his wife Racquel, and two unnamed passengers. In the second collision, Smith and Hayes exchanged words, when Hayes fired a handgun, killing Smith and injuring his wife. Hayes was arrested at the scene. During investigation, a fully loaded 9-millimeter handgun was found in Smith's car. Hayes and a passenger in his vehicle claimed self-defense. After an investigation, the New Orleans Police Department charged Hayes with second-degree murder. Results of a postmortem toxicology report concluded that Smith had a blood alcohol content of .235 on the night of the incident, or nearly three times the legal limit in Louisiana. Smith was buried on April 16, 2016.\n\nTrial began on December 5, 2016, in Orleans Parish Criminal District Court. On December 11, an Orleans Parish jury found Cardell Hayes guilty of manslaughter in the shooting of Will Smith and attempted manslaughter of his wife, Racquel Smith. On April 20, 2017, Hayes was sentenced to 25 years in prison for the charge of manslaughter, and 15 years for the charge of attempted manslaughter, to be served concurrently. On April 19, the day before the sentence, a judge denied Hayes' motion for a new trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907963", "title": "Virtual inheritance", "text": "Virtual inheritance\n\nVirtual inheritance is a C++ technique that ensures only one copy of a base classs member variables are inherited by grandchild derived classes. Without virtual inheritance, if two classes codice_1 and codice_2 inherit from a class codice_3, and a class codice_4 inherits from both codice_1 and codice_2, then codice_4 will contain two copies of codice_3s member variables: one via codice_1, and one via codice_2. These will be accessible independently, using scope resolution.\n\nInstead, if classes codice_1 and codice_2 inherit virtually from class codice_3, then objects of class codice_4 will contain only one set of the member variables from class codice_3.\n\nThis feature is most useful for multiple inheritance, as it makes the virtual base a common subobject for the deriving class and all classes that are derived from it. This can be used to avoid the diamond problem by clarifying ambiguity over which ancestor class to use, as from the perspective of the deriving class (codice_4 in the example above) the virtual base (codice_3) acts as though it were the direct base class of codice_4, not a class derived indirectly through a base (codice_1 or codice_2).\n\nIt is used when inheritance represents restriction of a set rather than composition of parts. In C++, a base class intended to be common throughout the hierarchy is denoted as virtual with the codice_21 keyword.\n\nConsider the following class hierarchy.\n\nstruct Animal {\n\nstruct Mammal: Animal {\n\nstruct WingedAnimal: Animal {\n\n// A bat is a winged mammal\nstruct Bat: Mammal, WingedAnimal {};\n\nBat bat;\n\nAs declared above, a call to codice_22 is ambiguous because there are two codice_23 (indirect) base classes in codice_24, so any codice_24 object has two different codice_23 base class subobjects. So an attempt to directly bind a reference to the codice_23 subobject of a codice_24 object would fail, since the binding is inherently ambiguous:\n\nBat b;\nAnimal& a = b; // error: which Animal subobject should a Bat cast into, \nTo disambiguate, one would have to explicitly convert codice_29 to either base class subobject: \n\nBat b;\nAnimal& mammal = static_cast<Mammal&>(b); \nAnimal& winged = static_cast<WingedAnimal&>(b); \nIn order to call codice_30, the same disambiguation, or explicit qualification is needed: codice_31 or codice_32 or alternatively codice_33 and codice_34. Explicit qualification not only uses an easier, uniform syntax for both pointers and objects but also allows for static dispatch, so it would arguably be the preferable method.\n\nIn this case, the double inheritance of codice_23 is probably unwanted, as we want to model that the relation (codice_24 is an codice_23) exists only once; that a codice_24 is a codice_39 and is a codice_40 does not imply that it is an codice_23 twice: an codice_23 base class corresponds to a contract that codice_24 implements (the \"is a\" relationship above really means \"\"implements the requirements of\"\"), and a codice_24 only implements the codice_23 contract once. The real world meaning of \"\"is a\" only once\" is that codice_24 should have only one way of implementing codice_30, not two different ways, depending on whether the codice_39 view of the codice_24 is eating, or the codice_40 view of the codice_24. (In the first code example we see that codice_30 is not overridden in either codice_39 or codice_40, so the two codice_23 subobjects will actually behave the same, but this is just a degenerate case, and that does not make a difference from the C++ point of view.)\n\nThis situation is sometimes referred to as diamond inheritance (see Diamond problem) because the inheritance diagram is in the shape of a diamond. Virtual inheritance can help to solve this problem.\n\nWe can re-declare our classes as follows:\nstruct Animal {\n\n// Two classes virtually inheriting Animal:\nstruct Mammal: virtual Animal {\n\nstruct WingedAnimal: virtual Animal {\n\n// A bat is still a winged mammal\nstruct Bat: Mammal, WingedAnimal {};\n\nThe codice_23 portion of codice_57 is now the \"same\" codice_23 instance as the one used by codice_59, which is to say that a codice_24 has only one, shared, codice_23 instance in its representation and so a call to codice_62 is unambiguous. Additionally, a direct cast from codice_24 to codice_23 is also unambiguous, now that there exists only one codice_23 instance which codice_24 could be converted to.\n\nThe ability to share a single instance of the codice_23 parent between codice_39 and codice_40 is enabled by recording the memory offset between the codice_39 or codice_40 members and those of the base codice_23 within the derived class. However this offset can in the general case only be known at runtime, thus codice_24 must become (codice_74, codice_39, codice_74, codice_40, codice_24, codice_23). There are two vtable pointers, one per inheritance hierarchy that virtually inherits codice_23. In this example, one for codice_39 and one for codice_40. The object size has therefore increased by two pointers, but now there is only one codice_23 and no ambiguity. All objects of type codice_24 will use the same vpointers, but each codice_24 object will contain its own unique codice_23 object. If another class inherits from codice_39, such as codice_88, then the vpointer in the codice_39 part of codice_88 will generally be different to the vpointer in the codice_39 part of codice_24 though they may happen to be the same should the codice_88 class be the same size as codice_24.\n"}
{"id": "1907973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907973", "title": "Kieta", "text": "Kieta\n\nKieta is a port town located on the eastern coast of the island of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea, near the township of Arawa. After extensive destruction during the 1990 Civil Uprising on Bougainville, Kieta has few inhabitants now, and is known mainly for its transport connections (wharf and airfield).\n\nOn 17 May 1885, agreements were made between Germany and the United Kingdom over the islands of Bougainville and Buka in the area of the German sphere of interest. On 20 September 1905 a station was built with a post office and customs. Since 1902, there was a Catholic mission station in Kieta.\n\nKieta was occupied by the Japanese during the Second World War.\n\nThe majority of the town was destroyed in the 1990 Civil Uprising on Bougainville.\nThe airfield has a runway which was used by the Japanese in World War II, and was recently serviced by Air Niugini until 1990. Since then, the only aircraft to service the area have been the Royal Australian Air Force and Royal New Zealand Air Forces (C130 Hercules) in support of the Peace Monitoring Group.\n\nA number of Papuan languages are spoken in the Kieta district, such as Naasioi.\n\nKieta has a mean maximum temperature of , mean minimum temperature of , and annual rainfall of .\n"}
{"id": "1907976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907976", "title": "PERC", "text": "PERC\n\nPERC or perc may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1907977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907977", "title": "USS Livingston", "text": "USS Livingston\n\nUSS \"Livingston\" may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907980", "title": "Detroit Safari", "text": "Detroit Safari\n\nThe Detroit Safari (founded as the Detroit Neon) was a member of the Continental Indoor Soccer League that played at The Palace of Auburn Hills. Their owners, the Palace Sports Group were awarded a franchise on November 4, 1993. Their star player and unofficial coach (the CISL prohibited player-coaches) was experienced indoor player Andy Chapman.\n\nThe name Detroit Neon was a reference to the Dodge Neon and came from a sponsorship from the Chrysler Corporation like fellow Palace Sports team the International Hockey League Detroit Vipers. In 1997 the naming rights were sold to General Motors and they were named after the GMC Safari minivan. The team folded along with the closing of the Continental Indoor Soccer League after the 1997 season.\n\nDuring the team's existence, some games (including all 1997 home games) were televised on PASS Sports. They led the league in attendance in their first season (1994) and never placed below fifth in league attendance for a season. During the five seasons that the Neon/Safari played, their average attendance was 6,232.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907985", "title": "Smith–Lemli–Opitz syndrome", "text": "Smith–Lemli–Opitz syndrome\n\nSmith–Lemli–Opitz syndrome is an inborn error of cholesterol synthesis. It is an autosomal recessive, multiple malformation syndrome caused by a mutation in the enzyme 7-Dehydrocholesterol reductase encoded by the DHCR7 gene. It causes a broad spectrum of effects, ranging from mild intellectual disability and behavioural problems to lethal malformations.\n\nSLOS can present itself differently in different cases, depending on the severity of the mutation and other factors. Originally, SLOS patients were classified into two categories (classic and severe) based on physical and mental characteristics, alongside other clinical features. Since the discovery of the specific biochemical defect responsible for SLOS, patients are given a severity score based on their levels of cerebral, ocular, oral, and genital defects. It is then used to classify patients as having mild, classical, or severe SLOS.\n\nThe most common facial features of SLOS include microcephaly, bitemporal narrowing (reduced distance between temples), ptosis, a short and upturned nose, micrognathia, epicanthal folds, and capillary hemangioma of the nose. Other physical characteristics include:\n\n\nCertain behaviours and attributes are commonly seen among patients suffering from SLOS. They may have low normal intelligence, and react negatively or with hypersensitivity to different sensory stimuli. This is particularly true for certain auditory and visual stimuli. Many patients show aggressiveness and self-injurious behaviours, and sleep disturbances are common. Specific behaviours resembling those of people with autism are often present as well as hyperactivity, which provides genetic and biological insights into autism spectrum disorders. The autistic behaviours most characteristic of SLOS patients are opisthokinesis (an upper body movement), stretching of the upper body, and hand flicking. Autism is typically diagnosed separately from SLOS using the DSM-V, and approximately 50–75% of SLOS patients meet the criteria for autism.\n\nOther behaviours associated with SLOS can be linked directly to physical abnormalities. For example, infants often show feeding problems or feeding intolerance, and patients may require increased caloric intake due to accelerated metabolism. Recurrent infections, including ear infections and pneumonia, are also common.\n\nGiven that SLOS is caused by a mutation in an enzyme involved in cholesterol synthesis, the resulting biochemical characteristics may be predictable. Most patients have lowered plasma cholesterol levels (hypocholesterolemia). However, approximately 10% may show normal cholesterol levels, and decreased concentrations of cholesterol are not solely indicative of SLOS. Increased levels of cholesterol precursors are also common in SLOS. In particular, elevated levels of 7-dehydrocholesterol are fairly specific to SLOS.\n\nThe gene encoding DHCR7 (labeled as \"DHCR7\") was cloned in 1998, and has been mapped to chromosome 11q12-13. It is 14100 base pairs of DNA in length, and contains nine exons, the corresponding mRNA is 2786 base pairs in length (the remaining DNA sequence is intronic). The structure of the \"DHCR7\" rat gene is very similar to the structure of the human gene.\n\nThe highest levels of \"DHCR7\" expression have been detected in the adrenal gland, the testis, the liver and in brain tissue. Its expression is induced by decreased sterol concentrations via sterol regulatory binding proteins (SREBP). There is also evidence that its activity may be regulated by tissue specific transcription, and alternative splicing.\n\nAs outlined above, the enzyme DHCR7 catalyzes the reduction of 7DHC to cholesterol, as well as the reduction of 7-dehydrodesmosterol to desmosterol. It requires NADPH as a cofactor for this reduction, and may involve the activity of cytochrome-P450 oxidoreductase. It is also thought to contain iron. DHCR7 is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum, and computer models have predicted up to nine transmembrane domains. DHCR7 is most efficient at reducing 7DHC, but it is known to reduce the carbon 7 double bond of other sterols, indicating a range of substrate specificity. The human version of this enzyme is predicted to have a molecular weight of 54,489 kDa, and an isoelectric point of 9.05.\n\nThe amino acid sequence that encodes DHCR7 is predicted to contain 475 amino acids, as well as several protein motifs. It contains multiple sterol reductase motifs, as would be expected given its function. It contains a potential sterol-sensing domain (SSD), whose function is unknown but thought to be necessary for binding sterol substrates. It also includes multiple sites of phosphorylation, including potential protein kinase C and tyrosine kinase sites (regulatory enzymes responsible for phosphorylation). The exact function of phosphorylating DHCR7 is yet unknown, but it is thought to be involved in the regulation of its activity.\n\nSLOS is an autosomal recessive disorder. More than 130 different types of mutations have been identified. Missense mutations (single nucleotide change resulting in a code for a different amino acid) are the most common, accounting for 87.6% of the SLOS spectrum. These typically reduce the function of the enzyme but may not inhibit it completely. Much depends on the nature of the mutation (i.e. which amino acid is replaced and where). Null mutations are much less common, these mutations produce either a completely dysfunctional enzyme, or no enzyme at all. Thus, missense mutations may be more common overall because they are less lethal than nonsense mutations; nonsense mutations may simply result in spontaneous abortion.\n\nThe IVS8-1G>C is the most frequently reported mutation in \"DHCR7\". This disrupts the joining of exons eight and nine, and results in the insertion of 134 nucleotides into the \"DHCR7\" transcript. This is a nonsense mutation, thus patients that are homozygous for this allele are severely affected. It is thought that this mutation first occurred in the British Isles, and it has a carrier (those that are heterozygous for the allele but not affected) frequency of 1.09% for Caucasians of European heritage. The frequency of mutations differs for various ethnicities, depending on the origin of the mutation. In all Caucasian populations, this particular mutation has an estimated carrier frequency of 3%.\n\nThe next most common mutation is 278C>T, and results in a threonine at the amino acid position 93. It is a missense mutation and tends to be associated with less severe symptoms. This mutation is the most common one seen in patients of Italian, Cuban, and Mediterranean descent.\n\nThe third most common mutation is 452G>A. This nonsense mutation causes protein termination, such that the enzyme DHCR7 would not be formed. It is thought to have arisen in Southern Poland and is most common in Northern Europe.\n\nOther mutations are less common, although appear to target certain protein domains more so than others. For example, the sterol reductase motifs are common sites of mutation. Overall, there is an estimated carrier frequency (for any DHCR7 mutation causing SLOS) of 3-4% in Caucasian populations (it is less frequent among Asian and African populations). This number indicates a hypothetical birth incidence between 1/2500 and 1/4500. However, the measured incidence is between 1/10,000 to 1/60,000 (it differs depending on heritage and descent). This is much lower than expected. This indicates that many cases of SLOS are undetected, and is likely due to either spontaneous abortion caused by severe mutations (miscarriage), or mild cases that are undiagnosed. Females lack the characteristic genital malformations that affected males have, and thus are less likely to be correctly diagnosed.\n\nCholesterol can be obtained through the diet, but it can also be formed by metabolism in the body. Cholesterol metabolism primarily takes place in the liver, with significant amounts in the intestine as well. It should also be noted that cholesterol cannot pass the blood–brain barrier, thus within the brain, biosynthesis is the only source of cholesterol.\n\nIn humans, cholesterol synthesis begins with the mevalonate pathway (see diagram), leading to the synthesis of farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). This pathway uses two acetyl-CoA and two NADPH to make mevalonate, which is metabolized to isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) using three ATP. From there, three IPP are needed to make one FPP. The combination of two FPP leads to the formation of squalene; this represents the first committed step towards cholesterol biosynthesis. Squalene leads to the creation of lanosterol, from which there are multiple pathways that lead to cholesterol biosynthesis. The rate limiting step of cholesterol synthesis is the conversion of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) to mevalonate, this is an early step in the mevalonate pathway catalyzed by HMG-CoA reductase.\n\nThrough a complicated series of reactions, lanosterol leads to the formation of zymosterol. As shown in a diagram to the right, it is at this point that the pathway diverges. In humans, the main pathway leading to cholesterol is known as the Kandutsch–Russell pathway. Zymosterol is metabolized to 5α-cholesta-7,24-dien-3β-ol, then to lathosterol, and then to 7-dehydrocholesterol, or 7-DHC. 7-DHC is the immediate precursor to cholesterol, and the enzyme DHCR7 is responsible for converting 7-DHC to cholesterol. DHCR7 reduces the double bond on carbon 7 of 7-DHC, leading to the unesterified product. Mutations in this enzyme are responsible for the wide range of defects present in SLOS. In another pathway leading to cholesterol synthesis, DHCR7 is required for the reduction of 7-Dehydrodesmosterol to desmosterol.\n\nRegulation of cholesterol synthesis is complex and occurs primarily through the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase (catalyst of the rate-limiting step). It involves a feedback loop that is sensitive to cellular levels of cholesterol. The four main steps of regulation are:\n\n\nCholesterol is an important lipid involved in metabolism, cell function, and structure. It is a structural component of the cell membrane, such that it provides structure and regulates the fluidity of the phospholipid bilayer. Furthermore, cholesterol is a constituent in lipid rafts. These are congregations of proteins and lipids (including sphingolipids and cholesterol) that float within the cell membrane, and play a role in the regulation of membrane function. Lipid rafts are more ordered or rigid than the membrane bilayer surrounding them. Their involvement in regulation stems mostly from their association with proteins; upon binding substrates, some proteins have a higher affinity for attaching to lipid rafts. This brings them in close proximity with other proteins, allowing them to affect signaling pathways. Cholesterol specifically acts as a spacer and a glue for lipid rafts; absence of cholesterol leads to the dissociation of proteins.\n\nGiven its prevalence in cell membranes, cholesterol is highly involved in certain transport processes. It may influence the function of ion channels and other membrane transporters. For example, cholesterol is necessary for the ligand binding activity of the serotonin receptor. In addition, it appears to be very important in exocytosis. Cholesterol modulates the properties of the membrane (such as membrane curvature), and may regulate the fusion of vesicles with the cell membrane. It may also facilitate the recruitment of complexes necessary for exocytosis. Given that neurons rely heavily on exocytosis for the transmission of impulses, cholesterol is a very important part of the nervous system.\nOne particularly relevant pathway in which cholesterol takes place is the Hedgehog signaling pathway. This pathway is very important during embryonic development, and involved in deciding the fate of cells (i.e., which tissue they need to migrate to). Hedgehog proteins are also involved in the transcription of genes that regulate cell proliferation and differentiation. Cholesterol is important to this pathway because it undergoes covalent bonding to Hedgehog proteins, resulting in their activation. Without cholesterol, the signaling activity is disrupted and cell differentiation may be impaired.\n\nCholesterol is a precursor for many important molecules. These include bile acids (important in processing dietary fats), oxysterols, neurosteroids (involved in neurotransmission and excitation), glucocorticoids (involved in immune and inflammatory processes), mineralocorticoids (osmotic balance), and sex steroids (i.e. estrogen and testosterone; wide range of function but involved in genital development prenatally). Finally, cholesterol is a major component of myelin, a protective layer around neurons. Myelination occurs most rapidly during prenatal development, meaning that the demand for cholesterol biosynthesis is very high.\n\nGiven that the function of cholesterol encompasses a very wide range, it is unlikely that the symptoms of SLOS are due to a single molecular mechanism. Some of the molecular effects are yet unknown, but could be extrapolated based on the role of cholesterol. In general, the negative effects are due to decreased levels of cholesterol and increased levels of cholesterol precursors-most notably, 7DHC. Although 7DHC is structurally similar to cholesterol, and could potentially act as a substitute, the effects of this are still being studied.\n\nMost patients with SLOS present decreased cholesterol levels, particularly in the brain (where cholesterol levels rely primarily on new synthesis). This also means that any sterol derivatives of cholesterol would also have reduced concentrations. For example, reduced levels of neurosteroids may be seen in SLOS. These are lipids which take part in signaling within the brain, and must be produced within the brain itself. They are responsible for interacting with nuclear steroid receptors, and bind to neurotransmitter-gated ion channels. Specifically, they modulate the effects of GABA and NMDA receptors, resulting in calming effects, improved memory, and more. Thus, given that some characteristics of SLOS are the opposite of these effects (hyperactivity, anxiety), a reduction in neurosteroids could influence both neurological development and behaviour.\n\nFurthermore, as outlined above, cholesterol is an important aspect in Hedgehog signaling. With lower levels of cholesterol, hedgehog proteins would not undergo the necessary covalent modification and subsequent activation. This would result in impaired embryonic development, and may contribute to the observed physical birth defects in SLOS. One particular hedgehog signaling protein, sonic hedgehog (SHH), is important in the pattern of the central nervous system, facial features, and limbs. Other hedghehog proteins may be involved in the development of the genital tract and the skeleon.\n\nThe altered sterol levels in SLOS are particularly relevant to cell membranes, which are made primarily of lipids. SLOS patients may show cell membranes with abnormal properties or composition, and reduced cholesterol levels greatly affect the stability and proteins of lipid rafts. Despite their structural similarity, 7DHC is unable so replace cholesterol in lipid rafts. In addition, a lack of cholesterol contributes to the increased fluidity of the cell membrane, and may cause abnormal granule secretions. All of these changes in the membrane likely contribute to changes in transport functions that are observed in SLOS. They may cause defects in IgE receptor-mediated mast cell degranulation and cytokine production, which are cells involved in allergic and immune responses. The NMDA receptor is affected, as well as the binding capability of the hippocampal serotonin receptor. Cell to cell interaction, which is very important in development, may be impaired. Exocytosis in synaptic vesicles has been shown to be reduced, likely due to impaired vesicle fusion to the cell membrane, or poor vesicle recycling. Finally, cholesterol is highly prevalent in myelin, therefore SLOS patients show reduced myelination of the cerebral hemispheres, peripheral nerves, and cranial nerves.\n\nIn addition to lowered levels of cholesterol, many of the symptoms shown in SLOS stem from the toxic effects of 7DHC. 7DHC is known to impair intracellular cholesterol transport. It also increases the degradation of HMG-CoA reductase (the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis). 7DHC leads to novel oxysterol and steroid derivatives, and many of their functions or effects are yet unknown. A very important finding with respect to 7DHC is that it is the most reactive lipid for lipid peroxidation, and results in systemic oxidative stress. Lipid peroxidation is known to destroy membranes of both cells and membrane-bound organelles. The derivative of 7DHC that is used to indicate oxidative stress is 3β,5α-dihydroxy-cholest-7-en-6-one (DHCEO); it is formed from a primary product of 7DHC peroxidation, 7-DHC-5α,6α-epoxide. DHCEO is toxic to cortical neuronal and glial cells, and accelerates their differentiation and arborization. Through oxidative stress, 7DHC is thought to be responsible for the increased photosensitivity shown in SLOS patients. Normal UVA exposure may lead to oxidative stress in skin cells. Given that 7DHC is more readily oxidized, it enhances the effects of UVA, leading to increased membrane lipid oxidation and increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS).\n\nTypically, more altered the levels of 7DHC and cholesterol lead to more severe symptoms of SLOS. The levels of these metabolites also correspond to the severity of the mutation (nonsense versus missense); some mutations of DHCR7 may still show residual cholesterol synthesis, and others may not. However, even individuals with the same mutations or genotype may still show variability in their symptoms. This may be due to maternal factors, such as the transfer of cholesterol to the fetus during pregnancy, as well as the amount of cholesterol present in the brain before the blood–brain barrier forms prenatally. The rate of accumulation and excretion of toxic metabolites may vary from person to person. Maternal apolipoprotein E has also been implicated in individual variability in SLOS, although the exact nature of this relationship is unknown. There are likely more factors contributing to the wide spectrum of effects in SLOS which have not yet been discovered.\n\nThe most characteristic biochemical indicator of SLOS is an increased concentration of 7DHC (reduced cholesterol levels are also typical, but appear in other disorders as well). Thus, prenatally, SLOS is diagnosed upon finding an elevated 7DHC:total sterol ratio in fetal tissues, or increased levels of 7DHC in amniotic fluid. The 7DHC:total sterol ratio can be measured at 11–12 weeks of gestation by chorionic villus sampling, and elevated 7DHC in amniotic fluid can be measured by 13 weeks. Furthermore, if parental mutations are known, DNA testing of amniotic fluid or chorionic villus samples may be performed.\n\nAmniocentesis (process of sampling amniotic fluid) and chorionic villus sampling cannot be performed until approximately 3 months into the pregnancy. Given that SLOS is a very severe syndrome, parents may want to choose to terminate their pregnancy if their fetus is affected. Amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling leave very little time to make this decision (abortions become more difficult as the pregnancy advances), and can also pose severe risks to the mother and baby. Thus, there is a very large desire for noninvasive midgestation diagnostic tests. Examining the concentrations of sterols in maternal urine is one potential way to identify SLOS prenatally. During pregnancy, the fetus is solely responsible for synthesizing the cholesterol needed to produce estriol. A fetus with SLOS cannot produce cholesterol, and may use 7DHC or 8DHC as precursors for estriol instead. This creates 7- or 8-dehydrosteroids (such as 7-dehydroestriol), which may show up in the maternal urine. These are novel metabolites due to the presence of a normally reduced double bond at carbon 7 (caused by the inactivity of DHCR7), and may be used as indicators of SLOS. Other cholesterol derivatives which possess a double bond at the 7th or 8th position and are present in maternal urine may also be indicators of SLOS. 7- and 8-dehydropregnanetriols have been shown to be present in the urine of mothers with an affected fetus but not with an unaffected fetus, and thus are used in diagnosis. These pregnadienes originated in the fetus and traveled through the placenta before reaching the mother. Their excretion indicates that neither the placenta nor the maternal organs have necessary enzymes needed to reduce the double bond of these novel metabolites.\n\nIf SLOS goes undetected until after birth, diagnosis may be based on the characteristic physical features as well as finding increased plasma levels of 7DHC.\n\nThere are many different ways of detecting 7DHC levels in blood plasma, one way is using the Liebermann–Burchard (LB) reagent. This is a simple colorimetric assay developed with the intention of use for large scale screening. When treated with the LB reagent, SLOS samples turn pink immediately and gradually become blue; normal blood samples are initially colorless and develop a faint blue color. Although this method has limitations and is not used to give a definitive diagnosis, it has appeal in that it is a much faster method than using cell cultures.\n\nAnother way of detecting 7DHC is through gas chromatography, a technique used to separate and analyze compounds. Selected ion\nmonitoring gas chromatography/mass-spectrometry (SIM-GC/MS) is a very sensitive version of gas chromatography, and permits detection of even mild cases of SLOS. Other methods include time-of-flight mass spectrometry, particle-beam LC/MS, electrospray tandem MS, and ultraviolet absorbance, all of which may be used on either blood samples, amniotic fluid, or chorionic villus. Measuring levels of bile acids in patients urine, or studying DCHR7 activity in tissue culture are also common postnatal diagnostic techniques.\n\nManagement of individuals with SLOS is complex and often requires a team of specialists. Some of the congenital malformations (cleft palate) can be corrected with surgery. Other treatments have yet to be proven successful in randomized studies, however anecdotally they appear to cause improvements.\n\nCurrently, the most common form of treatment for SLOS involves dietary cholesterol supplementation. Anecdotal reports indicate that this has some benefits; it may result in increased growth, lower irritability, improved sociability, less self-injurious behaviour, less tactile defensiveness, fewer infections, more muscle tone, less photosensitivity and fewer autistic behaviours. Cholesterol supplementation begins at a dose of 40–50 mg/kg/day, increasing as needed. It is administered either through consuming foods high in cholesterol (eggs, cream, liver), or as purified food grade cholesterol. Younger children and infants may require tube feeding. However, dietary cholesterol does not reduce the levels of 7DHC, cannot cross the blood–brain barrier, and does not appear to improve developmental outcomes. One empirical study found that cholesterol supplementation did not improve developmental delay, regardless of the age at which it began. This is likely because most developmental delays stem from malformations of the brain, which dietary cholesterol cannot ameliorate due to its inability to cross the blood–brain barrier.\n\nHMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been examined as treatment for SLOS. Given that this catalyzes the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis, inhibiting it would reduce the buildup of toxic metabolites such as 7DHC. Simvastatin is a known inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, and most importantly is able to cross the blood–brain barrier. It has been reported to decrease the levels of 7DHC, as well as increase the levels of cholesterol. The increased cholesterol levels are due to simvastatin's effect on the expression of different genes. Simvastatin increases the expression of \"DHCR7\", likely leading to increased activity of DHCR7. It has also been shown to increase the expression of other genes involved in cholesterol synthesis and uptake. However, these benefits are dependent on the amount of residual cholesterol synthesis. Because some individuals possess less severe mutations and demonstrate some amount of DCHR7 activity, these people benefit the most from simvastatin therapy as they still have a partially functioning enzyme. For individuals that show no residual DCHR7 activity, such as those homozygous for null alleles or mutations, simvastatin therapy may actually be toxic. This highlights the importance of identifying the specific genotype of the SLOS patient before administering treatment. It is still unknown if simvastatin will improve the behavioural or learning deficits in SLOS.\n\nAntioxidants are those which inhibit the oxidation of molecules or reduce metabolites that were previously oxidized. Given that some symptoms of SLOS are thought to result from the peroxidation of 7DHC and its derivatives, inhibiting this peroxidation would likely have beneficial effects. Antioxidants have been shown to increase the level of lipid transcripts in SLOS cells, these transcripts play a role in lipid (cholesterol) biosynthesis and are known to be down-regulated in SLOS. Furthermore, vitamin E specifically is known to decrease DHCEO levels, which is an indicator of oxidative stress in SLOS, as well as present beneficial changes in gene expression. Vitamin E appears to be the most powerful antioxidant for treating SLOS, and in mouse models has reduced the levels of oxysterols in the brain. However, antioxidants have only been studied in animal models of SLOS or isolated SLOS cells. Thus, their clinical significance and negative side effects are still unknown, and their use has yet to be studied in humans.\n\nWhen treating SLOS, a recurring issue is whether or not the intellectual and behavioural deficits are due to fixed developmental problems (i.e. fixed brain malformations), or due to ongoing abnormal sterol levels that interrupt the normal function of the brain and other tissues. If the latter is true, then treatments which change the sterol levels and ratios, particularly in the brain, will likely improve the developmental outcome of the patient. However, if the former is true, then treatment is likely to help only with symptoms and not with specific developmental deficits.\n\nThe most common animal used to study SLOS is the mouse. According to BioCyc, cholesterol biosynthesis in mice is very similar to that of humans. Most importantly, mice possess both DHCR7 (the enzyme responsible for SLOS), and HMG-CoA reductase (the rate limiting step of cholesterol synthesis. Rats are similar to mice and have also been used. There are two popular ways in which animal models of SLOS are created. The first is using teratogens, the second is using genetic manipulations to create mutations in the \"DHCR7\" gene.\n\nTeratogenic models are induced by feeding pregnant rats or mice inhibitors of DCHR7. Two common inhibitors are BM15766 (4-(2-[1-(4-chlorocinnamyl)piperazin-4-yl]ethyl)-benzoic acid) and AY9944 (trans-l,4-bis(2-chlorobenzylaminomethy1)cyclohexane dihydrochloride). These compounds have different chemical and physical properties, but induce similar effects. AY9944 has been shown to induce holoprosencephaly and sexual malformations similar to those seen in humans with SLOS. It is also known to cause impairments in the serotonin receptor, another defect commonly seen in SLOS patients. BM15766 has produced the lack of cholesterol and bile acid synthesis that is seen in SLOS patients with homozygous mutations. All teratogenic models can be effectively used to study SLOS; however, they present lower levels of 7-DHC and 8-DHC than are seen in humans. This can be explained by the fact that humans experience a permanent block in their DHCR7 activity, where mice and rats treated with inhibitors experience only transient blocks. Furthermore, different species of mice and rats are more resistant to teratogens, and may be less effective as models of SLOS. Teratogenic models are most commonly used to study more long-term effects of SLOS, because they survive longer than genetic models. For example, one study examined the retinal degeneration of SLOS, which in rats does not occur until at least one month after birth.\n\nGenetic models of SLOS are created by knocking out the \"DHCR7\" gene. One study used homologous recombination to disrupt \"DCHR7\" in mouse embryonic stem cells. Similar to what is found in humans, heterozygous mice (having only one mutated allele) were phentoypically normal, and were crossed to produce pups (young mice) homozygous for the mutated allele. Although these pups died within the first day of life due to their inability to feed, they showed characteristics similar to humans with SLOS. They had decreased levels of cholesterol, increased levels of 7- and 8DHC, showed less growth and smaller birth weights, had craniofacial malformations, and less movement. Many also had a cleft palate, and decreased neuronal responses to glutamate. Overall however, the pups had fewer dysmorphic features than human patients with SLOS; they did not present limb, renal, adrenal or central nervous system malformations. This is explained by the fact that in rodents, maternal cholesterol can cross the placenta, and actually appears to be essential for the development of the fetus. In humans, very little maternal cholesterol is transferred to the fetus. In sum, the genetic mouse model is helpful to explain the neuropathophysiology of SLOS.\n\nMany discoveries in SLOS research have been made using animal models. They have been used to study different treatment techniques, including the effectiveness of simvastatin therapy. Other studies have examined behavioural characteristics while attempting to explain their underlying pathogenesis. A common finding is that mouse models of SLOS show abnormal serotonergic development, which may be at least partially responsible for the autistic behaviours seen in SLOS. Mouse models have also been used to develop diagnostic techniques; multiple studies have examined biomarkers that result from the oxidation of 7DHC, such as DHCEO. It is likely that as animal models are improved, they will lead to many more discoveries in SLOS research.\n\nIt is named after David Weyhe Smith (1926–1981), an American pediatrician; Luc Lemli (1935–), a Belgian physician; and John Marius Opitz (1935–), a German-American physician. These are the researchers who first described the symptoms of SLOS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907990", "title": "W54", "text": "W54\n\nThe W54 was one of the smallest nuclear warheads deployed by the United States. It was a very compact implosion-type nuclear weapon design, designed for tactical use and had a very low yield for a nuclear weapon, in the range of 10 to 1,000 tons TNT equivalent.\n\nIts original use was in the Davy Crockett short-range rocket, but it was later adapted as a man-portable Special Atomic Demolition Munition (SADM), and later as the basis of nuclear-tipped air-to-air missiles. A later development was the W72, which were rebuilt W54s used with the AGM-62 Walleye guided bomb. The W72 was in service until 1979.\n\nThe W54 was designed by Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and built by the United States Atomic Energy Commission. Around 400 units were manufactured from 1961 until early 1962 and were deployed until at least 1971.\n\nThe earliest identified nuclear tests of devices corresponding to the W54 characteristics were the Pascal-A and Pascal-B test detonations in 1957, in the Operation Plumbbob nuclear test series. These were both intended to have very low yield, but overshot to higher yields (tens and hundreds of tons of TNT).\n\nThese were followed by tests of the XW-51 design, which evolved into the XW-54 in the Operation Hardtack I test series in 1958 (Hardtack \"Quince\" and Hardtack \"Fig\"). These were both described as fizzles, or test failures.\n\nA number of XW-51/XW-54 tests followed in the 1958 Operation Hardtack II test series, including Hardtack II Otero, Bernalillo, Luna, Mora, Colfax, Lea, Hamilton, Dona Ana, San Juan, Socorro, Catron, De Baca, Chavez, Humboldt, and Santa Fe. By this time, the XW-51 / XW-54 design had been test-fired more times than any preceding US nuclear weapon prior to its successful introduction in service, indicating the difficulty of successfully making this small and low-yield design work reliably and safely.\n\nFurther testing followed in the 1961 Operation Nougat test series, probably including Nougat Shrew, Boomer, Ringtail, and possibly others. By this time the W-54 design was performing consistently as expected at low yields.\n\nThere were four distinct models of the basic W54 design used, each with different yield, but the same basic design. These were:\n\nAll four variants share the same basic core: a nuclear system which is diameter, about long, and weighs around or slightly over .\n\nThese small-size devices were first intended for use by United States Army ground soldiers in battle and were in theory small enough to be delivered by a bazooka-style firing mechanism. Early known versions could destroy a two-block area, with an estimated yield comparable to approximately 10 tons TNT equivalent. Larger versions were later developed with a selectable yield of between 10 and 250 tons. \nThe yield of 10 tons TNT equivalent was just below the largest yield for any conventional bomb built until the 1950s, T-12 Cloudmaker (designed in 1944), at a mass of close to 20 metric tons yielding a blast of 11 tons TNT equivalent.\nThe W54 is small enough to be deployed as a SADM (Special Atomic Demolition Munition), or so-called \"Backpack Nuke\". It was the closest thing the U.S. is known to have developed to a so-called \"suitcase bomb\".\n\nThe W54 style warhead was known to be used on the M-388 Davy Crockett, a tactical nuclear recoilless rifle projectile that was deployed by the United States in 1961 and decommissioned in 1971.\nThe W54 was tested for use in a U.S. Navy SEAL project that was demonstrated as feasible in the mid-to-late 1960s, designed to attack a harbor or other strategic location that could be accessed from the sea. The SEAL version would be delivered into water by parachute along with a two-man team, then floated to the target, set in place and armed by hand.\n\nThe United States Air Force also developed a project using the W54, the Hughes Electronics AIM-26 Falcon. This was a larger, more powerful version of the AIM-4 Falcon air-to-air missile. It is notable for being the only known production U.S. guided air-to-air weapon with a nuclear warhead. It was intended to destroy formations of Soviet bombers at a time when guided missiles were not accurate enough to produce high-probability kills with small conventional warheads.\n\nAfter the AIM-26 Falcon was retired, 300 units were rebuilt into an improved configuration with a higher yield and redesignated the W72. These warheads were then used to produce a number of nuclear versions of the AGM-62 Walleye television-guided glide bomb system. The W72 variant had a yield of around 600 tons of TNT.\n\nThe 300 W72 units were produced between 1970 and 1972 and were in service until 1979.\n\nStockpiled W54 warheads were test-fired at the Nevada Test Site on July 7 and July 17, 1962. In Little Feller II (July 7), the warhead was suspended 3 feet above the ground and had a yield equivalent to 22 tons of TNT. In Little Feller I (July 17), the warhead was launched as a Davy Crockett device from a stationary 155-millimeter launcher and set to detonate between 20 and 40 feet above the ground around 1.7 miles from the launch point, with a yield of 18 tons. This test was the last atmospheric test at Nevada Test Site and was performed in conjunction with Operation Ivy Flats, a simulated military environment. It was observed by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and presidential adviser General Maxwell D. Taylor. Ivy Flats Film Report was declassified by the United States Department of Energy on December 22, 1997. Limited operational details of early SADM projects were published prior to this declassification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1907993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907993", "title": "Asiaweek", "text": "Asiaweek\n\nAsiaweek was an English-language news magazine focusing on Asia, published weekly by Asiaweek Limited, a subsidiary of Time Inc. Based in Hong Kong, it was established in 1975, and ceased publication with its 7 December 2001 issue due to a \"downturn in the advertising market,\" according to Norman Pearlstine, editor in chief of Time Inc. The magazine had a circulation of 120,000 copies when it closed.\n\nThe magazine was formerly associated with \"Yazhou Zhoukan\" (亞洲週刊), an international Chinese newsweekly, before Time Warner media acquired it.\n\n\"Asiaweek\" was founded in 1975 by Michael O'Neill, a New Zealander, and T. J. S. George, an Indian, who had worked together at the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\" but had grown disenchanted with what they considered its ponderous style and perceived British stance. \"Asiaweek\"'s mission statement said it all: \"To report accurately and fairly the affairs of Asia in all spheres of human activity, to see the world from an Asian perspective, to be Asia's voice in the world.\"\n\nAmong the publication's many contributions to an understanding of the Asia-Pacific Rim region was the annual \"Asiaweek\" Short Story Competition, which ran from 1981 to 1988. \"Prizewinning Asian Fiction\" (edited and introduced by Leon Comber) was eventually published in book form in 1991 by Times Editions, Singapore, and Hong Kong University Press\nIn his Foreword, \"Asiaweek\" Managing Editor Salmon Wayne Morrison wrote: \"The competition cast a body of writing that had not been given publicity before.\"\n\n\"Asiaweek\" had only four editors during its 26 years period: co-founders T. J. S. George and Michael O'Neill, who conceived the magazine, Ann Morrison who succeeded O'Neill in 1994, and Dorinda Elliott, formerly \"Newsweek's\" Asia editor in Hong Kong, who took over in October 2000. The magazine had always moved with the times. As co-founder George wrote in an editorial statement in \"Asiaweek\"'s first issue in December 1975: \"Realities have changed, and so the values. It is now a new Asia, and this is a new magazine to report it.\"\n\nO'Neill was a founding Editor-in-Chief of \"Yazhou Zhoukan\", which was launched by Asiaweek Limited in 1987, with Thomas Hon Wing Polin as its founding Managing Editor.\n\nIn 1985, Time, Inc. (as it was then known) acquired 84% of \"Asiaweek\", buying out \"Reader's Digest\"'s 80% stake and 4% local interests. The remaining 16% was owned by Michael O'Neill.\n\nIn 1994, Time ousted O'Neill and installed another editor, Ann Morrison, who came to Hong Kong from \"Fortune\" (a Time publication) based in New York.\n\nGeorge, who left \"Asiaweek\" before its troubles began, laments the death of the magazine after O'Neill was removed. With \"Asiaweek\"'s demise, George said, his only regret was the way \"the magazine was devalued by the very people who took it upon themselves to nurture it. That is why I shed no tears now as the concept itself was killed in 1994 when Mike was removed by the new management. Its closure [in 2001] is a mere burial.\"\n\nAccording to \"Time\", the reason for the closure was due to an advertising slump. Executives at \"Time\" insist their decisions were based on economic, not editorial, considerations.\n\n\"The New York Times\" columnist Thomas Crampton writes, \"\"Asiaweek\" and the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\" were the only weekly magazines with a strong Asia focus through the 1980s. But competition grew in the 1990s when global and local media companies expanded into regional editions. In addition to several small regionally financed magazines, \"The Economist\", \"Fortune\", \"BusinessWeek\" and \"Forbes\" all began aggressive expansions into Asia. These global titles could rely on skeletal staffs and economies of scale.\"\n\nAccording to Crampton, besides the \"brutal competition for limited advertising revenue\", another plausible reason for the shakeout was \"the suffocating embrace of U.S.-based media giants with an American-centric perspective.\" For \"Asiaweek\"'s founding editor, Time Warner's closure of the 26-year-old publication plays into Asian fears of a U.S.-centric world media. \"The mandarins of Manhattan fully know Asia's potential,\" said T. J. S. George, who is now an editorial consultant for the New Indian Express Group. \"They want a total monopoly for Time magazine.\"\n\n'Asia through Asian eyes' was the slogan that helped \"Asiaweek\" rise. George is still nostalgic about the fresh and fearless style of the magazine during its heyday and is wary of American meddling in Asian affairs. He warns that \"perhaps the most deep-going, subliminal – if also pernicious – mind control weapon at America's disposal is its news media.\"\n\nBut Singapore-based Alejandro Reyes, long-time correspondent and contributing editor of \"Asiaweek\", insists that the magazine retained its strongly Asian voice independent of whatever the bosses in New York might have wanted. He says the magazine's demise was due to the \"failure of a pan-Asian marketing strategy impeded by limited resources and intense competition\" and is hopeful of the revival of a niche market for media with an Asian perspective despite globalization trends.\n\nReyes, who was educated in the United States, initially applauded the modern, business-oriented techniques and practices of AOL Time Warner. He was not too happy when he found out that Time deleted all \"Asiaweek\" articles from its online archives, including his. \"This is all very tragic,\" says Reyes, \"– misguided decisions by New York-centric media bureaucrats whose careers are probably soon to be deleted just as ruthlessly.\"\n\nM.G.G. Pillai, one of \"Asiaweek\"'s casualties, says the magazine lost focus and became increasingly Americanised after Time took over. Unlike Reyes, he was not optimistic that it will be replaced because most magazines in Asia depend on the patronage of political rulers, and most financiers have an axe to grind.\n\nPhilip Bowring, former editor of the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\" which was bought by Dow Jones in the late 1980s and merged with the \"Asian Wall Street Journal\" in 2001 and quartered into a monthly in 2004 before its final burial in 2009, commenting back in 2004 when the \"Review\" died as a weekly, said \"there is a parallel here between Time and \"Asiaweek\". Time bought locally born \"Asiaweek\" even though it appeared to be in direct competition for readers and advertising. Not so long afterwards, Time closed \"Asiaweek\" rather than its ailing \"Time Asia\".\"\n\nT. J. S. George says, \"In due course, Time Inc. killed \"Asiaweek\" and Dow Jones (now a Murdoch property) killed the \"Review\". Murdoch-Dow's \"Wall Street Journal\" and Time Inc.'s \"Time\" magazine now fly the American flag over Asia, unchallenged by lesser flags.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1908011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908011", "title": "Al Lang Stadium", "text": "Al Lang Stadium\n\nAl Lang Stadium is a 7,500-seat sports stadium in downtown St. Petersburg, Florida that is the current home field of the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the USL Championship. It was used almost exclusively as a baseball park for over 60 years. However, since the Rowdies moved to the facility in 2011, it has been reconfigured to better host soccer.\n\nAl Lang Stadium was built in 1947 at the site of an older facility known as St. Petersburg Athletic Park. It is named in honor of Al Lang, a former mayor of St. Petersburg who was instrumental in bringing minor league and spring training baseball to the city in the early 20th century. The ballpark was reconstructed in 1976 and was extensively renovated before the Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using it as their first spring training venue in 1998. The Rays were the last of a long series of Major League Baseball clubs to conduct spring training and host an affiliated minor league team at Al Lang Stadium and St. Petersburg's previous ballparks. Before the Rays, tenants included the New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, New York Mets, and the Baltimore Orioles. The stadium hosted its last spring training game in March 2008 and hosted amateur and exhibition baseball for the next several years.\n\nThe Tampa Bay Rowdies became the primary tenant in 2011, and Al Lang Stadium was incrementally modified into a soccer venue over each of the following off-seasons. Since October 2014, an agreement between the club and the city of St. Petersburg has made the stadium a soccer-only facility, and the Rowdies' ownership conducted an extensive renovation in early 2015. In 2016, Rowdies' majority owner Bill Edwards proposed expanding the stadium's capacity to 18,000 seats as part of a bid to move the club into Major League Soccer (MLS). In May 2017, a local referendum passed authorizing the city of St. Petersburg to negotiate a long-term lease with the team to make the project possible.\n\nIn October 2018, the Rowdies were purchased by the Tampa Bay Rays, which gave the baseball club control of Al Lang Stadium through the transfer of the existing lease with the city of St. Petersburg.\n\nProfessional baseball grew throughout the United States at the beginning of the twentieth century, and clubs sought additional facilities to accommodate their spring training. Al Lang, a businessman in St. Petersburg, saw a huge potential to attract northeastern teams to his city to take advantage of the warm weather during the early months of the year. Lang and city officials created an incentives package that covered teams' travel expenses and other amenities, which drew in the city's first spring training tenant, the St. Louis Browns, in 1914. The club trained at Coffee Pot Park, a small ballpark located beside Coffee Pot bayou about a mile north of the current site of Al Lang Stadium. Subsequently, other Major League Baseball clubs such as the Philadelphia Phillies and the New York Yankees came to St. Petersburg for spring training, and Lang continued promoting the city when he was elected Mayor of St. Petersburg in 1916. After his term, Lang devoted his life to building a successful connection between Florida and baseball, and was instrumental in marketing St. Petersburg as a desirable sports site.\n\nWith Al Lang's support, the city replaced Coffee Pot Park with St. Petersburg Athletic Park (also known as Waterfront Park) on the present site of Al Lang Stadium in 1923. It served as the spring training home for Major League Baseball teams the Boston Braves and the New York Yankees until after World War II, hosting baseball greats such as Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, and Stan Musial.\n\nIn 1947, the city of St. Petersburg demolished Waterfront Park and constructed a modern baseball park on the same site. It was named Al Lang Stadium in honor of his many years of service to the city and his continual promotion of baseball in the area. The St. Louis Cardinals and New York Yankees shared the new ballpark in its first spring training season.\n\nThe stadium underwent a major reconstruction in 1976, expanding its capacity to 7,227. It was renovated again in 1996; the project cost $640,117 and included disability accommodations. When the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using the park for spring training in 1998, local utility Florida Power purchased the park's naming rights for $150,000 per year, and the city rechristened it Florida Power Park at Al Lang Field. When Florida Power was acquired by Progress Energy in 2003, the stadium's name was changed to Progress Energy Park. The naming rights agreement expired in 2011, and the facility's name reverted to Al Lang Stadium.\n\nAl Lang Stadium's grandstand faces the southeast, giving almost every seat a view of the St. Petersburg harbor and Tampa Bay beyond the left field wall. The stadium is constructed primarily of reinforced concrete, and the public portions of the facility include very few enclosed and air conditioned areas. A unique concrete cantilevered overhang shades many of the grandstand seats from the afternoon sun, and the stadium's waterfront location is often cooled by a sea breeze. During the 2015 renovation, the Rowdies replaced all of the seats in the grandstand, refreshed fan areas under the grandstand, and extensively updated many of the club and gameday operation areas. In addition, a portion of the outfield wall was removed and two banks of uncovered bleachers installed in its place, adding several hundred seats on the sideline of the soccer pitch opposite the grandstand.\n\nAl Lang Stadium was originally designed and built for baseball, and it has hosted many thousands of major league spring training, minor league, college, high school, international. and exhibition baseball games over the decades.\n\nAl Lang Stadium was originally built as a spring training and minor league venue and served that purpose from 1947 until 2008. Spring training tenants included the New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, New York Giants, New York Mets, and Baltimore Orioles. Minor league tenants included the St. Petersburg Saints of the Florida International League and the St. Petersburg Cardinals of the Florida State League. Al Lang Stadium's final minor league tenant was the Class A St. Petersburg Devil Rays, who last played at the stadium in 2000.\n\nIn 1998, the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using the stadium for spring training. Their regular season home at Tropicana Field is approximately one mile west, making the Devil Rays the first major league team to train and play regular season games in the same city in almost 90 years. In 2006, the Rays, seeking to expand their fan base across the Tampa Bay area, decided to move their spring training operations to Charlotte Sports Park in Port Charlotte, about 80 miles south of St. Petersburg. They played their last spring training ballgame at Al Lang Stadium on March 28, 2008.\n\nBaseball in the Tampa Bay area has a long history, and amateur baseball has long been played in Al Lang Stadium and its predecessors in downtown St. Petersburg. Many different tournament, exhibition, practice, and regular season games have been held there, with the University of South Florida St. Petersburg club baseball program the last amateur team to call Al Lang Stadium home during their inaugural season of 2014.\n\nThe 1997 and 2002 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournaments were played at the venue, as was the 2000 Conference USA Baseball Tournament. From 2010 to 2014, Al Lang Stadium hosted the St. Petersburg International Baseball Series, which involved international teams, national teams, and local college and high school teams along with minor league squads from various major league organizations that were already in the area for spring training. The event moved to other local venues in 2015.\n\nAfter the Tampa Bay Rowdies moved to Al Lang Stadium in 2011, the playing surface and seating arrangement had to be constantly alternated between baseball and soccer configurations, especially in the spring. The resulting poor condition of the turf led to complaints by Rowdies management and, in October 2014, an agreement that baseball would not be played at the facility.\n\nIn 2011, the soccer team FC Tampa Bay of the North American Soccer League announced it would move to Al Lang Stadium from George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa. This ended three years in which the stadium had no long-term tenant. Al Lang Stadium subsequently underwent minor renovations to convert it into a soccer facility, with temporary seats added on the grass along the sidelines to increase capacity. The team played its first game at Al Lang on April 9, 2011, and later changed its name to the Tampa Bay Rowdies, after the historical team that had played from 1975 to 1993.\n\nOn October 27, 2012, the Tampa Bay Rowdies became the 2012 NASL Champions by winning the two-leg Soccer Bowl against the Minnesota Stars at Al Lang Stadium. It was the first time that a major championship was held at the site. In 2013, the Rowdies signed a lease extension keeping the team at Al Lang Stadium through the 2016 season.\n\nIn 2014, Rowdies majority owner Bill Edwards publicly complained that the city of St. Petersburg and the St. Petersburg Baseball Commission, which managed Al Lang Stadium, had not kept up with maintenance on the grandstand, the locker rooms, or the playing field. This was partially due to the fact that although the Rowdies have been the only regular tenant of Al Lang Stadium since 2011, it was regularly used for exhibition and amateur baseball during the spring, necessitating that the playing surface be converted for soccer use by removing the pitcher's mound and replacing the infield dirt with grass. The dispute resulted in the Rowdies filing a lawsuit against the St. Petersburg Baseball Commission in July 2014 claiming that the commission was not properly maintaining the \"dilapidated\" facility.\n\nThe issues were finally resolved in October 2014 when Edwards and the city of St. Petersburg brokered a deal that gave Edwards' Big 3 Entertainment company management control of Al Lang Stadium for the next four years. As part of the arrangement, the facility would no longer be used for baseball events, and Edwards agreed to complete $1.5 million in renovations as he sought to make Al Lang Stadium more soccer friendly.\n\nPart of the circuit for the Grand Prix of St. Petersburg curves through the parking lot of Al Lang Stadium.\n\nOn January 29, 2013 Major League Lacrosse announced that the 2012 MLL champions the Rochester Rattlers would face the Chesapeake Bayhawks for their season opener at Al Lang stadium. It would be the first time that the league would play there. Part of this game is an effort to evaluate the Tampa Bay Area, and the state of Florida in general, for an expansion team, after MLL held the All-Star game at FIU Stadium the previous year. It was supported by the St. Petersburg/Clearwater Sports Commission who want to affirm the city's brand as a world-class destination for sports tourism. The game was played on Saturday, April 27, 2013 in front of 3,940 people (a figure higher than half the league's average attendance), with Chesapeake winning, 17–14.The FAU site would eventually become the home of the Florida Launch in 2014 until their eventual demise before the start of the 2019 season. When the original 2019 schedule was released in November 2018, they were expected to move to Central Broward Regional Park in Lauderhill, due to the later season dates overlapping with the Florida Atlantic Owls football season.\n\nIn 2015, Al Lang Stadium hosted the Halloween Rugby 7s, a rugby sevens tournament featuring eight teams: USA Falcons, USA Hawks, Canada, Argentina, Denver, New York City, Ohio and Utah.\n\nIn 2006, the Tampa Bay Rays announced plans to move their spring training home to Port Charlotte, about 80 minutes south of St. Petersburg, for the 2009 season. In November 2007, Rays President Matt Silverman introduced a plan to build a $450 million new Rays Ballpark at the Al Lang Stadium site that was to be ready for the 2012 baseball season. The plan failed to garner enough political support to move forward, and it was shelved in June 2008. Subsequently, the Rays began looking at other potential locations, and in May 2009, they announced that they would not seek to build a new facility in downtown St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 2013, the city of St. Petersburg began the process of creating a master plan for the waterfront area that includes Al Lang Stadium. Some of the proposals suggest replacing the entire stadium and surrounding parking areas with a soccer park complex with a new soccer-specific stadium. Rowdies owner Bill Edwards has stated that \"in a perfect world\", Al Lang Stadium would be replaced by an 18,000-seat publicly financed soccer stadium.\n\nIn March 2016, St. Petersburg mayor Rick Kriseman announced plans to hold a public referendum on extending the Rowdies' lease at Al Lang Stadium and to use tax dollars to help the club transform the facility into a \"city showpiece\". However, these plans were shelved in May 2016, possibly because it became known that Orlando City SC, the closest Major League Soccer (MLS) franchise, has territorial rights for the Tampa/St. Petersburg market, clouding the prospects for potentially bringing the Rowdies to MLS and delaying the need for a larger venue.\n\nIn December 2016, the Tampa Bay Rowdies launched another proposal entitled \"#MLS2StPete\" to join Major League Soccer as an expansion team. With the announcement, plans were released for an expansion and renovation of Al Lang Stadium to accommodate an 18,000-seat capacity financed by private funding. A May 2017 referendum authorized the city of St. Petersburg to negotiate a 25-year lease with the club if MLS picks the Rowdies as an expansion team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908013", "title": "Argyle Street, Hong Kong", "text": "Argyle Street, Hong Kong\n\nArgyle Street is a four-lane dual-way thoroughfare in Kowloon, Hong Kong, connecting the districts of Mong Kok, Ho Man Tin, Ma Tau Wai and Kowloon City. It runs on an east-west alignment starting at its intersection with Cherry Street, Ferry Street and Tong Mi Road in the west, and ending near the former Kai Tak Airport in the east. Due to the street's proximity with the latter, a variety of aircraft could be seen from this street and thus photographers (and movie makers) seized the opportunity to capture landing aircraft.\n\nThe street was named after a British merchant ship called \"Argyle\", which sailed between India and southern China in the early 19th Century.\n\nAmenities and buildings along the street include the Kowloon City Law Courts, the Kowloon Hospital, the Hong Kong Eye Hospital, the headquarters of the Hospital Authority, and the Kowloon West Police Headquarters.\n\nLangham Place opened in 2005 is situated near the west end of the street.\n\n\nAs the MTR was built in the 1970s, and some exits of the Mong Kok Station had occupied the right lanes of Argyle Street from Sai Yeung Choi Street to Portland Street, thus the government at the time had made the control in effect: vehicles can only travel westbound in uni-direction between the streets mentioned above. As a result, vehicles from Tai Kok Tsui via Argyle Street, eastbound towards Kowloon City, shall make a left turn to Reclamation Street, then turn right into Mong Kok Road. After crossing the junction between Mong Kok Road and Nathan Road, one shall turn right to either Sai Yeung Choi Street or Sai Yee Street in order to lead back to Argyle Street. For the same reason, vehicles are not allowed to make a right turn directly from Nathan Road to Argyle Street, and must follow the route described above.\n\nThe MTR's Mong Kok Station is located at the intersection of Argyle Street and Nathan Road, and the East Rail Line's Mong Kok East Station is located several blocks to the east, near the street's intersection with Luen Wan Street.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908014", "title": "Citrullinemia", "text": "Citrullinemia\n\nCitrullinemia is an autosomal recessive urea cycle disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic substances to accumulate in the blood. \n\nTwo forms of citrullinemia have been described, both having different signs and symptoms, and are caused by mutations in different genes. Citrullinemia belongs to a class of genetic diseases called urea cycle disorders. The urea cycle is a sequence of chemical reactions taking place in the liver. These reactions process excess nitrogen, generated when protein is used for energy by the body, to make urea, which is excreted by the kidneys.\n\nType I citrullinemia (, also known as classic citrullinemia) usually becomes evident in the first few days of life. Affected infants typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up in the body, they develop a lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and loss of consciousness. These medical problems can be life-threatening in many cases. A milder form of type I citrullinemia is less common in childhood or adulthood. Some people with gene mutations that cause type I citrullinemia never experience signs and symptoms of the disorder.\nInvestigation for diagnosis of citrullinemia type l elevated citrulline .\n\nType I citrullinemia is the most common form of the disorder, affecting about one in 57,000 births worldwide. Mutations in the \"ASS\" gene cause type I citrullinemia. The enzyme made by this gene, argininosuccinate synthetase (), is responsible for one step of the urea cycle. Mutations in the \"ASS\" gene reduce the activity of the enzyme, which disrupts the urea cycle and prevents the body from processing nitrogen effectively. Excess nitrogen, in the form of ammonia, and other byproducts of the urea cycle, accumulate in the bloodstream, leading to the characteristic features of type I citrullinemia.\n\nThe symptoms of type II citrullinemia ( and ) usually appear during adulthood and mainly affect the central nervous system. Characteristic features include confusion, abnormal behaviors (such as aggression, irritability, and hyperactivity), seizures, and coma. Specific investigation like decrease citrulline level , increase ammonium ion . These symptoms can be life-threatening, and are known to be triggered by certain medications, infections, and alcohol intake in people with this type.\n\nType II citrullinemia may also develop in people who had a liver disorder called neonatal cholestasis during infancy. This condition blocks the flow of bile and prevents the body from processing certain nutrients properly. In many cases, the symptoms resolve within a year. Years or even decades later, however, some of these people develop the characteristic features of adult type II citrullinemia.\n\nType II citrullinemia is primarily found in the Japanese population, where it occurs in an estimated one in 100,000 to 230,000 individuals. Type II has also been reported in people from East Asian and Middle Eastern populations. Mutations in the \"SLC25A13\" gene are responsible for type II citrullinemia. This gene makes a protein called citrin, which normally shuttles certain molecules in and out of mitochondria. These molecules are essential for the urea cycle and are also involved in making proteins and nucleotides. Mutations in \"SLC25A13\" typically prevent the production of any functional citrin, which inhibits the urea cycle and disrupts the production of proteins and nucleotides. The resulting buildup of ammonia and other toxic substances leads to the symptoms of type II citrullinemia. Researchers have found many infants with neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis have the same mutations in the \"SLC25A13\" gene as adults with type II citrullinemia.\n\nThere are multiple treatment methods. Low protein diets, are intended to minimize production of ammonia. Arginine, sodium benzoate and sodium phenylacetate help to remove ammonia from the blood. Dialysis may be used to remove ammonia from the blood when it reaches critical levels.\nIn some cases, liver transplant has been successful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908016", "title": "Einstein solid", "text": "Einstein solid\n\nThe Einstein solid is a model of a solid based on two assumptions:\n\nWhile the assumption that a solid has independent oscillations is very accurate, these oscillations are sound waves or phonons, collective modes involving many atoms. In the Einstein model, however, each atom oscillates independently. Einstein was aware that getting the frequency of the actual oscillations would be difficult, but he nevertheless proposed this theory because it was a particularly clear demonstration that quantum mechanics could solve the specific heat problem in classical mechanics.\n\nThe original theory proposed by Einstein in 1907 has great historical relevance. The heat capacity of solids as predicted by the empirical Dulong–Petit law was required by classical mechanics, the specific heat of solids should be independent of temperature. But experiments at low temperatures showed that the heat capacity changes, going to zero at absolute zero. As the temperature goes up, the specific heat goes up until it approaches the Dulong and Petit prediction at high temperature.\n\nBy employing Planck's quantization assumption, Einstein's theory accounted for the observed experimental trend for the first time. Together with the photoelectric effect, this became one of the most important pieces of evidence for the need of quantization. Einstein used the levels of the quantum mechanical oscillator many years before the advent of modern quantum mechanics.\n\nFor a thermodynamic approach, the heat capacity can be derived using different statistical ensembles. All solutions are equivalent at the thermodynamic limit.\n\nThe heat capacity of an object at constant volume \"V\" is defined through the internal energy \"U\" as\n\nformula_2, the temperature of the system, can be found from the entropy\n\nTo find the entropy consider a solid made of formula_4 atoms, each of which has 3 degrees of freedom. So there are formula_5 quantum harmonic oscillators (hereafter SHOs for \"Simple Harmonic Oscillators\").\n\nPossible energies of an SHO are given by\n\nor, in other words, the energy levels are evenly spaced and one can define a \"quantum\" of energy\n\nwhich is the smallest and only amount by which the energy of an SHO is increased. Next, we must compute the multiplicity of the system. That is, compute the number of ways to distribute formula_9 quanta of energy among formula_10 SHOs. This task becomes simpler if one thinks of distributing formula_9 pebbles over formula_10 boxes\n\nor separating stacks of pebbles with formula_13 partitions\n\nor arranging formula_9 pebbles and formula_13 partitions\n\nThe last picture is the most telling. The number of arrangements of formula_16 objects is formula_17. So the number of possible arrangements of formula_9 pebbles and formula_13 partitions is formula_20. However, if partition #3 and partition #5 trade places, no one would notice. The same argument goes for quanta. To obtain the number of possible \"distinguishable\" arrangements one has to divide the total number of arrangements by the number of \"indistinguishable\" arrangements. There are formula_21 identical quanta arrangements, and formula_22 identical partition arrangements. Therefore, multiplicity of the system is given by\n\nwhich, as mentioned before, is the number of ways to deposit formula_9 quanta of energy into formula_10 oscillators. Entropy of the system has the form\n\nformula_10 is a huge number—subtracting one from it has no overall effect whatsoever:\n\nWith the help of Stirling's approximation, entropy can be simplified:\n\nTotal energy of the solid is given by\n\nsince there are q energy quanta in total in the system in addition to the ground state energy of each oscillator. Some authors, such as Schroeder, omit this ground state energy in their definition of the total energy of an Einstein solid.\n\nWe are now ready to compute the temperature\n\nElimination of q between the two preceding formulas gives for U:\n\nThe first term is associated with zero point energy and does not contribute to specific heat. It will therefore be lost in the next step.\n\nDifferentiating with respect to temperature to find formula_33 we obtain:\n\nor\n\nAlthough the Einstein model of the solid predicts the heat capacity accurately at high temperatures, and in this limit\n\nformula_36,\n\nwhich is equivalent to Dulong–Petit law.\n\nNevertheless, the heat capacity noticeably deviates from experimental values at low temperatures. See Debye model for how to calculate accurate low-temperature heat capacities.\n\nHeat capacity is obtained through the use of the canonical partition function of a simple quantum harmonic oscillator.\n\nwhere\n\nsubstituting this into the partition function formula yields\n\nThis is the partition function of \"one\" harmonic oscillator. Because, statistically, heat capacity, energy, and entropy of the solid are equally distributed among its atoms, we can work with this partition function to obtain those quantities and then simply multiply them by formula_10 to get the total. Next, let's compute the average energy of each oscillator\n\nwhere\n\nTherefore,\n\nHeat capacity of \"one\" oscillator is then\n\nUp to now, we calculated the heat capacity of a unique degree of freedom, which has been modeled as a quantum harmonic. The heat capacity of the entire solid is then given by formula_45, where the total number of degree of freedom of the solid is three (for the three directional degree of freedom) times formula_4, the number of atoms in the solid. One thus obtains\n\nwhich is algebraically identical to the formula derived in the previous section.\n\nThe quantity formula_48 has the dimensions of temperature and is a characteristic property of a crystal. It is known as the Einstein temperature. Hence, the Einstein crystal model predicts that the energy and heat capacities of a crystal are universal functions of the dimensionless ratio formula_49. Similarly, the Debye model predicts a universal function of the ratio formula_50, where formula_51 is the Debye temperature.\n\nIn Einstein's model, the specific heat approaches zero exponentially fast at low temperatures. This is because all the oscillations have one common frequency. The correct behavior is found by quantizing the normal modes of the solid in the same way that Einstein suggested. Then the frequencies of the waves are not all the same, and the specific heat goes to zero as a formula_52 power law, which matches experiment. This modification is called the Debye model, which appeared in 1912.\n\nWhen Walther Nernst learned of Einstein's 1906 paper on specific heat, he was so excited that he traveled all the way from Berlin to Zürich to meet with him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908019", "title": "Children International", "text": "Children International\n\nChildren International is a global nonprofit humanitarian organization that helps children break the cycle of poverty. It addresses children’s critical needs through early intervention and regular interaction in community centers. The goal is to help children overcome the effects of poverty, support their education, and prepare youth to contribute to society.\n\nThe organization provides health benefits, such as annual medical exam and care during illness. If a child needs more advanced health intervention, the organization assists in providing referrals to specialists. Beyond these critical needs, Children International provides nutritional support, dental care, counseling for children and families, school supplies and fees, clothing, and items for the home. It also engages youth through leadership development opportunities, scholarships, and financial and job-skills training. An example of youth programming is \"Into Employment,\" where participating youth receive training in welding, electrical, refrigeration and industrial mechanics. Youth may also take courses on sales techniques, customer service, accounting, critical thinking and leadership. The international hotel chain InterContinental is one business working with the charity to provide job skills training for youth in Mexico. Children International has also worked with the Starwood Foundation to help youth prepare for jobs in the hospitality industry.\n\nChildren International ran other notable programs including a school feeding program in Zambia. With support from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, Children International offered a global community literacy program. The charity has been recognized for giving out books in the Philippines, Kenya, and Malawi. The organization also hosted reading tents in Uganda.\n\nChildren International has engaged in humanitarian aid after disasters. They provided assistance in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan, distributing personal care supplies, and clothing, food, water and other relief. Children International also pledged to assist the recovery effort with rebuilding and other aid.\n\nAccording to the Children International website, the organization's goal is to graduate healthy, educated, empowered and employed young adults from their program so they can achieve the goal of breaking the cycle of poverty. The organization delivers these results via its community centers, which offer programs, computers, libraries and other educational tools. Educational support of this kind is frequently absent or difficult to acquire in impoverished areas, leading to secondary illiteracy and educational lags. Community centers serve as a distribution network for aid, although the focus is on using each center as \"a unique support system\" that offers skill and leadership training, college preparation and confidence building. Children International has indicated that its interests lie in cross-sector work with private industry, local and national governments, individuals and other non-governmental organizations. \nChildren International uses a child sponsorship model to fund these activities, with nearly all of its funding coming from private donations. Funds are transferred to each agency, which oversee the organization’s community centers, according to an approved budget.\n\nKnown in its earlier years as \"Holy Land Christian Mission,\" Children International was founded in 1936. The organization distributed food baskets to widows and poor families, provided early childhood education and operated a small medical clinic as well as a children’s home for orphans. This clinic was expanded following a polio outbreak in 1952 and became larger and more sophisticated over the years. Eventually known as the Mt. David Crippled Children’s Hospital, the clinic provided critical orthopedic medical services until its closure.\n\nIn the 1980s, the organization began expanding its scope by launching sponsorship agencies in Guatemala, Colombia, Honduras and the Dominican Republic. It would later change its name to Children International.\n\nChildren International is currently a secular organization which supports equal participation for all children regardless of religion. The organization operates in 10 countries, including Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Mexico, the Philippines, the United States and Zambia.\n\nSinger and longtime CI supporter Debbie Gibson was featured as a contestant on the 2012 season of \"The Celebrity Apprentice\" on NBC. From the show, she raised $50,000 for CI and her winnings went towards the construction of a community center to serve 5,000 poor children in New Delhi, India. The community center will include a medical and dental clinic, pharmacy, library, computer lab and playground. The center will allow impoverished children to receive much-needed health care and educational support they would not have otherwise. In 2014, Gibson again demonstrated her support for the organization by donating proceeds from her appearance on the television show “Celebrity Home Raiders” to them.\n\nIn addition to Debbie Gibson, Children International has a dedicated base of celebrity supporters who have graciously agreed to lend their names and faces in support of bringing real and lasting change to families around the world.\n\nJoel Lambert, the ex-Navy SEAL star of the Discovery Channel show Lone Target, has discussed his support of the organization and sponsorship of a Filipino boy through the Children International program.\n\nJames Valenti, an American operatic tenor, has been vocal about his support of Children International and has visited its operations in the Dominican Republic.\nMarco Antonio Regil, a Mexican television personality and game show host, cites Children International as one of his charities and has filmed commercials in support of the organization.\n\nIn August 2014, Paola Espinosa, a Mexican diving and synchronized swimming champion, announced her collaboration with Children International and its sports program. In August 2019, the organization was featured by Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, on their Instagram feed along with other organizations including the Earth Day Network and BlinkNow Foundation.\n\nChildren International has worked with a number of organizations and agencies.\n\nWith the support of USAID, Children International launched A Ganar, a work training program in Guatemala in early 2014. Previously, the charity piloted a program with USAID/Colombia called Hope for Colombia’s Children that trained youth in conflict resolution. The two organizations have also distributed books together in the Philippines.\n\nChildren International has worked with the U.S. Peace Corps in a number of countries. The organization has trained Peace Corps volunteers in Guatemala, and has worked on several water-related projects in the Philippines, including a sanitation project and installation of water pumps. In 2014, the organizations co-authored a comprehensive youth leadership training manual titled “Leadership Training through Project Design and Management.” \n\nChildren International assisted the United Nations on its global campaign . The UN recognized the organization’s efforts to include poor children’s opinions in the effort.\n\nChildren International began its partnership with Aflatoun in 2010, when it implemented its programs in three countries: Ecuador, India and the Philippines. Children International has since expanded Aflatoun to its sponsorship areas, including Colombia, and Honduras. In November 2013, Children International launched the first Aflatoun program in the United States at its Little Rock, Arkansas, location.\n\nIn 2012, sponsored child Carla Vasquez from Guayaquil, Ecuador, was awarded the Youth Champion Award in Geneva, Switzerland, by Child and Youth Finance. In 2013, Children International had two children, one from Ecuador and one from India, qualify as finalists with their Aflatoun projects at the 2013 Child and Youth Finance Summit in Istanbul, Turkey.\n\nChildren International has been a TOMS Giving Partner since 2013. As part of their One-for-One shoe program, TOMS Shoes worked with Children International to distribute shoes in a Philippine community hard hit by Typhoon Haiyan. \n\nDuring A Promise Renewed for the Americas, a 2013 gathering of organizations including USAID and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO/World Health Organization), 18-year-old sponsored youth Nelson Hernandez Jimenez signed the Declaration of Panama on behalf of Children International. The document recognizes a continuing commitment to address issues of child, maternal, and reproductive health in the region.\n\nChildren International was featured on Oprah Winfrey's OWN original program “Operation Change” in 2014. The show focused on the organization’s early childhood development efforts in India and sports program in Colombia.\n\nAura's House worked with Children International on Small Scale, Doable Projects.\n\nSponsored youth in the Philippines, trained by Children International, have assisted UNICEF in disaster relief. Children International has also implemented a child protection policy based on the tenets of UNICEF’s Core Commitments for Children in Emergencies.\n\nThe Eli Lilly and Company's Lilly MDR-TB Partnership worked with Children International to create a public awareness campaign in India in 2009 that continued for several years. Sponsored youth, trained as Youth Peer Educators (YPE), supported tuberculosis patients during their treatment and worked as change agents to decrease stigma about the disease and increase overall community awareness of the illness.\n\nChildren International was named sole charity partner for the 2011 Pan-American Games. Subsequently, it released the video \"Soy Panamericano\".\n\nChildren International's United States' program, located in Little Rock, Arkansas, partners with Americorps. \n\nDigiBayanihan is a movement that seeks to champion digital literacy among Filipinos. The campaign was initiated by a multistakeholder partnership including organizations such as Intel Philippines and Children International – Philippines that have come together to empower the underserved.\n\nChildren International was selected as a partner for Clinique's Difference Maker Initiative, which supports education for girls. \n\nThe University of Kansas partnered with Children International in Guatemala to build a positive sports environment for kids. The director of KU’s Sport and Exercise Psychology Lab taught Children International volunteers and staff how to use a caring, task-involving approach where children feel supported, effort is rewarded and teamwork is encouraged.\n\nChildren International has worked with Clean the World to distribute soap and hygiene products to people in need. \n\nIn May 2014, Children International started withdrawing its operations from Chile. Letters were sent to sponsors of Children in Chile informing them that their sponsorship of the child had come to an end and assigning them a new child to sponsor in another country.\nChildren International claims that the reason for their pull-out is that the situation in Chile has improved to the point where they are not needed as the economy is improving and the government is taking care of the healthcare and education needs of the impoverished. Children International had three service centers in Chile, serving over 17000 children, all of which are being closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908021", "title": "Mutual majority criterion", "text": "Mutual majority criterion\n\nThe mutual majority criterion is a criterion used to compare voting systems. It is also known as the majority criterion for solid coalitions and the generalized majority criterion. The criterion states that if there is a subset S of the candidates, such that more than half of the voters strictly prefer every member of S to every candidate outside of S, this majority voting sincerely, the winner must come from S. This is similar to but stricter than the majority criterion, where the requirement applies only to the case that \"S\" contains a single candidate. The mutual majority criterion is the single-winner case of the Droop proportionality criterion.\n\nThe Schulze method, ranked pairs, instant-runoff voting, Nanson's method, and Bucklin voting pass this criterion. All Smith-efficient Condorcet methods pass the mutual majority criterion.\n\nThe plurality vote, approval voting, range voting, the Borda count, and minimax fail this criterion.\n\nMethods which pass mutual majority but fail the Condorcet criterion can nullify the voting power of voters outside the mutual majority. Instant runoff voting is notable for excluding up to half of voters by this combination.\n\nMethods which pass the majority criterion but fail mutual majority can have a spoiler effect, since if a non-mutual majority-preferred candidates wins instead of a mutual majority-preferred candidate, then if all but one of the candidates in the mutual majority-preferred set drop out, the remaining mutual majority-preferred candidate will win, which is an improvement from the perspective of all voters in the majority.\n\nThe mutual majority criterion implies the majority criterion so the Borda count's failure of the latter is also a failure of the mutual majority criterion. The set solely containing candidate A is a set S as described in the definition.\n\nAssume four candidates A, B, C, and D with 100 voters and the following preferences:\n\nThe results would be tabulated as follows:\n\nResult: Candidates A, B and C each are strictly preferred by more than the half of the voters (52%) over D, so {A, B, C} is a set S as described in the definition and D is a Condorcet loser. Nevertheless, Minimax declares D the winner because its biggest defeat is significantly the smallest compared to the defeats A, B and C caused each other.\n\nAssume the Tennessee capital election example.\n\nThere are 58% of the voters who prefer Nashville, Chattanooga and Knoxville over Memphis, so the three cities build a set S as described in the definition. But since the supporters of the three cities split their votes, Memphis wins under Plurality.\n\nRange voting does not satisfy the Majority criterion. The set solely containing candidate A is a set S as described in the definition, but B is the winner. Thus, range voting does not satisfy the mutual majority criterion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908022", "title": "Government of Peru", "text": "Government of Peru\n\nThe Republic of Peru is a unitary state and a presidential representative democratic republic with a multi-party system. The current government was established by the 1993 Constitution of Peru. The government is composed of three branches, being executive, judicial, and legislative branches.\n\nThe head of state is the President of Peru, who is elected to a term of five years; incumbents cannot be re-elected for a second consecutive term. Family members may also not immediately succeed in another family member's presidency. The current president is Martín Vizcarra. He was sworn into office as President on March 23, 2018, following the resignation of President Kuczynski. The executive branch, in addition to the legislative branch, may propose legislation. After legislation has been passed by the congress, the President may promulgate the legislation, giving it the force of law.\nIn addition to the president, the executive branch contains the Council of Ministers, which, in addition to the Prime Minister, are appointed by the president.\n\nAccording to Article 125 of the Political Constitution of Peru (1993), in order to be Minister, it is required:\n\nArticle 92 states that members of Congress can be Ministers of State.\n\n\nThe Ministers of State can delegate, within their Ministry, the faculties and powers that are not exclusive to their function, to the extent that it is allowed by Law. Functions 2, 4, 5, 7, and 8 are exclusive to the Minister.\n\nThe judicial branch is represented by the Supreme Court Of Justice, a 16-member body divided into three supreme sectors:\n\nThe legislative branch of Peru is vested in the Congress of the Republic of Peru, which is a 130-member unicameral house. The legislators are elected for five-year terms on a proportional representation basis.The legislation is voted on in Congress, then sent to the president, who may approve it.\n\nUniversal suffrage is granted to all over the age of 18. Voting is compulsory until the age of 70. Some argue whether compulsive voting is for the best of the country and the citizens. Enforced strictly, with exceptions. \n\n"}
{"id": "1908024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908024", "title": "Pinchot University", "text": "Pinchot University\n\nPinchot University was a private graduate university in Seattle, Washington. Founded in 2002, Pinchot University was the first school to offer an MBA in Sustainable Business. In August 2016, Pinchot University was acquired by Presidio Graduate School.\n\nPinchot University was founded in 2002 by Gifford Pinchot III, Libba Pinchot, Sherman Severin and Jill Bamburg as Bainbridge Graduate Institute (BGI). In November 2002, BGI was authorized by the State of Washington's Higher Education Coordinating Board to offer the MBA in Sustainable Business. In August 2009, BGI was awarded a grant of accreditation from the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS). In August 2016, Pinchot University was acquired by Presidio Graduate School.\n"}
{"id": "1908026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908026", "title": "Store Wars", "text": "Store Wars\n\nStore Wars was originally a comic strip in the British comic \"Whizzer and Chips\". During its run it was drawn by Doug Jensen, Jim Watson and Jimmy Hansen.\n\nThe story of the strip was of two shops. The very first story told the story of how all of the shops in a terrace of shops closed up, one by one, leaving Bloggs & Son General Store, a popular small corner shop that seemingly sold anything and everything, owned by Mr. Bloggs, a kindly old man wearing the traditional white coat, and his son Ted. Mr. Superstore, a bowler-hatted long-nosed man one day walked into Bloggs' shop and promptly decided to build a new superstore on the site of the demolished shops.\n\nEach episode saw him try various nefarious methods to bring customers from the small shop to his store, but would inevitably come to a sticky end.\n\nOne strip drawn by Jim Watson rewrote the origins. Mr. Superstore brought a coachload of people in from a block of flats to visit the store - and then he showed them a postcard showing a terrace of houses adjacent to Bloggs' shop, whereupon the shoppers revealed themselves as the original inhabitants of the houses before he had them demolished and attacked him with their handbags - the last frame saw them all in Bloggs' shop, catching up.\n\nYet another saw Bloggs open 24 hours a day - and Mr. Bloggs introduced his twin brother in the last two frames, covering the night shift. Others saw Mr. Superstore trying to keep up with Mr. Bloggs changing displays in a matter of minutes, and failing dismally - Mr. Bloggs always had a display ready to go whatever the weather, together with whitewash to write on the windows.\n\nAfter Whizzer and Chips merged with \"Buster\", the strip was continued in said comic, ending in March 1994. From 1997, after a reader request, the strip returned to Buster, but were reprints of earlier stories as opposed to new material. This continued until the comic's last issue at the beginning of 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908030", "title": "As I Lay Me Down", "text": "As I Lay Me Down\n\n\"As I Lay Me Down\" is a song composed and performed by singer-songwriter Sophie B. Hawkins. It is from her album \"Whaler\" and also appears on \"The Best of Sophie B. Hawkins\". The song is one of her two biggest hits, reaching number six on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number one on the Adult Contemporary chart for six weeks during 1995. Outside the United States, the song reached number six in Canada, number seven in Australia, number 19 in New Zealand, and number 24 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe song is a ballad in which the singer reminisces about a faraway loved one as she goes to bed and hopes to see them again. It was written in memory of Hawkins' father.\n\nIt appeared in the 1995 film \"Now and Then\" and the TV series \"Party of Five\" (with Hawkins performing it as a guest star) and in the 1998 pilot of \"Dawson's Creek\".\n\n\"As I Lay Me Down\" was the second US single released from the album \"Whaler\". , the song was released with little fanfare (a photograph of Sophie dressed as a sailor was the focus of the cover). Sophie then insisted that her label (Columbia) allow her to tour the country with only an acoustic piano. The song then began receiving airplay on adult contemporary stations. During the summer of 1995, it became a huge A/C hit as well as a top ten song. A remix also helped the song gain airplay on other kinds of stations. \"As I Lay Me Down\" (with two different video versions) peaked on the charts in the autumn of 1995.\n\nThe song was also included on the album \"All Time Greatest Movie Songs\", released by Columbia Records in 1999.\n\nThe music video (directed by Sophie Muller) depicts Hawkins singing while sitting on stairs outside an apartment building in her hometown of New York City. It flashes to Hawkins in a forest swinging on a swing, lying on a tree branch, sitting in a boat, and sitting on a bench. It also shows a little girl running through the forest representing Hawkins as a child.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908033", "title": "Bookworm (comics)", "text": "Bookworm (comics)\n\nBookworm was a British humoristic comic strip, first published on 22 April 1978 in the magazine \"Whoopee!\" and survived \"Whoopee!\"'s merger with \"Whizzer and Chips\" in 1985, becoming a Chip-ite. It was drawn by Sid Burgon for most of its history, although Barry Glennard drew a substantial number of episodes.\n\nThe comic strip centers around a young boy, \"Bookworm\", who indeed is a huge bibliophile. He is never seen without a book and his parents often try to force him doing more \"boyish\" things, like playing football. The results are typically disastrous.\n"}
{"id": "1908040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908040", "title": "Three (2002 film)", "text": "Three (2002 film)\n\nThree (, , ) is a 2002 horror film collaboration consisting of three omnibus segments by directors from three Asian countries. The segments are, in the following order:\n\nReleased in America as \"3...Extremes II\" to capitalize on the success of \"Three... Extremes\" (2004).\n\nThe project has a sequel, \"Three... Extremes\" (2004) following the same concept but with directors Fruit Chan, Takashi Miike and Park Chan-wook.\n\nA man goes to a psychiatrist to try to remember what happened the day his wife disappeared from his life. Meanwhile, his wife wakes up and finds herself lying on a deserted road, having no idea how she got there in the first place. Slowly, she recollects the memories of her previous life and takes a lead towards her and her husband's residence, a flat located in an empty housing estate called \"New Town\". Strange things befall on the couple: the husband experiences nightmares of his ghastly wife mutilating herself, while the wife feels as if others do not acknowledge her existence. When she finally arrives at her residence, she discovers the full truth.\n\nThe man had murdered his wife after an argument and cut her into pieces. Her remains are then stored in a black bag seen at certain points in the movie. The man experiences trauma after the incident, while the reason why others ignore the wife is because no one can see her. The man is then seen driving away from New Town with his wife's remains.\n\nCast and roles include\n\nA puppet master (known as Hun lakhon lek) named Master Tao lies dying in his bed after he has drowned his wife and son. Tao fears of a curse coming from his puppets, which will exact their improper owners misery should they take hold of them. He is later burned alive inside his house with the spirits of his wife and son becoming witnesses. His rival, Master Tong, a tutor for traditional Thai dance connected to Hun lakhon lek (known as Khon) attempts to steal the puppets to raise his prestige. However, this causes deaths of many people in the troupe. Tong eventually meets the same fate as Tao when the house he is in catches flames and burns down.\n\nCast and roles include\n\nA widowed cop, Chan Kwok-wai moves to a dying apartment with his son, Cheung. He is informed about Yu, a neighbor across the complex, who lives with his paralyzed wife, Hai'er, and daughter. Yu's daughter creeps Cheung, but the two become friends and later play at a photo studio. However, Chan mistakenly believes that Yu has kidnapped Cheung and attempts to break into his apartment, only to get caught and rendered unconscious. Yu takes Chan hostage and reveals that his wife has died, yet he continues to talk to her as if she is alive. He promises to release him in three days, the time when his wife would \"wake up\" through the help of Chinese medicine, after which the two would go back to their Changsha home in the mainland. He also reveals that he never has a daughter, for she was aborted when his wife succumbed to liver cancer three years before.\n\nOn the third day, Chan's fellow cops manage to arrest Yu. However, before he is taken away, he escapes and attempts to reach Hai'er, only to get killed when a car hits him. The doctor who treated Yu and Hai'er tell Chan the full truth about her patients as well as the fact that though Hai'er has died, she does indeed shows signs of life. The film ends with Cheung leaving the photo studio, which is shown to be closed from the outside but thriving in the inside, implying that it is otherworldly. Yu, Hai'er, and their daughter enter the studio to get their photos taken.\n\nCast and roles include\n\nThis film was released in the U.S. under the title \"Three Extremes II\", as the sequel was released first in U.S. territories, followed by this film.\n\nThe third segment of the film, Going Home, has won:\n"}
{"id": "1908043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908043", "title": "Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency", "text": "Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency\n\nHolocarboxylase synthetase deficiency is an inherited metabolic disorder in which the body is unable to use the vitamin biotin effectively. This disorder is classified as a multiple carboxylase deficiency, a group of disorders characterized by impaired activity of certain enzymes that depend on biotin. Symptoms are very similar to biotinidase deficiency and treatment – large doses of biotin – is also the same.\n\nMutations in the \"HLCS\" gene cause holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency. The \"HLCS\" gene makes an enzyme, holocarboxylase synthetase, that attaches biotin to other molecules. Biotin, a B vitamin, is found in foods such as liver, egg yolks, and milk. It is essential for the normal production and breakdown of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates in the body. Mutations in the \"HLCS\" gene reduce the activity of holocarboxylase synthetase, preventing cells from using biotin effectively and disrupting many cellular functions.\n\nThis condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered.\n\nThe signs and symptoms of holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency typically appear within the first few months of life, but the age of onset varies. Affected infants often have immunodeficiency diseases, difficulty feeding, breathing problems, a skin rash, hair loss (alopecia), and a lack of energy (lethargy). Immediate treatment and lifelong management (using biotin supplements) may prevent many of these complications. If left untreated, the disorder can lead to delayed development, seizures, and coma. These medical problems may be life-threatening in some cases.\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from The U.S. National Library of Medicine\"\n"}
{"id": "1908047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908047", "title": "Panoramagram", "text": "Panoramagram\n\nThe panoramagram is an instrument invented in 1824 and a method of stereoscopic viewing in which the left-eye and right-eye photographs are divided into narrow juxtaposed strips and viewed through a superimposed ruled or lenticular screen in such a way that each of the observer's eyes is able to see only the correct picture. Also used to obtain the illusion of depth of one or more objects placed on the horizon and reflected on a flat surface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908049", "title": "Detroit Rockers", "text": "Detroit Rockers\n\nThe Detroit Rockers were an indoor soccer team in the National Professional Soccer League from 1990 to 2001. They played in Joe Louis Arena and Cobo Arena in downtown Detroit, Michigan as well as The Palace of Auburn Hills and Compuware Sports Arena in the suburbs. For a time, they were led by star player-coach Andy Chapman until he was lured away by the more deep-pocketed Detroit Neon in 1994. The big stars of the Rockers included Drago Dumbovic and goalie Bryan \"Goose\" Finnerty. The Rockers won the 1991–1992 NPSL Championship. The Rockers outlasted the home-town rival Neon only because the Neon folded with their league the CISL.The Rockers themselves finally folded in 2001 when the NPSL ceased operations. Until the Rockers folded, they were owned by businessmen from Walled Lake.\n\n\n\nMVP\n\nLeading scorer\n\nDefender of the Year\n\nRookie of the Year\n\nCoach of the Year\n\nFirst Team All Star\n"}
{"id": "1908051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908051", "title": "Burning Mountain", "text": "Burning Mountain\n\nBurning Mountain, the common name for Mount Wingen, is a hill near Wingen, New South Wales, Australia, approximately north of Sydney just off the New England Highway. It takes its name from a smouldering coal seam running underground through the sandstone. Burning Mountain is contained within the Burning Mountain Nature Reserve, which is administered by the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS).\n\nA trail with information panels runs from the parking lots to the site where smoke emanates from the ground.\n\nThe Leyland brothers reported on Mount Wingen in the first episode of their travel programme, \"Ask The Leyland Brothers\":\n\nThe underground fire is estimated to be at a depth of around . It is estimated that the fire has burned for approximately 6,000 years and is the oldest known coal fire.\n\nEuropean explorers and settlers to the area believed the smoke, coming from the ground, was volcanic in origin. It was not until 1829 that geologist Reverend C. P. N. Wilton identified it as a coal seam fire.\n\nThe fire is generally moving in a southerly direction at a rate of about per year. The combustion has caused soil discolouration and an uneven ground surface in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908057", "title": "Innuendo (band)", "text": "Innuendo (band)\n\nInnuendo is a Malaysian band, best known for their remake of the Carefree's evergreen ballad, \"Belaian Jiwa\", and most recently, their 70s style single, \"Only Dancin'\".\n\nInnuendo is one of Malaysia's premier R&B groups, formed in 1992 when a love for R&B and Soul music brought Reymee bin Mohamed Hussein (born on November 15, 1976), Shamshul Azhar bin Nazeer, and Ahmad Tajuddin Bin Mohamed Tahir (born on August 27, 1974) and Saiful Amir bin Abdul Wahab (born on November 1, 1971) together. As a multi award winning group which contributed in re-introduction of boy-band scenes locally, Innuendo also successfully re-introduced a cappella tunes to Malaysian audiences after decades of being unheard on mainstream media. After the departure of the fourth member, Sam, on August 20, 2002, this local harmony quartet-turned-trio continued with a new album, \"BrandNuEndo\", and performed at award shows including \"AIM 2002\" (\"Anugerah Industri Musik 2002\") where they also picked up an award, and venues around the country including at Planet Hollywood every Sunday in August 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908061", "title": "Sheng ji", "text": "Sheng ji\n\nSheng ji is a family of point-based, trick-taking card games played in China and in Chinese immigrant communities. They have a dynamic trump, i.e., which cards are trump changes every round. As these games are played over a wide area with no standardization, rules vary widely from region to region.\n\nThe game can be played with multiple decks of cards. With one deck, it may be called dǎ bǎi fēn (, 'competing for a hundred points') or sìshí fēn (, 'forty points'); with two decks, as is most commonly played, it may be called bāshí fēn (, 'eighty points'), tuō lā jī (, 'tractor'), shuāng kōu (, 'double digging out'), or shuāng shēng (, 'double upgrade'); another variant is called zhǎo péngyǒu (, 'Finding Friends'), which has five or more players and two or more decks.\n\nThe article below mainly describes the \"bashi fen\" variant, with players playing with two decks and in fixed partnerships.\n\nThe game is played with four players in fixed partnerships, with players sitting across each other forming a team. Each team has a rank that they are currently playing, henceforth referred to as their score. At the beginning of a match, everyone starts at a score of 2.\n\nThe teams are divided into the \"declarers\" (also known as \"defenders\") and the \"opponents\" (also known as \"attackers\"), which are determined in the process of the game and will change frequently (see below). Ultimately, the purpose of the game is to raise one's own team to the score of above ace, while preventing the other team from doing so.\n\nWhen a team passes (rather than exactly attains) a score of ace, a match usually ends with their victory. This may take several hours, so shorter games may end at a lower threshold, or begin with players' scores higher than two. If an even longer game is desired, players can wrap back around to 2 after passing ace.\n\nThe game is played with two decks, with two jokers per deck, giving a total of four jokers. The jokers are separated into red and black (or colloquially known as \"big\" and \"small\" respectively). Some card manufacturers will make jokers of the same color, which then have to be marked as \"red\" and \"black.\"\n\nThe order of the cards depends on the dominant suit and rank, which are determined before every round. The typical order, from highest to lowest, is:\n\nwhere the first five are considered under the trump suit. For example, in a certain round, if the queen of spades (Q) is dominant, then the order of the cards is:\n\nNote that the other queens are no longer considered members of their respective suit, but part of the trump suit; the red jokers are equally ranked with each other, and so are the black jokers, queens of spades and of other suits.\n\nIf two or more equally ranked cards or combinations are played during a trick, the first one played wins.\n\nIn the deck, all kings and 10s are worth 10 points each, while 5s are worth 5 points each, although the presence of the points do not affect the order of the cards. In two decks, there are a total of 200 points. All other cards do not contain points.\n\nFor the opponents, the goal of each round is to obtain 80 points or more in one round to become declarers in the next round, while for the declarers, it would be preventing the opponents from obtaining 80 points, and thus raising their team's rank.\n\nThe cards are dealt out in Chinese fashion, where the players take turns drawing one card at a time in counter-clockwise order. The deal is initiated in one of two ways:\n\n\nThe dealer is a member of the declarers' team that starts every round, and plays an important role in helping his team increase their rank in that round. The dealer is usually determined as such:\n\n\nThe dominant rank is always equal to the score of the declarers in any particular round. Hence, when the declarers obtain a score of 5, the rank for that round is 5; when the score is raised to 7, the rank is 7, and so on.\n\nThe dominant suit, on the other hand, is determined during the drawing of cards where any player decides to reveal a card in the trump rank he has, and the suit of the card becomes the trump suit.\n\n\nDrawing continues until everyone has drawn 25 cards and a pool of reserve cards (usually consisting of about eight cards), remains. The dealer then picks up all the cards, integrates them into his hand, and then discards the same number of cards into a pile in the center, known as the kitty. These cards are kept unopened throughout the duration of that round and may or may not be turned over thereafter, depending on the result of the last trick in the round.\n\nSometimes, a player who has no trump, or, in other variations, no point cards in his hand, may force a redeal by showing his hand to everyone.\n\nThe dealer leads the first trick with any single card or combinations of cards, and the game proceeds like most trick-taking games, where players take turn to play their cards in a counter-clockwise direction, and the player who plays the highest-ordered card or combination of cards take the trick and leads the next round. All cards taken by the declarers may be discarded for the rest of the round; point cards taken by the opponents count towards their number of points collected, and should be kept, but other cards may be similarly discarded.\n\nA lead may be of one of four types, each with different rules dealing with what can be played on it. As a rule of thumb, when any card or combination of cards is lead, other players must always follow the number of card(s) played.\n\nAny single card may be lead. Players must follow suit if they have cards in the same suit; if a trump card is lead, other players must play a trump card, if they still have any. The highest trump, or, if no trump is played, the highest-ordered card of the suit lead takes the trick. In case of ties, the first highest card played wins the trick.\n\nOnly two cards are considered doubles, so two different-suited trump rank cards, two ordinary non-trump cards with the same value, or a combination of a red joker and a black joker are not counted. For example, if 7♣ is trump, 7♠-7, or Q♠-Q are not considered doubles despite them being of equal rank (or in the first case, both in the trump suit).\n\nAfter a double-cards lead, other players must also follow suit with double cards, if they have them; for players who do not have double cards in the suit lead, they must play separate cards in the same suit if they have them. Only after playing any cards in the lead suit, they may play any cards from other suits, or a double from the trump suit to \"ruff\" the trick. In this case, the highest-ordered trump double, if it is played, wins the trick; otherwise the highest-ordered double in the suit lead wins. Two singles may not beat a double even if they are both higher-ordered than the double (for trump 7♣, 9-9 beats J-Q or even J♣-Q♣, if a diamond double was led).\n\nIf a player has consecutive pairs of cards in the same suit (trump or non-trump), he or she may lead it as a group. In this case, other players must follow suit by playing cards according to the following priority, if they have them:\n\n\nThe first combination, if all consecutive and of greater order than the suit lead, wins the trick. Only when a player does not have any other card in the suit played, then he is allowed to play cards of other suits, or ruff the combination with the same number of consecutive pairs in the trump suit.\n\nThe table below describes whether some combinations are considered as consecutive doubles; if otherwise, , but will instead follow the multiple-cards combination rules .\n\nA player may lead a combination of multiple cards if he has them, provided that each of the singles or doubles played are the largest in the suit and no other player has larger combinations in that round. Leading such combinations usually result in the leading player's favour.\n\n\nAt the end of a round, all points taken by the opponents are collected and counted, while other cards may be discarded. The last trick of that round is also taken into consideration:\n\n\nThe results of the opponents' point count determine the change of scores or dealers as such:\n\nThereafter, all cards are recollected and shuffled, and the next round thus begins.\n\nThe game may also be played with single or multiple decks, in which the number of cards in the kitty and the number of points as criteria for increasing ranks need to be revalued.\n\nFor single decks, it is typical to use 6 cards for the kitty (each player being dealt 12 cards each in a deck of 54 cards) and 40 points as the requirement to swap teams, and no double cards will be played, but combinations of cards may still be allowed. This variant is commonly known as \"forty points\" () or \"competing over a hundred points\" ().\n\nFor multiple () decks, the kitty size varies across regions. 40 is usually used as the point requirement to swap teams, and the rule of combinations may still apply, but exceptions are only granted to full -tuples (e.g. with three decks, doubles are still subject to the rule of combinations and players will have to take back their cards where necessary).\n\nSpin-offs of \"bashi fen\" include \"zhao pengyou\", where five players play with two decks in fluid partnerships, with rules similar to that of fluid-partner Bridge. In this case, the dealer may call a particular card, and its owner will be his partner. The playing rules stay largely the same.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908067", "title": "Speckled tanager", "text": "Speckled tanager\n\nThe speckled tanager (\"Tangara guttata\") is a medium-sized passerine bird. It is a resident breeder in Costa Rica, Panama, Trinidad, Venezuela, Colombia, Guyana, Suriname and the extreme north of Brazil. There are also sight records from French Guiana.\n\nIt is probably a close relative of the spotted tanager (\"T. punctata\") which replaces it to the south. These two species are generally presumably to be fully allopatric, but may actually be parapatric: in 1998 a speckled tanager was found in the Serranía de los Churumbelos (Colombia), just about north of where spotted tanagers are known to occur.\n\nAdult speckled tanagers are long and weigh . The upperparts are green with black spotting, and the face is yellow with a black line from the eye to the gape. The wings and tail are black edged with green, and the underparts are white spotted with black. The sexes are similar. The speckled tanager's flight call is a weak metallic chirping \"tsip\".\n\nThe Trinidadian subspecies \"T. g. trinitatis\" has brighter and more extensive yellow on the head, and the black spotting is more conspicuous.\n\n\"T. guttata\" is more of a subtropical species than its relative and occurs in humid montane and secondary forest, with generally not very tall trees and a dense understory. Speckled tanagers are social birds which eat mainly fruit and some insects. They are often seen with bay-headed tanagers and honeycreepers.\n\nThe small cup nest is built in a tree and the normal clutch is two brown-blotched white eggs. The female incubates the eggs for 13 days to hatching, with another 15 days before the chicks fledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908072", "title": "Australian country music", "text": "Australian country music\n\nAustralian country music is a part of the music of Australia. There is a broad range of styles, from bluegrass, to yodeling to folk to the more popular. The genre has been influenced by Celtic and English folk music, the Australian bush ballad tradition, as well as by popular American country music. Themes include: outback life, the lives of stockmen, truckers and outlaws, songs of romance and of political protest; and songs about the \"beauty and the terror\" of the Australian bush. Early pioneers included Tex Morton, Smoky Dawson (touted as Australia's first singing cowboy), Buddy Williams, Slim Dusty and Johnny Ashcroft all members of the Australian Roll of Renown.\n\nNotable musicians include: Adam Brand, Adam Harvey, Jasmine Rae, Troy Cassar-Daley, Davidson Brothers, Slim Dusty, Steve Forde, Joy McKean, Jean Stafford, Olivia Newton-John, John Williamson, Chad Morgan, Keith Urban, O'SHEA, Lee Kernaghan, and Kasey Chambers. Others influenced by the genre include Paul Kelly and Tex Perkins. Popular songs include \"When the Rain Tumbles Down in July\" (1946), \"Waltzing Matilda\" (1895), \"Pub With No Beer\" (1957), \"Lights on the Hill\" (1973), \"I Honestly Love You\" (1974), \"True Blue\" (1981), \"Boys From the Bush\" (1992), and \"Not Pretty Enough\" (2002).\nAustralia has a long tradition of country music, which has developed a style quite distinct from its US counterpart, influenced by English, Irish and Scottish folk ballads and by the traditions of Australian bush balladeers like Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson. Country instruments, including the guitar, banjo, fiddle and harmonica create the distinctive sound of country music in Australia and accompany songs with strong storyline and memorable chorus and lyrics.\n\nThe style of Australian country music evolved under the influence of rock and roll forms. While some subject matter may be constant, musical styles differ between traditional and contemporary bush ballads. Exemplars of the traditional bush ballad style include Slim Dusty's \"When the Rain Tumbles Down in July\" or \"Leave Him in the Long yard\" which have strong narrative in verses plus choruses set to a Pick n' Strum beat. Contemporary bush ballads may employ finger picking and strumming rock styles as in Lee Kernaghan's later version of Leave Him in the Longyard, or in Keith Urban reworking of the Slim Dusty/Joy McKean classic \"Lights on the Hill\".\n\nThe distinctive themes and origins of Australia's bush music can be traced to the songs sung by the convicts who were sent to Australia during the early period of the British colonisation, beginning in 1788. Early Australian ballads sing of the harsh ways of life of the epoch and of such people and events as bushrangers, swagmen, drovers, stockmen and shearers. Convict and bushranger verses often railed against government tyranny. Classic bush songs on such themes include: The Wild Colonial Boy, Click Go The Shears, The Eumeralla Shore, The Drover's Dream, The Queensland Drover, The Dying Stockman and Moreton Bay.\n\nLater themes which endure to the present include the experiences of war, of droughts and flooding rains, of Aboriginality and of the railways and trucking routes which link Australia's vast distances. Isolation and loneliness of life in the Australian bush has been another theme. For much of its history, Australia's bush music belonged to an oral and folkloric tradition, and was only later published in print in volumes such as Banjo Paterson's \"Old Bush Songs\", in the 1890s.\n\nWaltzing Matilda, often regarded as Australia's unofficial National Anthem, is a quintessential early Australian country song, influenced more by Celtic folk ballads than by American Country and Western music. The lyrics were composed by the poet Banjo Paterson in 1895. This strain of Australian country music, with lyrics focusing on strictly Australian subjects, is generally known as \"bush music\" or \"bush band music\".\n\nCountry and folk artists such as Gary Shearston, Lionel Long, Margaret Roadknight, Tex Morton, Slim Dusty, Rolf Harris, The Bushwackers, John Williamson, and John Schumann of the band Redgum have continued to record and popularise the old bush ballads of Australia through the 20th and into the 21st century - and contemporary artists including Pat Drummond, Sara Storer and Lee Kernaghan draw heavily on this heritage.\n\nPioneers of a more Americanised popular country music in Australia included Tex Morton (known as \"The Father of Australian Country Music\") in the 1930s and other early stars like Buddy Williams, Shirley Thoms and Smoky Dawson. In 1932, Tex Morton arrived from New Zealand, aged 16, and humped his swag around outback stations where he began to earn a name as a performer. In 1936 he cut his first commercial records in Australia. He went on to establish a distinctly Australian bush ballad style, shifting from American songs to songs about Australia. He attained national popularity in the 1930s and formed a traveling \"Rodeo and Wildwest Show\" in the 1940s. In 1949 he travelled to North America and Europe enjoying great success as a stage hypnotist, working in film and with artists such as Hank Williams. He returned to Australia in the early 1960s, by which time a generation of performers had carved a place for the Australian themed country music he pioneered.\n\nSmoky Dawson cut his first recording in 1941: \"I’m a Happy Go Lucky Cowhand\". In 1952, Dawson began a radio show, and went on to national stardom as a yodelling, whip cracking, knife throwing, singing cowboy of radio, TV and film.\n\nKnown as \"Canada's Yodelling Cowboy\", Donn Reynolds (1921-1997) began a 40-year international career upon cutting several popular sides in 1947 on the Regal Zonophone label including \"Old Bush Shanty of Mine\" and \"Stockman's Lullaby\". He toured with Willard (Bill) Ferrier's Famous Hillbillies in what was Sydney's first all-country format variety shows and became the voice of Australia's iconic Peters Ice Cream as the \"Peter's Singing Cowboy\". Reynolds achieved notoriety through song and screen performances worldwide, and later established 2 world records for yodeling.\nSlim Dusty (AM) (1927–2003) was known as the \"King of Australian Country Music\", and helped to popularise the Australian bush ballad. His successful career spanned almost six decades and his 1957 hit \"A Pub With No Beer\" was the biggest-selling record by an Australian to that time, the first Australian single to go gold, and the first and only 78 rpm record to be awarded a gold disc. Dusty remains Australia's most successful and prolific performer, and won more Gold and Platinum albums than any other Australian artist. Dusty recorded and released his one-hundredth album in the year 2000 and was given the honour of singing \"Waltzing Matilda\" in the closing ceremony of the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. Dusty was accorded a state funeral upon his death and with over 7 million Australian record sales he remains Australia's most successful domestic music artist.\n\nSlim Dusty's wife Joy McKean, (OAM) penned several of his most popular songs including \"Indian Pacific\", \"The Biggest Disappointment\" and “Lights on the Hill”. Their daughter Anne Kirkpatrick is also a successful singer-songwriter. The family began annual round Australia tours in 1964 - encompassing a 30,000-mile, 10-month journey which was the subject of a feature film, \"The Slim Dusty Movie\" in 1984.\n\nAlthough himself an accomplished writer of songs, Dusty had a number of other songwriters including Mack Cormack, Gordon Parsons, Stan Coster and Kelly Dixon who were typically short on formal education but big on personal experience of the Australian bush. Coster wrote popular Dusty bush ballads including \"The Cunamulla Fella\" and \"Three Rivers Hotel\" based on his own experience of working as a sheep hand and railway construction worker. Drawing on his travels and such writers over a span of decades, Dusty almost inadvertently chronicled the story of a rapidly changing post-war Australian nation. Nevertheless, the arrival of rock and roll music saw major metropolitan music radio stations abandon support for country artists like Dusty and despite record sales in the multi millions, he and other successful Australian country artists were rarely heard on air outside regional centres in Australia until the new cross-over pop-country styles of the 1990s began to be heard again on city airwaves.\n\nIn 1951, country singer-songwriter Reg Lindsay, (OAM), began broadcasting on Sydney radio and remained on air for 12 years. In 1964 he took over Channel 9's \"The Country & Western Hour\", which was networked around Australia and ran for seven and a half years. Soon after the show was replaced with \"Reg Lindsay's Country Homestead\" from Brisbane. The show gave hundreds of young artists a boost and helped to boost the Australian country music industry.\n\nAnother enduring talent of Australian country music has been Chad Morgan, who began recording in the 1950s and is known for his vaudeville style of comic Australian country and western songs, his prominent teeth and goofy stage persona. In reference to his first recording he is known as The Sheik of Scrubby Creek. Johnny Ashcroft (OAM) had an early country-rock chart success in Australia and New Zealand while Frank Ifield achieved considerable success in the early 1960s, especially in the UK Singles Charts. Reg Lindsay was one of the first Australians to perform at Nashville's Grand Ole Opry in 1974. His international hit \"Armstrong\", a tribute to the historic 1969 moon landing by American astronaut Neil Armstrong is now included in a time capsule at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.\n\nTed Egan (AM) began recording in 1969 and has released 28 albums, mostly themed around outback life, history and Aboriginal affairs. Eric Bogle's 1972 folk lament to the Gallipoli campaign \"And The Band Played Waltzing Matilda\" recalled the Celtic origins of Australian folk-country.\n\nSinger-songwriter John Williamson, (OAM) began to build his reputation as an iconic Australian entertainer with his 1970 performance of his first song \"Old Man Emu\" on New Faces (influenced by novelty works of Rolf Harris such as Tie Me Kangaroo Down Sport). It was the first of many popular songs employing Australian slang. In 1982 he released \"True Blue\" and subsequent works including \"Mallee Boy\", the lyrical \"Galleries of Pink Galahs\" and reworkings of Australian bush ballads and folk songs earned him a permanent position as leading exponent of Australian country and folk music.\n\nIn 1970, Tamworth's Radio 2TM organised the landmark \"Bicentennial Concert\" to mark the 200th anniversary of the voyage of Captain James Cook along the coast of Eastern Australia. The pioneers of Australian country music Slim Dusty, Joy McKean, Barry Thornton, \"Smiling\" Billy Blinkhorn, Smoky Dawson, Shirley Thoms and Buddy Bishop all featured in the concert which contributed to a revival of interest in Australian country music which had struggled for airplay since the arrival of rock and roll in Australia. The Tamworth Country Music Festival began in 1973 and now attracts up to a 100,000 visitors annually.\n\nIn 1974, a popular cross-over artist Olivia Newton-John, (MBE), (OAM), received the Country Music Association's Top Female Vocalist award in the US, despite protest from American country purists. Her popular hits have included I Honestly Love You and Tenterfield Saddler by Australian singer-songwriter Peter Allen as well as country classics such as \"Banks of the Ohio\" and \"Take Me Home, Country Roads\".\n\nIn 1992, The Country Music Association of Australia was launched in Tamworth, New South Wales to encourage, develop and promote Australian Country Music. Slim Dusty was its first Chairman, John Williamson its Vice Chairman, Joy McKean was Treasurer, Max Ellis Secretary and Phil Matthews Public Officer. After negotiations, Tamworth's Radio 2TM agreed to hand over responsibility for the Golden Guitar Awards to the new body.\n\nIn recent years, country music has consolidated its position as a popular genre in Australia, with well attended festivals and a large number of top-selling albums and songs. By the 1990s, Country music had attained cross-over success in the pop charts with artists like James Blundell, James Reyne singing \"Way Out West\", and country star Kasey Chambers winning the ARIA Award for Best Female Artist in 2000, 2002 and 2003 and becoming the youngest artist to ever be inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame. Alternative country star Chambers is the daughter of steel guitarist Bill Chambers. Her hits include \"Not Pretty Enough\" (2002), \"True Colours\" (2003) and \"Pony\" (2004) which all peaked in Australia's Top Ten.\n\nThe cross-over influence of Australian country is also evident in the music of successful contemporary bands The Waifs and The John Butler Trio. Singer-songwriter Paul Kelly whose music style straddles folk, rock, and country is often described as the \"poet laureate\" of Australian music.\n\nEclectic rocker Nick Cave has been heavily influenced by the American country music artist Johnny Cash. Cave has recorded a number of country covers including several on his 1986 album \"Kicking Against the Pricks\", which has such American country classics as \"By the Time I Get to Phoenix\", \"Long Black Veil\" and \"The Singer\" (a.k.a. \"The Folksinger\"). In 2000, Cash, covered Cave's \"The Mercy Seat\" on the album \"\". Subsequently, Cave cut a duet with Cash on a version of Hank Williams' \"I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry\" for Cash's \"\" album (2002).\n\nCountry music has been particularly popular among the Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Dougie Young and Jimmy Little were pioneers and Troy Cassar-Daley is among Australia's successful contemporary Indigenous performers. Aboriginal artists Kev Carmody and Archie Roach employ a combination of folk-rock and country music to sing about Aboriginal rights issues. The documentary, book and soundtrack Buried Country showcases significant Indigenous musicians from the 1940s to the 1990s.\n\nPopular and emerging contemporary performers of Australian country include: Lee Kernaghan (whose hits include the contemporary country classic \"Boys From the Bush\") and sister Tania Kernaghan, Melinda Schneider, Gina Jeffreys, Beccy Cole, Felicity Urquhart, Shannon Noll, Tracy Coster, Sara Storer, and brother Doug Storer.\n\nSara Storer's award-winning second album Beautiful Circle prompted Melbourne's The Age newspaper to report that \"As we lament the death of Slim Dusty, here is evidence that authentic, yet contemporary Australian bush country has not died with his passing\". Her Australian accent, song subject matter and collaborations with established balladeers John Williamson and Paul Kelly link her to the oldest traditions of Australian country music.\n\nIn the United States, Australian country music stars including Sherrié Austin and Keith Urban have attained great success. In 1991, Urban released a self-titled debut album and charted four singles in Australia before moving to the United States in 1992 going on to chart more than fifteen singles on the U.S. country charts, including ten Number Ones. Urban has proven extremely successful internationally and has won the Country Music Association Award for Male Vocalist of the Year three times and their top Entertainer of the Year honour twice.\n\nThe Tamworth Country Music Festival is an annual country music festival held in Tamworth, New South Wales (Country music capital of Australia). It celebrates the culture and heritage of Australian country music. During the festival the Country Music Association of Australia holds the Country Music Awards of Australia ceremony awarding the Golden Guitar trophies. Another important Country festival, the Gympie Muster began in near Gympie, Queensland in 1982. The non-profit community-based festival raises funds for charity and attracts around 25,000 fans to listen to stars and new talents alike. As well as mainstream Australian country the event showcases the breadth of contemporary Australian country: from folk and bush poetry, to alternative country.\n\nIndigenous country music is in evidence at the Deadly Awards, a celebration of Indigenous musicians and their music.\n\nThe Mildura Country Music Festival celebrates the \"Australian Independent Country Music Awards\" every October.\n\nOther significant country music festivals include the Whittlesea Country Music Festival held north of Melbourne in February, Boyup Brook Country Music Festival held in Western Australian in February, Bamera Country Music Festival held in South Australia in June, the National Country Muster held in Gympie during August and the Canberra Country Music Festival held in the national capital during November. Some festivals are quite unique in their location: the Groundwater Country Music Festival is held beachside in Broadbeach, on the beautiful Gold Coast annually on the last weekend in July. Grabine State Park in New South Wales promotes Australian country music through the Grabine Music Muster Festival; Marilyns Country Music Festival is a unique event held in South Australia's Smoky Bay annually in September and is the only music festival in the world using an oyster barge as a stage.\n\nAlong with the festivals above, there are also event that include country music such as Musters, Field Days and rural shows.\n\n\nAustralian country music is promoted heavily through dedicated media outlets in Australia including:\n\nTelevision\n\n\nRadio\n\n\nInternet Radio\n\n\nPrint Media\n\n\nDigital Media\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908075", "title": "Gordon Gund", "text": "Gordon Gund\n\nGordon Gund (born October 15, 1939) is an American businessman and professional sports owner. He is the CEO of Gund Investment Corporation. He is the former co-owner of the San Jose Sharks (National Hockey League) and former principal owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers (National Basketball Association) and is currently a minority owner of the Cavaliers. Gund lost his sight to retinitis pigmentosa and was a co-founder of \"Foundation Fighting Blindness.\"\n\nA native of Cleveland, Ohio, Gund is a member of one of the city's prominent families. His father George Gund II was president and chairman of Cleveland Trust when it was Ohio's largest bank. Gund II was famous for hiding his wealth from his family and hiding his philanthropy. His sister, Agnes is a well known philanthropist in her own right.\n\nGordon Gund and his wife, Llura, reside in Princeton, New Jersey; they have two children. Gund has also owned a large home on the north shore of Nantucket since 1978.\n\nGordon Gund attended Harvard University, where he majored in physical sciences and sociology and played ice hockey. He served in the United States Navy, becoming department head on two destroyers. He then started a banking career, specializing in corporate finance. He gradually began going blind in the 1960s due to retinitis pigmentosa. By 1970, Gund was totally blind. In 1971, Gund co-founded the \"Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation\" (now known as The \"Foundation Fighting Blindness\") which supports research to find cures and treatments for retinal degenerative diseases. The blindness did not prevent him from being active in business and philanthropy. Gund is the former President of the Board of Trustees of his alma mater, Groton School in Groton, Massachusetts. He has honorary doctorates from Gothenburg University in Sweden, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Whittier College and the University of Vermont. He formerly served as director of the Kellogg Company of Battle Creek, Michigan, and of Corning Incorporated in Corning, New York. Gund is chairman emeritus and a director of the board of directors of The Foundation Fighting Blindness.\n\nGund's brother, George, held a minority interest in the California Golden Seals of the NHL. The Seals had never been able to find success either on the ice or at the box office, and after plans for a proposed new arena in San Francisco were cancelled in 1976, he convinced majority owner Mel Swig to relocate the franchise from Oakland to the Gunds' hometown in June of that year. Renamed the Barons after the popular former American Hockey League team, they played at The Coliseum in Richfield, which had been vacated by the Cleveland Crusaders of the World Hockey Association when they moved to Saint Paul, Minnesota to become the second incarnation of the Minnesota Fighting Saints.\n\nThe Barons only drew 10,000 or more fans in seven out of their 40 home games. They were also troubled by an unfavorable lease with the Coliseum. In January 1977, Swig hinted the team might not finish the season because of payroll difficulties. The Barons actually missed payroll twice in a row in February, and only a $1.3 million loan allowed the Barons to finish the season. They finished last in the Adams Division, and Swig sold his interest in the team to the Gunds.\n\nThe Gunds poured money into the team, and it seemed to make a difference at first. The Barons stunned the defending Stanley Cup champion Montreal Canadiens on November 23 before a boisterous crowd of 12,859. After a brief slump, general manager Harry Howell pulled off several trades in an attempt to make the team tougher. It initially paid off, and the Barons knocked off three of the NHL's top teams, the Toronto Maple Leafs, New York Islanders and Buffalo Sabres in consecutive games in January 1978. A few weeks later, a record crowd of 13,110 saw the Barons tie the Philadelphia Flyers 2–2. The bottom fell out in February, however, as a 15-game losing skid knocked the Barons out of playoff contention.\n\nAt the end of the 1977–78 season, plans to buy the Coliseum outright fell through, and the Barons' small crowds and continuing struggles placed the franchise's viability in serious doubt. Meanwhile, the ownership of the Minnesota North Stars could no longer sustain the North Stars. Since Minnesota was perceived as the more desirable hockey market at the time, NHL President John Ziegler oversaw a merger between the two franchises, with the Gunds assuming ownership of the North Stars. Minnesota moved into Cleveland's position in the Adams Division. Within three seasons, the North Stars would make the 1981 Stanley Cup Finals, thanks to the Gunds' willingness to invest in the team and the addition of a number of talented players, including goaltender Gilles Meloche, from the Barons' roster\n\nAfter the NHL geographically realigned their divisions in 1981, placing the North Stars in the rough-and-tumble Norris Division, the Gunds would see attendance drop at the Metropolitan Sports Center while the team struggled on the ice. While there was a strong core of die-hard fans, the team often struggled to sell out its home games.\n\nBy 1990, the Gunds had decided on a plan to relocate the franchise to the San Francisco Bay Area, the market they had vacated some 14 years earlier. Ziegler and the league refused to allow this move, but allowed the Gunds to sell the North Stars to Howard Baldwin and granted them an expansion team in the Bay Area, which became the San Jose Sharks, to start play in the 1991–92 season.\n\nWith an expansion roster, the Sharks finished last in the NHL standings in their first two seasons, when they played out of the old Cow Palace, a facility the Seals and the NHL had rejected in 1967. With the opening of the San Jose Arena in 1993, however, the Gunds would be able to spend more on the team, and they made waves throughout the NHL with high-profile first-round upsets in the 1994 and 1995 playoffs. While the franchise could not maintain consistent success on the ice, they have enjoyed a high level of popularity, and their home arena is consistently one of the loudest in the NHL.\n\nIn February 2002, the Gunds sold the Sharks to a consortium, named San Jose Sports & Entertainment Enterprises (SJSE). Gordon sold his share outright while George retained an ownership share as one of the partners in SJSE.\n\nThe Gunds bought the Cleveland Cavaliers from Ted Stepien in 1983 for $20 million, in order to keep the team in Cleveland and at Richfield Coliseum, which the Gunds owned. Stepien had threatened to move the team to Toronto. The Gunds replaced the team's logo and uniform design, replacing the \"swashbuckling swordsman\" with the team's nickname of 'Cavs' with a stylized 'V' made of a net and basketball.\n\nUnder the Gunds' ownership, attendance figures started to rise, and the Cavaliers enjoyed a period of competitiveness on the basketball court. In the 1994–1995 season, Gund Arena was built and replaced the Coliseum, and attendance figures stayed high. According to the Cavaliers' media guide, the Cavs had the highest attendance figures in franchise history in 15 of the last 16 seasons, heading into the 2004–2005 season.\n\nHis most notable achievement in the final years of his ownership was drafting high school prodigy and Akron, Ohio native LeBron James with the first-overall pick in the 2003 NBA Draft, a move which helped rejuvenate interest among the fan base. In 2005, Gund sold controlling interest of the team to Quicken Loans founder and billionaire Dan Gilbert, maintaining a minority ownership stake for himself. Gund has an NBA Championship to his credit via his status as minority owner of the team during the 2015-2016 title winning season.\n\nGund Arena (since renamed Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse) became a cornerstone of the redevelopment of downtown Cleveland, which was also bolstered by Jacobs Field (since renamed Progressive Field), the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the new Cleveland Browns Stadium (since renamed FirstEnergy Stadium). The Gunds would also operate one of the founding franchises of the WNBA, the Cleveland Rockers. They would also bring hockey to Gund Arena, in a revived version of the Cleveland Barons, who were the top minor-league affiliate of the Gunds' San Jose Sharks when the International Hockey League's Cleveland Lumberjacks folded.\n\nMostly working with briarwood, Gund sculpts small figures, mostly animals. These maquettes are then enlarged and cast in bronze. He also works in clay. Sculpture for Gund is a painstakingly slow process. It is not unusual for him to work on a single piece for a year or more. He is close friends with Ann Korologos, and exhibits in her art gallery, the Ann Korologos Gallery, in Basalt, Colorado.\n\nPublic Collections:\n<br>\nSelected Private Collections:\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908083", "title": "Poovarany", "text": "Poovarany\n\nPoovarany is a village in Meenachil Pachayath, Palai, Kottayam district, Kerala, India.The name poovarany means jungle of flowers. The Sacred Heart Church and Sree Mahadeva temple are the main religious centers. Two small rivers, the Cheruthode and Valiyathodu, flow through the area. Most of the people belong to Syrian Malabar Nasrani and Hindu communities.\n\nThe land around Poovarany is well-suited for cultivation. Rubber, pepper, coconut, paddy, ginger, and turmeric are common items produced here.\n\nPonkunnam and Palai are the nearest towns. It's very near to the pilgrimage center Bharananganam. Major centers are Kumbani, Ambalam, Moolethundi, Charala, Vilakummaruth, Palli, Thazhaveli, Kochukottaram and Pachathode.\n"}
{"id": "1908089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908089", "title": "The Ring of Charon", "text": "The Ring of Charon\n\nThe Ring of Charon is a science fiction book by American writer Roger MacBride Allen, first published in 1990 by Tor Books. It is the first in a series of three (although the third book has yet to be published) books under the name of \"The Hunted Earth\".\n\nThe story unfolds as an unknown alien race captures Earth with the use of a controlled wormhole, which was triggered accidentally by artificial gravity experiments issued from a human outpost in space. The story follows all three viewpoints: the Earth, the Solar System (\"sans\" Earth) and the alien race (Charonians).\n\nDr. Sondra Berghoff: A researcher at the Gravitics Research Station who assists Larry Chao in his attempts to prove his findings in artificial gravity. Without authorization, she reconfigures a routine experiment with Larry's assistance to boost the power of the gravity signal a thousandfold, resulting in the accidental awakening of the charonian Observer, also known as the Lunar Wheel.\n\nWolf Bernhardt: Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on Earth, who becomes the head of the UN Directorate of Spatial Investigation after the Big Jump.\n\nLarry O'Shawnessy Chao: A young junior researcher at the Gravitics Research Station on Pluto who discovers a way to concentrate and amplify the power of an existing source of gravity. Unfortunately, in a later attempt to prove his claims, he directs a modulated gravity beam at Earth, triggering its capture by the slumbering Observer buried deep within the moon.\n\nDr. Gerald MacDougal: Husband to Marcia MacDougal. A born-again Canadian exobiologist, Gerald was transported to the Multisystem along with the Earth.\n\nDr. Marcia MacDougal: Wife to Gerald MacDougal. Born in Tycho Purple Penal, she was declared a refugee and escaped the Naked Purple lifestyle when the fire department burned her parents' house. A planetary engineer at VISOR, Marcia observed Earth's disappearance and later cracked Charonian communications via the Arecibo method.\n\nDr. Hiram McGillicutty: The abrasive head physicist at VISOR. Notorious for his lack of couth when dealing with other people, he is brilliant and meticulous in gathering data, even if he tends to come to the wrong conclusions.\n\nDr. Simon Raphael: Embittered by years of failed research into gravity manipulation, Raphael is the director of the Gravitics Research Station. He initially dismisses Larry Chao's test results as a fabrication in attempt to keep the station open, and attempts to shut down further research into the so-called Chao Effect. Following the apparent destruction of Earth, he opens the station's facilities to Larry in order to try to undo what he has done, and later comes to trust and support the young scientist in his actions.\n\nDianne Steiger: Pilot of the cargo tug \"Pack Rat\", Dianne is later appointed the captain of the \"Terra Nova\" following the Big Jump.\n\nDr. Jane Webling: The aging Director of Science at the Gravitics Research Station.\n\nCoyote Westlake: A solo asteroid miner who is inadvertently transported to Mars when she lands on a Charonian G-point disguised as an asteroid.\n\nThe Multisystem is a huge artificial stellar system presided over by a Charonian Dyson Sphere where Earth was taken after the Big Jump. It is host to at least eight G-class stars and dozens of Earth-like planets, all stolen from their respective solar systems in the same manner as the Earth and carefully held in their orbits with artificial gravity. The planets are shepherded by a large number of Charonian COREs which destroy any potential threat to the life-bearing planets through direct physical impact, including human spacecraft.\n\nNaPurHab: The Naked Purple Habitat, owned and operated by the radical Naked Purple social movement, was brought along in the Big Jump and managed to survive the transition by orbiting around the Moonpoint black hole. Against their own philosophy, the residents of the habitat cooperated with the people of Earth, relaying messages through the \"Saint Anthony\" to the Solar System before the probe's final destruction by a CORE.\n\nSaint Anthony: A probe sent through the wormhole connecting the Solar System to the Multisystem, the \"Saint Anthony\" was used to relay messages and scientific data across the void of space prior to its destruction by a CORE.\n\nTerra Nova: Built by the United Nations and mothballed as a result of the K-crash, this ship was meant to explore another star system after a flight lasting for generations. Following the Big Jump, it was recommissioned with Dianne Steiger as the captain and Gerald MacDougal as the chief science officer. The Directorate of Spatial Investigation, formulated to investigate the cause and implications of the Big Jump, ordered the \"Terra Nova\" to investigate the Dyson Sphere, but soon after its launch it became apparent that this would be impossible due to the marauding COREs in the multisystem. Realizing that humanity had few spaceborne resources left after the Big Jump, the captain decided that the \"Terra Nova\" would not return to Earth, instead waiting a safe distance from the attack range of the COREs for the time that it would be of use to Earth.\n\nThe Belt Community: Being as the asteroid belt is ungovernably large, the Belt community consists of widely spread independent and corporate mining operations, with Ceres at its core as the primary trading post. Although conventional law enforcement throughout the belt is impossible, Ceres itself is governed under the just (if not heavy-handed) watch of the Autocrat. Once plagued by rock wars (vicious skirmishes which typically arose due to disputes over mining rights), the death penalty has been frequently employed to keep the population in check. Although the secrets of the Autocrat are closely guarded, the Belt Community has developed a device called the Core cracker, and quite seriously offered to blow up the planet Mercury both to create a second asteroid belt and assist VISOR in the terraforming of Venus.\n\nGravitics Research Station: Control center for the Ring of Charon, the largest particle accelerator ever built. Slated to be mothballed by the UN following the K-crash after years of unsuccessful experimentation, a perfectly timed breakthrough by Larry Chao held off the shutdown of the facility. Located on Pluto, this was where human experiments in gravity control resulted in the accidental awakening of the Lunar Ring and the theft of Earth. The Ring was a crucial tool in the later study of Charonians and eventually to fight against them.\nTycho Purple Penal: Once a UN-sanctioned prison colony buried under Tycho Crater on the moon, this converted penitentiary was declared a sovereign republic in order to release the UN of its responsibility to maintain it. Controlled by former inmates, the colony was taken under the influence of the radical Naked Purple social movement, and subsequently renamed Tycho Purple Penal. Standing restrictions on immigration forbade any resident from leaving the colony, but Marcia MacDougal was able to overcome this obstacle when she was declared a refugee following the burning of her parents' house.\n\nVISOR: Venus Initial Station for Operational Research, the human research facility built to study possible methods of terraforming the world. Following notification of Larry Chao's gravity experiment, all of the facility's instruments were focused on Earth at the time of the Big Jump. Observations made by several scientists on VISOR were later crucial to human attempts to understand and combat the Charonian invaders.\n"}
{"id": "1908101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908101", "title": "Carl Salser", "text": "Carl Salser\n\nCarl Walter Salser, Jr. (16 August 1921 – 11 April 2006) was an American author, businessperson and educator.\n\nSalser was born in Emporia, Kansas. He grew up in Corvallis, Oregon after his father left Kansas State Teacher's College (now Emporia State University) to become Dean of Education at Oregon State College (now Oregon State University (OSU)). He graduated from Corvallis High School and enrolled at Oregon State College.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II he served as a Navy Corpsman, stationed at the Naval Hospital in Corona, California before being ordered to the Pacific Theater of Operations for the assault on Okinawa. Following the war he joined the Naval Reserve, from which he retired as a lieutenant commander.\n\nAfter the war, he graduated from Oregon State, where he also met his future wife, Barbara Anderson (1926-2000), of Lake Oswego, Oregon. They opened a men's clothing store and a restaurant that also served the training table for the OSU college football team, before joining McGraw-Hill Publishing and moving to Portland, Oregon. He received his master's degree from OSU in 1956. Also in the mid-1950s he became editor-in-chief for Allied Publishers of Portland, and in 1960 took over a college of business (then Pacific Business College, now known as Capstone English Mastery Center) before forming the 501(c)(3) nonprofit Educational Research Associates in 1965.\n\nThe author or editor of more than 100 instructional titles, Salser authored two books on educational policy, \"A Tyrant in Cap and Gown\", and \"Public Education from A to Z\". He co-authored numerous titles in the use of the alphabetic shorthand system known as Personal Shorthand. Beginning in 1965 he led the development of the Individualized instruction system of school and classroom management.\n\nHe was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to the National Council on Educational Research (NCER) on 28 May 1982. Confirmed by the United States Senate, he served two terms on the Council until its purpose was changed and it became the National Advisory Council on Educational Research and Improvement.\n\nHe spent almost his entire life in Oregon. A lifelong Republican, he was manager for U.S. Senator Mark Hatfield's successful 1956 campaign for Oregon Secretary of State. He twice campaigned for a position in the Oregon House of Representatives, losing once in the primary and once in the general election.\n\nHe suffered a stroke in September 1991 and thereafter used a wheelchair. He died 11 April 2006. He was survived by three children, Mark Salser, Lori Fraser, and Linda Salser, and three grandchildren, Andrew Fraser, Alanna Fraser, and Matthew Salser.\n\n2. Mark Salser\n"}
{"id": "1908104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908104", "title": "Stan Jones (Libertarian politician)", "text": "Stan Jones (Libertarian politician)\n\nStan Jones (born January 13, 1943) is a Libertarian Party politician who has twice run unsuccessfully for the United States Senate in 2002 and 2006, and has run twice unsuccessfully for governor of Montana, in 2000 and 2004. The winner in 2000 was Republican Judy Martz, and in 2004 the winner was Democrat Brian Schweitzer. In 2002 the winner was Democrat Max Baucus. His loss in 2006 was his most significant, when he challenged incumbent Republican Conrad Burns and Democrat Jon Tester, and received 3 percent of the vote.\n\nJones developed argyria, which permanently turned his skin a blue-grey color, by consuming home-made colloidal silver, which he made due to fears the Year 2000 problem would make antibiotics unavailable, an event that did not occur. The peculiar coloration of his skin featured prominently in media coverage of his unsuccessful campaign.\n\nHis stances on policy issues tend to be socially conservative; among other issues, he supports the death penalty, opposes same-sex marriage despite his party affiliation, and has called abortion a \"crime against humanity.\" During the senatorial debate held on October 9, 2006, Jones stated that a conspiracy of the European Union and North American elites is on the verge of forming a \"one world communist government.\"\n\nHe currently works as a business consultant in Bozeman, the seat of Gallatin County.\n"}
{"id": "1908111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908111", "title": "Argyle Street", "text": "Argyle Street\n\nArgyle Street - derived from \"Argyle\", an archaic spelling of \"Argyll\", a county in western Scotland - is the name of a street in many cities and towns. Notable among these are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908114", "title": "Eric Tsang", "text": "Eric Tsang\n\nEric Tsang Chi-wai (; born 14 April 1953) is a Hong Kong actor, film director, producer, and television host, best known for hosting the variety show \"Super Trio series\" on the Hong Kong television network TVB over 18 years.\n\nTsang is a Hakka of Wuhua ancestry. His father, Tsang Kai-wing, was a former football coach and player, then served in the Royal Hong Kong Police Force from 1940 to 1972. He fled to Taiwan to escape from the Independent Commission Against Corruption in 1976 after being convicted of corruption and sentenced to three years in jail, while still free pending an appeal. In 2001, the Department of Justice seized his house in La Salle Road and later auctioned it for HK$4.35 million after 10 years of civil proceedings. Tsang Kai-wing died in Taiwan in 2011 with his son Eric and other family members around him.\n\nTsang is also a cousin of former Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Frederick Ma.\n\nIn his youth, Tsang was a Hong Kong professional soccer player.\n\nTsang began his showbusiness career as a stuntman. Due to his popularity, Tsang is often the master of ceremonies (MC) in events organised by the Hong Kong television network TVB, and he was nicknamed \"Prize Master\" ().\n\nHe is known for being a short plump guy with a habit of speaking before thinking, often landing himself into hot water. His insults have led to him being assaulted by rumored triads over bad mouthing singer Joey Yung. As an MC in the Miss Chinese International Pageant, he often favours contestants in Hong Kong.\n\nNevertheless, Tsang also appeared in many successful Hong Kong films, gaining actor awards and nominations. Early on in his career, he was typecast as a bumbling, ugly, and crude sidekick, and it was not until encouragement from his daughter Bowie Tsang to stop doing comedic roles that he went on to star in a film with friend Alan Tam and was awarded a Hong Kong best actor award. Perry Lam, a cinema critic from \"Muse\", wrote that Tsang 'brings directness, straightness and a lack of nonsense to whatever role he plays, and occasionally demonstrates an uncanny ability to enter the egoless states of which only the greatest of character actors like Robert Duvall are capable.'\nHe also was an occasional singer. Despite his high-pitched voice, he sings his parodies and theme songs to variety shows in a low-range tenor or high-range baritone of 2 octaves.\n\nTsang is a devout Buddhist, often leading other actors in efforts to raise money for Hong Kong Buddhist temples and events.\n\nTsang's best friends are Natalis Chan and Alan Tam, who are also famous singers and actors from Hong Kong. Tsang has been close friends with Tam's family since childhood as their fathers were colleagues in the police force and played football together.\n\nTsang was married two times. His first marriage was with Taiwanese actress Wang Mei Hua in 1972 and they had two daughters, Bowie Tsang and Tsang Wing Yee. Due to Tsang's sociable nature with spending more time with his friends and at work rather than at home, they divorced three years later in 1975. Wang brought their eldest daughter back to Taiwan, while their younger daughter moved to Canada.\n\nHis second marriage was with Sung Lai Wah in 1989 and they had two sons, Derek Tsang, who is a famous international director who directed \"Better Days\", and Mark Tsang. Sung and her two sons later immigrated to Toronto, Canada without him, who chose to stay in Hong Kong and they had been living in a long-distance relationship since then.\n\nIn December 2013, \"Next Magazine\" published an anonymously-produced interview with actress Yammie Lam where she said that she had been raped by two Hong Kong entertainment industry \"big brothers\" 20 years ago. According to Lam, one of the individuals had died not long ago, while the other individual is alive. She further claims that the second individual had raped her during a film production in Singapore. However, the names of the alleged perpetrators were censored out of the audio, which generated intense media speculation. It is not known who the interviewer was; in fact, the interviewer's voice shows evidence of having been digitally manipulated from a natural female voice to a male voice. In January 2018, a mainland Chinese journalist uploaded what purported to be an uncensored recording of Yammie Lam's 2013 interview. In the new 2018 clip, the interviewer now has a natural female voice, and the formerly censored portions implicate Alan Tang (deceased in 2011) and Eric Tsang as the two alleged rapists of Lam. Media analysts have endorsed the authenticity of the newly released video; they note that the 2018 video did not have noise removal or other post-production traces that are observed in the publicly released 2013 clip; hence, whomever leaked the video must have had direct access to the original unedited video.\n\nTwo days after the release of the January 2018 video, the sexual offense claim against Eric Tsang was corroborated by Grace Han, a talent agent who formerly headed the Ford Models agency in Asia. Han further alleged that Eric Tsang had sexually assaulted more than one woman, and claims to know of a specific incident in which a group of male Hong Kong celebrities, led by Tsang, allegedly drugged seven female models in a Hong Kong karaoke bar and raped six of them, while one girl escaped after she noticed the drugging.\n\nTsang rejected the authenticity of the uploaded video and did not address Grace Han's allegation. A week after the allegations surfaced, Tsang filed a defamation lawsuit against Grace Han in the Hong Kong High Court, arranged for a press event, and announced that \"punishment\" is needed. Tsang further claimed to the media that he had already won a defamation lawsuit in 2006 on similar grounds, but independent media sources have not been able to corroborate this claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908115", "title": "Violaceous euphonia", "text": "Violaceous euphonia\n\nThe violaceous euphonia (\"Euphonia violacea\") is a small passerine bird in the true finch family. It is a resident breeder from Trinidad, Tobago and eastern Venezuela south to Paraguay and northeastern Argentina. The bird's range in northern Brazil is the lower portion of the Amazon Basin and the adjacent Tocantins River drainage, with its northwestern limits from Brazil and the Guyanas, the eastern banks of the Orinoco River drainage in central Venezuela.\n\nIt occurs in forests, second growth and plantations of cocoa and citrus fruit. The ball nest is built on a bank, tree stump or cavity and the normal clutch is four, sometimes three, red-blotched white eggs, which are incubated by the female.\n\nAdult violaceous euphonias are 11.4 cm long and weigh 14 g. The male has glossy blue-black upperparts and a deep golden yellow forehead and underparts. The female and immature are olive green above and greenish yellow below.\n\nThese are social birds which eat mainly small fruit and only rarely take insects. The violaceous euphonia's song is a varied mix of musical notes, squeaks, chattering and imitation.\n\nMembers of the genus \"Euphonia\" are prized as cage birds and several are threatened by trapping, but this species benefits from its relatively inaccessible habitat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908125", "title": "Henry Reynolds (historian)", "text": "Henry Reynolds (historian)\n\nHenry Reynolds (born 1 March 1938) is an Australian historian whose primary work has focused on the frontier conflict between European settlers in Australia and indigenous Australians.\n\nReynolds received a state school education in Hobart, Tasmania, from 1944 to 1954. Following this, he attended the University of Tasmania, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts with Honours in History in 1960, later gaining a Master of Arts in 1964. He gained his PhD from University College of Townsville, the forerunner of James Cook University. He received an Honorary Doctor of Letters degree from his alma mater, the University of Tasmania, in 1998.\n\nHe taught in secondary schools in Australia and England, later establishing the Australian History programme at Townsville University College, where he accepted a lectureship in 1965, later serving as an Associate Professor of History and Politics from 1982 until his retirement in 1998. He then took up an Australian Research Council post as a professorial fellow at the University of Tasmania in Launceston, and subsequently a post at the University's Riawunna Centre for Aboriginal Education. He currently serves as Honorary Research Professor in the University's School of Humanities.\n\nHenry Reynolds is married to Margaret Reynolds, an ALP Senator for Queensland in Federal Parliament (1983 until 1999).\n\nIn more than ten books and numerous academic articles Reynolds has explained the high level of violence and conflict involved in the colonisation of Australia, and the Aboriginal resistance to numerous massacres of indigenous people. Reynolds, and other historians, estimate that up to 3,000 Europeans and at least 20,000 Aboriginal Australians were killed directly in the frontier violence, and many more Aborigines died indirectly through the introduction of European diseases and starvation caused by being forced from their productive tribal lands.\n\nGeoffrey Blainey and Keith Windschuttle categorise his approach as a \"black armband view\" of Australian history. Reynolds has been quoted as responding to this claim as follows – better a black armband than a white blindfold. His books are based on evidence available in archives and recorded during frontier times, and have been instrumental in overturning previously held views prevalent in the late 20th century that settlement was peaceful. He has also however shown that in earlier times – pre 1900 – white Australians were well aware of the violence against the Aborigines and believed they were a 'dying race'.\n\nIn 2002, historian and journalist, Keith Windschuttle, in his book \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume One: Van Diemen's Land 1803–1847\", disputed whether the colonial settlers of Australia committed widespread genocide against indigenous Australians, especially focussing on the Black War in Tasmania, and denied the claims by historians such as Reynolds and Professor Lyndall Ryan that there was a campaign of guerrilla warfare against British settlement. He accused Reynolds of inventing evidence and making many claims without any documentary support at all. Subsequently, in \"Whitewash: on Keith Windschuttle's fabrication of Aboriginal history\" it was argued that Windschuttle failed to meet the criteria that he used to assess 'orthodox historians' and thus his accusations of deliberately and extensively misrepresenting, misquoting, exaggerating and fabricating evidence were flawed.\n\nReynolds struck up a friendship with Eddie Mabo, who was then a groundsman and gardener at James Cook University. In his book \"Why Weren't We Told?\", Reynolds describes the talks they had regarding Mabo's people's rights to their lands, on Murray Island, in the Torres Strait. Reynolds writes:\nEddie [...] would often talk about his village and about his own land, which he assured us would always be there when he returned because everyone knew it belonged to his family. His face shone when he talked of his village and his land.\n\nSo intense and so obvious was his attachment to his land that I began to worry about whether he had any idea at all about his legal circumstances. [...] I said something like: \"You know how you've been telling us about your land and how everyone knows it's Mabo land? Don't you realise that nobody actually owns land on Murray Island? It's all crown land.\"\n\nHe was stunned. [...] How could the whitefellas question something so obvious as his ownership of his land?\n\nReynolds looked into the issue of indigenous land ownership in international law, and encouraged Mabo to take the matter to court. \"It was there over the sandwiches and tea that the first step was taken which led to the Mabo judgement in June 1992.\" Mabo then talked to lawyers, and Reynolds \"had little to do with the case itself from that time\", although he and Mabo remained friends until the latter's death in January 1992.\n\nHenry Reynolds has received the following awards and honours:\n\nIn tribute to Reynolds' seventieth year, the conference \"Race, Nation, History: A Conference in Honour of Henry Reynolds\" was held in August 2008. It was sponsored by the Australian National University's Research School of the Humanities and the Research School of the Social Sciences, the National Library of Australia and the University of Tasmania. Selected papers from the conference were published in a volume by Australian Scholarly Publishing, but do not appear to be otherwise available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908129", "title": "IOI Group", "text": "IOI Group\n\nIOI Corporation Berhad commonly referred to as IOI, was incorporated on 31 October 1969 as Industrial Oxygen Incorporated Sdn Bhd. IOI is one of Malaysia's biggest conglomerates. It ventured into property development in 1984, followed by oil palm plantations and refineries in 1985. IOI was listed on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE)—now known as Bursa Malaysia—in 1980.\n\nThe group was headed by Lee Shin Cheng, the executive chairman, until his death. Lee Yeow Chor is CEO.\n\n, IOI Group employed more than 30,000 persons from more than 25 countries.\n\nIOI Group's fiscal year runs from 1 July YYYY to 30 June of the following year.\n\nPalm oil plantations are IOI's biggest income generator. As of 2015 about 67 percent of the conglomerate's profits came from its oil palm plantations. The group controls 230,000 hectares of oil palm plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia. It has 15 palm oil mills with total milling capacity of 4.75 million tonnes of FFB (fresh fruit bunches) per year from its 90 estates throughout Malaysia and Indonesia.\n\nWith oil yield of some six tonnes per hectare per year at its mature estates, IOI is the most efficient plantation company in the world. Malaysia's oil palm average yield for the last 20 years has been stagnant at four tonnes per hectare per year.\n\nNestlé stopped buying palm oil from IOI in 2012. The United Nations Environment Programme says palm oil production is the main cause of deforestation, which is occurring at a rate of about two per cent per year. Indonesia is also the world's third largest carbon emitter, largely as a result of deforestation and the burning of peatlands.\n\nIOI develops real estate makes and property investments. IOI owns two resort hotels, the Marriott Putrajaya Hotel and Palm Garden Hotel in Putrajaya. The property segment contributes around 18 per cent of the group's earnings.\n\nIOI is the largest vegetable oil-based oleochemical manufacturer in Asia—held under wholly owned entities IOI Oleochemical Industries Bhd and Pan Century Oleochemical Sdn Bhd with a combined capacity in excess of 750,000 tonnes per annum.\n\nThese plants produce fatty acids and esters, glycerine, soap noodles, fatty alcohols, and metallic strearates. These have various industrial applications in the production of food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, personal care, home care, industrial detergent-surfactants and lubricant products. \n\nIOI's speciality fats businesses are operated by IOI Loders Croklaan, with manufacturing facilities in the Netherlands, North America, and in Malaysia (with combined production capacity of more than a million tonnes per year). Loders Croklaan's customer base include global food giants like Unilever, Nestle, Cadbury and Kraft. Specialty fats are used in pastries, confectionery, snack foods, and ready-to-eat meals.\n\nIOI owns refineries in the US and the Netherlands. IOI extended its activities to Indonesia in 2005. Its associate company in Indonesia is Bumitama Gunajaya Agro. On 27 September 2016, Greenpeace blockaded the IOI refinery in the Netherlands in order to force IOI to adopt a more sustainable plantation policy.\n\nEnvironmental and civil organisations have criticized IOI Group. Greenpeace first documented destruction of orangutan habitat and peatland forest in the 2008 report \"Burning up Borneo\", followed by a second report in 2015, \"Under Fire\". The company also faced allegations in 2014 from Finnish NGO Finnwatch of serious labour issues on its Malaysian plantations, including confiscating workers' passports, providing contracts in a language workers could not understand, restricting freedom of association and paying salaries below the minimum wage.\n\nIOI is a co-founder of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and has played an active role in shaping the scheme. The company has several of its estates in Malaysia certified as complying with RSPO standards. According to Friends of the Earth in March 2010, IOI Corporation failed to live up to its claims of green stewardship. For example:\n\nAfter a complaint filed by AidEnvironment in April 2015, the RSPO certificates of the IOI Group are suspended as of 1 April 2016. Since then, many consumer companies like Unilever, Nestlé and Mars have cancelled contracts with the company. IOI was reinstated in August 2016 by RSPO after it was judged to have fulfilled the group's demands to improve its environmental performance. In September 2016, Greenpeace published a damning indictment of IOI entitled, \"A Deadly Trade-Off; IOI's Palm Oil Supply and its Human and Environmental Costs\".\n"}
{"id": "1908133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908133", "title": "Valdez Blockade", "text": "Valdez Blockade\n\nThe Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989 had devastated the shore around Prince William Sound, diminishing the marine population. Consequently, the fishery industry in the area faced a sharp fall on their fish catch and revenue. Feeling little had been done to study the impact of the spill, a group of fishermen sailed off to begin a blockade of the Valdez Narrows on August 20, 1993. While tankers must pass through Valdez Narrows to enter the port of Valdez, seven tankers were held off in the three-day blockade.\n\nAs oil was continuing to pump through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, and tankers were keeping off shore, the storage tanks in Valdez would soon overflow. With the probability in interrupting the oil flow to prevent an overflow, and also facing a growing loss in profits, the government came in to settle the blockade. The blockade was called off after Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt promised to release $5 million of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill restoration funds for ecosystem-wide studies.\n\nComprehensive studies of the effects of the spill toward the ecosystem around Prince William Sound began in the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908138", "title": "Glossary of Australian and New Zealand punting", "text": "Glossary of Australian and New Zealand punting\n\nThe Australian and New Zealand punting glossary explains some of the terms, jargon and slang which are commonly used and heard on Australian and New Zealand racecourses, in TABs, on radio, and in the horse racing media. Some terms are peculiar to Australia, such as references to bookmakers, but most are used in both countries.\n\nThe emphasis in this list is on gambling terms, rather than the breeding or veterinary side of horse racing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908142", "title": "Finite-difference time-domain method", "text": "Finite-difference time-domain method\n\nFinite-difference time-domain or Yee's method (named after the Chinese American applied mathematician Kane S. Yee, born 1934) is a numerical analysis technique used for modeling computational electrodynamics (finding approximate solutions to the associated system of differential equations). Since it is a time-domain method, FDTD solutions can cover a wide frequency range with a single simulation run, and treat nonlinear material properties in a natural way.\n\nThe FDTD method belongs in the general class of grid-based differential numerical modeling methods (finite difference methods). The time-dependent Maxwell's equations (in partial differential form) are discretized using central-difference approximations to the space and time partial derivatives. The resulting finite-difference equations are solved in either software or hardware in a leapfrog manner: the electric field vector components in a volume of space are solved at a given instant in time; then the magnetic field vector components in the same spatial volume are solved at the next instant in time; and the process is repeated over and over again until the desired transient or steady-state electromagnetic field behavior is fully evolved.\n\nFinite difference schemes for time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) have been employed for many years in computational fluid dynamics problems, including the idea of using centered finite difference operators on staggered grids in space and time to achieve second-order accuracy.\nThe novelty of Kane Yee's FDTD scheme, presented in his seminal 1966 paper, was to apply centered finite difference operators on staggered grids in space and time for each electric and magnetic vector field component in Maxwell's curl equations.\nThe descriptor \"Finite-difference time-domain\" and its corresponding \"FDTD\" acronym were originated by Allen Taflove in 1980.\nSince about 1990, FDTD techniques have emerged as primary means to computationally model many scientific and engineering problems dealing with electromagnetic wave interactions with material structures. Current FDTD modeling applications range from near-DC (ultralow-frequency geophysics involving the entire Earth-ionosphere waveguide) through microwaves (radar signature technology, antennas, wireless communications devices, digital interconnects, biomedical imaging/treatment) to visible light (photonic crystals, nanoplasmonics, solitons, and biophotonics). In 2006, an estimated 2,000 FDTD-related publications appeared in the science and engineering literature (see Popularity). As of 2013, there are at least 25 commercial/proprietary FDTD software vendors; 13 free-software/open-source-software FDTD projects; and 2 freeware/closed-source FDTD projects, some not for commercial use (see External links).\n\nAn appreciation of the basis, technical development, and possible future of FDTD numerical techniques for Maxwell's equations can be developed by first considering their history. The following lists some of the key publications in this area.\n\nWhen Maxwell's differential equations are examined, it can be seen that the change in the E-field in time (the time derivative) is dependent on the change in the H-field across space (the curl). This results in the basic FDTD time-stepping relation that, at any point in space, the updated value of the E-field in time is dependent on the stored value of the E-field and the numerical curl of the local distribution of the H-field in space.\n\nThe H-field is time-stepped in a similar manner. At any point in space, the updated value of the H-field in time is dependent on the stored value of the H-field and the numerical curl of the local distribution of the E-field in space. Iterating the E-field and H-field updates results in a marching-in-time process wherein sampled-data analogs of the continuous electromagnetic waves under consideration propagate in a numerical grid stored in the computer memory.\nThis description holds true for 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D FDTD techniques. When multiple dimensions are considered, calculating the numerical curl can become complicated. Kane Yee's seminal 1966 paper proposed spatially staggering the vector components of the E-field and H-field about rectangular unit cells of a Cartesian computational grid so that each E-field vector component is located midway between a pair of H-field vector components, and conversely. This scheme, now known as a Yee lattice, has proven to be very robust, and remains at the core of many current FDTD software constructs.\n\nFurthermore, Yee proposed a leapfrog scheme for marching in time wherein the E-field and H-field updates are staggered so that E-field updates are conducted midway during each time-step between successive H-field updates, and conversely. On the plus side, this explicit time-stepping scheme avoids the need to solve simultaneous equations, and furthermore yields dissipation-free numerical wave propagation. On the minus side, this scheme mandates an upper bound on the time-step to ensure numerical stability. As a result, certain classes of simulations can require many thousands of time-steps for completion.\n\nTo implement an FDTD solution of Maxwell's equations, a computational domain must first be established. The computational domain is simply the physical region over which the simulation will be performed. The E and H fields are determined at every point in space within that computational domain. The material of each cell within the computational domain must be specified. Typically, the material is either free-space (air), metal, or dielectric. Any material can be used as long as the permeability, permittivity, and conductivity are specified.\n\nThe permittivity of dispersive materials in tabular form cannot be directly substituted into the FDTD scheme.\nInstead, it can be approximated using multiple Debye, Drude, Lorentz or critical point terms.\nThis approximation can be obtained using open fitting programs and does not necessarily have physical meaning.\n\nOnce the computational domain and the grid materials are established, a source is specified. The source can be current on a wire, applied electric field or impinging plane wave.\nIn the last case FDTD can be used to simulate light scattering from arbitrary shaped objects, planar periodic structures at various incident angles, and photonic band structure of infinite periodic structures.\n\nSince the E and H fields are determined directly, the output of the simulation is usually the E or H field at a point or a series of points within the computational domain. The simulation evolves the E and H fields forward in time.\n\nProcessing may be done on the E and H fields returned by the simulation. Data processing may also occur while the simulation is ongoing.\n\nWhile the FDTD technique computes electromagnetic fields within a compact spatial region, scattered and/or radiated far fields can be obtained via near-to-far-field transformations.\n\nEvery modeling technique has strengths and weaknesses, and the FDTD method is no different.\n\n\n\nThe most commonly used grid truncation techniques for open-region FDTD modeling problems are the Mur absorbing boundary condition (ABC), the Liao ABC, and various perfectly matched layer (PML) formulations. The Mur and Liao techniques are simpler than PML. However, PML (which is technically an absorbing region rather than a boundary condition \"per se\") can provide orders-of-magnitude lower reflections. The PML concept was introduced by J.-P. Berenger in a seminal 1994 paper in the Journal of Computational Physics. Since 1994, Berenger's original split-field implementation has been modified and extended to the uniaxial PML (UPML), the convolutional PML (CPML), and the higher-order PML. The latter two PML formulations have increased ability to absorb evanescent waves, and therefore can in principle be placed closer to a simulated scattering or radiating structure than Berenger's original formulation.\n\nTo reduce undesired numerical reflection from the PML additional back absorbing layers technique can be used.\n\nNotwithstanding both the general increase in academic publication\nthroughput during the same period and the overall expansion of interest\nin all Computational electromagnetics (CEM) techniques, there are\nseven primary reasons for the tremendous expansion of interest in FDTD\ncomputational solution approaches for Maxwell's equations:\n\nTaflove has argued that these factors combine to suggest that FDTD will remain one of\nthe dominant computational electrodynamics techniques (as well as potentially other multiphysics problems).\n\nThere are hundreds of simulation tools (e.g. XFdtd, Lumerical, CST studio suite, OptiFDTD etc.) that implement FDTD algorithms, many optimized to run on parallel-processing clusters.\n\nFrederick Moxley suggests further applications with computational quantum mechanics and simulations.\n\n\nThe following article in \"Nature Milestones: Photons\" illustrates the historical significance of the FDTD method as related to Maxwell's equations:\n\nAllen Taflove's interview, \"Numerical Solution,\" in the January 2015 focus issue of \"Nature Photonics\" honoring the 150th anniversary of the publication of Maxwell's equations. This interview touches on how the development of FDTD ties into the century and one-half history of Maxwell's theory of electrodynamics:\n\nThe following university-level textbooks provide a good general introduction to the FDTD method:\n\n\nFree software/Open-source software FDTD projects:\nFreeware/Closed source FDTD projects (some not for commercial use):\n"}
