{"id": "1848431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848431", "title": "Eastern span replacement of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge", "text": "Eastern span replacement of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge\n\nThe eastern span replacement of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge was a construction project to replace a seismically unsound portion of the Bay Bridge with a new self-anchored suspension bridge (SAS) and a pair of viaducts. The bridge is in the U.S. state of California and crosses the San Francisco Bay between Yerba Buena Island and Oakland. The span replacement took place between 2002 and 2013, and is the most expensive public works project in California history, with a final price tag of $6.5 billion, a 2,500% cost overrun from the original estimate of $250 million. Originally scheduled to open in 2007, several problems delayed the opening until September 2, 2013. With a width of , comprising 10 general-purpose lanes, it is the world's widest bridge according to Guinness World Records.\n\nThe Bay Bridge has two major sections: the western suspension spans and their approach structures between San Francisco and Yerba Buena Island (YBI) and the structures between YBI and the eastern terminus in Oakland. The original eastern section was composed of a double balanced cantilever span, five through-truss spans, and a truss causeway. This part became the subject of concern after a section collapsed during the Loma Prieta earthquake on October 17, 1989. The replacement span is engineered to withstand the largest earthquake expected over a 1500-year period, and it is expected to last at least 150 years with proper maintenance.\n\nIt had been known for over 30 years that a major earthquake on either of two nearby faults (the San Andreas and the Hayward) could destroy the major cantilever span. Little was done to address this problem until the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. The earthquake measured 6.9 on the moment magnitude scale and while the epicenter was distant from the bridge, a 50-foot (15 m) section of the upper deck of the eastern truss viaduct portion of the bridge collapsed onto the deck below, indirectly causing one death at the point of collapse. The bridge was closed for a month as construction crews removed and reconstructed the fallen section. It reopened on November 18, 1989, with a new stronger retrofit in place. The failure was at the transition between the easternmost through-truss and the westernmost double-deck causeway segment, a location where the inertial response character of the structure makes an abrupt change. Analysis of the event completed by internal staff has shown that the bridge was close to a far more catastrophic failure in which either the through-truss or the causeway segment would have dropped from their common support structure.\n\nIt was clear that the eastern span needed to be made more earthquake resistant. Estimates made in 1999 placed the probability of a major earthquake in the area within the following 30 years at 70%, although recent studies announced in September 2004 by the United States Geological Survey have cast doubt on the predictability of large earthquakes based upon the duration of preceding quiet periods. A more recent (2008) analysis asserts an increased probability of a major event on the Hayward Fault.\n\nThe initial proposal for the eastern span involved the construction of substantial concrete columns to replace or supplement the existing supports. There would also be modifications to the lattice beams as are now complete for the western suspension spans. The original cost estimate for this refit was $200 million. The overall appearance would be little changed. Owing to the retention of the original structure, the bridge's ongoing maintenance costs would continue to be high. The robustness of a retrofit was called into question directly by the Army Corps of Engineers in a highly critical report and indirectly by the collapse of a retrofitted overpass in the 1994 Northridge earthquake in Los Angeles, that structure having been modified in response to the San Fernando earthquake 23 years prior.\n\nEngineering and economic analysis in 1996 suggested that a replacement bridge would cost a few hundred million dollars more than a retrofit of the existing eastern span, would have a far longer expected useful life (perhaps 75 to 100 years rather than 30), and would require far less maintenance. Rather than retrofit the existing bridge, CalTrans (California Department of Transportation) decided to replace the entire eastern span. The design proposed was an elevated viaduct consisting of reinforced concrete columns and precast concrete segment spans as seen in the illustration at right. The design criterion was that the new bridge should survive an 8.5 magnitude earthquake on any of several faults in the region (particularly the nearby San Andreas and Hayward faults). The aesthetics of the proposal were not well received by either the public or their politicians, being characterized as a \"freeway on stilts\".\n\nAfter this, a design contest was held for a signature span (a span with distinctive and dramatic appearance, unique to the site) by the Engineering and Design Advisory Panel (EDAP) of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC). A number of innovative proposals were examined until all but four proposals that were submitted by members of EDAP were selected as semi-finalists, and a winner was selected from this group. This posed a serious conflict of interest, as members of the EDAP who were selecting the bridge design reviewed proposals by their own firms and rejected all proposals that did not have a representative on the EDAP. The design chosen was more expensive than the alternatives, because the primary structure cannot be self-supporting until it is structurally complete. This requires the building of two bridges, the first a falsework to support the final span, which would be removed upon completion of the final span. It has also been criticized as both a less structurally robust design and with less predictable construction costs than other modern spans.\n\nIn 1997, there was much political bickering over whether the bridge should be built to the north or to the south of the existing bridge, with the \"Mayors Brown\" (San Francisco's Willie Brown and Oakland's Jerry Brown) on opposite sides of the issue. Yerba Buena Island is within the city limits of San Francisco and the proposed (and current) northern alignment would cast a shadow over certain prime development sites on the island's eastern shore. Even the U.S. Navy (at the time the controlling authority of the island) was involved at the behest of San Francisco in restricting Caltrans soil engineer's access to the proposed site. That may have caused up to a two-year delay and many hundred millions of dollars in additional costs.\n\nVarious options were determined to be worthy of consideration and were carefully examined jointly by state and federal authorities, with input from the United States Coast Guard.\n\nGrade alternatives included:\nThe last alternative was chosen because it was considered to have a superior visual effect and improved driving experience. The grade of the new approach to the channel span is somewhat less than that of the previous structure and less ship clearance is provided under the span owing mostly to the depth of the deck box structures.\nAlignment alternatives included (see image at right for details):\n\nThe last alternative was selected, as it presents a superior view of San Francisco to the west compared to the others where views are obscured by Yerba Buena Island. Any more northerly track would encounter more difficult geotechnical circumstances.\n\nIn December 2004, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, in honor of Joshua A. Norton, passed a resolution \"urging the California Department of Transportation and members of the California Assembly and Senate to name the new additions to the San Francisco Bay Bridge in honor of Emperor Norton I, Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico.\" The proposal was not supported by the Oakland City Council and the bridge does not have an official name.\n\nAlthough it was somewhat controversial, authorities decided to allow bids to include major components and materials not made in the United States. This was partly due to the cost of materials, and especially due to the lack of suitable fabrication facilities within the United States, or even within the western hemisphere. In contrast, China, where the SAS deck components were built, has low cost materials producers. Other major components were produced in Japan, owing to the availability of large steel casting, welding, and machining capabilities. Suspender saddles were made in England. As Federal highway funds generally come with \"Made in America\" restrictions, the bridge was built without such funds, for which it would otherwise qualify owing to its carriage of Interstate 80.\n\nThe authorities were shocked when they opened the bids on the proposed tower portion and only a single bid for US$1.4 billion was received, considerably more than their estimate of around $780 million. This was partially because of a rise in the cost of steel and concrete, particularly as a result of the concurrent building boom in China, but also due to construction uncertainties owing to the innovative design. The entire project, requiring 100,000 tons of structural steel, was expected to cost $6.2 billion as of July 2005, up from a 1997 estimate of $1.1 billion (for a simple viaduct) and a March 2003 estimate of $2.6 billion that included a tower span. Despite the increase in costs, construction began on the replacement on January 29, 2002, with completion originally slated for 2007. The span finally opened on September 2, 2013.\n\nOn September 30, 2004, the office of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger announced that, without sufficient funds authorized by the legislature, the bid must be allowed to expire. It was, at the time, unclear if this would require a redesign to obtain a less expensive span.\n\nOn December 10, 2004, the governor's office announced that the signature span concept had been scrapped, with the bridge to be the simple viaduct originally proposed. The design, having gone full circle, remained expensive due to the continued high cost of materials. Many argued that there would be little difference in final cost with this lesser proposal since that concept required obtaining new permits, perhaps adding another two or three years; furthermore, a viaduct may not even be able to obtain Coast Guard approval, since the maximum width of the ship channel would be reduced by almost half. Local reaction to this announcement was intense, with most suggesting that the bridge be built to appear as proposed — either in the steel material as bid or using a reinforced concrete tower of similar appearance but of lower cost.\n\nThe standpoint of pro-\"signature bridge\" activists and regional politicians was reinforced by a legislative analyst's report in late January 2005. The report indicated, due to additional time delays and all new permitting requirements, that the governor's viaduct proposal could likely cost additional funding and take longer to complete than the proposed signature span. This view was reinforced by a further report in March 2005 indicating that the delay imposed by the governor had already added at least $100 million to the expected cost (subsequently modified to $83 million in a December 2005 report).\n\nThe design controversy continued for over six months. In essence, the governor believed that the entire state should not share in the costs of building the bridge, as he considered it to be a local problem. Northern Californians pointed out that when the southern portions of the state experienced disasters, the state supported rebuilding, especially as seen in earthquake rebuilding of freeways and the subsequent seismic retrofit of state freeway structures and bridges. Since the objective of the replacement of the eastern span is to prevent the necessity of complete rebuilding after a large earthquake, Bay Area residents felt justified in their call for state support.\n\nA compromise was announced on June 24, 2005 by Governor Schwarzenegger. The governor said that he and State Senate President Pro Tempore Don Perata had reached agreement to resurrect plans for the signature span. Cost estimates of the contract deferral expenses and inflation range attributable to the delay have ranged up to $400 million. Direct costs due to cessation of work included some dismantling of temporary structures and their reconstruction upon the subsequent restart.\n\nAfter being approved by the legislature, the compromise legislation authored by Senator Loni Hancock was signed by the governor on July 18, 2005. The compromise called for the state to contribute $630 million to help cover the $3.6 billion in cost overruns, and bridge tolls to be raised to $4 starting in 2007. At the time of the signing, the skyway portion of the bridge was 75 percent complete and the state was beginning to prepare to put the suspension span out for new bids. The entire project was then scheduled to be completed in 2013 at an estimated cost of $6.3 billion, not counting the demolition of the old span.\n\nIn January 2006, costs for the main structure steelwork were determined to be $400 million in excess of these expectations. New bids for the main span were opened on March 22, 2006, with two submissions at 1.43 and US$1.6 billion. Owing to reserves built up with a $3.00 toll during the delay, it was initially suggested by authorities that additional tolls exceeding $4.00 would not be required, but due to added costs in other portions due to the delay and the cost of restarting the main span foundation work, an eventual toll of $5.00 is now expected. (The toll is only collected in the westbound direction.) The low bid by a joint venture of American Bridge and Fluor Corp., named \"'American Bridge-Fluor\", was accepted on April 19, 2006.\n\nThe skyway viaduct connects the SAS portion of the bridge with the Oakland shore. By 2007, 75 percent of the skyway portion was completed. Since this section crosses the shallower portion of the bay, the foundations were constructed within sheet-pile cofferdams. By mid-2009, the final connection of the viaduct portion with ground level at the eastern end was being finished and the pedestrian walkway was being attached to the completed sections.\n\nRather than set pilings deep enough to reach bedrock, the pilings are founded in firm archaic mud below the soft mud deposited by distant placer mining in the late 19th century. Since even the archaic mud is too weak in this concentrated load application for conventional vertical friction piles, large diameter tubular piles were driven (inside the pumped-dry cofferdams) at angles, forming a \"battered\" (splayed) footing, through the archaic mud into the firm aggregated sand, mud, and gravel of the Alameda formation. Where long pilings were needed, segments were welded together as completed segments were installed.\n\nWhen all pilings were in place, a reinforced concrete pad was poured at the bottom of the cofferdam to form a footing for the column, subsequently cast in place around rebar using reusable metal formwork.\n\nA single viaduct segment located over each column was cast in place using forms. Pairs of precast span segments, fabricated in Stockton, were barged to the location and lifted into place with a specialized cantilever lift. (Cantilever lifts, counterweights and other equipment and materials were lifted either by a barge crane or by a jack-up crane located between adjacent columns.) Once in the proper location, the opposing segments could then be joined with through tendons (cables within conduits that are tensioned with jacks), forming a balanced cantilever over the column. Eventually, the gap in spans between columns was closed, forming a tendon-reinforced beam.\n\nThe Oakland Touchdown is a curved elevated roadway that connects the skyway to the Oakland shore (the beginning of the bridge). The curve is required to bring the alignment to that of the existing ground-level approach road. Like the Yerba Buena Island Transition Structure (YBITS) to the west of the main span, this section is also an end segment of the new bridge and is being constructed at the same pace as the YBITS. The construction process consists of two phases, the first phase already completed (westbound traffic side). The eastbound touchdown could not be completed until the existing roadway was out of the way. This was done by constructing a gentle swing to the south so that the touchdown may be completed. The first stage of this work was to move the eastbound traffic to the south was completed with only minor traffic delays during the 2011 Memorial Day holiday (May 28–30). The driving experience has been improved, without the problems that came with the infamous \"S-curve\". A second stage to move the westbound traffic into the space made available required the construction of an elevated approach. This was completed on February 19, 2012. This recently designed procedure is expected to save time in the total effort, speeding the completion of the span. The Oakland Touchdown was completed in March 2013.\n\nOn the three-day weekend beginning 8:00 PM Friday, February 17, 2012, the westbound lanes were shut down to allow the connection of the approach roadbed with the new temporary structure. The execution of this task was dependent upon weather, dry conditions being required for re-striping the lanes, and it was not determined until a few days before that the work would be done on this weekend. Originally scheduled for completion by 5 A.M. on Tuesday, February 21, the work was completed 34 hours ahead of schedule, and opened to traffic at approximately 7:15 P.M. on Sunday, February 19.\n\nThe principal span is of a seldom-built type, a self-anchored suspension bridge. It is unique in being both single tower and asymmetrical, a design tailored to the site. For ship channel clearance, the bridge would require at least one long span, while ready access to bedrock was found only close to Yerba Buena Island. A two tower cable-stayed design would require very deep tower footings, and a conventional two tower suspension bridge would additionally require a massive anchor to be built in deep bay mud. The curved nature of the approach places additional constraints upon the design.\n\nWhile earlier bridges of this type use chain eyebars, the long span needed here uses wire cable, like other modern suspension bridges. Uniquely, this is a single loop of cable rather than the usual pair of cables, and, rather than being spun in place above the catwalks, substantial bundles of strands were dragged into place with temporary support above the catwalks, eventually suspended by tensioning the strand. These strand bundles were then arranged to be finally compacted to form the completed main cable.\n\nBeing asymmetrical, the shorter western span must be pulled down against the forces imposed by the longer eastern span. In order to avoid uplift in the supporting columns, the span is terminated with a massive concrete end weight. This end weight also carries the turning saddles for the main cables. As seen in the northwest corner image above, there is an upward component to the tension force provided by the main cable, and it is this component that removes most of the weight of the end cap from its columns. (The greater, horizontal, component is countered by the compressive forces exerted by the box deck structure as is characteristic of this type of bridge.)\n\nThe segments of each of the two deck spans will be retained in compression during a severe earthquake by post-tensioned internal tendons joining the extreme end caps, carried internally in cable trays. These tendons are required since the eastern end support is both much lighter than the western counterweight and the soil conditions are radically different at each end, the western end being founded in bedrock shale while the eastern end, with vertical supports driven to bedrock, is mostly contained within softer mud deposits, which respond much more actively to seismic shocks than does the shale. The intent is that the combination of the tensioned tendons and the compressive roadbed box structure will keep the two end caps in the same relative position.\n\nThe bridge segments at each end are not simple repetitions of the central span segments. The extreme deck segments on the eastern end are curved and tilted to fair into the curved portion of the skyway. These extreme segments are also beyond the main cable strand anchors and the eastern support columns and a substantial portion of the bridge joining the skyway is already in place (the grey portion seen above). The extreme east bound deck segments on the western end must fair with the horizontal eastbound portion of the YBITS connector, while the westbound (north side) segments begin a rise to the westbound YBITS, elevating traffic to the upper deck of the Yerba Buena tunnel.\n\nThe old cantilever bridge was connected to the Yerba Buena tunnel with a double-deck truss causeway that included a curved section. As this structure occupied an area that must be clear for the new bridge approach, it was necessary to construct an entirely new, temporary approach to the old bridge. This was required to swing to the south to clear the area for new construction, and then back to the north with a more severe curve to connect to the cantilever. As there would only be a few days available during which the bridge could be shut to traffic, the curved portion was built adjacent to its final position on a trestle that extended beneath and beyond the old curved connector. During replacement, the old section was jacked out of the way (to the north), and the new section jacked into place.\n\nOn September 3, 2007, the first section associated with the construction of the new East Span, the temporary span connecting the main cantilever section to the Yerba Buena Island Tunnel, was put into service. Construction of the new connector span started in early 2007 alongside the existing span. Caltrans closed the Bay Bridge during the Labor Day weekend so crews could replace the old span. Once the old section was removed, the new span was rolled into place using a computer-guided system of hydraulic jacks and rollers. The new section was secured into place and the bridge re-opened 11 hours ahead of schedule, for the morning commute on September 4, 2007. In September 2009, during a single holiday closure, new temporary steelwork to route traffic around the location of the final approaches to the new bridge was put in place, and its connections to the tunnel exit and the existing bridge were completed, much as was done in September 2007. This bypass enabled the construction of the permanent transition structure between the double-deck tunnel exit and the new side-by-side bridge structure. Upon completion of the bridge, another extended closure allowed the removal of the temporary structure and the completion of the road link.\n\nAll of the sections of the old span over Yerba Buena Island (around which the S-curve routes traffic) were dismantled, and supports for the new span are currently being built in that location.\n\nThe S-curve site has become well known for accidents, from fender-benders to a fatal plunge. Wrecks typically occurred during non-commute times, when traffic flows faster, at or above the general bridge limit of 50 mph. Additional signage and visual and physical indicators indicating the 40 mph S-curve speed limit were installed following a major accident. The upper deck speed advisory at the curve was posted as 35 mph and an improved system of \"rumble strips\" was installed.\n\nThe entire deck structure must be supported in precise alignment until:\nThe falsework to perform this task is a pair of substantial truss bridges, prefabricated in segments, with columns and span segments lifted into place by barge cranes. The trusses are supported on foundations consisting of or built atop deeply driven piles. Upon completion of the bridge, the entire falsework structure and all exposed underwater supports will be removed to make a safe channel for deep draft ships transiting to and from the Port of Oakland.\n\nBy late August 2009, the temporary column work was complete, truss spans were in place and prefabricated sections were being placed upon it. A giant barge crane, the \"Left Coast Lifter\", was used to place the 28 main deck box structures. Major segment placement on the SAS section of the bridge was completed in early October 2011. On October 19, 2011, the small gap between the SAS deck and the curved skyway extension was finally closed for the east-bound side, and the west-bound gap was closed the following week. By November 2011, the deck placement of the SAS span was complete, making 1½ miles of continuous roadway.\n\nIn July 2013, the entire SAS span was completed and asphalt paving for the roadway began. Each deck segment is paved with two single-inch layers of asphalt and concrete which should be very durable and last for the entire lifetime of the bridge. However, the rest of the bridge is not paved with asphalt but instead only received a protective coating finish.\n\nThe design employs extensive energy absorbing techniques to enable survivability and immediate access for emergency vehicles following a Maximum Creditable Earthquake (MCE), estimated at 8.5 moment magnitude in a 1500-year time span. Rather than designing for rigidity, it is instead a flexible structure, with resonant motion absorbed by the plastic shear of sacrificial, replaceable components. Smaller earthquakes will impose mostly elastic stresses on components, with a higher proportion of plastic (and thus energy absorbing) stresses in larger earthquakes. This design philosophy extends to other metal components of the bridge, including the sacrificial tubular end keys that align the self-anchored suspension with its approach structures at each end.\n\nThe tower consists of four columns. Each roughly pentagonal column consists of four tapering and/or straight sections, joined end-to-end by external plates and internal stringer finger joints secured with fasteners. The columns are also joined horizontally by sacrificial box structures. These box joins are intended to absorb earthquake-induced motion by elastic and plastic shear deformation as the tower sways. Under a severe earthquake, this deformation absorbs energy that could otherwise lead to destructive tower motion, thus protecting the primary structure of the span. It is expected that this design will allow the immediate use of the bridge for emergency vehicles, with the joins being replaced as needed to restore the bridge to its original condition. Uniquely, the tower has no direct connection to the roadbeds, with enough space to allow swaying under severe earthquakes without collision.\n\nThe process to build the SAS tower atop its foundation consisted of five phases. The first four phases each consisted of lifting segments of four similar columns and bolting them into place and to elements connecting them, while the last phase was to lift the final top cap that will carry the crowning main cable saddle. On July 28, 2010, the first of four below-deck main tower pillars was erected, having arrived earlier in the month by barge from China. They were placed by lifting one end from a barge into a temporary scaffold, with a carriage on the barge to allow the lower end to move into place. After the columns were bolted into place, the scaffolding was then extended upward to allow the next set of above deck columns to be erected, lifted, and translated into position, a process repeated for each of the remaining phases.\n\nTower erection continued when the second set of columns finally arrived in the week of October 24, 2010, almost three months after the first set were placed. The second set of columns were erected by a gantry atop the scaffold and were placed over the first four columns that were placed earlier in the year. After the columns were set into place, they were bolted together with the first set of columns. After this second phase was complete, the tower was now about 51 percent completed and stood at a height of 272 feet. The third set of tower columns did not arrive until the week of December 15, 2010. The third set, now with a larger crane, were lifted and placed over the second set of columns. The tower now stood at an impressive height of 374 feet and was 71 percent complete. The erection process did not continue until the following year when the final set of tower columns finally arrived by Valentine's Day 2011. These four columns, each being 105.6 feet tall, were lifted in the week of February 28, 2011 and placed over the third set of columns. The tower now stood at a height of 480 feet and was 91 percent complete.\nThe fifth and final tower phase was to lift a grillage (a structure to join the columns, more commonly used as a foundation element) that weighs about 500 tons, lift the main 450-ton cable saddle, and finally lift the final tower head which completed the entire SAS tower. All of these final pieces arrived at the site the same day the fourth set of tower columns arrived. On April 15, 2011, the first part of the fifth and final phase began. The 500-ton grillage was lifted 500 feet in the air and was placed over the fourth set of columns. The tower then stood at a height of 495 feet and was 94 percent complete. It took about one day to lift and place the grillage on top of the tower.\n\nWorking the entire day of May 19, 2011, operating engineers and ironworkers lifted and placed the double cable saddle atop the SAS tower. While a large portion of the span was fabricated in China, this particular piece was made in Japan, as was the eastern and western deviation saddles and main cable hydraulic jacking saddle.\n\nThis cable saddle guides and supports the mile-long main cable over the tower that was placed later in the year. In December 2011, the deck placement of the SAS span was completed and cable construction progress finally began. However, a few months before in July 2011, the tower head was lifted and placed over the saddle in a test fitting and was then removed to allow the laying of the cable. Later on in 2012, the cables were fully placed on the tower saddle and were then anchored throughout the whole SAS span. The tower head was then permanently installed for the final time, along with aircraft warning beacons, completing the entire SAS tower at a final height of .\n\nThe tower saddle includes eyebars for the attachment of temporary cables that supported four walkways, each a simple suspension bridge (called a catwalk) that allowed access to the cable spinning mechanism and the main cable during construction. In several ways similar to a ski lift, additional superior cables carried one or more of these travelers, wheeled devices that shuttled from one end of the span to the other, pulled by drafting cables manipulated by several winches.\n\nThe main span use a single cable, spun using pre-bundled groups of wires from an anchor point at the eastern end of the main span, across an eastern corner horizontal deviation saddle, over a vertical deviation saddle on the eastern end, up and over the corresponding half of the main tower saddle, down to a 90-degree deviation saddle at the western counterweight, across the counterweight, passing over the hydraulic tensioning saddle, around the opposing western deviation saddle, up to the other half of the main tower saddle, over an eastern vertical deviation saddle down to the final eastern corner deviation saddle, to the appropriate anchor point in the eastern strand anchor opposite the beginning.\n\nAs a bundle is laid down, it was initially supported by supports mounted on the catwalk, then both ends were attached and the cable is tensioned at the eastern anchor points. As with a conventional cable suspension span, all of the tensioned bundles were then compressed into a circular shape and protected with a circular wrap of wire. Saddles for suspender cables were added and suspender cables placed and tensioned. The suspender cable tensioning lifted the span from its supporting falsework.\nIn mid-June 2011, preparations for the spinning of the main cable began by installing the temporary catwalks on the SAS span. Both western catwalks were installed and by mid-August, all four catwalks were installed in place and an approximation of the completed outline of the bridge could then be seen. All four catwalks, the traveler, its suspension cable and the drafting cables and the winches and specialized tracks at the deviation saddles had to be in place before strand dragging could begin. These catwalks were required for worker's access to the cable strands for bundling and arrangement as the individual wires are placed.\n\nWork in September 2011 included the installation of the turning tracks for the travelers at the western deviation saddles. These tracks allowed the continuous motion of the traveler across the western end of the main span. By mid-October 2011, the traveler cables were installed. A temporary group of tower stay cables to the west, intended to resist the overturning forces imposed by the bare main cable, were also installed. Subsequently, the eastern deviation saddles were installed, preparing the bridge for cable placement.\n\nThe cable construction technique differed significantly from that used for the earlier western spans and similar conventional suspension bridges. In that method, the cables were spun only a few wires at a time, with bundles made up as the wires were spun by pulling a loop along the cable's route. The SAS used a different technique, with the wire strands pre-fabricated into mile-long cable bundles with bundle terminations already in place, pulled by dragging one end through the route. After attachment to the termination, a tensioning operation was performed on each bundle at the eastern anchor point, and the bundles were suspended a few feet above the catwalk. A total of 137 such bundles were installed. As bundles were positioned, they were temporarily tied together to form the cable. The cable was completely in place in late May 2012. It was later compacted into a circular shape, and then wrapped with a protective wire jacket. In mid-March 2013, the western portion was completed and the catwalks were removed. Wire wrapping was still in progress on the eastern portion.\n\nSince the main cables curve and the suspender cables splay outward to the deck edge, the saddle design is individual to the location, being fabricated in mirror image pairs for each side. In mid-June 2012, most saddles were in place upon the main cable. Wire rope suspender cables were then draped over these saddles and later were pulled outward and attached to projections from the main deck.\n\nOn a conventional suspension bridge, sections of deck are hung in place and so immediately tension the suspenders. The proper initial length of each suspender is predetermined by engineering calculations and adjustments are required for segment relative positioning and equality of load distribution amongst the several suspenders of the section. On this bridge, the deck sections were already in a fixed relative position (being joined together and resting upon the falsework) and all suspender cables must be brought to specific tensions individually in order to tension the main cable. A jacking saddle on the western end is used to balance the tension among the sections of the single main cable.\n\nSuspender cable tensioning is performed in stages. The degree of tensioning at various stages and the order of tensioning is critical to this procedure.\n\nStarting in 2011, proper balance between main cable runs and suspender cables and proper tension were applied to the main and suspender cables. On November 20, 2012, this process was completed which made the SAS portion of the bridge self-supporting. After that, the falsework was removed.\n\nThe Yerba Buena Island Transition Structure (YBITS) is an elevated roadway that bridges the gap from the SAS span to the Yerba Buena Island tunnel. Much like the Oakland Touchdown on the other side of the new bridge, this section of the bridge is also an end segment, meaning that the purpose of this segment is to transition portions of the existing bridge to the main spans of the new bridge. The connecting structure transitions the new bridge's side-by-side roadways to the upper and lower decks of the YBI tunnel. In mid-February 2012, the northern structure has been poured and formwork was being removed. In early September 2012, the falsework had been removed, modified, and constructed at the eastbound location with formwork completion now allowing reinforcing and concrete placement.\n\nThere are a number of columns supporting the structure. As the ground level rises from the shore to the level of the Yerba Buena Tunnel, the height of the above ground portion of the columns varies. Since the rock structure supporting these is a hard shale, it would be normal under previous engineering methods to simply dig a relatively shallow foundation for each column, with the structural length varying progressively. Modern seismic analysis and computer simulations revealed the problem with such a design; while the long columns could flex several feet at the top (0.6 meter, more or less), the shorter columns were likely to break, since the rigid deck structures cause the imposition of a similar amount of motion at the tops of the columns, imposing more bending stress per unit length on the shorter columns. This problem was solved by making the columns of similar (but not uniform) length, with the \"shorter\" columns extending in permanent open shafts to deep foundations. This allows all columns of the YBITS to respond in a sufficiently uniform manner. The space between a column and its pit is covered by a protective sacrificial cover, forming a type of base isolation system at the more sensitive column locations. In addition, the western landing of the YBITS is a zero moment hinge, and so there are no vertical bending stresses at that point.\n\nThe construction process to build this structure consists of several steps, shown below:\n\nThe first step is to construct foundations of the large columns that will support the elevated roadway of the YBITS. Above-grade column reinforcing is constructed and enclosed by formwork and concrete is poured. After curing, the formwork is then removed. The next step is to build the roadway itself. The spans were cast in place, using extensive reinforcing, with post-tensioned cable tendons. The roadways consist of hollow box structures, cast in place in sections using formwork, owing both to the complex shapes involved and the necessity of maintaining traffic flow on adjacent structures during construction.\nThe following sequence is applied to each span between columns:\n\nOther than the current westbound off ramp, existing ramps linking the bridge traffic to Yerba Buena Island and Treasure Island are inadequate to handle traffic for future expected residential development. In particular, the eastbound off ramp has always been extremely hazardous, while added westbound on ramp traffic would interfere with bridge traffic flow. Between the tunnel's western portal and the existing western suspension span, there is no room for modern ramp configurations. The developments are expected to add some 3,000 residents to the island, as well as business and office space. To support this traffic, a system of new ramps (currently only partially completed) will be built on the eastern side of the islands to link to the YBITS, where there will be adequate room for proper traffic merges and departures. The east-side ramps are expected to cost about $95.67 million while they began construction on late-2013 for a June 2016 opening. New westbound on- and off-ramps opened on October 22, 2016.\n\nThe skyway and YBITS structures have custom lighting using 48,000 high-performance LEDs grouped in 1521 fixtures, most of which are mounted on 273 poles. These fixtures were designed by Moffatt & Nichol and built by Valmont Industries. Within a specific fixture the beam pattern of each LED is restricted by a masking structure. Each fixture has been adjusted independently and with the LED masking will illuminate the roadways only in the direction of travel, similar to the vehicles' headlights and therefore greatly reducing glare presented to drivers. This is expected to improve safety for travelers. The main span roadways are illuminated by downward-pointing LED fixtures mounted upon the main cable suspender saddles. Additional upward-facing decorative lighting at the extreme outboard edges of the roadways illuminate the suspender cables and the underside of the main cable. Additional lights highlight the main tower.\n\nThese lights use about half of the power of the old bridge's lights and will last about 5 to 7 times longer. They will only have to be replaced every 10 to 15 years (compared to every 2 years with the old east span), reducing cost, improving worker safety and reducing traveler inconvenience due to lane closures.\n\nThe first phase was to remove the double balanced cantilever span. From the several alternatives available the dismantling method was chosen over options that involved demolition by explosives. In this process the bridge was disassembled, removing individual pieces mostly in the reverse order of the original construction. This required the construction of temporary support structures such as were used in the original construction. A concurrent effort removed the temporary S-curve allowing completion of the new span's bicycle and pedestrian path and improvement of the east-bound vehicular approaches.\n\nDismantling was delayed by the presence of nesting cormorants. By mid-November, the main-span portion of the western (left) cantilever and its tower had been almost completely removed and temporary supports were erected beneath the right portion of the eastern cantilever. As of May 2015, only a third of the rightmost span remained and by June 12, 2015 the task was completed On November 14, 2015 the concrete cellular foundation of pier E3 (which supported the eastern cantilever tower) was explosively demolished with the debris falling into the steel caisson below the mud bay bottom. Numerous sequentially detonated charges and an all-around air bubble curtain were used to reduce underwater shock waves in order to protect marine life. For CalTrans E3 removal planning details see this link\n\nThe second phase entailed the removal of the five truss spans and the truss causeway, and the third and final phase was the removal of the underwater foundations. The entire dismantling project was completed on November 11, 2017.\n\nAs the old East Span was dismantled, materials removed from the structure were loaded onto barges and shipped away for recycling.\n\nA park has been proposed that will enable bay access and that will include a fishing pier. Considerations for expected sea level rising in mid-century have been advanced by the Bay Conservation and Development Commission. Refinements to this proposal include the retention of several of the old approach foundations, these to support a pedestrian pier for bay and bridge observation and for fishing. The use of three such foundations is projected to save up to $3 million in underwater demolition costs.\n\nIn either direction the driving experience has been greatly improved. In addition to the wider lanes of traffic in each direction, there is now a continuous lane for emergency or disabled vehicles on each side of the five traffic lanes. The bridge night lighting is now glare free and new white LED lighting has been installed in the lower, eastbound tunnel section. The removal of sharp curves east of the tunnel has encouraged a smoother eastbound traffic flow west of, and through the tunnel, even when compared to the pre-construction configuration.\n\nThe span includes a new pedestrian and bicycle route, formally named the \"Alexander Zuckermann Bike Path\". The path is named in memory of Alex Zuckermann, the founder of the East Bay Bicycle Coalition and an advocate of the Bay Bridge Trail. The new pedestrian and bicycle route connects the East Bay to Yerba Buena Island. Currently, MUNI is the only public transportation that transports bicycles and pedestrians from Yerba Buena Island and Treasure Island to San Francisco. The complementary pathway across the western span to San Francisco is on track for completion in 2025.\n\nOn April 6, 2005, the FBI announced an investigation into allegations by 15 former welders and inspectors on the new span that welders were rushed to an extent affecting their performance on up to one-third of the welds, and that workers were ordered to cover up the defective welds by re-welding in a superficial manner. Many of these welds were then embedded in concrete, some deep underwater.\n\nA California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) spokesperson quickly responded with a public assertion that it was not possible that defective welds could be hidden from Caltrans inspectors. This was subsequently tested by radiological, ultrasonic and microscopic inspection of some of the welds that were accessible and alleged to be deficient. On April 21, 2005, news reports indicated that the Federal Highway Administration hired private inspectors to remove 300-pound (136 kg) sections for detailed laboratory analysis.\n\nOn May 4, 2005, the Federal Highway Administration said the tests by three independent contractors showed that welds pulled from three steel chunks of the bridge \"either met or exceeded required specifications.\" Since some of the material removed for inspection was specifically identified by the welders' complaints as worthy of inspection, this finding was received as good news.\n\nIn early November 2011, The Sacramento Bee newspaper reported and analyzed various reports (including \"whistle-blower\" statements) concerning the potential for falsified inspection reports associated with deep pile foundations, including some supporting the SAS main tower. That article, and a later Sacramento Bee article published on May 26, 2012, provided details about construction and testing concerns and quoted experts in relevant engineering fields who raised questions about the adequacy of Caltrans's testing and oversight, and construction and testing practices of the bridge builder. On June 12, 2012, shortly after publicly supporting further study of the concerns raised in the May Bee article, Caltrans issued a press release with an attached letter to the Bee's Executive Editor from Caltrans Director Malcolm Dogherty. That letter included a request for a full retraction of the article, this after asserting a number of specific technical refutations and criticisms of the language and tone of the article. On June 24, 2012, Joyce Terhaar, the Executive Editor of the Bee, responded in defense of the article and the mission of the paper. Caltrans has also responded with a nearly one-hour video presentation.\n\nOn August 4, 2012, The Bee reported on a study in progress by Caltrans engineers, who are examining foundation testing for the agency. That team of engineers, called the \"GamDat\" team by Caltrans, found new evidence of questionable data associated with tests of the tower foundation. Following that Bee article, the California Senate Transportation Committee asked the state Legislative Analyst's Office to convene a panel of independent experts to examine concerns about the SAS tower foundation, and to report on its findings. That report is expected to be released in by the Spring of 2013.\n\nThe Sacramento Bee published a further article on June 7, 2014.\n\nThree inch (7.5 cm) diameter bolts connect portions of the bridge deck mounting bosses to several concrete columns. There are 288 such bolts of various lengths. The bolts were tested in place by overtightening their retaining nuts. In the two weeks subsequent to this tightening, 30 of the first 96 bolts loaded failed. These bolts vary in length from and failure was initially attributed to hydrogen embrittlement, with hydrogen introduced during either manufacturing or electroplating. Some of the bolts can be replaced while others cannot be removed and load transfer will require more complex remediation methods. Repairs were initially not expected to delay the opening, but later it was believed it would delay the opening until December. The fix could cost up to $5 million. A temporary fix was announced on August 15, 2013, with the opening revised back to its original date. The solution selected was to add a tendon-secured saddle at each deck boss location. It was suggested internally that issues with tensioning the main cable may have led to the bolt failures.\n\nThe retrofit to repair the bolt failures was put into service on December 19, 2013. The fix ended up costing $25 million, much higher than the original estimates and cost projections.\n\nSome bridge components are mounted on the upper surface of the primary structure. Many of these require sealing against water intrusion into the interior of the deck box sections. Improper application of sealants beneath barriers to contain traffic on the bridge has been found to allow water entry into the interior. Interior moisture has led to damaging corrosion, which must now be fixed.\n\nThe steel support structures are attached to concrete foundations with partially threaded steel rods in conduits. These conduits were supposed to be filled with concrete grout after installation. Some of these voids were temporarily closed at the top with a concrete seal. Later workers incorrectly interpreted some of these locations as having been grouted when they were only sealed at the very top. Incomplete grouting can lead to salt-water intrusion that will accelerate corrosion of these critical rods. It is planned to bore small holes into the grouting to determine which locations require additional grouting or an alternative, injection of oil or similar material, to displace any water.\n\nThe automated welding procedures used by the deck boxes fabricator (Shanghai Zhenhua Port Machinery Co. Ltd.) were frequently performed in the rain. Such welding has been long recognized as leading to the cracking of imperfect welds. Such welds were considered by Caltrans management to be of low criticality in this bridge owing to the compressive forces imposed on the deck structure by this particular design. There are also reports of the vendor being uncooperative to the concerns of Caltrans inspectors and engineers. Owing to the fragility of the old cantilever structure and the possibility of a destructive earthquake, Caltrans felt motivated to avoid further delays in the new span's completion.\n\nIn late January 2014, a \"Contra Costa Times\" article reported the results of a California State Senate transportation panel investigation. The panel's report was titled \"The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge: Basic Reforms for the Future\". This preliminary report, written by a contractor to the committee, states \nIt is the finding of this investigation that there appears to have been chronic attempts to keep many of the serious safety allegations quiet, put aside and not dealt with in an open, businesslike manner in the public's interest .\n\nAnother California newspaper, the \"Sacramento Bee\", reported on July 31, 2014: \nA California Senate report released Thursday said that Department of Transportation managers \"gagged and banished\" at least nine top experts for the new $6.5 billion San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge after they complained about substandard work by the Shanghai, China, firm that built much of the span.\n\nA State Senate investigation continued in August, with threats of criminal prosecution directed to Caltrans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848438", "title": "Penang Hill", "text": "Penang Hill\n\nPenang Hill is a hill resort comprising a group of peaks on Penang Island, Malaysia. It is located within the Air Itam suburb, west of the center of George Town. Penang Hill is also known by the Malay name Bukit Bendera, which actually refers to Flagstaff Hill, the most developed peak. One of the peaks is known as Strawberry Hill, which was also the name of a house owned by Francis Light, founder of Penang colony.\n\nPenang Hill covers a number of hills, with the highest point at Western Hill which is above sea level. The hill stands out prominently from the lowlands as a hilly and forested area. It was used as a retreat during the British colonial period, and is now a popular tourist destination in Penang.\n\nThe top of the hill is accessible via the Penang Hill Railway from its base station at Hill Railway Station Road. To date, this funicular railway system is the only one of its kind in Malaysia, transporting over a million visitors to the peak of Penang Hill .\n\nCaptain Francis Light, founder of the colony in Penang, first plotted a horse track from the Penang Botanic Gardens waterfall up to the top of the hill in 1788. He cleared an area in order to grow strawberries, and it therefore became known as Strawberry Hill.\n\nThe official name of Penang Hill however was Flagstaff Hill, which is still reflected in its name in Malay, Bukit Bendera (literally \"Flag Hill\"). The name was a reference to the flagstaff outside \"Bel Retiro\", which was the residence of the Governor of Penang built by Francis Light c. 1789. The area is, however, widely known as Penang Hill which is, in fact, a collective term covering a number of hills, and the other names such as Flagstaff Hill and Strawberry Hill are still used for specific peaks in the area. The hill became a cool retreat for the British colonists from the heat of the lowlands and threat of malaria, and many bungalows were built on the summit of Penang Hill for government servants and army. A convalescent bungalow was built in 1803.\n\nOne of the earliest buildings on Strawberry Hill was a house built by David Brown on land given by Francis Light. Australian historian Marcus Langdon, however, believes Strawberry Hill house was built by William Edward Phillips, who was also the owner of Suffolk House, and not David Brown. The house however burnt down and it was rebuilt in the 19th century, and it was being used as a restaurant as of 2012. The post office was first opened in 1894, and a hotel, the Crag Hotel, owned by the Sarkies Brothers, was established in 1895 and sold in the 1920s; operational until it was closed in World War II. The building became a boarding school The International School of Penang (Uplands) from 1955 till 1977. The first police station was built in 1929, and the building is still standing here on the same site.\n\nIn the early days the only way to the top of hill was to travel on foot or horseback, or be carried on a dooly (sedan chair). The first attempt at a mountain railway on Penang Hill began in 1897 but it proved unsuccessful; it was built between 1901 and 1905 but had technical faults. The Straits government then organised a new project to construct the Penang Hill Funicular Railway at a cost of 1.5 million Straits dollars. The railway was first opened to the public on 21 October 1923 and officially opened on 1 January 1924. The funicular railway led to a sharp increase in residential development as it became a location for the building of holiday villas and bungalows by Europeans and wealthy local Chinese \"towkays\" alike. It also led to its development into a major tourist destination in Penang. It received well over a million visitors a year by 2012.\n\nA major revamp at Penang Hill was initiated in 2010. The railway was overhauled, allowing for faster access to the hill, and facilities for visitors, walkways and viewing decks were constructed.\n\nPenang Hill is mainly a hilly granitic mass. The hill system is higher towards the northern part with its highest point at Western Hill, at an elevation of above sea level. Other than Western Hill, there are a number of peaks in the region, such as \"Bukit Laksamana\" (\"Malay\" for Admiral Hill), Tiger Hill, Flagstaff Hill, Haliburton's Hill and Government Hill. Flagstaff Hill is above sea level. A number of small rivers and streams originate from the region. \"Sungai Pinang\" (\"Malay\" for Penang River) is the largest of the rivers, and it starts from a number of tributaries in the area.\n\nBecause Penang Hill has a cooler environment, it has been a popular holiday retreat. A number of bungalows were built around Flagstaff Hill. The northern part of the Hills are not well developed. Government Hill, \"Bukit Timah\" (\"Malay\" for Tin Hill) and others are designated water catchment areas and no development is permitted.\n\nSome recreational potential exists at the upper reaches of the river where the water is relatively clean. In a number of cases, sudden changes in ground level have resulted in a series of small waterfalls and rapids, where bathing, dipping and picnicking are popular.\n\nThe lower terrain of the Hills is used mainly for agricultural and residential purposes.\n\nThe most convenient way up to Penang Hill is by means of the Penang Hill Railway, a funicular railway from Air Itam to the top of Flagstaff Hill. The journey used to take about half an hour and the train may stop at intermediate stations upon request. However, upgrades to the system now allows non-stop rides to the top in five to ten minutes.\nFor Malaysians, the fare for a return (round-trip) ticket is RM12 per adult and RM6 per child aged between three and 12. For foreign tourists, the return fare would be RM30 for adults and RM15 for children aged seven to 12. Senior citizens and students will enjoy cheaper fares at RM6 per person. The ride continues to remain free of charge for disabled persons holding the OKU (\"Malay\" acronym for \"Orang Kurang Upaya\") card. Penang Hill residents, licensed traders and hawkers and workers can purchase a monthly season pass at RM24. The blue, air-conditioned Swiss-made coaches, capable of ferrying up to 100 passengers at one go, run from 6:30am to 11pm daily. The ticketing counter opens at 6:30am and will be closed at 10:30pm daily.\n\nAlternatively, there is a tarred road known popularly as the \"jeep track\". It is open only to the vehicles of hill residents. The \"jeep track\" is also used by off-road motorcycle enthusiasts to traverse up the steep terrain. It is a popular hiking route. It begins at the quarry at the entrance of the Penang Botanic Gardens and it takes a two- or three-hour leisurely hike to reach the top. Some of the more famous pit stops at the mountain are 52 and 84. At these pit stops, a view of the island is visible to hikers, who are able to get some water and tea prepared by locals stationed on the hill. Eighty Four is the last pit stop before the top of Penang Hill—approximately forty-five more minutes from 84.\n\"Jalan Sultan Yahya Petra\", more commonly known as Summit Road, leads from the top station to the western part of the hill right towards Western Hill and Tiger Hill.\n\nThe eastern face of Penang Hill is well served by a series of roads and paths, for example, Moniot Road, Viaduct Road, and Tunnel Road. Moniot Road is named after a Frenchman, Michael Jules Moniot who surveyed it between 1846 and 1855. Moniot Road has been declared a Heritage Trail in 1995 by the Governor of Penang.\n\nA system of bridle paths forms a picturesque labyrinth of walks connecting the different bungalows. Indian penal servitude prisoners shipped from Bencoolen, Sumatra to Penang during the second half of the 19th century built these by-paths.\n\nNumerous trekking trails lead from various starting points in the lowlands to Penang Hill. The more popular trails include the Moongate Trail, trail from Air Itam Dam to Tiger Hill, trail from Hye Keat Estate and trail from the Municipal Park (formerly Youth Park). Some of the trails are used by farmers to transport produce to the markets of Balik Pulau and Air Itam.\n\nThe most important feature of Penang Hill is the cooler climate. The core summit area has an average temperature ranging from 20° to 27 °C. The mean minimum temperature is consistently below 21 °C. The hottest months are between December and April while the coolest months are between June and October. It is generally 5 degrees cooler than Georgetown.\n\nThe most common forest type found on Penang Hill is the hill dipterocarp forest. Growing at higher altitudes are some of the submontane oak-laurel as well as coniferous trees. The tree fern which is normally associated with higher elevations is also found growing here.\n\nPenang Hill is scientifically important as a type site of many Malaysian plant species. In the past, botanists came here to collect plants for herbaria around the world. It is an area rich in biodiversity and has a great number of endemic species, some of which are so rare that their existence is endangered.\n\nThe rare and endangered species include the parasitic plant \"Exorhopalia ruficeps\", which grows in the shady and damp undergrowth. The Penang Slipper Orchid (\"Paphiopedilum barbatum\") is fast becoming over-collected and disappearing. The endangered witch hazel \"Maingaya malayana\" was rediscovered years ago and has since been propagated.\n\nLarge mammals are not found on Penang Hill. Wild boars, small and medium-sized mammals such as the squirrels, monkeys and tree shrews can be seen. A number of species found in these hills are nocturnal. These include the civets, flying lemurs, flying civets and bats.\n\nIn the evenings, the characteristic calls of the cicadas and crickets are often heard. If one is discerning enough, the stick insect and leaf mantis may be found well-camouflaged among the vegetation.\n\nPenang Hill has a rich bird fauna. Over 100 species or about 80% of the birds found on Penang Island have been recorded here. They range from the common garden species to rare deep forest inhabitants.\n\nThe Habitat Penang Hill offers the most complete and educational Malaysian rainforest experience and is located less than 10km from the UNESCO World Heritage Site of George Town in Penang. Explore their 1.6km Nature Trail which is steeped in history as it was first built in the early 1800s by the British East India Company on the edge of a forest reserve protected since 1911. Take in the sights and sounds of the rainforest from Langur Way Canopy Walk 40m off the forest floor. Revel in the 360-degree views of Penang Island and the mainland from Curtis Crest Treetop Walk that allows you to see just how important Penang’s forests are to the health and well-being of urban Penang both as a source of water as well as a green lung. Finally, experience the rainforest from the air with the Flight of the Colugo zip line course which allows visitors to see the rainforest canopy from the perspective of one of Malaysia's most iconic mammal species, the Sunda Colugo and the thousands of other forest species that live in the tree-tops. Visitors will find themselves immersed in the natural beauty of the rainforest, marveling at the beautiful flora and fauna that inhabit this natural sanctuary including species such as the Dusky Leaf Langur monkey, Racquet-tailed Drongo bird, the flying Draco lizard, numerous species of wild butterflies and other ancient rainforest giants such as the Damar Minyak (Agethis borneensis) and Rhu Bukit (Dacrydium elatum) conifer trees. In short, The Habitat Penang Hill is a nature experience not to be missed when visiting Penang. \n\nFunds generated by The Habitat Penang Hill are channelled towards urgent efforts to conserve biodiversity and safeguard nature through The Habitat Foundation. Our programme of work includes initiatives in education, research, conservation and sustainable tourism. Your visit today is helping to make a difference.\n\nThe lover's promenade is located above sea level on the observation deck of the Bukit Bendera. It was launched on Valentine's Day of 2014, and visitors may purchase padlocks, decorate them individually and have them secured along the fence.\n\nAt the apex of the hill near to the train station the focus is on enhancing visitors' experience, maximising the stunning views and resolving space needs. Both soft and hard landscaping have been extensively used to augment the hilltop forest experience. The holding area has been expanded for shade and shelter while large viewing decks and pathways with luxuriant planting have been fashioned into the slopes to create a journey of discovery. Three viewing decks with gardens at varying heights provide changing panoramic vistas while two additional platforms at the lower level allow rest under natural forest shading. The Skyway will allow stunning 360-degree views while fulfilling all accessibility needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848443", "title": "Glucuronide", "text": "Glucuronide\n\nA glucuronide, also known as glucuronoside, is any substance produced by linking glucuronic acid to another substance via a glycosidic bond. The glucuronides belong to the glycosides.\n\nGlucuronidation, the conversion of chemical compounds to glucuronides, is a method that animals use to assist in the excretion of toxic substances, drugs or other substances that cannot be used as an energy source. Glucuronic acid is attached via a glycosidic bond to the substance, and the resulting glucuronide, which has a much higher water solubility than the original substance, is eventually excreted by the kidneys.\n\nEnzymes that cleave the glycosidic bond of a glucuronide are called glucuronidases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848445", "title": "Gadsden Depot", "text": "Gadsden Depot\n\nGadsden Depot is a United States military depot for storage of industrial materials in the city of Gadsden, Alabama. The facility was known as Gadsden Air Force Station until deactivation in 1961. During World War II, it was referred to as Army Air Force Specialized Depot #829. The facility is now an industrial park used by various firms. One side is also adjacent to the city of Glencoe.\n"}
{"id": "1848449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848449", "title": "High Time (MC5 album)", "text": "High Time (MC5 album)\n\nHigh Time is the second and final studio album (third album overall) by the American rock band MC5, released in 1971 by Atlantic Records.\n\n\"High Time\" was co-produced by the band and Atlantic staff engineer Geoffrey Haslam.\n\n\"High Time\" was released on July 6, 1971, by Atlantic Records. Dave Marsh wrote in the liner notes to the 1992 reissue:\nAlthough the band's debut album, \"Kick Out the Jams\", had peaked at No. 30 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, their second album stalled at No. 137, and \"High Time\" fared even worse commercially.\n\n\"High Time\" has been generally well received by critics.\n\nLenny Kaye, writing for \"Rolling Stone\", called the album \"the first record that comes close to telling the tale of their legendary reputation and attendant charisma\". In his retrospective review, Mark Deming of AllMusic called it \"[MC5's] most accessible album, but still highly idiosyncratic and full of well-written, solidly played tunes. [...] while less stridently political than their other work, musically it's as uncompromising as anything they ever put to wax and would have given them much greater opportunities to subvert America's youth if the kids had ever had the chance to hear it.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848464", "title": "The Girls (1960s band)", "text": "The Girls (1960s band)\n\nThe Girls were an American all-female band from Los Angeles, California, United States. They called themselves The Sandoval Sisters and The Moonmaids before ending up as The Girls in 1965, when they signed a recording contract with Capitol Records. The members were sisters. The group was formed of Rosemary (lead guitar), Diane (rhythm guitar), Sylvia (bass), and Margaret (drums and lead vocals) Sandoval. They released two singles with Capitol including a version of the biker song \"Chico's Girl\", written by Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil. The group toured the Far East, which included performing for the troops in Vietnam.\n\nThe four girls first recorded as 'The Four Queens' on Teron Records : \"A Cinder In My Eye\" / \"The Boy Next Door\" (1964).\n\n\"Chico's Girl\" was included on the 2009 compilation album, \"The Shangri-Las & The '60s Girl Group Garage Sound\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1848465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848465", "title": "Mads Vinding", "text": "Mads Vinding\n\nMads Vinding (born 7 December 1948, Copenhagen, Denmark) is a Danish jazz double-bassist.\n\nVinding began his professional career when he was 16 as the house bassist for Jazzhus Montmartre, a jazz club in Copenhagen. He has played on more than 800 recordings and more than 1000 Radio/TV shows.\n\n\n\nWith Yelena Eckemoff\nWith Kenny Drew\nWith Art Farmer\nWith Johnny Griffin\nWith Hank Jones\nWith Duke Jordan\nWith Doug Raney\nWith Idrees Sulieman\nWith Kai Winding and Curtis Fuller\n\n"}
{"id": "1848471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848471", "title": "Georgina Rizk", "text": "Georgina Rizk\n\nGeorgina Rizk (, born 3 January 1953) is a Lebanese model, socialite and beauty queen. She was crowned Miss Lebanon 1970 and represented Lebanon at Miss World but failed to place. Months later, 1971, she represented Lebanon at Miss Universe and won, making her the first Lebanese and West Asian woman to win the title. She is currently a main beauty pageant judge for the Miss Lebanon contest and is the current wife of Lebanese singer and actor Walid Toufic.\n\nRizk was born in Beirut in a Christian household, to a Lebanese father and Hungarian mother. Prior to marrying Rizk's father, her mother was married to an Italian by the name of Rossi. That union produced a daughter (Rizk's half-sister), fashion designer Felicina Rossi. She was crowned Miss Lebanon 1970 and represented Lebanon at Miss World but failed to place. Months later, 1971, she represented Lebanon at Miss Universe and won. She was crowned in the Miss Universe pageant in 1971 in Miami Beach, Florida, United States. She was the first woman from the Middle East and the fourth woman from Asia to win the title. In the pageant, she made a memorable fashion statement by wearing a very revealing top and hotpants. The 1972 Miss Universe pageant was held in Cerromar Beach Hotel in Dorado, Puerto Rico. On 30 May 1972, a month before the pageant telecast, 17 Christian pilgrims from Puerto Rico along with other victims, were killed during an attack at the Lod Airport in Israel (now Ben Gurion International Airport). The massacre was perpetrated by three members of the Japanese Red Army on behalf of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). Due to the possible retaliation from the massacre, Rizk was not allowed to attend the Miss Universe Pageant to crown her successor in Puerto Rico.\n\nPrior to winning the pageant and at the time of her crowning she dated a French university chemistry student named Philippe Duke. She stated in a press conference in 1971 that she approved of pre-marital sex stating \"we must have lots of experience\" and that \"marriage is not a simple thing\". Rizk would later claim that her comments were misquoted and what she really meant was she approved of pre-marital sex but only with someone you loved or planned to marry.\n\nRizk then married Ali Hassan Salameh, a Palestinian who was chief of operations for Black September and founder of Force 17. The couple spent their honeymoon in Hawaii, and then stayed at Disneyland. When Rizk got pregnant, she returned to Beirut. Salameh was killed in 1979 by the Mossad. Salameh had been identified as a key participant in the Munich massacre, and was killed as part of Operation Wrath of God. After a couple of years, she married the renowned Lebanese singer Walid Toufic in 1990, and has two children with him. She is a judge for the Miss Lebanon competitions.\nShe has a son Ali Salameh (b. 1979) from her first marriage to Salameh; she was six months pregnant when Salameh was assassinated. Her sister was jailed in Syria for murdering her own husband.\n\nIn addition to Arabic, she can speak English, French and Italian. Rizk said she learned Italian from her Italian half-sister, fashion designer Felicina Rossi.\n\nRizk has a Canadian maternal nephew known as Ty Wood.\n\nEven though she was a model who became a popular figure in her country for her achievements, despite never having any interest or aspirations to be involved in politics, Rizk was often involuntarily drawn into the regional conflict. This was largely due to the current political events at the time, with her country Lebanon caught up in the Arab-Israeli war and strategically positioned near the heart of the conflict. When she was competing in the Miss Universe 1971 contest based in Miami, Florida, she was reported to be on friendly terms with the Miss Israel contestant Etty Orgad which she \"met and enjoyed knowing\" according to Rizk. She also responded by stating \"This is a beauty contest, not politics\", and stated that the conflict \"is the government's worry, not mine\".\n\nIn 1972, following the Lod Airport Massacre, where 17 Puerto Rican tourists, among others, in Israel were murdered by Japanese militant terrorists under the banner of the PLO, Rizk was forbidden to attend the Miss Universe 1972 in Puerto Rico to crown the title winner in fear of a revenge attack. She stated that she herself was scared to go in fear of what would happen.\nAt the dawning and height of the Lebanese civil war in the mid 1970s she was again drawn into the conflict when she began a romantic relationship with Palestinian PLO militant and intelligence official Ali Hassan Salameh who was nicknamed \"The Red Prince\" due to his lavish lifestyle, playboy persona and bloodlust. Salameh was allegedly still married to his first wife Um Hassan when their affair began. The dates on which the pair married is widely disputed. Yasser Arafat was said to disapprove of their pre-marital relationship because it clearly broke traditional conservative Arab status quo, and he remained hostile to Georgina Rizk due to that.\n\nAfter her marriage, in keeping with Salameh's traditional Muslim background and conservative Palestinian culture Rizk quit her modeling and film careers, staying mostly at home. The couple were said to only be known to socialize with fellow wealthy Lebanese and Palestinians. According to close friends Rizk herself had no attachment to the Palestinian cause or supported the PLO, but instead was drawn to and motivated to marry Salameh purely out of love.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848482", "title": "Runde River", "text": "Runde River\n\nThe Runde River (formerly Lundi River) is a river in southeastern Zimbabwe. It is a tributary of the Save River and its major tributaries include the Ngezi River, Tokwe River, Mutirikwe River and Chiredzi River.\n\nThe lower Runde River is an ephemeral sand river system, with permanent pools forming during the dry season. The river has generally low levels of pollution. The floodplain at the confluence with the Save River is an important wetland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848484", "title": "Turtle excluder device", "text": "Turtle excluder device\n\nA turtle excluder device or TED is a specialized device that allows a captured sea turtle to escape when caught in a fisherman's net.\n\nIn particular, sea turtles can be caught when bottom trawling is used by the commercial shrimp fishing industry. In order to catch shrimp, a fine meshed trawl net is needed. This results in large amounts of other marine organisms being also caught as bycatch. When a turtle gets caught or entangled in a trawl net, it becomes trapped and is unable to return to the surface. Since sea turtles are air-breathing creatures with lungs, they eventually drown.\nThe first TED, named the \"\"Georgia Jumper\",\" was invented by Sinkey Boone of Darien, Ga in the late 1960s. TEDs were later developed in the 1970s by Wil Seidel, who worked for NOAA. Some resistance to the use of TEDs has arisen from the belief that the use of the devices actually causes fishermen to lose shrimp and other targeted species.\n\nIn 1987, the United States required all trawling shrimping boats to equip their nets with turtle excluder devices. As a follow-up two years after, the shrimp-turtle law was implemented. This required all countries that the USA was importing shrimp from to certify that the shrimp they shipped were harvested by boats equipped with TEDs. Countries that cannot guarantee the use of the escape devices were banned from exporting shrimp to the USA.\n\nIn 1996, the Indian government proposed legislation for the requirement of modified \"indigenous\" TEDs, which they called TSDs (Turtle Saving Devices) to be used by local fishermen. This was a response to the declining olive ridley population that were nesting in beaches such as in Odisha. The modified TSDs were similar to standard TEDs except for having fewer bars. This resulted in the increase of the distance between each pair of bars to ensure that bigger specimens of shrimp and fish were able to pass through the TSD and into the net.\n\nEven in the United States use of TEDs is not universal. As of June 2010, the State of Louisiana has prohibited its marine enforcement officers from enforcing TED and tow time limits.\n\nThe use of the devices ideally allow all bycatch larger than ten centimeters (10 cm) to escape the nets unharmed. This selectivity is achieved by metal grids integrated into the trawl net structure. The grids act as a barrier for large creatures such as turtles from passing through the bars into the back of the net.\n\nA small opening in the net is then available either above or below the grid so that the creatures that are stopped by the TEDs are allowed to escape the net, relatively unharmed. Targeted species such as shrimp however, are pushed to the back of the net. The target design effectiveness of TEDs is 97%, but the field effectiveness is often far lower. Seagrasses and other debris reduce fishing effectiveness of TEDs and in some situations may block sea turtles from exiting the net. In addition, it is easy to tamper with TEDs so as to increase the fishing efficiency of the net, while eliminating the turtle-excluding properties of the TED.\n\nWhile turtle excluder devices have been somewhat successful in lessening sea turtle casualties as by-catch, they still have a few failings and drawbacks.\n\nIt has been acknowledged that the larger sea turtles, primarily large loggerheads and leatherbacks are too large to fit through the escape hatches installed in most TEDs. These turtles remain trapped within the net and perish. U.S. legislation introduced in 2003 has attempted to address this issue by increasing the size of the escape chutes in the devices.\n\nIt is difficult to enforce TED compliance as TEDs can reduce the efficiency of the net system, resulting in a loss of some of the catch. On a per boat basis, turtles are rarely caught, only one turtle per 322.5 hours in the Gulf of Mexico. This creates an incentive for the trawler to cheat. The catch loss can be eliminated by simply tying the turtle escape opening shut with a tie. The tie is removed when the vessel returns to port, thus avoiding detection by enforcement officers, but placing turtles at risk while trawling. It has been theorized that the spike in dead turtles seen in the Gulf of Mexico in June and July 2010 was due to shrimp boats that were taking advantage of lax marine enforcement due to the gulf oil spill.\n\nOccasionally TED use becomes impractical due to debris in the water. When a TED is clogged with debris, it can no longer catch fish effectively or exclude turtles. For example, in September 2008 following Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) allowed temporary use of \"Tow Times\" in lieu of TEDs. Vessels were required to limit their tows to 55 minutes from the time the trawl doors entered the water until they were retrieved from the water. In June 2010 the limit was further reduced to 30 minutes. However, vessels were not equipped with tow time data loggers, so there was no practical method to enforce these time limits.\n\nThe TTED (Trash and Turtle Excluder Device) is a recent refinement of the TED, which, as well as turtles, can additionally free other forms of bycatch. The TTED reduces sorting time and risks of injury due to sharks and rays being caught, improves the quality of shrimps, which are less likely to be crushed in the bottom of the trawl, and may also lead to a reduction in the amount of fuel consumed by the boats.\n\nThe TTED is the culmination of years of research. With funding provided by the European Union and the DIREN (Regional Environmental Authorities), WWF commissioned a study from IFREMER (French Research Institute for Exploitation of the Sea) to determine which selective gear was the most adapted to fishing conditions in French Guiana. These initial trials, conducted under experimental conditions, were carried out on board a shrimp trawler. Following this work, shrimp industry's members expressed the need to continue these experiments and to become more involved in the project. In response, WWF and the CRPMEMG (French Guiana Regional Fishery and Ocean Farming Committee) began working in close collaboration in order to test and develop the best gear for the French Guiana fleet.\n\nWith technical support from NOAA and IFREMER, the CRPMEMG carried out numerous at sea trials in close collaboration with French Guiana fleets. Specific parameters where tested such as the shape and spacing between the bars of the selective grid. These trials allowed the fleets and the crews on board the shrimp trawlers to understand the advantages of a more selective fishing gear and the benefits of using it in French Guiana. Based on the results and the captains’ recommendations, the CRPMEMG decided to make the use of this TTED system mandatory by January 2010, when the annual fishing licences are issued. Many Captains were already using the TTED device on their shrimp trawlers well before January 2010.\n\nThe TTED was developed by the CRPMEMG and fishermen with the assistance of NOAA, IFREMER, the French Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Région Guyane, the European Fund for Fisheries (FEP) and the WWF.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848492", "title": "Duc d'Aiguilion", "text": "Duc d'Aiguilion\n\nThe French title Duc d'Aiguilion may refer to any one of its holders:\n\nIncorporated to the French crown 1621–1638. Cardinal Richelieu purchased this dukedom in 1638 and gave it to Marie Madeleine, the daughter of René Vignerot and his wife Françoise du Plessis, sister of Richelieu:\n\nSuppressed by the French Revolution 1789.\n"}
{"id": "1848494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848494", "title": "Lungwebungu River", "text": "Lungwebungu River\n\nThe Lungwebungu River (in Angola Lungué Bungo) of south-west-central Africa is the largest tributary of the upper Zambezi River. The headwaters of the Lungwebungu are in central Angola at an elevation around 1400 m, and it flows south-east across the southern African plateau. Within 50 km it has developed the character which it keeps for most of its course, of extremely intricate meanders, with multiple channels and oxbow lakes, in a swampy channel about 800 m wide which in turn is in a shallow valley with a floodplain 3 to 5 km wide, inundated in the rainy season. The edges of the floodplain are a white sandy soil covered in thin forest. The main river channel grows from 50 m wide to 200 m wide near the Zambezi, and its floodplain suddenly broadens as it merges with that of the Zambezi, at the beginning of the Barotse Floodplain, which is 25 km wide at that point.\n\nThe length of the river is about 645 km but so extreme and tight is its meandering that ifstretched out like a piece of string its length would be a multiple of three or four times that figure.\n\nWhile the river is a valuable resource to people living near it as a source of fish, its meanders make it unsuitable for water transport except in the rainy season when canoes and small boats can ride on the flood.\n"}
{"id": "1848502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848502", "title": "Mã River", "text": "Mã River\n\nThe Ma River (, Lao: \"Nam Ma\") is a river in Asia, originating in northwestern Vietnam. It runs for 400 km through Vietnam, Laos, and then back through Vietnam, meeting the sea at the Gulf of Tonkin.\n\nThe largest tributaries of the Ma River are the Chu River (or the Nam Sam River as it is called in Laos), the Bưởi River, and the Cầu Chày River. All of them join the Ma River in Thanh Hóa Province in North Central Vietnam.\n\nThe Ma River creates the Ma River Delta (also called the Thanh Hóa Delta), the third largest in Vietnam.\n\nThe Ma River Delta used to be near Vietnam's southern frontier. It was the center of Cuu-Chan, the southern of the Vietnam's two prefectures under the rule of the Nanyue in the 2nd century BC.\n"}
{"id": "1848510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848510", "title": "Ģirts Ankipāns", "text": "Ģirts Ankipāns\n\nĢirts Ankipāns (born November 29, 1975) is a retired Latvian ice hockey player and coach. Currently he serves as the head coach of Dinamo Riga in KHL.\n\nHe started his professional ice hockey career in Latvia, where he played for various local teams. During the 1996-97 season, he became the best goal-scorer of the Latvian Hockey League. Next 7 seasons Ankipāns spent playing in German hockey leagues. Before the 2003-04 season, he returned to Latvia and joined HK Riga 2000.\nHe played five seasons with Dinamo Riga in KHL before retiring as player.\n\nHe has played for the Latvia men's national ice hockey team in 2003, 2005 and 2009 World Championships as well as in 2006 Winter Olympics.\n\nAfter ending his career as player Ankipāns joined Dinamo coaching staff as assistant coach. On September 28, 2017, he became the interim head coach of the team, replacing Sandis Ozoliņš. On March 29, 2018 Ankipāns was signed as the head coach.\n"}
{"id": "1848511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848511", "title": "Rick Savage", "text": "Rick Savage\n\nRichard Savage (born 2 December 1960) is an English musician best known for being the bass guitarist and one of the founding members of the English rock band Def Leppard. Savage and lead singer Joe Elliott are the only two remaining original members of the band. The two of them, plus drummer Rick Allen, are also the only members of the band who have performed on every album.\n\nRichard Savage was born in Sheffield, South Yorkshire, England . Savage was educated at Tapton Secondary School in Sheffield. In his youth, he learned to play guitar along with his older brother. They played songs like Rod Stewart's \"Maggie May\" and Don McLean's \"American Pie.\" Savage also pursued a career as a professional football player with Sheffield United, despite his devotion to rivals Sheffield Wednesday. Savage ultimately chose music and formed a band with a few schoolmates including Tony Kenning and eventually Pete Willis. As Atomic Mass they mostly played Queen, Slade, Deep Purple, Jimi Hendrix, and other popular covers of the time.\n\nAt one point, they decided that Willis was the better guitar player so Savage picked up the bass guitar. Needing a singer, the band auditioned an acquaintance of Willis', Joe Elliott. They subsequently picked up guitarist Steve Clark and changed their name to Def Leppard.\n\nSavage contracted Bell's Palsy around 1994. This causes his facial muscles to weaken and become partially paralyzed. He has recovered, but effects of the disease are still visible, especially when he is fatigued.\n\nFrom an interview by Gordon Shearer on DefLeppard.com:\n\nSavage is married to Paige Savage, with whom he has three children (one from Paige's prior relationship) Jordan, Tyler, & Scott. The family moved to Enniskerry in 2013, but returned to Sheffield in 2016.\n\nSavage currently uses custom basses made by Jackson after endorsing Washburn XB920 (4-string) and XB925 (5-string) bass guitars from 1999–2009. He formerly used Hamer 4 and 5-string bass guitars for over 17 years, starting with their Gibson Explorer-inspired \"Blitz\" model during the \"High 'n' Dry\" and \"Pyromania\" albums from 1982–1985 and Hamer's modernistic take on the Explorer shape, the \"Scarab\" model of which he mainly used a white model during the \"Hysteria\" recording sessions and tour (although Savage continued to use a black-colored \"Blitz\" downtuned C#ADG for the hit single \"Pour Some Sugar on Me\" which can be seen on their \"\" live video/DVD, and a Scarab model in black with a reverse headstock was seen in the \"Rocket\" video and their performance at the MTV Video Music Awards in 1989) from 1985–1989. At the release of \"Adrenalize\" he used an array of Chaparral Max 5-string models in various colours including a black & white \"Granite\" finish, one with a variation of the \"Adrenalize\" album artwork custom painted on it, and a black-painted model from 1990–1999. Savage switched endorsements to Washburn basses in the middle of the promotion cycle for the \"Euphoria\" album in 1999, and a Natural Flame XB925 given to him by Washburn in 1999 has been his main instrument since then. However the custom painted Union Jack XB925 is his most well known bass, followed by the Saint George's Cross XB925, with both paint schemes reproduced on his new Jackson basses in 2009. He acquired two more of the Jackson basses, one in a grey-toned Union Jack scheme and the other painted in the colors of Sheffield Wednesday with the team's logo. He used these on the 2011 Mirrorball tour. Savage never has been a fingerstyle guitarist, relying entirely on a plectrum, or \"pick\". In an interview with \"Bass Guitar\" magazine, he stated: \"I'm a terrible player with my fingers and I always play with a pick. I love to have consistency within the sound no matter where you are on the fretboard. I've found that when I play with fingers, notes jump out and others are too muted. It would be a nightmare for the sound engineer just trying to compress the thing to make sure there's an equal balance coming off the stage.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1848513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848513", "title": "Gorai-Madhumati River", "text": "Gorai-Madhumati River\n\nThe Gorai-Madhumati River ( \"Gôŗai-Modhumoti\") is one of the longest rivers in Bangladesh and a distributary of the Ganges. In the upper reaches it is called the Gorai, and the name changes to Madhumati. Madhumati continuous stream through Kushtia, Jessore, Rajbari, Faridpur, Khulna, Pirojpur and Barguna districts in Bangladesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848515", "title": "Order of Sant Jordi d'Alfama", "text": "Order of Sant Jordi d'Alfama\n\nKnights of Saint George appear at different historical periods and in different countries as mutually independent bodies having nothing in common but the veneration of Saint George, the patron saint of knighthood.\n\nSaint George of Lydda, a martyr of the persecution of Diocletian in the 4th century, is one of those military saints whom Byzantine iconography represented as a horseman armed wiktionary:cap-a-pie, like the flower of the Roman armies after the military reform of Justinian I in the 6th century. The pilgrim knights of Europe, encountering in the East these representations of Saint George, recognised their own accoutrements and at once adopted him as the patron of their noble calling.\n\nThis popularity of Saint George in the West gave rise to numerous associations both secular and religious. Among secular orders of this name which still exist must be mentioned the English Order of the Garter, which has always had Saint George for its patron. The Kingdom of Aragon was placed under his patronage, and in gratitude for his assistance to its armies King Peter II of Aragon founded (1201) the Order of Saint George of Alfama in the district of that name. Nevertheless, this order received the approbation of the Holy See only in 1363 and had but a brief existence. With the approval of antipope Benedict XIII, it was amalgamated with the Aragonese Order of Montesa, and thereafter known as the Order of Montesa and Saint George of Alfama.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848517", "title": "Epidural abscess", "text": "Epidural abscess\n\nAn epidural abscess refers to a collection of pus and infectious material located in the epidural space superficial to the dura mater which surrounds the central nervous system. Due to its location adjacent to brain or spinal cord, epidural abscesses have the potential to cause weakness, pain, and paralysis.\nSpinal epidural abscess (SEA) is a collection of pus or inflammatory granulation between the dura mater and the vertebral column. Currently the annual incidence rate of SEAs is estimated to be 2.5-3 per 10,000 hospital admissions. Incidence of SEA is on the rise, due to factors such as an aging population, increase in use of invasive spinal instrumentation, growing number of patients with risk factors such as diabetes and intravenous drug use. SEAs are more common in posterior than anterior areas, and the most common location is the thoracolumbar area, where epidural space is larger and contains more fat tissue.\nSEAs are more common in males, and can occur in all ages, although highest prevalence is during the fifth and seventh decades of life.\n\nA cranial epidural abscess involves pus and granulation tissue accumulation in between the dura mater and cranial bone. These typically arise (along with osteomyelitis of a cranial bone) from infections of the ear or paranasal sinuses. They rarely can be caused by distant infection or an infected cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. Staphylococcus aureus is the most common pathogen. Symptoms include pain at the forehead or ear, pus draining from the ear or sinuses, tenderness overlying the infectious site, fever, neck stiffness, and in rare cases focal seizures. Treatment requires a combination of antibiotics and surgical removal of infected bone. \n"}
{"id": "1848519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848519", "title": "David Howarth", "text": "David Howarth\n\nDavid Ross Howarth (born 10 November 1958) is a British academic and politician who was the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Cambridge from 2005–10. He served as an Electoral Commissioner between 2010 and 2018. He is Professor of Law and Public Policy at the University of Cambridge.\n\nHe is the author of \"Textbook on Tort\", \"Law as Engineering: Thinking about What Lawyers Do\" and articles in academic journals and chapters in academic books. He researches into a broad range of public and private law areas, conducting empirical research. He has engaged in policy making and leadership in public roles, previously as Leader of Cambridge City Council, and as a member of the Liberal Democrats' Federal Policy Committee.\n\nDavid Howarth grew up on the Mossley Estate, a council estate in Bloxwich, Staffordshire, going to Queen Mary's Grammar School, Walsall. Attending Clare College, Cambridge on an academic scholarship, he obtained a first class degree in Law and won the George Long Jurisprudence prize. He then won a Mellon Fellowship to study at Yale Law School, gaining an LLM, and also obtained an MPhil in Sociology at Yale University. He returned to Cambridge in 1985 to take up a series of academic posts. He has a long-standing commitment to teaching as well as research, introducing sociology and economics options to the undergraduate Law programme, and is the founding Director of the MPhil in Public Policy, based in the Department of Politics and International Studies at the University of Cambridge.\n\nHowarth was a Councillor on Cambridge City Council from 1987 to 2004, representing the city's Castle Ward. He was elected Leader of the Liberal Democrat group on Cambridge City Council in 1990 when it was in third place, and then leading it to become the principal opposition on the council, eventually becoming Leader of the Council in 2000. He continued as Leader until 2003, stepping down to concentrate on winning the Cambridge parliamentary seat. He stood unsuccessfully for Parliament in Cambridge in 1992 and 2001, and in the nearby seat of Peterborough in 1997. In the 2005 general election he was elected Member of Parliament for Cambridge, defeating Labour MP Anne Campbell, overturning a majority of 8,579, and winning with a majority of 4,339 votes (securing 44% of the votes cast). He was the first Liberal or Liberal Democrat to win Cambridge since the 1906 general election.\n\nHis work as a legislator has informed his research interests, and he has subsequently published on the legislative process (specifically the Backbench Business Committee), conducted empirical research 'The Reality of the Constitution'. Highlights of his legislative scrutiny included work on the Companies Bill; highlighting the problems with the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Bill; the Constitutional Reform and Governance Bill; and various Criminal Justice Bills. Howarth also was successively Shadow Minister for Local Government (2005-6); Shadow Minister for Energy (2006-7); Shadow Solicitor General (2007-9); and Shadow Secretary of State for Justice (2009–10). He served on the Constitutional Affairs, Justice and Environmental Audit Select Committees.\n\nHe was one of the relatively few MPs not implicated in the 2009 expenses scandal, being singled out by \"The Guardian\" as one of the \"Angels\" for having \"not claimed a penny in second home allowances\" and commuting the 60 miles from Cambridge to Westminster.\n\nOn 5 November 2009, he announced that he would be standing down as MP for Cambridge at the next election, citing a desire to return to academia, which he did after the General Election of June 2010. He was subsequently reinstated in his old job, as a Reader in Law and Land Economy at Cambridge University.\n\nHe served as the Liberal Democrat nominee as an Electoral Commissioner, for two four year terms between October 2010 and October 2018.\n\nDavid Howarth has two children and is married to Edna Howarth. Edna Howarth is a magistrate in Cambridge Magistrates' Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848522", "title": "ʿĀd", "text": "ʿĀd\n\nʿĀd (, Arab people \"\") was an ancient tribe mentioned frequently in the Qurʾan. \n\nʿĀd is usually placed in Southern Arabia, in a location referred to as \"al-ʾAḥqāf\" (\"the Sandy Plains,\" or \"the Wind-curved Sand-hills\"). The tribe's members, referred to as ʿĀdites, formed a prosperous nation until they were destroyed in a violent storm. According to Islamic tradition, the storm came after they had rejected the teachings of a Monotheistic prophet named \"Hud\". ʿĀd is regarded as one of the original Arab tribes, the \"lost Arabs\". Their capital may have been what is known as \"Iram of the Pillars\" in the Qurʾan although that may have been the name of a region or a people.\n\nIn religious stories, Hud and the tribe of ʿĀd have been linked to a legendary king named \"‘Ad\", who ruled over a region whose capital was \"Wūbar\".\n\nThere are 24 mentions of ʿĀd in the Qurʾan, namely , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\n"}
{"id": "1848523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848523", "title": "R U Still Down? (Remember Me)", "text": "R U Still Down? (Remember Me)\n\nR U Still Down? (Remember Me) is the sixth studio album by American rapper, 2Pac, released in November 25, 1997, and the first to be finished without his creative input. Tupac left a large body of work behind, this was the first release from his mother's imprint, Amaru Entertainment, set up to control 2Pac's posthumous releases. The album contains previously unreleased material from the time period of his albums \"Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z.\", \"\" and \"Me Against the World\". The album title was named after several handwritten tracklist by 2Pac from 1993 and 1994 that featured both unreleased songs and material that would be issued on \"Me Against The World\" & \"Thug Life Vol. 1\".\nInterscope also planned a 1995 version of \"R U Still Down\" album that also included a different tracklisting. However, this version was never released due to 2Pac signing to Death Row Records.\n\nThe first release on Amaru, \"R U Still Down? (Remember Me)\" was overseen by 2Pac's mother, Afeni Shakur. This album airs his views on life from a time before he became involved in the controversial East Coast–West Coast rivalry. His lyrics foreshadow his death in songs like \"Open Fire\" and \"Thug Style.\" \"Definition of a Thug Nigga\" also appears on the soundtrack of the 1993 film, \"Poetic Justice\". It spawned two hits, \"Do for Love\" and \"I Wonder If Heaven Got a Ghetto\", of which \"Do for Love\" was certified Gold by the RIAA. \"R U Still Down?\" sold 549,000 copies in its first week. The album reached multi-Platinum status (4 million sold) under a month on December 15, 1997, a trend followed by some of his subsequent posthumous albums. It topped the R&B charts in the United States for three weeks.\n\n\"As always, there's ample self-destructive bullshit,\" noted \"Spin\", \"but as a whole the album's eerie and undeniable.\"\nMatt Diehl of Entertainment Weekly give a mixed review, observing how \"many of the 26 tracks are barely demo-worthy gangsta pap ... Still, 2Pac's raw talent burns through when his voice goes hoarse with rage [and] his blend of charismatic confidence and Travis Bickle paranoia is a bittersweet reminder of a gifted yet contradictory artist lost in the rap wars.\"\n\n\nDefinition of a Thug Nigga\nReady 4 Whatever\nR U Still Down (Remember Me)\nHellrazor\nDo for Love\nF*** All Y'all\nI Wonder if Heaven Got a Ghetto (hip hop version/single release)\nLet Them Thangs Go\nNothin' but Love\nNothing to Lose\nWhen I Get Free II\nWhere Do We Go From Here\nBlack Starry Night (Interlude)\nI Wonder if Heaven Got a Ghetto (OG remake version)\nLie to Kick It\nOnly Fear of Death\n\nOn his 2008 album, \"Untitled\", Nas sampled \"I Wonder If Heaven Got a Ghetto\" on his song, \"Black President\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1848531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848531", "title": "Malaysian hip hop", "text": "Malaysian hip hop\n\nThe Malaysian hip hop scene started in the 1990s with rap groups such as 4U2C, NICO G (formerly known as NICO), KRU, Naughtius Maximus, but their so-called \"rap music\" wasn't accepted by the mainstream community and so they had to change to a more pop-ish sound. At around the same time, another group called Krash Kozz were the only group to introduce the new jack swing hip hop sound to Malaysian listeners, but they disbanded after their third album. And in 1991, hqa released baguvix, which was lit.\n\nThose were trying times, when the pioneers of the local hip hop scene were trying hard to break monotony of rock music, love ballads and pop sounds, which are staples in the Malaysian music scene, with the fans of these genres refusing to accept this new form of music. However, the younger generation, especially those in the urban areas, were more curious and receptive; they were more positively in-tuned to receive this new culture that was creating waves across the globe, which was further expedited and cemented by the introduction of records from American hip hop artists like the N.W.A, Brand Nubian, Gang Starr, Cypress Hill and many others.\n\nThe Malaysian music scene was dominated by these poppy-sounding groups until 1995-1996, when Poetic Ammo, composed of Yogi B, Point Blanc, C. Loco & Land Slyde, came out with their classic album \"It's a Nice Day to Be Alive\". Their first hit, \"Everything Changes\" revolutionized the local music industry. There were also groups from the underground scene that have established themselves such as Naughtius Maximus and The Rebel Scum, but it was Poetic Ammo that \"made it big\". Eventually, the group split up, with each member pursuing solo directions and found success in their own right.\n\nOne of the \"powerhouses\" of hip hop in Malaysia is Too Phat, which consists of Malique and Joe Flizzow. They were signed to EMI International's Positive Tone division and produced their first hit album, \"Whutadilly\" and their first single was \"Too Phat Baby\".\n\n1984, Malaysia is marked by the arrival of hip hop movies \"Breakin’\" (1984), \"Breakin’ II: Electric Boogaloo\" (1984), and \"Beatstreet\" (1984).\n\nThat same year, the biggest local movie of 1984, \"Azura\", starring Jamal Abdillah and Fauziah Ahmad Daud, had a breakdancing scene in it.\n\nIt spawned some local B-Boys and B-Girls but the development of the hip hop scene as a whole wouldn't happen until much later.\n\nIn 1989, DJ and owner of Valentine Sound Production, Joe Siva began with KL deejay/rap-based group Krash Kozz, who went on to be the first major hip hop act of Malaysia.\n\nIn 1990, Krash Kozz, releasing the group's debut \"Pump It!\". With their mix of New Jack Swing melodies and Run DMC-influenced rap, Krash Kozz became a sensation in their home country, and even managed to chart on the Asia Billboard charts, one of the first Asian hip hop acts to do so. Siva later joined the group as their DJ.\n\nIn 1992, a new line-up consisted of Najee, Noramin and Joe Siva- the group then released its self-titled four-song EP.\n\nIn the same year, Siva hooked up with Mohd Firhad Amat and the friendship led to a musical change for Krash Kozz. Firhad, by the way, was the man who was responsible for introducing new jack swing (NJS) to the Malaysian public. He initiated the launch of NJS – yup, it was a party to introduced the music style – that was held at The Baze (the premier R&B/hip-hop club then) in November 1992. In December 23 of that year, he and Siva had a phone conversation with Teddy Riley, the NJS Godfather, who told them to spread the NJS craze in this country. Well, Riley's wish was granted as Krash Kozz third album, New Jack The Streetbeat, that was released in April 1993, became a big hit.\n\nRecorded by the new line-up of Najee, Fawzi and Albert, the 10-song album is a collection of NJS tunes that were fused with elements of jazz, gospel, R&B, classical rap and pop. Songs like the English version of Fiona (originally recorded by one of the first local pop-rap groups 4U2C), the group's interpretation of Berhati-Hati Di Jalanraya, Pada Kasih Cinta Berbunga and Give It All You've Got powered the album national success. It made NJS the hottest thing back then. It got so big that even the “King of NJS”, Bobby Brown, flew into the country for a sold-out concert at Putra World Trade Centre's Merdeka Hall on May 3, 1993.\n\nOn May 15, the first-ever Malaysian hip-hop gig, Konsert Rap Kuala Lumpur took place at the Life Centre in Jalan Sultan Ismail, KL.Apart from Krash Kozz, other groups that performed that day included Les Enfants, V.I.P., City Kids, Feminin, Res 2, D.E.F.X., M’Steen, Give Me 5, Nico and Hasnol. While the rest of the performers were neither here nor there, groups like V.I.P. (a comedic hip-hop duo made of composer Benny Ardjuna and cartoonist Poe), Feminin (one of the first all-female pop-rap group) and D.E.F.X. (a seven-member group, comprising two MCs, Yogi and MC E.N.A., and five dancers), showed that the local hip-hop scene had the potential to go far.\n\nSpeaking of D.E.F.X., they are arguably the next most important group after Krash Kozz in the development of the local hip-hop scene. Dubbed the human beatbox, 18-year-old Yogi was crowned the street rap king in Rappin’ Badd, a contest organised by Central Market on Nov 22, 1992. E.N.A., meanwhile, was runner-up. Both also used to be with Krash Kozz. The group was supposed to cut an album after penning a deal with a record label called Common Networks Malaysia Sdn Bhd, but it never materialised.\n\nKrash Kozz, meanwhile, went on to achieve bigger things after the release of their third album. First, they were invited to perform at the First Asian Dance Music Convention in Manila alongside Lisa Stansfield, Black Machine and Apache Indian in June 1993. They then went on to perform at World DJ Mixing Finals that was held at Ministry of Sound in London in January 1994. Sadly, that was also their last performance as the group disbanded as soon as they arrived home in Malaysia...\n\nTHE break-up of Krash Kozz signalled, to an extent, the end of any hope of seeing a local English-medium hip-hop scene. With them no longer in existence, the only place people could get their local fix was from acts like 4U2C, KRU, Les Enfant, Nana Nurgaya and Nico – but with all due respect, these acts, apart from Nico, cam hardly be classified as ‘hip-hop’.\n\nIn December 1994, we saw a ray of hope when a group called Poetic Ammunition (PMO) – made up of former Krash Kozz Posse and D.E.F.X members Yogi B and MC E.N.A. – released its debut single, Only You, on the newly formed Positive Tone. (After a deal to record an album fell through, D.E.F.X. had decided it was time for it to start afresh and with a new name to boot). On a chance visit to friend and lyricist Cahaya Pena at Kenny Music Studio, the duo bumped into producers and co-owners of Positive Tone, Paul Moss (formerly of Aishah and The Fan Club) and Kenny Tay.\n\nBoth Yogi and E.N.A. performed an impromptu jam for Moss and Tay, and by the time they left the studio, they had a record deal. Musically, the reggaeton-sounding, Flying Pickett's cover was nothing to shout about, but the only original number on the set, Run, was unlike anything ever recorded by a Malaysian hip hop act. With its tight delivery, infectious hooks and ill beats, the song got a lot of music execs excited – and it seemed, for a while, that the Malaysian hip-hop scene was back on the right path again. But that quickly proved not to be the case. After the single's release, nothing much was heard from PMO again.\n\nBut there was a silver lining. Krash Kozz and PMO's trailblazing efforts spawned a legion of imitators. No, there was no sudden emergence of a local underground hip-hop scene – but new acts were suddenly popping up all over the place. For instance, an East Coast hip-hop-inspired group, Whyness, released a six-track self-titled demo in 1994 – and the same demo led to the formation of arguably Malaysia's first ever genuine hip-hop collective, Naughtius Maximus. Apart from members from Whyness – Albert Chong (Albert), Ismail Mat Aris (Mail), Ramesh Anthony (Ramesh), Azrin Ishak (Ain), Hiresh Das (Hiresh), Calvin Choi (Illegal), Nicholas Choong (Nicky C), Remy Kalia Perumal (MiSta Rem), Azhar Majid (Dice), Zushahron Dina (Lady D), Nor Azhar (Spit), Francis Jesudas (Jungle Jerry) and Moses L Chan (Moe) – the 13 member squad was also made up of three other different groups, Deceased, Under Pressure and Reffugeez.\n\nNaughtius Maximus circa 1995\nRecorded within the space of four months at Digitron Studio, (legend has it that as the group hadn't the money to book studio time, they “stole” some booked by other acts), Naughtius Maximus’ debut album was released on July 1, 1995, by Articulate Sound Sdn Bhd. Produced by Moe, the 13- song set featured three songs by Whyness, two tracks from Deceased, Reffugeez and Under Pressure each, and four songs by the collective. Musically, it is without a doubt Malaysia's first-ever genuine hip hop album, complete with the requisite beats, rhymes, attitude and spirit. If there was anything lacking, it was production quality. Still, songs like Here Comes Trouble, Whyness’ Right On Time and Reffugeez's Ruff Wayz are still regarded as seminal classics by those who've been following the development of the local hip-hop music scene.\n\nBut just when things were on the up-and-up for hip-hop in Malaysia, the local scene got a blow when nine of the songs were summarily banned by Radio Televisyen Malaysia (RTM) two months after the album was released. The reason given for the ban was that the album was “too Westernised”. The ban was a blessing in disguise the status of being banned immediately made the group and hip-hop music notorious – a factor that has a big appeal, especially among the youth. As for the majority of music lovers previously unfamiliar with the genre, the controversy raised curiosity levels enough that many decided to find out what the fuss was all about. The ban halted the collective's progress, as, by 1996, most of its members were already doing their own thing, both inside and outside music. Illegal and Moses went on to become one of Malaysia's most respected hip-hop producers; Lady D went on to form Emberz of Soul, Jungle Jerry and Nicky C went on to make their names in the local clubbing and DJ circuit.\n\nOverall though, 1996 was a pretty quiet year for hip-hop. However, below their radar, a scene was slowly developing. Very little information about the underground hip-hop scene at that time is available today, but we do know that two groups were active at the time: Poetic Ammo (with Yogi B as the sole member after MC E.N.A. left in 1995); and Def Rhyme (featuring brother, Land Slyde (Chandrakumar Balakrishnan) and C Loco (Sashi Kumar Balakrishnan). These two groups would later converge to become Poetic Ammo, with the final piece of the jigsaw coming from the then-16-year-old Wu- Tang Clan-devotee from Ipoh, Point Blanc (Nicholas Ong). The expanded Poetic Ammo then spent most of 1996 recording their debut, It's A Nice Day To Be Alive – the album that was going to change the future of local hip hop music...\n\n“IT was living hell. We slept on the floor; there were times when we had to collect money from each one of us to buy Maggi Mee to eat,” Yogi B of Poetic Ammo told me about the recording process of It's A Nice Day To Be Alive in an unpublished interview that was conducted in Feb 2003.“It was a very tough time for us. We invested a lot of money in the album. We even slept in the studios at one point,” said Joe Flizzow, one half of Too Phat in the Press statement to announce the release of their debut album, Whutthadilly? on Dec 30, 1999. Sacrifices and undying passion for the art form are, without a doubt, important factors that led to the explosion of Malaysian hip-hop in the later part of the 1990s.\n\nIt is a requirement, if one thinks about it. Especially when good hip hop references and expertise when it came to producing and cooking up the beats were almost non-existent back then. If we got it right, the only “serious” composers and producers then were Illegal, G-Soul and Yogi B. And the latter was a producer by default as he had to produce Ammo's debut, \"It’s A Nice Day To Be Alive\". “It was like having to make couple of beautiful vases and having to learn how to mould the clay at the same time”, Yogi said back then. Tough or not, the impossible was achieved when his group's first single Everything Changes was released on January 5, 1998, to positive response and glowing praises. In hindsight, its success is now understandable. The R&B-tinged hip-hop number was too hard to resist for any casual music listener or radio programme manager.\n\nThe inclusion of Landslyde and C Loco (from the group Def Rhyme – those who are old enough might remember them from Asia Bagus) and Point Blanc (from Ipoh's rap group, Da’ Funk Squad) have also added more depth and packed a stronger punch that made Ammo a tighter unit at that time. When it was released on February 23, 1998, It's A Nice Day To Be Alive took what Naughtius Maximus did on their debut three years ago to a completely new level.\n\nMusically, it may not be the most original – there's Bone Thugs N’ Harmony ( It's A Nice Day To Be Alive; Cypress Hill (especially C Loco's style of delivery); Wu Tang Clan Approximate Detonation flavour here and there – but tracks like Peluru Puitis, Vallavan and the remake of Samuel Hui's Kah Sang Tah Kong Chai was unlike anything produced here before. Lyrically, it was evident the quartet did try to keep it as local as possible, which they did to a certain extent, especially on songs like Everything Changes and Peluru Puitis. Of course, there were glaring weaknesses – feeble selection of words in the rhymes here and there, not-so-fluid song arrangements – but compared to anything that was released earlier, the album was the best at its time and remains a seminal release. The group, however, had to wait for almost a year before they could reap the fruits of their success.“We nearly gave up at first because sales weren’t great. There wasn’t an English hip hop scene then, and not many people in Malaysia knew what the music was all about,” Yogi B said.\n\nLess than a year before Poetic Ammo dropped its debut It's A Nice Day To Be Alive in 1998, underground gigs, a key factor that contributed to the development of local hip-hop, was mushrooming. Though it's far from being an underground gig per se, the Youthquake Malaysia Tour in 1996 did, to a certain extent, spread awareness and interest in hiphop. Spread across five states – Penang, Ipoh, Kuantan, Johor Bharu and Kuala Lumpur – the tour had R&B group Soulstreet (its former member includes composer/producer Damian Seet of VE) and a rapper known as Johan Ishak performing at each stop alongside OAG. The impact may not be as powerful as the underground gigs but it's no denying that both Soulstreet and Johan offered suburban kids a different take on the music, especially in its attitude.\n\nThe first local underground hip-hop gig took place in Malibu Cafe in November 1997. The organiser, believe it or not, was Nazri Noran of now-defunct pioneering rap-rock group Projekt AK and who is now with the hitz.fm Morning Crew. Performing that day were Naugtius Maximus, Innuendo, Suspicious (a rap group from Penang), Soulstreet and Da’ Joint. Speaking of Da’ Joint, it's important to take note that the trio – G (Jeyakumar Letchmanan), Sam Sneeze (Samir Sharman) and Rez (Syed Riza Al- Attas) – were among the first of the third generation local hip hop acts that emerged in the mid-’90s. In 2000, the group’s debut single B.A.N.G.S.A.R. peaked at No. 1 spot on hitz.fm Malaysian English Top 10. Three years later the band released an EP, Sound Therapy via Ruff Selecta Entertainment which gave them two more hits singles, Livin’ In The Streets and After Party. The group disbanded a couple of years back and Samir's now pursuing a solo career. His debut album Reinvented was released late last year and was a success, thanks to hits like R U Ready, Let's Go and Dikir Berbisa.\n\nOther notable groups that came out about the same time (1997-1999) were First Borne Troopz (which would later become Teh Tarik Crew), SickSiderz, ILLustrait (members of both group would later converge and form The Rebel Scum), Integrated Soul, Pac of Doja, M.O.B. (Members Of Blood; one of its former members include Sein of Ruffedge) and of course, Too Phat. The seed of the group can be traced in 1997 when a then 17-year-old Subang Jaya kid called Joe Flizzow and the then 19-year-old Muar-based Malique decided to form a creative alliance after an infamous rap battle on the Net. In November that year, after completing his A-Levels, Malique migrated to KL, and together with Joe and Doctah K (Kevin Felix) who later rejoined local underground band Foreground Division, they embarked on a journey that would take them beyond their wildest imagination. It's unclear when did the group call themselves Too Phat, but in an interview with the now-defunct TONE magazine in their April 2001 issue, both said Too Phat was the first name that came to mind after a gig organiser asked them for a group name to be included in a gig flyer. Other names that were also in consideration were Way Too Phat and Nickel and Rhymes.“We weren’t sure whether we wanted to stick with Too Phat or not,” Malique said in the interview.“Yeah. We said okay lah, we’ll come up with this name Too Phat, then in the future if we don’t like it, we’ll change,” Joe added. It stuck, of course.\n\nWhen a sound engineering friend wanted a group to record for his course assignment, the group jumped on the opportunity. The result was a demo that would soon make its round in the local underground hip-hop circuit. Most importantly, it landed the group a slot at A Tribute To East Coast and West Coast gig that took place in Malibu Cafe on March 28, 1998, where they performed alongside Poetic Ammo, Soulstreet, Suspicious and C’Est La Vie. From there, the group went on to establish a reputation as one of the hottest underground hiphop acts in town largely for their slick rhyming, energetic stage persona, and also two of the underground hits, Higgedy Hey and I'll Be Missing Your P****, the group interpolation of Puff Daddy's I'll be Missing You.\n\nWhile the underground scene was swamped with activities, above ground, Ammo was slowly seeing the reward from their hard work, thanks to Who Be The Player – a song that was not on their debut, but on the country's first ever local R&B/hip-hop compilation, Tricks & Tales. Released by Positive Tone on Dec 22, 1998, the main highlight of the 10-song compilation had to be the comeback tune by Naughtius Maximus (M.V.P. and Born Ready). Other highlights include the fact that it broke Ferhad into the mainstream scene with Soul In Me and Believe. It introduced Reefa, (arguably) the first solo MC in the country; and Naughtius Maximus alumnae, Lady D's new duo in a group, Emberz Of Soul. It was a perfect documentation of the “semi” underground local hip-hop scene. But to those who were familiar with the underground scene, the inclusion of Too Phat would have made the set more comprehensive.\n\nOver the next 12 months, Dec 1998 to Dec 1999, Malaysian hiphop was all about Poetic Ammo. In April 1999, the group was named Best New English Artiste at Anugerah Industri Muzik (AIM) while It's A Nice Day To Be Alive was Best English Album. As a result of their wins, album sales rocketed to 15,000 copies in a span of less than a month; and having the music video for Everything Changes nominated in the South-East Asia Viewers’ Choice Award category at the 1999 MTV Video Music. Some felt, and said, that it was the pinnacle of the thriving scene, but how wrong they were. Well, these people were not to be blame as no one was prepared for Whuttadilly?\n\n“WE are not malu of, or regret The World Is Yours, as it’s a part of the Ammo chapter. It was commercial and it was pop, and some people didn’t like it. But it was us, nevertheless”. That was what one-half of Poetic Ammo, Point Blanc, told this writer in an unpublished interview in February 2003 in the wake of their comeback-of-sorts album, Return Of Tha Boombox.\n\nIn the Malaysian hip hop scene, if the years 1998 to 2000 were all about Ammo, the period 2001 to this day is all about Too Phat. There were many reasons for this power shift – by 2001, Ammo were more well known for their endorsement deals than their music. It also didn't help that the follow-up to 2000's It's A Nice Day To Be Alive was exactly as Point described: commercial and pop. Flashback to 1998: with a reputation as the hottest thing in the thriving local underground hip hop scene, the trio Malique, Joe Flizzow and Doctah K were offered a deal to record an EP by the now defunct Strange Culture Records (SCR), which was then the label for local fringe music. The group recorded two songs, Give It Up and Whutthadilly?, with SCR before parting ways with the label in July 1998. Determined to finish what they've started, the group, who had by then became a duo when Doctah K left to sing with a hardcore band called Foreground Division, decided to complete the album using their own resources.\n\nIn between recording sessions, they were also actively performing on the underground gig circuit. And their biggest, if not most important gig, was The Panasonic Hip-Trip that was held at Sunway Lagoon Amphitheatre in late 1999. Performing alongside Farah, Shayna, Taheera, VE, Soulstreet, Da Joint, Naughtius Maximums, Prisheella (one of the earliest local female MCs to emerge), Vandal, Poetic Ammo, KamiKrazie, DJ Ken, DJ Face, DJ T-Bone and DJ Goldfish, Malique and Joe Flizzow stole the show that day with their strong stage presence, obvious talent and very hooky number, Too Phat Baby. The first single off their yet-to-be-released debut was premiered and went down well with the 2,000-strong crowd that day. The buzz on Too Phat on the street was at an all-time high but the duo had to wait until their debut album was 90 percent complete before they could get a record label to notice their potential.\n\nHow they finally ended up with Positive Tone is a classic record industry tale. The label's managing director Ahmad Izham Omar (now 8TV chief executive officer) happened to hear one of the tracks off Whutthadilly? when one of the album producers were working on it. Word has it that Izham was completely blown away and demanded a meeting with the group immediately. Things got even more exciting after they officially became a Positive Tone artist in Oct 1999. In November, an unmastered studio mix of Lil’ Fingaz leaked on the radio and surprisingly, became hitz.fm's Most Wanted Hit.Lil’ Fingaz's considerable success was overtaken by the Too Phat Baby when it was released in early December. Finally, after almost a year-long struggle, Whutthadilly? finally saw the light of day on Dec 31, 1999. Produced by Illegal, G-Soul, Haze and the boys themselves, the 15-track album established a whole new set of standards for production, image, presentation and most importantly, rapping in the local hip hop scene. To call it the perfect hip-hop album (by Malaysian standards at that time) may be an overstatement, but considering how very few missteps were made by Malique and Joe, Whutthadilly? was indeed local hip-hop at its finest.\n\nAlbum highlights were aplenty, from the intros sampled from artists as diverse as Sharifah Aini's (Seiring Sejalan) and Kool & The Gang (Too Hot), to the interpolation in Too Phat Baby and heck, even the demo mix of Whutthadilly?, the album is one big irresistible effort.\nMusical genius aside, there were two other interesting things the boys did. The duo roped in and introduced up-and-coming underground cats by inviting them to guest on the album.\n\nActs who were literally unknown beyond the local underground scene, Ruffedge (Too Phat Baby); and First Borne Troopz and G from Da’ Joint (Skoo Tha Nonsense) were allowed to shine alongside Tricks And Tales alumni like Reefa (Bla, Bla), Lady Dee (bo-M.O.-h). Their other, less generous act was to put down Poetic Ammo in one of the tracks. In bo-M.O.-h, Malique and Joe mocked Poetic Ammo for claiming to be what they were – the leader of the pack in the local hip-hop game. It was undoubtedly the first local diss track – okay, Krash Kozz and KRU also dissed each other in their tracks in their time, but they were nowhere near this: “Aight man? everybody know ain’t nothing real/Check the CD cover wit’ the classic clown appeal/and still it kinda beats me how you got that record deal/Wit’ no skills, why you tryin so hard to B-Real?” raps Malique in the first verse.“Damn, at first you brought some hope into the game/Now it ain’t the same, probably fame got you lame,” adds Joe in the second verse.\nAmmo lashed back in the song We Hit `Em Up Too in their second album saying: “I gave you love but you wanna show me hate/Watcha gonna do when it’s too late/It’s about the time why don’t you tell em’ why/Cos back here We Hit Em’ Up Too” (Yogi B); “You dissed my album cover bein’ clownish but yours be worse/Cos your s*** be lookin’ something straight from the circus/For real though now you phat with that lady in your clique” says Point.\n\n“We were cool then, you had beef with the other peeps and/Now you got an album, you wanna skoo the nonsense?/Ha! Ha! You see my prominence is imminent/Why you tryin’ so hard so be Eminem?/You visionary? More like fictionary,” continues C Loco. What triggered that was hard to tell as both parties naturally had their own version of stories, but oh, what fun it was for the fans. It’s the closest the Malaysia hip-hop rap scene has come to a gang war, and the kids in the local scene were quickly split into two main camps: The Phat Family and Ammo’s D’Alliance.\n\nThe roots of rap in Bahasa Melayu can be traced back to the year 1992. In that year alone, the local music industry saw debut albums by three rap groups – KRU, 4U2C and Les Enfant. First to be released was the self-titled debut album by seven-piece rap combo, 4U2C. Under the guidance of Zman Productions, the group’s album was a success thanks to the song Fiona. The album then went on to sell more than 40,000 copies and opened a lot of eyes on the potential of rap music here. Their music may be leaning more towards pop than hip hop but no one can deny the fact that songs like Kami Rappers and 2BD#1 gave us the first taste on how rapping in Bahasa Malaysia would sound like.\n\nDespite having international names like T Kelly and Billy Steinberg producing their album, Les Enfants’, Permulaan didn't have that much of impact, well, except for the fact that the four group members were barely in their teens when the album was released. Claiming to be The Real Rap Group (TRRG), KRU's debut album Canggih, like 4U2C's was a commercial success. Just for the record, the success led them and 4U2C to a few years “feud” on who's the best rap group in town.\n\nAnother group, Nico, may not achieve the same amount of success and attention like 4U2C and KRU, but they were the first group to succeed with their attempt to excellently flow to properly written rhymes in Bahasa Malaysia and sill exist until today with their original members Nico, Dino and Affa. Songs like Inilah Nasibku, Public Figure and Deng Kang Kong Lepak would be a testament to the statement above. In the following year, one of the first English-medium hip hop groups, Krash Kozz had a minor hit with the song Berhati-hati Di Jalanraya. Feminin, the first all-girl “rap” group who released their album in the same year also scored a hit for themselves with the song Untukmu.\n\nThe rap in Bahasa Melayu boom anyhow was a very brief one. By 1995, most of the acts are nowhere to be seen, well apart from KRU, who would later enjoy success as a pop group. Apart from some songs by KRU and Nico, none of these rap groups really managed to deliver solid rhymes in Bahasa Melayu that would become like a benchmark to the genre. As a matter of fact, most of these groups did more damage than good when it comes to rhyme in Bahasa Melayu.\n\nIn 1997, a group who called themselves Poetic Ammo, planted the seed for the second wave of Malaysian rappers with their debut album, It's a Nice Day to be Alive. The multi-lingual album – it had songs in Bahasa Melayu, Tamil, Cantonese and English – delivered some sparks when it comes to rhyming in Bahasa Melayu as can be heard on the song Peluru Puitis. Heavily influenced by Cypress Hill's beats, the song for the first time saw Bahasa Melayu vocabulary used intelligently to complement hip hop's beats. Not yet definitive, but substantial enough to become a template for future MCs. Three years later in 2000, Ammo perfected their art of rhyming Bahasa Melayu on the song Tiada Tandingan (featuring the voice of Sheila Majid) that was featured on their second album, The World is Yours. Choppier and tighter, the song strengthens that if done properly, rhyming in Bahasa Melayu can actually sound interesting and refreshing.\n\nIn 2002, Too Phat who by then have already established themselves as the biggest and most popular hip hop group in this country further reaffirm the fact that it is possible to rhyme in Bahasa Melayu and sound international on their third album 360 Degrees. Both its members Malique and Joe Flizzow took turn to spit rhymes in Bahasa Melayu on the second verse of the song Ala Canggung. The duo took a step further when the Bahasa Melayu version of Alhamdulillah and Ala Canggung that was featured on the Platinum Edition of 360 Degrees became huge commercial hits when it was released last year.\n\nThroughout the late 2000s, Malay rap has further evolved itself. It moved from becoming a gimmick to a form of art which could stand on its own.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848532", "title": "David Kirk", "text": "David Kirk\n\nDavid Edward Kirk (born 5 October 1960) is a former New Zealand rugby union player. He is best known for having been the captain of the All Blacks when they won the inaugural Rugby World Cup in 1987.\n\nKirk was born in Wellington and grew up in Palmerston North. He was educated at Russell Street School, Wanganui Collegiate School, and the University of Otago, where he graduated with a medical degree MB ChB.\n\nKirk played domestic rugby for Otago and Auckland, and first toured with the All Blacks in 1983. He stood out from his fellow players as \"urbane, articulate and thoughtful,\" and when the planned 1986 All Black tour to South Africa was cancelled David and John Kirwan were the only two players to refuse to join the rebel \"Cavaliers\" team on moral grounds—he felt that it would give comfort to the apartheid regime.\n\nWith the rebels banned from playing in the next two All Black test he captained the so-called \"Baby Blacks\". On the return of the rebels however, his position was uncomfortable and he was lucky to retain his place in the squad. Despite this, when original captain Andy Dalton had to withdraw with an injury, Kirk was made captain—and led New Zealand to victory over France in the 1987 Rugby World Cup Final.\n\nHe was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire in the 1988 New Year Honours for services to rugby.\n\nKirk abruptly retired from competitive rugby after the World Cup win, at the age of 26, to take up a Rhodes Scholarship at Worcester College, Oxford with a degree in PPE.\n\nAfter his studies at Oxford, he returned to New Zealand, becoming the coach of the Wellington NPC team in 1993 and 1994 and also a media commentator. A National Party member, he sought the party's nomination for the 1992 Tamaki by-election, losing to Clem Simich. Kirk was also a staffer for Prime Minister Jim Bolger, and worked as a management consultant at McKinsey & Company. Later he was employed by Fletcher Challenge, then New Zealand's largest company, and one of its successors, Fletcher Energy.\n\nFrom October 2005 to December 2008 he was Chief Executive Officer of Fairfax Media—publisher of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"The Age\" and \"The Australian Financial Review\" in Australia; and \"The Dominion Post\" and \"The Christchurch Press\" in New Zealand. On occasions he wrote articles for Fairfax - commentating on rugby when journalists were on strike.\n\nHis most recent involvement with rugby came in late 2009, when he led an independent arbitration panel appointed by SANZAR to settle an impasse between its three member unions (South Africa, New Zealand and Australia) over whether the planned 15th franchise in the Super Rugby competition would be awarded to Australia or South Africa, Ultimately, Melbourne was chosen and began play in 2011.\n\nOn 24 October 2011, Kirk was inducted into the IRB Hall of Fame alongside all other Rugby World Cup-winning captains and head coaches from the tournament's inception in 1987 through to 2007 (minus the previously inducted John Eales).\n\n\nHe is also a director of a number of companies, including:\n\nTests: 17 (11 as Captain)\nGames: 17 (0 as Captain)\nTotal Matches: 34 (11 as Captain)\nTest Points: 24pts (6t, 0c, 0p, 0dg, 0m)\nGame Points: 44pts (11t, 0c, 0p, 0dg, 0m)\nTotal Points: 68pts (17t, 0c, 0p, 0dg, 0m)\n\n"}
{"id": "1848533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848533", "title": "Order of Our Lady of Bethlehem", "text": "Order of Our Lady of Bethlehem\n\nThere were two military orders known as the Order of Our Lady of Bethlehem.\n\nMatthew Paris mentions that Henry III of England authorized them to open a house in a suburb of Cambridge in 1257; but he does not mention their founder, where they originated, and their history. Their habit was similar to that of the Dominicans and that a red star, whose five rays emanated from an azure centre, decorated the breast of their cape. This was in commemoration of the star that appeared to the Magi and led them to Bethlehem. Nothing further is known of this military order. There was an order of knights whose members wore a red star on their costume because of having a house in Bethlehem at the time of the Crusades; this was the Military Order of Crusaders of the Red Star (Ordo militaris crucigerorum cum rubeâ stellâ). They came from Palestine to Bohemia in 1217, and Blessed Agnes of Bohemia confided two hospitals to their charge. They have since remained in that country where they devote themselves to the care of the sick, to education, and to the various works of the ecclesiastical ministry. \n\nAfter the taking of Constantinople by the Turks (1453), Pius II founded the Order of Our Lady of Bethlehem. The purpose of these knights was to defend the Island of Lemnos which Cardinal Louis, Patriarch of Aquileia, had recaptured from Mohammed II. The island was to be their headquarters from which they were to oppose the attacks of the Muslims by way of the Ægean Sea and the Hellespont. The order was composed of brother-knights and priests governed by an elective grand-master. The white costume worn by the members was decorated with a red cross and the rule prescribed for them was very similar to that of the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem. The pope founded this community on 18 January 1459. To supply their needs, the pope turned over to them the property and revenues of older orders which no longer fulfilled their purpose, such as: the Order of Saint Lazarus, Sainte-Marie du Ch teau des Bretons, Bologna, Order of the Holy Sepulchre, Santo Spirito in Sassia, St. Mary of the Crossed Friars, and St. James of Lucca, all of which were suppressed for this purpose. Pius II alluded in a Bull to this foundation and the bravery of its knights, but the second capture of Lemnos by the Turks rendered the institution useless. Thus the order of Our Lady of Bethlehem was suppressed almost as soon as founded and those orders whose goods the pope had transmitted to it were re-established.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848539", "title": "Athinaikos F.C.", "text": "Athinaikos F.C.\n\nAthinaikos, officially known as Athinaikos AS FC (Greek: Αθηναϊκός Αθλητικός Σύλλογος - Athinaikos Athlitikos Syllogos), the \"Athenaic Athletic Association\", is a Greek association football club based in the city of Athens, Greece. The club is also referred to, unofficially, as Athinaikos Vyronas after the Athens suburb in which the team is based.\n\nThe club was formed in 1917 and was a foundation member of the Hellenic Football Federation.\n\nAt the start of the 1950s, the team was relocated to the suburbs of Vyronas and merged with Nea Elvetia (Greek: Αθλητική Ένωση Νέας Ελβετίας), the local club, which was formed in 1935. The club was named Athinaikos Neas Elvetias AS (Greek: Αθηναϊκός Νέας Ελβετίας Αθλητικός Σύλλογος), but it was commonly referred to as Athinaikos or AthNE (Greek: ΑΘ.Ν.Ε.).\n\nThe team plays in the municipal stadium of Vyrona, which has a capacity of 4,340. The team's nickname is \"Lords of Byron\", a reference to George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron, commonly known as Lord Byron, who fought and died for Greek independence. The area of Vyronas was named after him as a tribute.\n\nAthinaikos established two more departments of Handball and Basketball.\n\nThe most historical moment of the club was in season 1991-92 when they played against Manchester United in the first round of the Cup Winners' Cup. They drew the first leg 0-0 at home and took the English giants into extra-time at Old Trafford before losing 2-0.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848541", "title": "List of heads of government of Sierra Leone", "text": "List of heads of government of Sierra Leone\n\nThis is a list of heads of government of Sierra Leone, from the establishment of the office of Chief Minister in 1954 until the present day. The office of Prime Minister was abolished after the constitutional referendum in 1978, and reinstated in 2018 with the appointment of David J. Francis as Chief Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848545", "title": "Meïr Aron Goldschmidt", "text": "Meïr Aron Goldschmidt\n\nMeïr Aron Goldschmidt (October 26, 1819 – August 15, 1887) was a Danish publisher, journalist and novelist with a Jewish background.\n\nGoldschmidt was born in Vordingborg but raised in Copenhagen. He belonged to a strictly orthodox Jewish family but his meeting with classical Greek culture changed much of this attitude and made him hereafter trying to balance between Jewish and non-Jewish thoughts. Especially the Greek idea of Nemesis impressed him and imbued much of his later works.\n\nHe graduated in 1836. In 1837 he founded \"Præstø Amts Tidende\" which in 1839 merged with \"Callundborg Ugeblad\" to become \"Sjællandsposten\". He sold that in 1840 and in the same year founded the weekly political and satirical \"Corsaren\" (\"The Corsair\") where, under the cover of different editors, he criticised the king. As the real editor, he was sentenced to prison (6 times 4 days), a fine, and future censorship on June 7, 1843, in the Supreme Court. \"Corsaren\" remains an innovation of Danish journalism.\n\nGoldschmidt had previously praised Søren Kierkegaard for his \"Either/Or,\" but the friendship was destroyed after the \"Corsar\"'s continued attack on Kierkegaard. In 1846 Goldschmidt sold \"Corsaren\". In the years 1847-1859 he ran a political magazine called \"Nord og Syd\" (\"North and South\").\n\nPolitically Goldschmidt was at the beginning a rebel with republican sympathies and flirting with Utopian socialist views (a novelty of Danish literature) but from the 1850s he came closer to a more traditional liberal ideology , and his attempts of playing a political role as an editor aroused accusations of opportunism. About 1860 he stopped his career as an opinion former and concentrated on literature.\n\nHis literature shows an interest in the metaphysical and philosophical. His first novel \"En Jøde\" (1845; Eng. transl. \"A Jew\", 1990) is the first description of the Copenhagen Jewish milieu viewed from within. The large novel \"Hjemløs\" (\"Homeless\", 1853) deals with the idea of Nemesis and so does the important \"Arvingen\" (1865, \"The Heir\"), the first Danish fine literary treatment of divorce. Very valuable are his tales and novellas dealing with Jewish individuals described in a special mixture of irony and sympathy. Not seldom realism is broken by a special mysticism.\n\nFrom a short-lived marriage he had a son in 1846 and a daughter in 1848.\n\nHe published several novels:\nHe also wrote a few dramas, and an autobiography (1877).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848546", "title": "Massimo Taibi", "text": "Massimo Taibi\n\nMassimo Taibi (; born 18 February 1970) is a former Italian footballer, who played as a goalkeeper for several clubs, mostly in Italy's Serie A, B, and C1. He had a brief spell at English club Manchester United.\n\nTaibi started his career for Licata until 1989. He appeared only once, before moving to Trentino, where he was a first-choice goalkeeper, playing 23 matches. After one season, he moved to Milan in Serie A for the 1990–91 season. As in his first club, he was not used at all, and shortly moved to Como, where he played the following season. After that he moved to Piacenza. Taibi stayed there for five seasons, until the 1996–97 season, and appeared for most of the club's games.\n\nPiacenza thought his time was over, so they sold him to the club which had not played him, Milan. This time, Milan played him in half of the 1997–98 season's games as a backup to teammate Sebastiano Rossi. Then Milan sold him to Venezia in 1998. In his first season with Venezia, he played in nearly every game.\n\nIn 1999, Manchester United purchased Taibi for £4.5 million, requiring a new goalkeeper after Peter Schmeichel had left for Sporting Lisbon after winning the treble and injuries to both their 1st and 2nd choice goalkeepers: Mark Bosnich and Raimond van der Gouw respectively. He made his debut against Liverpool, where he flapped at a free kick, allowing Sami Hyypiä to score. However, he later made a number of saves, including a one-on-one save from Vladimír Šmicer. United went on to win 3–2 with Taibi getting the Man of the Match award. Taibi competed with the other two goalkeepers, Mark Bosnich and Raimond van der Gouw, for the first-team place, but lost out after a gaffe against Southampton in September 1999 that resulted in Matthew Le Tissier scoring a goal, for which he became synonymous. This match led to Taibi being dubbed 'The Blind Venetian' by one newspaper. He only played four matches, one of them a 5–0 defeat at Chelsea, United's first league defeat since losing to Middlesbrough in December 1998.\n\nIn January 2000, Taibi joined Reggina on loan until the end of the season, where he played regularly. After the loan spell ended, Manchester United made it clear that – although Taibi was available for transfer – another loan deal was out of the question, rejecting a bid from Napoli. In July 2000, Manchester United agreed to allow Taibi to rejoin Reggina for a fee of £2.5 million. On 1 April 2001, Taibi scored a goal with a header off a corner kick in the 87th minute against Udinese to equalise the score final score to a 1–1 draw at home. With the goal, Taibi was the second goalkeeper to score from open play in Serie A history after Michelangelo Rampulla in 1992.\n\nAfter the 2000–01 season finished in relegation for Reggina, he was shifted to Atalanta as a replacement of Ivan Pelizzoli. In the summer of 2005, he went on loan to Torino, serving as first-choice goalkeeper; the move became permanent in 2006, with Taibi however becoming the backup goalkeeper behind Christian Abbiati. He made his seasonal debut on 13 January 2007. In the 2007–08 season, he joined Ascoli, as Torino acquired the services of Matteo Sereni. Taibi played 47 matches, before he announced his retirement from football in 2009.\n\nA centre-forward in his youth, whose role model was Roberto Boninsegna, Taibi later switched to the position of goalkeeper. He was known in particular for his penalty-saving abilities as a shot-stopper.\n\nPiacenza\n\nManchester United\n\n"}
{"id": "1848554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848554", "title": "Peter Greene", "text": "Peter Greene\n\nPeter Greene (born Peter Green; October 8, 1965) is an American character actor, generally known for playing villains.\n\nA native of Montclair, New Jersey, Greene did not pursue a career in acting until his mid-20s. He initially landed several roles in cinema and television in the early 1990s.\n\nGreene had roles in \"Pulp Fiction\"; \"The Mask\"; \"Clean, Shaven\"; and \"The Usual Suspects\" in 1994 and 1995. In \"Pulp Fiction\", Greene appeared as Zed, who rapes Marsellus Wallace. \"The Mask\" saw him play the villainous Dorian Tyrell opposite Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz. Greene played the schizophrenic Peter Winter in \"Clean, Shaven\". \"The Usual Suspects\" saw him play the character of Redfoot. Greene often plays villains, such as in \"Judgment Night\", \"\", \"Training Day\" (as a corrupt narcotics officer) and martial arts/crime film \"Fist of the Warrior\" (opposite Ho-Sung Pak, Roger Guenveur Smith and Sherilyn Fenn). \n\nGreene worked with director Jordan Alan twice: once on the film \"Kiss and Tell\", a dark comic turn and then again four years later in \"The Gentleman Bandit\" (aka \"Gentleman B\"). After Greene's arrests in 1998 for drug related crimes, Alan had to put the actor through rehab to get him through the second film and eventually, after coming upon Greene doing heroin with Mike Starr, he was forced to replace Greene's voice because of the vocal problems caused by drugs. Despite these problems, Mr. Alan vouched for Greene to producer Tobe Jaffe for the movie \"Blue Streak\", in which Greene played Martin Lawrence's nemesis.\n\nGreene has continued to work mostly as a character actor. He appeared in the short-lived television drama \"The Black Donnellys\". He also appeared as a policeman in Prodigy of Mobb Deep's video for \"A,B,C's\", as well as the focal character in House of Pain's video for \"Fed Up\". Greene appeared in the opening scene of the premiere of the FX series\" Justified\". He has appeared in two films by director Eric Brian Hughes: \"Turnabout\" and the upcoming \"Exit 0\". \nGreene appears in the award-winning crime drama series \"The Jersey Connection\" by filmmaker Tim Firtion.\nGreene currently star in 2020 TV Series, For Life in a small role as an Aryan Brother.\n\nHe has two younger siblings, John and Mary Anne. He is of Irish descent. In 2007, Greene was arrested for possessing crack cocaine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848556", "title": "Giraffe weevil", "text": "Giraffe weevil\n\nThe giraffe weevil (\"Trachelophorus giraffa\") is a weevil endemic to Madagascar. It derives its name from an extended neck, much like that of a giraffe. The giraffe weevil is sexually dimorphic, with the neck of the male typically being 2 to 3 times the length of that of the female. Most of the body is black with distinctive red elytra covering the flying wings. The total body length of the males is just under an inch (2.5 cm), among the longest for any attelabid species. The extended neck is an adaptation that assists in nest building and fighting. To breed, females roll and secure a leaf of the host plant, \"Dichaetanthera cordifolia\" or \"Dichaetanthera arborea\" (a small tree in the family Melastomataceae), then lay one egg within the tube, before snipping it from the plant.\n"}
{"id": "1848557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848557", "title": "Mahananda River", "text": "Mahananda River\n\nThe Mahananda River (Pron:/ˌməhɑːˈnʌndə or ˌmɑːhəˈnʌndə/) is a trans-boundary river that flows through the Indian states of West Bengal and Bihar, and Bangladesh.\n\nThe Mahananda originates in the Himalayas: Paglajhora Falls on Mahaldiram Hill near Chimli, east of Kurseong in Darjeeling district at an elevation of . It flows through Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary and descends to the plains near Siliguri. It touches Jalpaiguri district.\n\nIt enters Bangladesh near Tentulia in Panchagarh District, flows for after Tentulia and returns to India. After flowing through Uttar Dinajpur district in West Bengal and Kishanganj, Purnia and Katihar districts in Bihar, it enters Malda district in West Bengal. The Mahananda divides the district into two regions — the eastern region, consisting mainly of old alluvial and relatively infertile soil is commonly known as Barind (Borendrovomee), and the western region, which is further subdivided by the river Kalindri into two areas, the northern area is known as \"Tal\". It is low-lying and vulnerable to inundation during rainy season; the southern area consists of very fertile land and is thickly populated, being commonly known as \"Diara\".\n\nIt joins the Ganges at Godagiri in Nawabganj district in Bangladesh.\n\nThe total length of the Mahananda is , out of which are in India and are in Bangladesh.\n\nThe total drainage area of the Mahananda is out of which are in India.\n\nThe main tributaries of the Mahananda are Balason, Mechi, Kankai and River Kalindri. At the East of the confluence of the Kalindri and the Mahananda lies the Old Malda town. In the Siliguri area it has three tributaries called the Trinai, Ranochondi and the pair of Chokor and Dauk taken as a single tributary.\n\nThe Kosi (Kausiki), which flows through the northeastern Bihar and joins the Ganges at a point much higher up than Rajmahal, originally ran eastward and fell into the Brahmaputra . The channel of the Kosi, therefore, must have been steadily shifting toward the west, right across the whole breadth of North Bengal. There was a time when the Kosi and the Mahananda joined the Karatoya and formed a sort of ethnic boundary between people living south of it and the Kochs and Kiratas living north of the river.\n"}
{"id": "1848560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848560", "title": "Lancia Beta", "text": "Lancia Beta\n\nThe Lancia Beta (Type 828) was an entry-level luxury car produced by Italian car manufacturer Lancia from 1972 to 1984. It was the first new model introduced by Lancia after it had been taken over by Fiat in 1969.\n\nThe Beta was made in several body styles, namely 4-door fastback saloon (Beta berlina), 4-door three-box, notchback saloon (Beta Trevi), 2-door coupé (Beta Coupé), 2-door targa (Beta Spider), 3-door estate (Beta HPE); a mid-engined sports car was also sold under the Beta name, the Lancia Beta Montecarlo.\n\nWhen Fiat acquired Lancia in 1969, the company had been without a Technical Director for the year following the death of Technical Director Antonio Fessia. Ing. Sergio Camuffo was given the job of developing the new model in early 1970.\n\nAlthough in the difficult years before the Fiat take-over, a number of the engineering staff had left the company, Camuffo was able to pull together a core of Lancia engineers — who were tasked with getting the car into production by the end of 1972. Romanini, chassis design, Zaccone Mina, engine development, with Gilio and Bencini in testing. This was a very short timeframe, and development money was relatively limited. These were key factors that influenced the decision to use an existing power plant: the Fiat twin overhead cam straight four engine with its alloy head and cast iron block.\n\nAt the Beta's launch late in 1972 Fiat chief Gianni Agnelli told journalists that Lancia's output would be about 40,000 units in 1972 at a time when a volume of 100,000 was needed to cover the fixed costs involved in developing and building the cars. Lancia's lack of profitability was also evidenced by the absence of replacement models under development at the time of the Fiat take-over. The Lancia Fulvia, though much loved, had been developed with little concern for making it cost-effective to manufacture; it had therefore been sold at a high price in correspondingly low volumes.\n\nThe company's new owner's objective with the new Beta was to retain the quality image and price premium of existing Lancias, while minimising development time and production costs — using in-house Fiat group technology and parts where possible. The project adapted a well-regarded existing Fiat engine, fitted transversely and driving the front wheels, in line with Fiat's investment in this configuration during the previous decade. The gear box was a development of a transmission unit then being developed by Fiat-partner Citroën for a forthcoming model of their own. Above all, and in contrast with the Fulvia, the Beta design was relatively inexpensive to produce in volumes significantly higher than those achieved by predecessor Lancia saloons.\n\nThe company chose the name Beta for a new vehicle to be launched in 1972. The choice of name symbolised a new beginning as it reflected the fact that the company's founder, Vincenzo Lancia (1881–1937), utilized letters of the Greek alphabet for his early vehicles — such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and so on. \"Beta\" had been used before, for Lancia's 1908 car and again for a 1953 bus. Lancia had previously utilized the first letter of the Greek alphabet, Alpha, but this was not chosen for the new 1972 Lancia due to the obvious confusion it might cause with Alfa Romeo.\n\nAll versions of the car came with DOHC engines, five-speed gearboxes, rack and pinion steering, fully independent suspension using MacPherson struts, both front and rear, with disc brakes on all four wheels. The front-wheel-drive models were available in a number of engine capacities ranging from 1.3 L to 2.0 L. Breathing was provided by a single Weber carburettor until fuel injection was introduced on late two litre HPE and Coupe models.\n\nAs with a number of previous front-wheel drive-Lancia models, the engine and gearbox were mounted on a subframe that bolted to the underside of the body. However, in the Beta the engine and manual gearbox were fitted transversely in-line. This Fiat-inspired configuration not only enabled neat engine bay packaging, but also, by tilting the engine 20 degrees rearwards, the Lancia engineers achieved improved weight transfer over the driven wheels and towards the centre of the car, as well as lowering the centre of gravity. The rear-wheel drive Lancia Montecarlo employed a similar layout except the subframe was mounted at the rear.\n\nOn the front-wheel drive Betas, Lancia designed a particularly original independent rear suspension with MacPherson struts attached to parallel transverse links that pivoted on a centrally mounted cross member bolted to the underside of the floorpan. An anti-roll bar was fitted to the floorpan ahead of the rear struts with both ends of the bar trailing back to bolt to the rear struts on each side. This unique design went on to be used in later Lancia models. The design was never patented by Lancia, and consequently inspired similar rear suspension system layouts in other manufacturers' vehicles during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nA short wheelbase coupé was introduced in June 1973, then the following year the 2+2 Spyder convertible. At the 1975 Geneva Motor Show Lancia launched the HPE (High Performance Estate), styled in a similar vein to the Reliant Scimitar and Volvo 1800ES while utilizing the wheelbase of the Berlina. Later the Beta Montecarlo, a two-seater mid-engined coupé was launched.\n\nThe different models all underwent various revisions and improvements over the years. Power steering specially produced by the German company ZF became available on certain Left Hand Drive models and was also used on the Gamma. For 1975 the exterior styling was modified by Pininfarina: \"the back window has been relocated in a more upright position\" to aid visibility, the rear quarter pillars gained sharper trailing edges, the waistline was lowered and windows made larger. Electronic ignition became available in 1978. Automatic transmission became available the same year; the Beta was the first Lancia manufactured with an automatic transmission factory option. In 1981 power steering also became available on certain Right Hand Drive models. Also in that year a fuel-injected version of the 2.0-litre engine became available on certain models. The Coupé and HPE underwent a facelift in June 1983 (at the same time that the supercharged VX versions were introduced) and remained available for a little while longer than the other bodystyles.\nLate in the model's life Lancia released the Trevi VX, with a Roots-type supercharger fitted between the carburettor and low-compression two-litre engine; the Coupé VX and HPE VX followed soon after (June 1983). These three variants were known as Volumex models and had the highest performance of all the road-going production Betas, with and substantially increased torque over the normal two-litre . The Coupé VX and HPE VX can be distinguished from the normal cars by the offset bulge on the hood which is required to clear the new air intake, a spoiler fitted below the front bumper and the rubber rear spoiler. They also have stiffer spring rates. Lancia produced 1272 Coupé VX, 2370 HPE VX and 3900 Trevi VX. Most were left-hand drive (only 186 right-hand drive HPEs and around 150 RHD Coupés were imported to the UK, however the car was also sold in some other RHD markets so exact RHD production remains unknown). Only one right-hand drive Trevi VX was made.\n\nA small number of Trevis were built to run on LPG rather than petrol (gasoline).\n\nThis car marked a brief return of Lancia to the United States market beginning in 1975. Federalization was not quite harmonious, though, which combined with a lack of dealers to persuade US buyers. All bodystyles except the Trevi were on offer at one time or another, although some were sold under different names: the Spyder was sold as the Lancia Zagato (from 1979) and the Montecarlo as the Lancia Scorpion. Federalized cars were originally sold with a 1756 cc twin-cam engine with . This later dropped to as emissions rules were tightened. For the 1979 model year, a two-litre engine was installed, with power up somewhat, to . More importantly, torque was up by 17 per cent. A black and gold Zagato Special Edition was also available. Quality problems meant that US inspectors went to visit the plant to see what could be improved, but Lancia took a hiatus and did not bring any 1980 models. When returning in 1981, the Berlina was dropped as they focussed on the more popular sporting variants. Fuel injection increased the 2.0's power considerably, to about (the published numbers vary considerably). 1982 was the last year for Lancia's half-hearted efforts in the United States.\nThe Beta was available in a number of different body styles:\n\nIntroduced in 1972, the first body style to appear, and the most common was the four-door berlina (saloon), with a wheelbase of and 'fastback' styling giving the appearance of a hatchback, although in fact it had a conventional boot like a saloon. This practice was common in the industry at the time as manufacturers deemed that hatchback designs would not be accepted in this market sector.\nIt featured 1400, 1600 and 1800 transversely mounted twin-cam engines based on earlier Fiat designs along with five speed gearbox. In 1974 the 1.8ES version was launched featuring electric windows, alloy wheels and sunroof. At the Turin Auto Show in November 1974 a 1300 engine joined the range at the bottom, then in the fall of 1975 the existing 1600 and 1800 engines were replaced by new 1600 and 2000 units. The 2.0 litre units had improved torque (up 20% to 128 lb ft at 2800 rpm). In the same year Lancia returned to the US market with the Beta. Automatic versions were introduced in 1978. In 1981 the 2.0 became available with electronic fuel injection. Berlina production ended in 1981.\nLate in the Beta's life, with assistance from Pininfarina, a substantially reworked 4-door three-box, notchback saloon variant was released as the Trevi; the Trevi also introduced an original new dashboard layout designed by Mario Bellini which was then applied to the third series Berlina.\n\nNumber built: 194,914 Berlinas plus 36,784 Trevis.\n\nIn 1973 the second style to appear was a 2+2 two-door coupé with a wheelbase, although due to the fuel crisis did not become available to the public until early-1974. It was launched with 1.6 and 1.8 engines. New 1.6 and 2.0 engines replace the original units in late-1975 followed by a 1.3 in early 1976. In 1978, the Beta Coupé became available with an automatic transmission and power steering. In 1981, the car received a minor facelift and at the same time the 2.0 became available with fuel Bosch electronic fuel injection. In 1983, a 2.0 VX supercharged engine became available with an output of 135 bhp. The bodywork was developed inhouse by a Lancia team led by Aldo Castagno, with Piero Castagnero acting as styling consultant. Castagnero had also styled the Beta's predecessor, the Lancia Fulvia saloon and coupé. Number built: 111,801.\n\nThis was one of the bodystyles to be marketed in North America. The 2-litre twin cam four offered in North America produces at 5500 rpm.\n\nThe next version to be launched was a two-door convertible called the Spyder (or Zagato in America), also with 2+2 seating. In brochures Lancia spelt the name with a \"y\" rather than an \"i\" possibly to differentiate the car from the Alfa Romeo Spider. The Spyder used the coupé's shorter wheelbase and featured a targa top roof panel, a roll-over bar and folding rear roof. Early models did not have a cross-member supporting the roof between the tops of the A to B Pillars. Later models had fixed cross-members. Production started in 1975. It was initially powered by either the 1600 or 1800 twin-cam engine, later being replaced by the new 1.6 and 2.0. In Europe, it never received the fuel injected engine, although a fuel injected version was sold in the US market in 1981 and 1982. The Spyder was designed by Pininfarina but actually built by Zagato. The construction process was complex, with coupé bodies-in-white being delivered to Zagato for the roofless conversion, then back to Lancia for rust-proofing, then back to Zagato for paint, interior and trim, and then back to Lancia for a third time for engine installation and final assembly. Lancia probably lost money on every car built. Number built: 9390.\n\nIn the early 1980s Lancia also produced a small number of Lancia Spyder Volumex (supercharged) cars. This was the last Lancia to be offered in the United States, being the company's sole offering in 1982, their last year in the country.\n\nThe Beta HPE was a three-door sporting estate or shooting-brake introduced in March 1975. HPE stood for High Performance Estate, and then later High Performance Executive. This model had Berlina's longer wheelbase floorpan combined with the coupé's front end and doors. The HPE was also styled in house at Lancia by Castagno's team, with Castagnero as styling consultant. At launch it came with either 1600 or 1800 twin-cam engines, these being replaced in November of the same year by new 1.6 and 2.0 units. In 1978, like other Beta models automatic transmission became available along with power steering. It was renamed the Lancia HPE (without the Beta) from 1979 and in autumn 1981 gained the option of a fuel injected 2.0 engine. In 1984 a 2.0VX supercharged version became available. Like all other cars in the Beta range the HPE was discontinued in 1984.\nThe final car to carry the Beta badge was the Pininfarina designed – and built – two-door Lancia Montecarlo. This was announced in March 1974. This was a rear-wheel drive, mid-engined two-seater sports car that shared very few components with other Betas. The car was originally designed as Pininfarina's contender to replace Fiat's 124 Coupe, but lost out to Bertone's cheaper design, which became the Fiat X1/9. Pininfarina's design was called the X1/20 at the prototype stage. Lancia launched the Montecarlo as a premium alternative to the X1/9, with the 2 litre twin cam engine rather than the X1/9's single cam 1300. Both used a similar chassis floorplan, based on the Fiat 128 MacPherson strut front suspension and disk brakes at both front and rear. Lancia Beta parts were limited to those from the existing Fiat/Lancia standard parts bin, the transverse mount version of the Fiat 124's twin cam engine and the five speed gearbox and transaxle.\n\nMontecarlos were available as fixed head \"Coupés\" and also as \"Spiders\" with solid A and B pillars, but a large flat folding canvas roof between them. The very first examples had steel panels to the rear wings above the engine bay, but this limited version made reversing difficult and it was replaced by glass panels. This gave a 'flying buttress' appearance to the rear, similar to the Maserati Merak.\n\nFirst Series cars (1975–1978) were badged Lancia Beta Montecarlo. They were named \"Montecarlo\", written as one word, not Monte Carlo, one of Monaco's administrative areas. Although the rear badge shows \"MONTE-CARLO\". There was then a 2-year gap in production in order to revise a brake issue where the brakes had a tendency to lock up. Lancia solved this problem by removing the brake servo. The revised Second Series cars (1980–1981) were simply badged as Lancia Montecarlo. In the United States of America the First Series cars were marketed as the Scorpion alongside the rest of the Beta range. Scorpion was used because General Motors had already used the name Monte Carlo for one of their cars. The Scorpion name was a reference to Abarth.\n\nNumber of Montecarlos built: 7,798.\nFor some the Beta was not a Lancia but rather a Fiat. However Lancia had some autonomy from Fiat in the development of the Beta.\n\nThe main reason for the Fiat label was that despite its unique Lancia chassis, suspension, interior and bodywork, the Beta used a Fiat-based engine. The Fiat DOHC engine, originally designed by Aurelio Lampredi, who built engines for Ferrari until Fiat employed him, was one of the most advanced 4-cylinder engines in Europe at that time. It continued in production well into the 1990s and, in highly developed form, was used in performance road cars such as the Lancia Delta Integrale and Fiat Coupé.\n\nThe Lancia engineers made changes to the engines fitted to the Beta range. These included a bespoke cylinder head which incorporated hemispherical combustion chambers, altered valve timing, new inlet and exhaust manifolds as well as different carburation. These modifications resulted in higher horsepower and torque figures for the engines used in the Beta. In addition the mounting points on the engine block were different so as to allow for the transverse installation as opposed to the longitudinal installation utilised by the rear-wheel-drive Fiats. For these reasons the engines are not interchangeable between Betas and contemporary Fiats such as the Fiat 132.\n\nThe Beta was very well received by the motoring press and public when launched. The various models were praised for their performance and their good handling and roadholding. They were widely regarded as a \"driver's car\" with plenty of character. The Beta was competitively priced in export markets and managed to become the highest ever selling Lancia model up to that point.\nUnfortunately the Beta gained a reputation for being rust-prone, particularly the 1st Series vehicles (built from 1972 to 1975). A widely circulated rumor states that the cars used Soviet steel supplied to Fiat in return for building the Lada factory. However, these claims have never been verified. The steel problems are more likely due to poor rustproofing techniques as well as the prolonged strikes that plagued Italy at that time rather than the metal's origin.\n\nThe corrosion problems could be structural; for instance where the subframe carrying the engine and gearbox was bolted to the underside of the car. The box section to which the rear of the subframe was mounted could corrode badly, causing the subframe to become loose. Although tales of subframes dropping out of vehicles were simply not true, a vehicle with a loose subframe would fail a technical inspection. It was not just the Series 1 cars or saloons - according to an employee of the recycling firm that disposed of the Betas, the Series 2, HPE, Coupe and Spider models were all affected and by late 1983, the scrap dealer Hallett metals in Crewkerne, Somerset had crushed the last of the affected cars. In fact, by 1983 Series 2 cars outnumbered Series 1 models by a large percentage. Deliveries to Hallett Metals were handled mainly by transport company Abbey Hill. Before being crushed (flattened), the engine and gearboxes would be removed and placed in a separate container and no parts were to be removed or resold to the public.\nIn the UK (Lancia's largest export market at the time), the company listened to the complaints from its dealers and customers and commenced a campaign to buy back vehicles affected by the subframe problem. Some of these vehicles were 6 years old or older and belonged to 2nd or 3rd owners. Customers were invited to present their cars to a Lancia dealer for an inspection. If their vehicle was affected by the subframe problem, the customer was offered a part exchange deal to buy another Lancia or Fiat car. The cars that failed the inspection were scrapped. However, on 9 April 1980 the \"Daily Mirror\" and TV programmes reported on the issue. There were claims that the problem persisted in later cars by showing photographs of scrapped 1st Series saloons, referring to them as being newer than five and six years old. Other contemporary manufacturers whose cars also suffered from corrosion were not treated as harshly. Lancia had already introduced one year previously a 6-year anti-corrosion warranty - an automotive first in the UK. Whilst later Betas (2nd Series cars) had reinforced subframe mounting points and post-1979 cars were better protected from the elements, these issues damaged the whole marque's sales success on most export markets. The revision to the crossmember was quite simple and meant turning it through 180 degrees forming an 'n' channel rather than a 'u' channel thus preventing dirt and water collecting and causing rust.\n\nGiovanni Michelotti produced three concept cars on Beta mechanicals. Two were four-door saloons based on the Berlina—one unusual in having four gull-wing doors—the other was a two-seater open-top car based on the Coupé.\n\nIn 1980, Giorgetto Giugiaro built a concept car on Montecarlo mechanicals, called the \"Medusa\". Unusually for a mid-engined car it had four doors, and the body was shaped to have a very low drag coefficient for the time.\n\nLancia built one very special variant of the Beta themselves. The twin-engined \"Trevi Bimotore\" was used for tests related to Lancia's new four-wheel drive rally cars; it was powered by one Volumex engine under the bonnet driving the front wheels, and another in the back driving the rear wheels, with air scoops in the rear doors. The two gearboxes were linked, and an electronically controlled throttle replaced the mechanical system so the two engines worked together.\n\nThere are few records of Lancias ever being assembled outside Italy but, exceptionally, Betas were. It was announced in August 1976 that SEAT would commence Spanish production of the Lancia Beta. Three years later Beta production by SEAT indeed commenced at the company's recently acquired Pamplona plant, though only the Coupé and HPE lift-back versions were included. The arrangement was short lived from 1979 up to 1980 because of a falling out in the early 1980s between Fiat, Lancia's parent company, and the Spanish government over the increasingly urgent need for investment to upgrade the SEAT range. In 1982 Volkswagen became SEAT's major auto-industry partner, and under the new regime the plant that had assembled the Lancia Beta, SEAT Panda and SEAT 124 switched to building the Volkswagen Polo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848562", "title": "Vijayakanth", "text": "Vijayakanth\n\nVijayaraj Alagarswami Naidu (born 25 August 1952), better known by his stage name Vijayakanth, is an Indian politician and former film actor who has worked predominantly in Tamil cinema. He was the Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 2011 to 2016. Before coming into politics Vijayakanth was a film actor, producer and director. Vijayakanth is also the current DMDK chairman of Tamil Nadu legislative assembly. He is the founder and general secretary of the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) Political party and served as a Member of Legislative Assembly twice representing the constituency of Virudhacalam & Rishivandiyam respectively.\n\nVijayakanth is one of very few Tamil politicians and actors in political drama to have acted only in Tamil movies throughout his career, though his movies have been dubbed into Telugu and Hindi. He is also known for portraying a village do-gooder and double roles acting in his films. He has acted in more than 20 films as a police officer. By far the most times by any actor of his time in Tamil cinema to have donned the khaki in movies. His first film was \"Inikkum Ilamai\" (1979) where he played an antagonist. His subsequent films \"Agal Vilakku\" (1979), \"Neerottam\" (1980) and \"Saamanthippoo\" (1980) are followed box-office flops. He then had success with \"Doorathu Idi Muzhakkam\" (1980) and \"Sattam Oru Iruttarai\" (1981), directed by S. A. Chandrasekhar; most of his movies are with him. He was nicknamed \"Captain\" after the movie \"Captain Prabhakaran\" (1991), his 100th film.\n\nVijayakanth was cast in \"Inikkum Ilamai\" (1979), his first film where he played an antagonist, which was directed by M. A. Kaja. His second release was Annakili Selvaraj directed \"Agal Vilakku\" paired opposite Shoba, which was his first film as the lead. After several films having been unsuccessful, he then had success with \"Doorathu Idi Muzhakkam\" (1980), screened at the Indian Panorama of the International Film Festival of India and \"Sattam Oru Iruttarai\" (1981), directed by S. A. Chandrasekhar. His career took off and was remade in Hindi, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada languages. After this film, Vijayakanth became one of the leading actors of Tamil cinema. He acted in various hits such as \"Vaidhegi Kaathirunthaal\" (1984). In that year, Vijayakanth had 18 releases in Tamil, this is a record and he is the only actor in Tamil cinema who has released all his films as one year in the lead role. He acted in \"Annai Bhoomi 3D\" (1985), the first 3D film made in the Tamil film industry where he acted alongside Radha Ravi and Kannada actor Tiger Prabhakar. He co-starred with Kannada superstar actor Vishnuvardhan and Tamil actor Sathyaraj in \"Eetti\" (1985). The romantic comedy movie \"Naane Raja Naane Mandhiri\" (1985), in which he is a self-centered egoistic village Zamindar, who makes fun of people was a commercial success. \n\nVijayakanth acted in several films in the 1990s including \"Pulan Visaranai\" (1990), loosely based on the life of notorious serial killer Auto Shankar, had R. Sarathkumar portraying the antagonist. Directed by R. K. Selvamani, this film was considered to be one of the best crime thrillers of its time. At the end of the year, he acted in \"Sathriyan\" (1990), produced by Mani Ratnam, about an honest cop and a corrupt politician. This can be easily termed as Vijayakanth's best attempt at the cop role amongst the innumerable times he donned the khakhi. After the success of \"Pulan Visaranai\" (1990), Rowther decided to make another project with Vijayakanth and director R. K. Selvamani, titled \"Captain Prabhakaran\" (1991). It was Vijayakanth's 100th film, after which he earned the nickname \"captain\". He is the only actor from his period to have tasted a jubilee box-office hit on his 100th film and joined the list of actors, namely M. G. Ramachandran, Sivaji Ganeshan and Jayalalithaa. The film was a commercial success upon its release, followed by \"Maanagara Kaaval\" (1991) and \"Moondrezhuthil En Moochirukkum\" (1991). Vijayakanth worked in movies such as \"Chinna Gounder\" (1992). This film was radically different from Vijayakanth's earlier portrayals, as he was donning the role of a soft-spoken village chieftain. The film is remembered for Vijayakanth's underplay. This film was ranked third in Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film, followed by \"Bharathan\" (1992), \"Thai Mozhi\" (1992), where he made a special appearance and \"Kaviya Thalaivan\" (1992), a drama film which was his last of the year. He co-starred with the son of the director S. A. Chandrasekhar, Vijay in \"Sendhoorapandi\" (1993), where Vijayakanth plays the role of elder brother and was Vijay's first ever hit film. Vijayakanth was the main lead for which he did not take any remuneration. He starred in \"Sethupathi IPS\" (1994), directed by P. Vasu, followed by \"Honest Raj\" (1994), \"Pathavi Pramanam\" (1994), \"En Aasai Machan\" (1994), co-starring with actor Murali as brother in this film, and \"Periya Marudhu\" (1994) which was the last film of the year for Vijayakanth. He acted in \"Karuppu Nila\" (1995), \"Thirumoorthy\" (1995) and \"Gandhi Pirantha Mann\" (1995), that failed at the box office. He acted in an action film \"Thayagam\" (1996), which won a Tamil Nadu State Film Award Special Prize. This was followed by \"Tamizh Selvan\" (1996), a political film and \"Alexander\" (1996), an action film. He starred in \"Dharma Chakkaram\" (1997), an action drama film directed by K. S. Ravikumar. He acted in his 125th film \"Ulavuthurai\" (1998), followed by \"Dharma\" (1998) and \"Veeram Vilanja Mannu\" (1998). He acted in \"Kallazhagar\" (1999), and co-starred with Suriya in \"Periyanna\" (1999). He starred in \"Kannupada Poguthaiya\" (1999), produced by R. B. Choudary.\n\nVijayakanth had three releases, \"Vaanathai Pola\" (2000) which won two awards a Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film of the year and National Film Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment. Followed by \"Vallarasu\" (2000) and \"Simmasanam\". After this year, he still played in action movies such as \"Vaanchinathan\" (2001) and \"Narasimha\" (2001). Then came \"Viswanathan Ramamoorthy\" (2001), in which he made a cameo appearance and \"Thavasi\" (2001). All these films received mixed reviews from critics at the box office. He acted in \"Raajjiyam\" (2002) and \"Devan\" (2002), co-starring with actor Arun Pandian, directed by him and Karthik. These three actors gather after their 1986 film, \"Oomai Vizhigal\". The next year, \"Ramanaa\" (2002) directed by AR Murugadoss was Vijayakanth's last major hit film, which won him a Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Film of the year. He had two releases, \"Chokka Thangam\" (2003), a drama film and \"Thennavan\" (2003), a political film that became average grossers at the box office. He acted in three movies \"Engal Anna\" (2004), a comedy film which for years was a successful, but \"Gajendra\" (2004) and \"Neranja Manasu\" (2004) have been released with negative reviews. Later, he had a special appearance in Suriya's film \"Maayavi\" (2005). He acted in three action movies, \"Sudesi\" (2006), \"Perarasu\" (2006) and \"Dharmapuri\" (2006). The next year, he starred in \"Sabari\" (2007). His 150th film was \"Arasangam\" (2008), about a police officer who discovers and unravels the mystery behind a terrorist gang plotting to steal information about the growth of the Indian economy, set in Chennai and Toronto. He acted in \"Mariyadhai\" (2009), in the second film with director Vikraman, after \"Vaanathai Pola\". He acted in \"Engal Aasan\" (2009), where he co-starred with Vikranth, the cousin of actor Vijay.\n\nHe acted and directed the film, \"Virudhagiri\" (2010), a remake of the French movie \"Taken\". After five years without films, he made a cameo appearance with his son, the first movie of actor Shanmugapandian in \"Sagaptham\" (2015). In November 2015, he came back to acting to feature in Arun Ponnambalam's \"Thamizhan Endru Sol\", alongside his son, Shanmuga Pandian, the second film with him. The film began production during November 2015, and has been temporarily suspended owing to the upcoming TN Assembly elections. In the meantime, he celebrated 40 years in Tamil cinema. He is the only actor to have done 150 films in Tamil.\n\n\nHe formed the center-left party Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), a regional political party in Tamil Nadu. He formally announced the party's formation on 14 September 2005 in Madurai. His party contested in all seats in 2006 assembly elections and won one seat contested by him.\nThe DMDK, led by Vijaykanth, proved to be an important player in the 2006 Tamil Nadu assembly election, garnering 10% of the voters and securing 10.1% in this Lok Sabha election. According to the study, it secured more votes than the winning margins of candidates in about 25 constituencies. In 2006, polling showed that DMDK was able to get more DMK votes than AIADMK votes, but in this election, they were able to wrestle more Congress voters from 2004 than any another party. Contrary to the claim of many in the AIADMK camp blaming DMDK for the defeat, there is no evidence for this to be true. Vijayakanth has declared that he would not ask donations for his party, and most of the funding for the party comes from his own pocket. He has so far rejected alliances with other political parties. In a by-election to Madurai Central assembly constituency, DMDK secured around 17000 votes, which is just 2000 votes less than AIADMK. DMDK was also able to secure a significant number of seats in Local Body elections.\n\nIn the 2011 election, held on 13 April 2011, he formed an alliance with All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and contested in 41 constituencies. His party saw phenomenal success by winning 29 of the 41 seats it contested. Notably, DMDK won more seats than the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Vijayakanth occupied the position of MLA for the second time, winning the Rishivandhiyam constituency. Cho Ramaswamy encouraged Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) to forge an alliance with AIADMK. DMDK launched a vigorous campaign to defeat DMK; it made a resolution to call all parties to come together to defeat the ruling DMK in a conference held in Salem on 8 January, presided over by its leader Vijayakanth. S. Ramadoss, leader of Pattali Makkal Katchi, expressed his dissatisfaction with people from the film industry ruling Tamil Nadu since 1967. He also urged voters not to vote for Vijayakanth with his long career as a Tamil actor.\n\nFollowing the election, Jayalalithaa and Vijayakanth had fiery exchanges in the assembly that started the rift between the two parties. Due to this reason, Vijayakanth got separated from AIADMK. In the 2014 parliament elections, DMDK forged an alliance with BJP, a non-DMK and non-ADMK alliance of parties such as MDMK, PMK, IJK, and other small parties. PM Modi giving special reference to him in the NDA leaders meet and referred him as his friend. DMDK Leader Vijayakanth lost his position as Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly as eight of his MLAs handed over their resignations to the speaker of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.\n\nHe lost both his seat and deposit in the 2016 election. A two-time MLA (2006 and 2011), he was contesting from the Ulundurpettai constituency in Tamil Nadu's Vilupuram district. He could manage only 34,447 votes, which saw him finish a distant third. The seat was won by the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (AIADMK) candidate R. Kumaraguru, who polled 81,973 votes. His nearest rival was the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) candidate G.R. Vasanthavel, who managed 77,809 votes to finish second.\n\nVijaykanth was born in Madurai. His parents are K. N. Alagarswami and Aandal Azhagarswami. He married Premalatha on 31 January 1990 and had two sons named Vijay Prabhakar and Shanmuga Pandian, the latter being a film actor who made his cinematic debut with Sagaptham in 2014. Upon entering the film industry to pursue an acting career, he changed to \"Vijayakanth\", dropping the \"Raj\" out of his name and suffixing it with \"Kanth,\" by director Khaja. He is nicknamed \"Captain\" which was taken from one of his popular films Captain Prabhakharan.\n\nHe founded Shri Andal Alagar College of Engineering in 2001. His wife is the chairperson of this college. On 1 October 2001, Vijayakanth declared that 1 October, which is actor Sivaji Ganesan's birthday, be observed as Actors' Day in Tamil Nadu. In 2001, he was the former president of South Indian Film Artistes' Association and under his presidency, the debts of the association were cleared by organising celebrity shows overseas. Vijayakanth has launched a 24-hour television channel called Captain TV on 14 April 2010.\n\nThe media has widely publicized an ongoing dispute between Vijayakanth and comedic actor Vadivelu, who was Vijayakanth's co-star in a number of notable films. On 21 September 2008, Vadivelu's residence, located in Saligramam in Chennai, was pelted with stones by a gang, leaving several windows and furniture damaged. Vadivelu reported that he suspected that it was Vijayakanth's men, because of a court case which he had filed against Vijayakanth for assault, for which the final court hearing was to take place the following day. The attack may have been set up to prevent Vadivelu from attending the hearing. Filing another case for attempted murder against Vijayakanth, Vadivelu mentioned his interest in competing against him in the next assembly elections and \"teaching him a lesson.\" In response, Vijayakanth told a press meet on that Vadivelu's allegations are based on hearsay. During the legislative assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in 2011, Vadivelu vehemently campaigned for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its alliance. During his public speeches, he predominantly condemned Vijayakanth, whose party, the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), allied with the opposition party All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). In a campaign speech in Tiruvarur, Vadivelu stated that \"(his) only aim is to sweep out Vijayakanth's whole team and to campaign vigorously for DMK's victory\". Vadivelu was criticized as being biased, only supporting a DMK-led victory for personal gains and not once mentioning the then-official opposition, the AIADMK, or its leader, J. Jayalalitha. In a turn of events, the election was eventually successful for the AIADMK alliance, while Vijayakanth was victorious by a significant margin in his own constituency. While speaking at an election campaign meeting in 2016, he criticized Rajinikanth, causing a considerable backlash from supporters of Rajinikanth. He has been criticized for making obscene gestures in public, often towards journalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848563", "title": "Marie Madeleine d'Aiguillon", "text": "Marie Madeleine d'Aiguillon\n\nMarie Madeleine de Vignerot du Pont de Courlay, Duchesse d'Aiguillon (160417 April 1675) was a French aristocrat, also remembered for her charitable work and her patronage of artists and mathematicians.\n\nCourlay was the daughter of Cardinal Richelieu's sister, Françoise du Plessis, and her husband René du Vignerot.\n\nIn 1620 Courlay married a nephew of the constable de Luynes, Antoine de Beauvoir du Roure, sieur de Combalet, who died in 1622. In 1625, through her uncle's influence, she was made a lady-in-waiting (\"dame d'atour\") to the queen-mother Marie de Medici, and in 1638 was created duchess of Aiguillon.\n\nThe Duchess did not marry a second time, although Richelieu wished to marry her to a prince, either to the comte de Soissons or to the king's brother. After the death of the cardinal in 1642, the Duchess retained her honours and titles, but withdrew from the court and devoted herself entirely to works of charity. She became a patron of work involving science and the arts, providing funding for many notable initiatives. She died on 17 April 1675.\n\nThe Duchess worked with St. Vincent de Paul and helped him to establish the Bicêtre Hospital for foundlings. She also took part in re-organizing the Hôtel-Dieu de Paris and establishing several others in the provinces. Additionally, she founded and funded the establishment of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec for the colonists of New France.\n\nThe Duchess was the patroness of Pierre Corneille, who in 1636 dedicated his tragedy \"Le Cid\" to her. She also had the vision to provide patronage to Marie Crous, a mathematician who introduced the decimal system to France with her published research.\n"}
{"id": "1848570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848570", "title": "Mali River", "text": "Mali River\n\nThe Mali River (Mali Hka) is a river that originates in the hills of Kachin State, in the northern border of Myanmar. It flows approximately 320 km, when it meets with the N'Mai River and forms the Ayeyarwady River.\n\nConstruction of the Myitsone Dam has begun at the confluence of the Mali and the N'Mai River.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848572", "title": "'Ad", "text": "'Ad\n\nAd may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848575", "title": "Dreams of Endless War", "text": "Dreams of Endless War\n\nDreams of Endless War is the debut album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Norther. It was released on 18 July 2002 by Spinefarm Records. The songs; \"Victorious One\" and \"Endless War\" are demo songs from \"Warlord\", while the song \"Warlord\" from the demo was renamed as \"Endless War\" and are identical tracks. \"Released\" was released as a single and made into a music video.\n\nThe album features a video for the song \"Released\", which can be viewed here.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848579", "title": "National Hi-Tech Crime Unit", "text": "National Hi-Tech Crime Unit\n\nThe National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) previously formed part of the National Crime Squad, a British Police organisation which dealt with major crime.\n\nThe National Hi-Tech Crime Unit was created in 2001 as a result of an Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) initiative. The organisation investigated serious and organised crime committed over the Internet, such as hacking, carding, virus-writers, internet fraud and other hi-tech crimes involving the use of computers and telecommunications equipment.\n\nOn 1 April 2006, it ceased to exist. However, many of its staff and duties were transferred to the e-crime unit of the UK's new Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848583", "title": "Anniston Army Depot", "text": "Anniston Army Depot\n\nAnniston Army Depot (ANAD) is a major United States Army facility for the production and repair of ground combat vehicles, overhaul of Small Arms Weapon Systems and the storage of chemical weapons, a.k.a. the Anniston Chemical Activity. The depot is located in Bynum, Alabama.\n\nThe Department of the Army established the site in 1940, buying in Calhoun County, where Anniston is the county seat. The site was originally a munitions storage facility, and, later, a disposal facility.\n\nANAD was placed on the Superfund National Priorities List in 1990 because of soil and groundwater contamination with antimony, chromium, lead, thallium and trichloroethylene.\n\nThe depot is located in Calhoun County, Alabama, west of Anniston. It covers of land, or . Its northern side is the Pelham Range portion of Fort McClellan. The central and northern portions of the depot span over and serve as an ammunition storage area. The southern side of the depot is the Southeastern Industrial Area (SIA), a industrial operations area with more than 50 buildings and a vehicle test track.\n\nAs of 2014, the depot employs 3,800 civilian workers. Tanks and other equipment are repaired and tested, but historically Anniston's main role since World War II has been as a major munitions storage site. Anniston is one of seven depots in the United States where chemical weapons were stored (7.2% of nation's chemical weapons stockpile). The stockpile has included rockets, bombs, projectiles, and land mines armed with Sarin, VX nerve agent, or mustard gas. The last chemical munitions were destroyed in September 2011.\n\nANAD is the only depot capable of performing maintenance on heavy-tracked combat vehicles and their components and houses a state of the art Small Arms Overhaul facility, which opened in January 2012 to replace an outdated facility. The depot is designated as the Center of Technical Excellence for the M1 Abrams Tank and is the designated candidate depot for the repair of the M60 Patton tank, AVLB (Armoured vehicle-launched bridge), M728 Combat Engineer Vehicle, M88 Recovery Vehicle and M551 'Sheridan' Armored Reconnaissance/Airborne Assault vehicles. During the Iraq War, over 1,000 M1 tanks, Howitzers, and other armored vehicles were stored awaiting re-engineering.\n\nANAD is the Army's primary site for final assembly, reset, and overhaul for the Stryker family of wheeled fighting vehicles. All ten of the Stryker vehicle variants are assembled in the Nichols Industrial Park area by contractor General Dynamics − Land Systems. Stryker battle damage repair and reset is accomplished through a work sharing arrangement between the depot and contractor, including a Stryker Exchange Program that converts the original flat bottomed Stryker vehicle to the IED-resistant Double V Hull configuration developed for combat operations in Afghanistan.\n\nThe depot houses and operates a facility for the repair, restoration, and/or upgrade of infantry weapons such as the Beretta M9 pistol, M16 rifle, and M2 machine gun. Any firearm deemed unusable or obsolete is destroyed on the premises, the materials are reduced to unusable pieces and then sold for scrap to be melted down.\n\nANAD is under command of the US Army TACOM Life Cycle Management Command (TACOM LCMC), although other operators on the facility include the Defense Logistics Agency, Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office, United States Army Center of Military History, Health Services Command, Soldier and Biological Chemical Command, and the Civilian Marksmanship Program.\n\nIn 1989, the EPA placed part of the Depot on the National Priorities List, and one year later, the EPA and the Army agreed to address the entire Depot under the Superfund for antimony, chromium, lead, thallium and trichloroethylene in ground water and soils. Since then, contaminated ground water has been pumped and treated, contaminated soil has either been dug up or capped, and land use controls have been put in place. Contaminated fractured bedrock needs to be addressed. The Depot has a Restoration Advisory Board (RAB) composed of community members and representatives from the Depot and other agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848584", "title": "Airline teletype system", "text": "Airline teletype system\n\nThe airline teletype system uses teleprinters, which are electro-mechanical typewriters that can communicate typed messages from point to point through simple electric communications channels, often just pairs of wires. The most modern form of these devices are fully electronic and use a screen, instead of a printer.\n\nThe airline industry began using teletypewriter technology in the early 1920s using radio stations located at 10 airfields in the United States. The US Post Office and other US government agencies used these radio stations for transmitting telegraph messages. It was during this period that the first federal teletypewriter system was introduced in the United States to allow weather and flight information to be exchanged between air traffic facilities. While the use of physical teletypes is almost extinct, the message formats and switching concepts remain similar.\n\nIn 1929, Aeronautical Radio Incorporated (ARINC) was formed to manage radio frequencies and license allocation in the United States, as well as to support the radio stations that were used by the emerging airlines, a role ARINC still fulfils today. ARINC is a private company originally owned by many of the world's airlines including; American Airlines, Continental Airlines, British Airways, Air France, and SAS although it is now owned by Collins Aerospace.\n\nIn 1949, the Société Internationale de Télécommunication Aeronautique (SITA) was formed as a cooperative by 11 airlines: Air France, KLM, Sabena, Swissair, TWA, British European Airways, British Overseas Airways Corporation, British South American Airways, Swedish AB Aerotransport, Danish Det Danske Luftfartselskab A/S, and Norwegian Det Norske Luftfartselskap. Their aim was to enable airlines to be able to use the existing communications facilities in the most efficient manner.\n\nMorse code was the general means of relaying information between air communications stations prior to World War II. Generally, it was only necessary to relay a message between one or two stations. After World War II, there was an increase in the number of commercial aircraft operating, and these aircraft were capable of flying greater distances than in the past. As a result, the Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunication Network (AFTN) was implemented worldwide as a means of relaying the air traffic communications, sometimes through the use of radioteletype which had become common among military forces in the 1940s.\n\nToday, the airline industry continues to use teletypewriter messages over ARINC, SITA or AFTN networks as a medium for communicating via messages. Most teletypewriter messages are machine-generated by automatic processes. IATA standardised teletype message formats throughout the airline industry.\n\nRecently there have been initiatives in the industry to tackle the high cost of the existing Type B network by deploying secured peer-to-peer solutions, e.g. EDIfly, developed by Innovative Software SARL in Luxembourg and used by companies like Cargolux, TAP, AirBridgeCargo, Garuda Indonesia, China Airlines etc. Such solutions allow users to exchange unrestricted amounts of Type B data over the public internet while maintaining all existing addressing schemes and message identification. Web-based technology also enables the community to expand the usage and removes shortcomings in the existing Type B exchange (limited to 5000 characters). The success of such initiatives will improve processing of operational data for all stakeholders in the industry and provide expanded usage until newer technology like XML become the norm in most operational systems of all stakeholders in the aviation scene across all continents.\n\n QD AAABBCC - to (IATA destination address) (QD priority=deferred, QU priority = urgent, QK priority = normal)\n\nIATA addresses consist of 7 characters divided into the Origin IATA Code (AAA), a function indicator (BB), and the airline designator (CC). For example, HKGFFLH would be the Cargo Office (FF) of Lufthansa (LH) in Hong Kong (HKG).\nAuxiliary airline designators (XH) have been created to allow other stakeholders to share in the communication beyond the airlines, e.g. Ground Handlers, Charter Brokers etc.\n\nAn AFTN Teletype message always has an 8-character address.\n\nThe order of transmission of messages on a given circuit is determined by their\npriority codes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848588", "title": "Rance (river)", "text": "Rance (river)\n\nThe Rance (, ) is a river of northwestern France. It flows into the English Channel between Dinard and Saint-Malo.\n\nBefore reaching the Channel, its waters are barred by a 750 metre long dam forming the Rance tidal power plant.\n\nThe river is linked to the Vilaine by means of the Canal d'Ille-et-Rance.\n\n\"Départements\" and towns along the river:\n\nTributaries of the Rance include:\n\nThis river has moderate turbidity and its brownish water is somewhat low in velocity due to the slight gradient of the watercourse; pH levels have been measured at 8.13 within the city of Dinan and electrical conductivity of the waters have tested at 33 micro-siemens per centimetre. At this reference location, summer flows are typically in the range of .\n"}
{"id": "1848591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848591", "title": "Cumhuriyet", "text": "Cumhuriyet\n\nCumhuriyet (; English: \"Republic\") is the oldest up-market Turkish daily newspaper. It has been described as \"the most important independent public interest newspaper in contemporary Turkey\". The newspaper was awarded the \"Freedom of Press Prize\" by Reporters Without Borders in 2015 and the Alternative Nobel Prize in 2016.\n\nEstablished on 7 May 1924 by journalist Yunus Nadi Abalıoğlu, a confidant of the Turkish Republic's founder Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the newspaper has subscribed to a staunchly secular, republican course. In the past closely affiliated with the Kemalist Republican People's Party (CHP), the center-left newspaper turned to a more independent course over time, advocating democracy, social liberal values and free markets. Today, \"being a Cumhuriyet reader has become synonymous with embracing democratic values and a pluralistic society\".\n\nThe newspaper's advertisements before the 2007 Turkish presidential election and general election caused controversy for \"warning\" voters against the AKP government with the message \"Are you aware of the danger?\". Notably, the newspaper has also broken the story on the 2014 National Intelligence Organisation scandal in Turkey, reprinted cartoons from \"Charlie Hebdo,\" and reported on the Panama Papers and Paradise Papers affairs while linking prominent Turkish figures to the documents.\n\n\"Cumhuriyet\" has been targeted throughout its history, such as with the assassinations of Uğur Mumcu, Bahriye Üçok, Ahmet Taner Kışlalı, Muammer Aksoy, Ümit Kaftancıoğlu, Onat Kutlar, and Cavit Orhan Tütengil. More recent attacks include the 2008 molotov attack on the newspaper's headquarters in Istanbul's Şişli district and the attempted assassination of Can Dündar in 2016. The newspaper has been described as \"a high-profile target in the [Erdoğan] government’s crackdown on media\". By the end of 2016, almost half of the paper's reporters, columnists and executives had been jailed.\n\nFollowing the death of Yunus Nadi on 28 March 1945 in Geneva, Switzerland, \"Cumhuriyet\" was owned by his eldest son until his death on 20 August 1991. Nadir Nadi's wife Berin then published the newspaper. \"Cumhuriyet\" has been owned by the Cumhuriyet Foundation since the death of Berin Nadi on 5 November 2001. One of its publishers was the renowned political columnist İlhan Selçuk, who was also chairman of the board of trustees and lead writer (from 1992) until his death in 2010.\n\n\"Cumhuriyet\" contributors such as Uğur Mumcu, Bahriye Üçok, Ahmet Taner Kışlalı, Muammer Aksoy, Ümit Kaftancıoğlu, Onat Kutlar, and Cavit Orhan Tütengil were assassinated between the 1970s and 1990s.\n\nDuring the Gulf War, \"Cumhuriyet\" suffered a collapse in advertising revenue, and following an unrelated dispute over editorial policy, nearly 40 journalists and commentators walked out in November 1991: \"Circulation fell by half, and it was saved only by an extraordinary campaign by readers to buy extra copies and even pay money into a special account.\" Hasan Cemal, chief editor since 1981, resigned in January 1992 over the dispute: \"I tried to widen the spectrum, to keep the balance. But they (old-guard intellectuals) always resisted, calling us plotters, tools of big business and the United States\".\n\nSince 17 October 2005, the newspaper's headquarters have been located in Istanbul's Şişli district, after being the last newspaper to leave the traditional press district of Cağaloğlu. The newspaper also has offices in Ankara and İzmir.\n\nThe newspaper's advertisements before the 2007 Turkish presidential election and general election with the message \"Are you aware of the danger?\" were controversial.\n\n's office in Istanbul was the site of a molotov attack in 2008.\n\nIn 2010, the newspaper was one of the first up-market newspapers in Turkey to abandon the established broadsheet format for the midi-sized Berliner format.\n\nIn January 2015, the newspaper reprinted cartoons from \"Charlie Hebdo\", a French satirical magazine which had depicted the Islamic prophet Muhammad and been subject to a terror attack. As a result, \"Cumhuriyet\" received threats and was placed under police protection.\n\nIn 2015, it was awarded the \"Freedom of Press Prize\" by international NGO Reporters Without Borders for making a stand against the AKP government's mounting pressure.\n\nOn 22 September 2016 the newspaper was awarded the Right Livelihood Award for its \"fearless investigative reporting and standing up for freedom of speech and opinion despite being subject to death threats, censorship and state prosecution\".\n\nIn 2016 the newspaper reported on the Panama Papers and in 2017 on the Paradise Papers affairs, linking a number of prominent Turkish figures to those.\n\nThe editor-in-chief of the online edition, Oğuz Güven, was arrested on 12 May 2017 in connection with an article on the \"accidental\" death of Mustafa Alper, the first public prosecutor to file an indictment about the Gülenist Terror Organization (FETÖ). Güven was released pending trial on 14 June 2017.\n\nToday, the newspaper is struggling financially due to a low daily circulation figure that has fallen from more than 150,000 in the mid-1990s, in addition to plummeting advertising revenues as companies are not willing to advertise in media critical of the government.\n\nFollowing the appointment of new editor-in-chief Can Dündar, the newspaper on 29 May 2015 released detailed footage depicting trucks of the Turkish National Intelligence Organization (MİT) carrying weapons to Islamist rebels in neighboring Syria. While the government faced calls to resign, an investigation began into \"Cumhuriyet\" for releasing the footage. Turkish President Erdoğan publicly targeted Dündar, stating: \"I suppose the person who wrote this as an exclusive report will pay a heavy price for this.\"\n\nIn spite of the threats, \"Cumhuriyet\" published further material on June 11, including photos and videos confirming that MİT trucks transported both weapons and militants between Turkey and various locations in neighboring Syria. In November, the newspaper was awarded the 2015 Reporters Without Borders Prize for its \"independent and courageous journalism.\" Shortly thereafter, editor-in-chief Dündar and Ankara bureau chief Erdem Gül were arrested on charges of being members of a terror organization, espionage and revealing confidential documents, facing sentences up to life imprisonment.\n\nOn 7 May 1998, the newspaper launched its online edition. The print circulation figure is around 40,000 copies as of May 2018.\n\nSupplements of the newspaper:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848594", "title": "Manicouagan River", "text": "Manicouagan River\n\nThe Manicouagan or Manicuagan River, often clipped to Manic, is a river in Côte-Nord region of Quebec, Canada. The river originates in the Manicouagan Reservoir and flows approximately south, emptying into the Saint Lawrence River near Baie-Comeau. The reservoir, also known as Lake Manicouagan, lies within the remnant of an ancient eroded impact crater (astrobleme). It was formed following the impact of a diameter asteroid which excavated a crater originally about wide, although erosion and deposition of sediments have since reduced the visible diameter to about . The Manicouagan crater is the sixth-largest confirmed impact crater known on earth.\n\nThe river's name is believed to come from a Montagnais name meaning \"Place where Tree Bark is Found\". However the Innu of Betsiamites call it \"Menukuanistuk Shipu\", meaning \"River of the Cup\".\n\nThe major tributaries of the Manicouagan River are in upstream order:\n\nAt the end of August 1535, Jacques Cartier, while sailing south, noted the mouth of this large river but gave it no name. In June 1664, Jesuit Henri Nouvel was the first missionary to travel upstream of the \"Grand Manikouaganistikou River that the French call \"rivière Noire\" because of its depth\". The next year, he \"returned to the mouth of the Manicoüagan in June.\" The river's spelling has remained fairly constant from then on.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the Manicouagan River attracted Hydro-Québec's attention for hydro-electric development because of the deep and fast running waters. In 1956, a dam was built at the mouth of Lake Sainte-Anne to regulate the Toulnustouc River, the main left tributary that empties in the Manicouagan between the Manic-2 and Manic-3 dams. Four years later, the main construction work began on the dams and power stations of the Manicouagan River and its neighbor to the west, the Outardes River. By 1978, this project, with a total power supply 4672 MW, was completed.\n\nThere are a number of hydroelectric power plants on the Manicouagan, part of the Manic-Outardes Project:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848596", "title": "North Killingholme", "text": "North Killingholme\n\nNorth Killingholme is a small village and civil parish in North Lincolnshire, England. It is situated on the southern bank of the Humber Estuary north-west of Grimsby; to the south is the village and civil parish of South Killingholme.\n\nThe harbour of North Killingholme Haven, and the Humber Sea Terminal (2000–) are in the northern part of the parish, on the banks of the Humber Estuary. The Lindsey Oil Refinery (1968–), and the Killingholme A and Killingholme B power stations (1990s–) are located in the parish, north-east of the village.\n\nSouth Killingholme village is located south-west of the refinery – it is small, with a low population – the church of St Denys dates to the medieval period, and there are two moated sites in close proximity.\n\nThe former RAF North Killingholme is located in the southern part of the civil parish, built and used during the Second World War.\n\nThe parish of North Killingholme extends from the Humber Estuary foreshore roughly south-west through Lindsey Oil Refinery; the village of North Killingholme; and the former RAF North Killingholme to a boundary with the civil parish of Ulceby formed by the canalized water course, \"Skitter Beck\". The parish is roughly long (north-west to south-east) and wide, widening to wide at the banks of the Humber. The drain outfall, harbour and port of North Killingholme Haven is located in the northernmost corner of the parish on the Humber banks. To the south-east is the civil parish of South Killingholme; to the north-west is the civil parish of East Halton.\n\nNorth Killingholme is low-lying land, rising slowly from less than above sea level near the Humber to maxima of over to the south-western edges. A local peak of is found close to the village church near the middle of the parish.\nApproximately 50% of the land area of the parish is in industrial or logistical use: land in industrial use includes the Humber Sea Terminal at North Killingholme Haven; the Lindsey Oil Refinery, and its two power stations adjacent north-west of the site (see Killingholme A and Killingholme B); as well as industrial estate development near the disused former RAF airfield. Much of the remainder of the parishes land is in agricultural use, with regular enclosed fields drained by man made channels. Additionally there is a nature reserve at North Killingholme Haven, a former clay extraction pit; some small woods; and the small village of North Killingholme. A branch line for the Immingham Dock (formerly the Humber Commercial Railway) runs through the parish near the southern boundary, and also serves the oil refinery via sidings.\n\nThe parish had a population of 224 at the 2001 census, and at the 2011 census a population of 292. The parish is in the Ferry ward of North Lincolnshire. South Killingholme village is the only habitation of any note in the parish.\n\nThere is evidence of human activity in the North Killingholme area dating to the pre-historical period – Neolithic stone axes were found close to the village in the late 1890s; from the Iron Age/Roman period part of a stone quern has been found in land between North and South Killingholme.\nThe church of St Denys dates at the earliest to the Norman period, with a 12th-century priest's door, as well as the arch at the base of the tower. The chancel is 13th century, and the nave 14–15th century, with a clerestory added in the 16–17th century. The church was built mainly of limestone and ironstone, with brick, chalk, flint and rubble work, and some ashlar dressing. The church was restored in the 1700s, 1847, 1868, 1889, 1910 and 1926 including a new chancel arch, and brick buttresses. The font is 14th-century.\n\nApproximately north of the village is the medieval moated site known as \"North Garth\", with an inner 'island' , and moats of wide and deep. To the south are further enclosures, also ditched or moated to a depth of .\n\nThe site of the deserted medieval village of Holtham () may lie approximately halfway between North and South Killingholme.\n\nA second moated site is found around Manor Farm, consisting of two areas. The larger, , has a moat of around wide by deep, still water filled in parts; a smaller moated area of square is located in the north-west corner of the first with its northern and western moats formed by the outer moat. A red brick and pantile farmhouse (former manor house, where the Booths were seated until the 18th century) within the site dates to the 1500s (east wing), with a west wing added in the 17th century. The older wing is thought to be the remains of a larger manor house. states the old house was thought to date to the reign of Henry VII, though current thought places what remains of it in the reign of Elizabeth I. To the east a stables/granary dates to the mid 1700s.\n\nBoth North and South Killingholme were enclosed in 1779. In 1821 the parish of North Killingholme, including the hamlet of South Killingholme, had a population of 438. By 1872 the parish contained 770 persons of which 196 were in North Killingholme. In this period (1880s) the parish was almost entirely agricultural, excluding a small brick and tile works near North Killingholme Haven; almost all of the agricultural land was regular enclosed fields; there were two small woods, \"Burkinshaw's Covert\" and \"Chase Hill Wood\", north-east of the village. Excluding the developments on the Humber Bank at the Haven the general situation in the parish remained unchanged to the Second World War, with only minor growth of the village – a subsidiary development of a few houses to the south-west of the village centre, named \"Garden Village\".\n\nAt North Killingholme Haven clay extraction for cement manufacture took place from 1909 to 1913. Additionally a pier for fuelling Royal Navy ships was constructed ; and a seaplane base opened nearby in 1914 and closed 1919. (see also RNAS Killingholme)\n\nAs part of the development of the Immingham Dock, a branch line, the Humber Commercial Railway (operational 1901), was constructed from a junction near Ulceby railway station running northeast through the parish towards the new dock.\n\nAn airfield was established southwest of the village during the Second World War, and used extensively by heavy bomber squadrons. (See RAF North Killingholme) Much of the airfield was built during the Second World War including the three concrete runways, and hangars, storehouses and offices. Additionally two heavy anti-aircraft batteries were sited in the parish during the Second World War.\n\nIn the post Second World War period much of the land near the Humber north-west of Grimsby was developed for heavy or large scale industrial use. (see Industry of the South Humber Bank.) The \"Lindsey Oil Refinery\" was developed by Total Oil and Fina north-east of the village of North Killingholme from 1968. The village was relatively unchanged by these developments, though the number of dwellings had roughly doubled by the beginning of the 1970s, mainly scattered detached and semi-detached houses.\n\nIn 1960 the CEGB acquired a site near Killingholme, and in 1972 obtained consent for a 4 GW oil fired power station, some enabling construction work was begun, but the project was abandoned after the 1973 oil crisis. In 1985 the Killingholme site was listed as a possible NIREX disposal site for low level nuclear waste, causing substantial opposition both locally and from the then Humberside County Council. In 1986 the CEGB listed Killingholme as a potential site for a coal fired power station. In 1992 Powergen constructed a 900 MW combined cycle gas fired powerstation north of the Lindsey Oil Refinery, known as Killingholme B power station. In 1993 National Power selected the proposed oil powerstation site for a CCGT power station, the approximate 650 MW Killingholme A power station.\n\nFrom the 1990s onwards a Roll-on/Roll-off ferry terminal, was constructed at the haven: the first two berths opened 2000; a second pair ; and a third pair after 2006. (see Humber Sea Terminal.)\n\nBy the 21st century housing development at village had completed infilling at the satellite \"Garden village\", and created two continuous rows of houses near east of the traditional centre along St Crispins Close and Church Lane, approximately 10 structures per side on each road, mostly semi-detached houses or higher status.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848609", "title": "Julius Constantius", "text": "Julius Constantius\n\nJulius Constantius (died September 337) was a politician of the Roman Empire and a member of the Constantinian dynasty, being a son of Emperor Constantius Chlorus and his second wife Flavia Maximiana Theodora, a younger half-brother of Emperor Constantine the Great and the father of Emperor Julian.\n\nJulius Constantius was born after 289, the son of Constantius Chlorus and his wife Theodora, adoptive daughter of emperor Maximian. He had two brothers, Dalmatius and Hannibalianus, and three sisters, Constantia, Anastasia and Eutropia. Emperor Constantine I was his half-brother, as he was the son of Constantius and Helena. Despite this illustrious kinship Julius Constantius was never himself emperor or co-emperor; Constantine, however, gave him the title of Patricius.\n\nJulius Constantius was married twice. With his first wife, Galla, sister of the later consuls Vulcacius Rufinus and Neratius Cerealis, he had two sons and a daughter. His eldest son, whose name is not recorded, was murdered in 337 together with his father. His second son Constantius Gallus, was appointed Caesar by his cousin Constantius II. His daughter was the first wife of Constantius II. It has been proposed that Galla and Julius had another daughter, born between 324 and 331 and married to Justus, mother of Justina, whose daughter, wife of Emperor Theodosius I, was called Galla.\n\nAfter the death of his first wife, Julius Constantius married a Greek woman Basilina, the daughter of the governor of Egypt, Julius Julianus. Basilina gave him another son, the future emperor Julian the Apostate, but died before her husband, in 332/333. Nothing is known about other marriages of Julius Constantius, but since the sources about him are rather poor, other marriages are of course not excluded.\nAllegedly at the instigation of his stepmother Helena, Julius Constantius did not live initially at the court of his half brother, but together with Dalmatius and Hannibalianus in Tolosa, in Etruria, the birthplace of his son Gallus, and in Corinth. Finally, he was called to Constantinople, and was able to build a good relationship with Constantine.\n\nConstantine favoured his half-brother, appointing him \"patricius\" and Consul for the year 335, together with Gaius Caeionius Rufius Albinus.\n\nHowever, in 337, after the death of Constantine, several male members of the Constantinian dynasty were killed, among them Constantius (whose property was confiscated) and his eldest son; his two younger sons, however, survived, because in 337 they were still children. They would later be elevated to the rank of Caesar and Augustus, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "1848610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848610", "title": "Tatiana Maslany", "text": "Tatiana Maslany\n\nTatiana Gabriele Maslany (; born September 22, 1985) is a Canadian actress. She is known for portraying multiple characters in the science fiction television series \"Orphan Black\" (2013–2017), which aired on Space in Canada and BBC America in the United States. For her acting work in \"Orphan Black\", Maslany won a Primetime Emmy Award (2016), a TCA Award (2013), two Critics' Choice Awards (2013 and 2014), and five Canadian Screen Awards (2014–18), in addition to receiving nominations for a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Maslany is the first Canadian actor to win an Emmy in a major dramatic category for a Canadian series.\n\nShe has also appeared in television series such as \"Heartland\" (2008–2010), \"The Nativity\" (2010), and \"Being Erica\" (2009–2011). In 2013, she won an ACTRA Award for her lead role in the film \"Picture Day\" and the Phillip Borsos Award for her performance in the film \"Cas and Dylan\". Her other notable films include \"Diary of the Dead\" (2007), \"Eastern Promises\" (2007), \"The Vow\" (2012), \"Woman in Gold\" (2015), \"Stronger\" (2017), and \"Destroyer\" (2018).\n\nMaslany was born in Regina, Saskatchewan, the daughter of Dan, a woodworker, and Renate, a translator. She has two younger brothers, including Daniel Maslany. She has Austrian, German, Polish, Romanian, and Ukrainian ancestry. For elementary school, Maslany was in French immersion, and was taught in German by her mother before learning English. Additionally, her grandparents spoke German around her as a child. She also speaks some Spanish. She has danced since age four and started community theatre and musicals at the age of nine.\n\nMaslany attended Dr. Martin LeBoldus High School, where she participated in school productions and improvisation, and graduated in 2003. While attending high school, she found paying acting jobs that allowed her to travel all over Canada with her parents' approval. She would work for a few months at a time and then return to school in Regina. She stated, \"It wasn't an easy transition. I felt a little outside of it. Outside of both experiences, really.\"\n\nAfter completing high school, she spent some time doing theatre performances and travelling before settling in Toronto, Ontario, at the age of 20.\n\nMaslany was one of the stars of the 2002 Canadian television series \"2030 CE\". She appeared as the character Ghost in the 2004 film \"\". Maslany performed comedic improvisation for ten years. She participated in improvisational theatre, including the Canadian Improv Games, and has since become a member of the General Fools Improvisational Theatre. She is a certified improvisation trainer.\n\nIn 2007, Maslany appeared in \"The Messengers\" as Lindsay Rollins. She also starred in the CBC series \"Heartland\" where she plays a barrel racer, Kit Bailey, with her horse Daisy. During 2008, she had a recurring role in the \"Instant Star\" TV series. She had a lead role in the Hallmark Channel film \"An Old Fashioned Thanksgiving\". In September 2008, she portrayed Penny, a kidnapping victim in the Canadian series \"Flashpoint\".\n\nMaslany appeared as Sarah Wexlar, the heroin-addicted daughter of Dr. Tom Wexlar in the second season of the Canadian comedy drama television series \"Being Erica\" in 2010. Also in 2010, she appeared as the protagonist Mary, the mother of Jesus, in the British four-part television series \"The Nativity\", which was critically well received.\n\nMaslany appeared in \"Grown Up Movie Star\" as Ruby, a role which earned the actor a special jury breakout role award at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival. She played Hannah Simmons in one episode of \"The Listener\". In 2010, she appeared in the direct-to-video film \"Hardwired\" as Punk Red. In late 2011, she co-starred in the film adaptation of \"John Sandford's Certain Prey\" as Clara Rinker, a contract killer. In 2012, Maslany appeared as lead character Claire in the full-length feature \"Picture Day\", for which she won a Phillip Borsos Award for Best Performance at the 2012 Whistler Film Festival.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2017, Maslany starred in the BBC America and Space original series \"Orphan Black\". She plays the lead character, Sarah Manning, as well as Sarah's cohort of clones: Cosima Niehaus, Alison Hendrix, Helena, Rachel Duncan, Elizabeth Childs, Krystal Goderitch, Veera \"M.K.\" Suominen, Katja Obinger, Jennifer Fitzsimmons and Tony Sawicki. Maslany won two Critics' Choice Television Awards and one TCA Award for her performance in the series. She was also nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for these roles, but lost to Robin Wright for \"House of Cards\". In 2015, Maslany received a nomination for an Emmy award for her performance, but lost to Viola Davis for \"How to Get Away with Murder\". She was again nominated in 2016 and won the category. Maslany received a nomination for Best Lead Actress in a Drama Series at the 7th Critics' Choice Television Awards, her third total nomination from the Broadcast Television Journalists Association. In 2014, \"The Guardian\" praised Maslany's performance in the series, calling it \"Olympic-level acting\", writing:Maslany plays half a dozen different clones over season one, with who knows how many more promised for the imminent second season ... Delivering one creditable performance for a show is tough enough, but Maslany nails several here, often appearing in scenes as multiple versions interacting seamlessly. This is Olympic-level, endurance acting.\nIn 2013, Maslany guest starred on \"Parks and Recreation\" for a two-episode arc as Dr. Nadia Stasky. She portrayed the lead character Dylan in the independent film \"Cas and Dylan\", for which she won a Phillip Borsos Award for Best Performance at the 2013 Whistler Film Festival.\n\nOn June 11, 2013, Maslany signed with the US talent agency Resolution, which serves as her United States representation. In Canada, she continues to be managed by Magnolia Entertainment and represented by Characters Talent Agency. The 2013 Juno Award ceremonies were held in Regina, Maslany's home town, and Maslany was chosen as one of the presenters.\n\nOn May 17, 2014, Maslany guest starred on the season 39 finale of \"Saturday Night Live\". She played the character Bridget in the episode's second digital short entitled \"Hugs\". She guest starred alongside Pharrell Williams and The Lonely Island.\n\nMaslany co-starred in the 2015 film, \"Woman in Gold\", in the World War II flashbacks as a younger version of Maria Altmann, Helen Mirren's character. She mostly spoke German in the film.\n\nMaslany starred in the independent film \"The Other Half\". The film, written by Joey Klein, was produced by Motel Pictures with A71 and Sienna Films and co-stars her then partner Tom Cullen. It had its world premiere at South by Southwest on March 12, 2016. Maslany played the leading role of Lucy in the 2016 indie drama film \"Two Lovers and a Bear\", starring alongside Dane DeHaan as Roman. The film follows the two characters as they come together in Apex, Iqaluit to find peace in their lives.\n\nMaslany starred in the 2017 film \"Stronger\", as Erin Hurley, the love interest of Jeff Bauman, a victim of the Boston Marathon bombing; Bauman was played by Jake Gyllenhaal.\n\nMaslany was cast as a series regular in Ryan Murphy's 2018 drama series \"Pose\", but was later replaced by Charlayne Woodard. She starred alongside Nicole Kidman in the crime thriller film \"Destroyer\", which had its world premiere at the Telluride Film Festival in August 2018. She starred alongside Bryan Cranston in the Broadway production of \"Network\" in 2019. She will appear in the upcoming HBO series \"Perry Mason\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1848614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848614", "title": "Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan", "text": "Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan\n\nNawabzada NasrUllah Khan () (13 November 1916 – 27 September 2003) was a senior political figure in Pakistan. He was the only Pakistani to have been the leader of the Bangladeshi Awami League.\n\nHe was born in Khangarh, Punjab in Muzaffargarh District in southern Punjab.\n\nHe started his political career in 1933, soon after Majlis-e-Ahrar-e-Islam was formed by Syed Ata ullah Shah Bukhari. He was also elected the Secretary General of All India Majlis-e-Ahrar-e-Islam in 1945. He joined the All-India Muslim League in 1947 after the partition and the independence of Pakistan. He won a seat of Provincial Assembly of Punjab in general elections in 1952 and the National Assembly of Pakistan seat in the 1962 general elections. In 1964, he supported Fatima Jinnah in the election against president Ayub Khan. In 1966, he served as the President of the Awami League party. He helped form the opposition alliance Democratic Action Committee to remove military dictator President Ayub Khan from power. In 1993, he was elected again to the National Assembly of Pakistan. He was also made the chairperson of the Kashmir Committee. Just before his death, he was the Chairman of Alliance for Restoration of Democracy (ARD) working for the restoration of democracy in Pakistan against General Pervez Musharraf.\n\nHe died on 27 September 2003 after being admitted to a hospital in Islamabad, following a heart attack. He was 86 years old. He is buried in Khangarh, District Muzaffargarh, Punjab, Pakistan. His survivors include five sons and four daughters.\n\nA major Pakistani English-language newspaper comments about him, \"Known for his Hukka, dark achkan and distinctive cap, Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan spent all his life in fighting against dictators, military as well as civilian, and struggled to strengthen the parliamentary democracy, bothering little how he would go down in history for targeting all governments.\"\n\nIn its obituary for Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan, Dawn (newspaper) of Pakistan called him\na 'Crusading democrat'.\n\nAnother major English-language newspaper The Nation (Pakistan) ran his obituary in its editorial - titled, 'Death of a veteran'.\n"}
{"id": "1848627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848627", "title": "Harry Vallence", "text": "Harry Vallence\n\nHenry Francis \"Soapy\" Vallence (4 June 1905 – 25 July 1991) was a champion Australian rules footballer in the Victorian Football League (VFL) and the Victorian Football Association (VFA). He played at full forward for the VFL's Carlton Football Club in the 1930s, and in the 1940s for the VFA's Williamstown and Brighton Football Clubs.\n\nThe son of Michael Vallence, and Mary Ann Vallence, née Pattinson, Henry Francis Vallence was born in Bacchus Marsh, Victoria on 4 June 1905.\n\nHe married Lorna Josephine Bliss (1915-1996) on 17 June 1940.\n\nOriginally from Bacchus Marsh, in 1926 he came to Carlton as a half-forward. He soon moved to full forward where he became known for his safe hands and mighty kick. He kicked 11 goals in a match on four occasions – twice in finals.\n\nIn 1937 he left Carlton to play with Williamstown Football Club in the Victorian Football Association as captain-coach. His dispute with Carlton arising when he returned from representing Victoria in an interstate match to find himself selected at centre halfback in the seconds grade.\n\nHe was lured back to Carlton for the 1938 season, helping to secure the Blues first premiership in 23 years.\n\nVallence returned again to Williamstown in 1939, this time playing under the Association's throw-pass rules adopted in 1938. In 1939, Vallence kicked 133 goals, and helped Williamstown to a premiership, and kicked another 111 goals in 1940. On 24 May 1941, Vallence achieved two significant milestones: he kicked a career-high twenty goals against Sandringham, and brought up his 1000th career goal across both the League and Association. His career with Williamstown ended after 1941, when the competition went into recess during World War II.\n\nHe was captain-coach of the Carlton Reserves for three seasons (1942-1944).\n\nVallence resumed playing after World War II as the captain-coach at Brighton, where he played his last game in 1946 (kicking 11 goals).\n\nVallence played 204 games and kicked 722 goals for Carlton in his career; the latter was a club record until broken by Stephen Kernahan in 1997. He scored a further 337 goals for Williamstown, 88 for Brighton, and 19 in representative games for Victoria, for a career total of 1166 goals.\n\nHe died on 25 July 1991 of Alzheimer's disease in Geelong Hospital.\n\nIn 1996 Vallence was inducted into the Australian Football Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848629", "title": "Christianity in Albania", "text": "Christianity in Albania\n\nChristianity in Albania was established throughout the country in 325 AD. From 1100 AD, the Byzantine Empire carried out Church missions in the area. In relation to the increasing influence of Venice, the Franciscans started to settle down in the area in the 13th century. From the 15th century to the 19th century, under the rule of the Ottoman Empire, Christianity was replaced by Islam as the majority religion in Albania dring the Ottoman Empire. The Albanian government gives the percentages of religious affiliations with only 36% Muslim, 28% Eastern Orthodox, 21% Catholic and 15% atheist or nonreligious since the fall of Communism in 1991, yet the 2011 census did not get most of the population due to poor counting of the population and the inability to reach most citizens. \nIn the 2011 census the declared religious affiliation of the population was: 36.7% Muslims, 13.79% undeclared, 15.03% Catholics, 21.75% Orthodox believers, 5.49% other, 2.5% atheists, 2.09% Bektashis and 0.14% other Christians. However, due to the low number of people actually reached during the collection of data for the census, especially in Catholic and Orthodox regions, this census can be viewed as not wholly accurate.\n\nA 2015 study estimated some 13,000 conversions to Christianity from Muslim backgrounds.\n\nAccording to the numbers given by the government in 2010 it was stated that Eastern Orthodoxy was practiced by about 20% of Albanians within Albania. In the 2011 census the percentage of Orthodox believers was listed as 6.75% of the population. However the census was poorly conducted and the population of Orthodox believers has recently increased to 28.4%. Albania is historically linked with both the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodoxy. Albanians were among the first peoples of the region to receive missionaries and convert to Christianity. With the split of the Church in 1054, Orthodoxy become the religion for the Albanians inhabiting the areas under the Byzantine rule.\n\nThe first Orthodox liturgy in the Albanian language was held not in Albania, but in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Subsequently, when the Orthodox Church wasn't allowed an official existence in communist Albania, Albanian Orthodoxy survived in exile in Philadelphia with the church in Philadelphia being founded in 1913 and in Boston in 1965. Adherents of the Albanian Orthodox Church have been increasing in Albania since 1991 from a weak presence to 28.4% of the population in 2011.\n\nThe Catholic Church in Albania is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope in Rome. According to the numbers given by the government in 2011 it was stated that around 10.03% of the religious population is Catholic, however new government figures reveal the percentage of Catholics is 21.3 \nThere are five dioceses in the country, including two archdioceses plus an Apostolic Administration covering southern Albania.\n\nPrior to the Ottoman invasion Christianity was the religion of all Albanians. The northern Albanians adhered to Catholicism, whilst in the south they were followers of Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nProtestants in Albania, stand at about 8,000, whereas 189 different Protestant associations including the Albanian Evangelical Alliance (VUSH) exist in Albania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848631", "title": "Mano River", "text": "Mano River\n\nThe Mano River is a river in West Africa. It originates in the Guinea Highlands in Liberia and forms part of the Liberia-Sierra Leone border.\n\nThe districts through which the river flows include the Parrot's Beak area of Guinea, Liberia's Lofa County and the Kono and Kailahun District of Sierra Leone. Diamond mining is a major industry in these areas. Control of the area's wealth and the instability of the national governments of all three countries led to a series of violent conflicts involving these districts in the 1990s (See Sierra Leone Civil War, First Liberian Civil War, Second Liberian Civil War).\n\nLiberia and Sierra Leone founded the Mano River Union in 1973. Guinea joined in 1980. It was reactivated in 2004 as a customs and economic union; Côte d'Ivoire joined in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1848639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848639", "title": "Rob Wilson", "text": "Rob Wilson\n\nRobert Owen Biggs Wilson (born 4 January 1965) is an English politician and political author. He was elected Conservative Member of Parliament for the Reading East parliamentary constituency in the 2005 general election, being re-elected in the elections of 2010 and 2015, before being defeated in 2017. He became Minister for Civil Society in the Cabinet Office on 27 September 2014.\n\nWilson was born and brought up in south Oxfordshire. He attended Wallingford School and then, between 1984 and 1988, the University of Reading, where he studied history. He spent his final year at university as the President of the Reading University Students' Union. Wilson was a member of the Social Democratic Party.\n\nWilson joined the Conservatives, and was elected as one of three councillors for Thames Ward of Reading Borough Council in 1992, serving one term (until 1996). In 1997, he unsuccessfully contested Bolton North East at that year's general election.\n\nIn 2003 he was elected for the Caversham Ward of Reading Borough Council, in a by-election for a one-year term. The following year, he was again elected a councillor for Thames ward. Following his election as Member of Parliament, he stood down from the Council in May 2006.\n\nWilson was selected as the Conservative parliamentary candidate for Reading East using a pioneering primary system, which opened the selection to non-party members for the first time. At the 2005 General Election he faced the Labour candidate and councillor, Tony Page. Page had replaced sitting MP, Labour's Jane Griffiths, who had been de-selected by her party. Wilson won 15,557 votes (35.4%) against Page's 15,082 votes (34.3%). The Conservative share of the vote increased by 3.4%.\n\nAfter his election, Wilson made his maiden speech on 23 May 2005. He served on the Education and Skills Select Committee, selected by the committee chair. Here he played a role in the committee stage of the Education and Inspections Bill, on issues such as Special Educational Needs. In July 2007 Wilson was promoted to the Conservative frontbench as Shadow Higher Education Minister replacing Boris Johnson.\n\nThe MP, during his terms of office, promoted a major anti knife-crime campaign of Reading's papers; to do so meeting with crime victims' families and Thames Valley Police. Wilson successfully lobbied the DfT, Network Rail and local council to secure funding for the expansion and increase in facilities at Reading railway station – associated with investment into high rise and mid rise offices, retail and hotels in Reading. He jointly with former Labour MP Martin Salter successfully lobbied for the extension of Crossrail services to and from Reading, providing direct trains to much of Central London, and western parts of Essex and Kent.\n\nOn 6 May 2010, Wilson was re-elected by the people of Reading East with a majority of 15.2% of those who voted and 42.6% of the vote. In the resulting Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government from May 2010, the Liberal Democrats shared in ministerial positions. Wilson was among Shadow Ministers in the previous Parliament that were not offered a position as a Minister in coalition. In 2010 he was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Jeremy Hunt MP.\n\nIn July 2014 the MP stated that he would have accepted an undisclosed ministerial position but wished to use his spare time to publish a book on the scandals involving former MP Chris Huhne (who perverted the course of justice by lying about driving too fast to keep his driving licence) and the Chief Whip's plebgate incident each of which meant they lost their ministerial positions. He had earlier been offered a position as a junior government whip but refused this as still writing the same book. Critics, unnamed in a BBC interview with Wilson, attributed his decision to decline a promotion to their perception that the Conservative Party was likely to lose both of its Reading seats and said that in writing this sort of polemic, the government may prefer not to promote Wilson.\n\nThe Prime Minister's office appointed Wilson to the government as a minister on 27 September 2014, following the resignation of Brooks Newmark following allegations in \"Daily Mirror\" that Newmark had sent sexually explicit images to an undercover reporter He became the Minister for Civil Society which entails charities, volunteering and social enterprise, which he accepted a month after finishing the book, which he assessed as incompatible with being in a senior government or opposition role.\n\nOn 8 May 2015, Wilson was again re-elected by the people of Reading East, with 23,217 votes and a majority of 6,520, compared to 7,605 in 2010. Shortly after retaining his seat in the 2015 general election, Wilson sparked controversy with a remark on Twitter in which he seemed to show a lack of interest in solving his constituency's rising homelessness problem. When asked about how his party's cuts would help solve it, he responded with \"Don't be a bad loser.\" This sparked considerable outrage online, including a petition on 38 Degrees for him to be removed from office.\n\nIn July 2015, he was forced to defend his claims for travel expenses, which included 9p for a 352-yard car journey to a constituency event and 60p for a journey on his bicycle between his constituency office, the railway station and home. He said that putting such small costs on expenses might seem \"odd\", but said that over a year mileage \"does add up\". He pointed out he had not claimed any accommodation expenses in London since becoming an MP in 2005, saving taxpayers \"hundreds of thousands of pounds. However, as I do commute most days it does mean I incur parking and mileage expenses instead\".\n\nIn the run-up to the EU referendum of 2016, Wilson publicly indicated that he believed the UK should remain a member of the European Union whilst not actively campaigning for it since he believed that he should stay neutral. In 2017 he voted to trigger article 50.\n\nOn 8 June 2017, Wilson was defeated in the general election called by Theresa May in an unsuccessful attempt to increase her majority prior to the negotiations over the exit from the European Union. He received 23,344 votes, but came second to Matt Rodda, standing for the Labour Party, with 27,093 votes, a majority of 3,759.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848646", "title": "Michael Dokes vs. Gerrie Coetzee", "text": "Michael Dokes vs. Gerrie Coetzee\n\nMichael Dokes vs. Gerrie Coetzee, billed as \"The Buckeye Homecoming\", was a professional boxing match that took place on September 23, 1983, at the Richfield Coliseum in Richfield Township, Ohio, United States for Dokes' WBA heavyweight title.\n\nMichael Dokes had been the WBA's world heavyweight champion since December 10, 1982, when referee Joey Curtis stopped his fight with Mike Weaver in the first round. It was a controversial stoppage: Weaver and his management team, led by Hector \"the Toe\" Carlson, formally filed a complaint to the WBA's investigation committee, based on their opinion that Weaver was in condition to keep fighting when the fight was halted. Curtis declared that he had been impacted by Duk Koo Kim's death three weeks before, and a rematch was ordered. On May 20, 1983, Dokes and Weaver fought to a fifteen round draw (tie), with Dokes keeping the world title.\n\nGerrie Coetzee, meanwhile, had been a contender for many years, losing in previous title tries to Weaver and to John Tate. He had also lost a ten round split decision to Renaldo Snipes in a fight where he had sent Snipes down twice, in rounds one and four.\n\nWhile the match-up itself could have been as racially provoking as 1982's Larry Holmes vs. Gerry Cooney fight, it was not. Most boxing fans and critics considered Holmes the legitimate world Heavyweight champion, and there were different views concerning the Black versus White factor on this fight.\n\nBut, there was one fact that did not allow for the fight's promotional stage to take on a racial tune as did Holmes-Cooney one year before: Coetzee was openly opposed to Apartheid, publicly suggesting that he was not racist. As a matter of a fact, it is believed that most South African Blacks backed Coetzee, even as his two previous world championship attempts, held in South Africa, were against Tate and Weaver, who were Blacks as well.\n\nOne fact that was somewhat important for the fight to gain public interest was that, while not considered a \"White hope\", like Cooney had been before his fight with Holmes, Coetzee would be attempting to become the first White world Heavyweight champion since 1960, when Ingemar Johansson reigned after defeating Floyd Patterson.\n\nThe fight came off on September 23, 1983, at Richfield Coliseum in Richfield Township, Ohio, about halfway between Dokes' hometown of Akron and the much larger city of Cleveland. It was the last bout in a multi-bout fight card that included an Azumah Nelson knockout victory in two rounds over Puerto Rico's Alberto Collazo; Jeff Malcolm's ten round decision win over future Aaron Pryor conqueror Bobby Joe Young; a fight between two of former Holmes challengers in which Alfredo Evangelista outpointed Snipes over ten rounds, and future world champion Tim Witherspoon's spectacular first round knockout win over former title challenger (WBA title, Mike Weaver) James Tillis. Promoted by Don King promotions, the main event was televised in the United States on HBO Boxing.\n\nCoetzee was a two-time loser in title shots, while Dokes was looked on as a young gun destined (perhaps?) to challenge long-time pro Larry Holmes' supremacy in the Heavyweight ranks. Dokes entered the ring by throwing flowers and blowing kisses to the ladies present at the event (a customary thing for him to do before his fights) . Dokes' self-image of the lady killer was reminiscent of Gorgeous George, the wrestler. Coetzee didn't preen or pose but walked to the ring in the more traditional style.\n\nDokes v. Coetzee was seen as the continuation of the ascension of Michael Dokes into a true Heavyweight star. While he drew in his rematch with Weaver, he had all the markings of a real legitimate Heavyweight titlist. He was fluid, fast and had good power. He looked the part in the post-Ali landscape of jabbing, fleet-footed big men. The flip-side of the angle of the bout was this would likely be the last shot for the South African.\n\nCoetzee, unlike in the Tate and Weaver bouts where he was considered a real threat, was a decided underdog in the odds, as well as in the opinion of the fight crowd. For the first few rounds the script played as it was written, as Dokes flashed his impressive hand speed, and combined head and body shots to keep Coetzee off balance. In the fifth round, however, things changed when Coetzee connected with a right hand to Dokes' jaw, sending the champion to the canvas on one knee. Coetzee's power wasn't a surprise but he had not put Weaver or the soft-chinned Tate down in his prior title-shots.\n\nUnlike in his previous high profile bouts, Coetzee gained confidence instead of fading. Previously, Coetzee would dominate the early rounds against top opposition, only to 'hit a wall.' He also had been a virtually one-armed fighter, relying almost solely on big right hands (the so-called \"Bionic Right,\" so named because it was so often broken, it was surgically fused as a solid fist, giving Coetzee a supposedly unnaturally powerful punch. While it was indeed broken and operated upon often, it was actually just a repaired hand with no club-like qualities) following left jabs flicked out, but which were used more for mere effect. In this bout, Coetzee threw a great number of left hooks while applying his trademark pressure. Dokes' smooth boxing and speed of hand and foot were not resulting in controlling the bout, and Coetzee was not wearing down.\n\nDokes began to back up, and while he landed several hooks, Coetzee weathered them. Coetzee struck again in the 10th, hurting Dokes and pinning him against the ropes, raking him with right hands. He connected with another hard right that sent Dokes to the canvas again, this time with his body rolling until he could grab one of the ring's ropes with his right hand glove. Dokes was not able to get up, and Coetzee became the first White boxer in 23 years to win a world Heavyweight title, and the first African ever to win the world Heavyweight title.\n\nCoetzee broke his right hand with the same punch that he knocked Dokes out with. Five days later, he underwent surgery in New York City, after which he received a hero's welcome in Johannesburg.\n\nHe was not able to fight for a year and two months after winning the title. He was scheduled to have a unification bout with deposed WBC champion Holmes, who had been accepted as champion by the IBF after the WBC stripped him. The bout's particulars never came off due to JPD Sports, the backer of the bout, failing to deliver the money for the bout. Caesar's Palace stepped in to save the promotion, only to back out. Coetzee and Holmes both wanted the bout, with Coetzee even willing to relinquish the WBA title to have the bout come off. Don King's grip on Coetzee's management and promotion also was an impediment. Coetzee re-injured his right hand during training for the highly anticipated unification bout, forcing it to be cancelled. Holmes had been deposed by the WBC for failing to defend his title against Greg Page, who ultimately went on to beat Coetzee in Coetzee's first defense on December 1, 1984, by an eighth-round knockout to win the WBA world title. In what can perhaps be considered an irony, Coetzee did not win any of his three world title fights held at his home country, winning the only one that was held abroad.\n\nDokes also faced trouble after the fight, in his case, with drugs. He returned to boxing on March 1985, fighting Randall \"Tex\" Cobb in Las Vegas. Dokes had several comebacks, notably during the late 1980s and the early 1990s. His fight with contender Evander Holyfield where he was stopped after 10 exciting rounds, was named by Ring Magazine as the \"Best Heavyweight fight of the 1980s.\" In 1993, after having beaten a string of mostly fringe contenders, he received a shot at recovering the WBA title, (and gain the IBF world title on the process), but he was stopped in the first round by Riddick Bowe, at Madison Square Garden, in New York City. In the interview immediately following the bout, Dokes protested the stoppage as being premature, and demanded a return match with Bowe. Dokes subsequently had run-ins with the law, and would ultimately succumb to liver cancer in August 2012, dying the day after his 54th birthday.\n\nConfirmed bouts:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848648", "title": "Alembic Inc", "text": "Alembic Inc\n\nAlembic is an American manufacturer of high-end electric basses, guitars and preamps. Founded in 1969, they began manufacturing pre-amps before building complete instruments.\n\nThe company was founded by Owsley Stanley as a workshop in the rehearsal room of the Grateful Dead in Novato, California, near San Francisco, to help improve the entire sound chain for the band's live recordings, from instruments to PA. Soon the group was active in sound recording, modifying and repairing guitars and basses, and PA systems. Artist Robert Thomas designed and painted the logo of the company in 1969. It had multiple elements that represented the mankind and energy as values that Alembic aimed to show to public.\n\nBy 1970, Alembic was incorporated with three equal shareholders: Ron Wickersham, an electronics expert who came in from Ampex; Rick Turner, a guitarist turned luthier; and Bob Matthews, a recording engineer.\nInspired by the wide frequency response of the Hagstrom Bi-sonic pickups installed in Phil Lesh and Jack Casady's Guild Starfire basses, Ron Wickersham and Rick Turner designed low-impedance pickups and electronics with greater bandwidth than the high-impedance pickups typical in electric guitars and basses of the time. To boost the low output of these pickups, Wickersham designed an active onboard preamp. Turner referred to this process as \"Alembicizing\".\n\nThe company's first instrument was a bass guitar, made in 1972 for Jack Casady. This bass incorporated a massive electronics suite, with state variable filtering capability, and had pickups mounted on brass tubing so that their position could be adjusted. Financial problems (in the recording studio section) were alleviated after a 1973 story on the company in \"Rolling Stone\", which generated enough cashflow for a standardized bass guitar line based on the Guild Starfire. At that time, the company had two locations—guitars and electronics were built in Cotati, and the main office was in Sebastopol. 1973 was also the year that Stanley Clarke, then with Return to Forever, replaced his Gibson EB-2 with an Alembic, increasing Alembic's profile. Their bass guitars were expensive, costing up to three times as much as a new Fender bass. According to Tony Bacon and Barry Moorhouse, it was Alembic that started the trend of high-quality, high-price bass guitars. In 1974, Matthews left the company. The recording studio had been sold, as was a retail store in San Francisco where they had sold high-end audio equipment besides their own electronics and instruments.\n\nThe first production Alembic instruments were less ornate, and incorporated the PF-5 electronics circuit, later replaced by the PF-6. The pickups were single-coil, with an active hum-cancelling coil mounted between the pickups. This configuration gave the player the fidelity of single-coil pickups without their inherent noise, and is used to this day. The basses and guitars built using this configuration would later become known as the Series I and II, and were available in a variety of scale lengths and body shapes.\n\nIn 1976, Alembic built what is believed to be the first modern five string bass (tuned BEADG) for bassist Jimmy Johnson. Alembic's January 21, 1977 price list described the five string bass as a \"standard\" model, available for $50 more than its four string bass.\n\nIn 1977, Alembic presented the world's first graphite neck basses with necks supplied by Geoff Gould (later founder of Modulus Guitars) at a trade show; it was bought by John McVie of Fleetwood Mac. Production of graphite-necked instruments ceased in 1985.\n\nIn 1978, Rick Turner left the company to found Turner Guitars.\n\nIn 1979, the Distillate, a more affordable model, was introduced in bass and guitar versions.\n\nThrough the 1980s, Alembic introduced several new models. These included the Spoiler, Elan, and Europa basses, and the Electrum and California Special guitars. Alembic's model line has continued to expand to the present day, with models such as the Epic, Orion, Excel, and Darling being introduced.\n\nKey design elements from the earliest instruments are still present in Alembic’s instruments today. Most Alembic basses and guitars are constructed around a laminated neck that runs through the body of the instrument, using various combinations of often exotic woods such as Zebrawood or Cocobolo. They feature active electronics and brass hardware.\n\nA variety of body shapes have been introduced. The Standard Point, the iconic Alembic body shape, was conceived to force players to put the instrument in a stand, as headstock repairs resulting from falls were the most common repair performed by the company in its early days. Newer body shapes have been introduced to improve ergonomics and to designate new models.\n\nAlembic instruments can be ordered with a wide variety of custom features, including complex inlays and LED position markers in the neck.\n\nAll Alembic instruments incorporate the proprietary Alembic active electronics, with various options for tone controls and pickup configurations available and are made in Alembic's factory in Santa Rosa, California.\n\nWhile Alembic has largely eschewed celebrity endorsements, the company has made two exceptions to this rule. Stanley Clarke was given a specially inlaid instrument to celebrate 30 years of working together. Mark King, in 1986, received two 34\"-scale Series 2 basses and then ordered two more in identical woods with 32\" scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848651", "title": "Platelet-activating factor", "text": "Platelet-activating factor\n\nPlatelet-activating factor, also known as PAF, PAF-acether or AGEPC (acetyl-glyceryl-ether-phosphorylcholine), is a potent phospholipid activator and mediator of many leukocyte functions, platelet aggregation and degranulation, inflammation, and anaphylaxis. It is also involved in changes to vascular permeability, the oxidative burst, chemotaxis of leukocytes, as well as augmentation of arachidonic acid metabolism in phagocytes.\n\nPAF is produced by a variety of cells, but especially those involved in host defense, such as platelets, endothelial cells, neutrophils, monocytes, and macrophages. PAF is continuously produced by these cells but in low quantities and production is controlled by the activity of PAF acetylhydrolases. It is produced in larger quantities by inflammatory cells in response to specific stimuli.\n\nIt was discovered by French immunologist Jacques Benveniste in the early 1970s. PAF was the first phospholipid known to have messenger functions. Jacques Benveniste made significant contributions in the role and characteristics of PAF and its importance in inflammatory response and mediation. Using lab rats and mice, Jacques Benveniste found that ionophore A23187 (a mobile ion carrier that allows the passage of Mn, Ca and Mg and has antibiotic properties against bacteria and fungi) caused the release of PAF. These developments led to the finding that macrophages produce PAF and that macrophages play an important function in aggregation of platelets and liberation of their inflammatory and vasoactive substances.\n\nFurther studies on PAF were conducted by Constantinos A. Demopoulos in 1979. Demopoulos found that PAF plays a crucial role in heart disease and strokes. His experiment’s data found that atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) can be attributed to PAF and PAF-like lipids and a diet with lipids that have antagonistic PAF properties can inhibit the development of heart disease. During the course of his studies, he also determined the chemical structure of the compound.\n\nPAF can be found in protozoans, yeasts, plants, bacteria, and mammals. PAF has regulatory role in protozoans. The regulatory role is thought to diverge from that point and be maintained as living organisms started to evolve. During evolution, functions of PAF in the cell have been changing and enlarging.\n\nPAF has been found in plants but its function has not yet been determined.\n\nThe antifungal protein PAF from \"Penicillium chrysogenum\" exhibits growth-inhibitory activity against a broad range of filamentous fungi. Evidence suggests that disruption of Ca2+ signaling/homeostasis plays an important role in the mechanistic basis of PAF as a growth inhibitor.\n\nPAF also elicits hyperpolarization of the plasma membrane and the activation of ion channels, followed by an increase in reactive oxygen species in the cell and the induction of an apoptosis-like phenotype \n\nCumulative evidence reveals that diabetes is a condition in which cell Ca2+ homeostasis is impaired. Defects in cell Ca2+ regulation were found in erythrocytes, cardiac muscle, platelets, skeletal muscle, kidney, aorta, adipocytes, liver, osteoblasts, arteries, lens, peripheral nerves, brain synaptosomes, retinal tissue, and pancreatic beta cells, confirming that this defect in cell Ca2+ metabolism is a basic pathology associated with the diabetic state.\n\nThe defects identified in the mechanical activity of the hearts from type 1 diabetic animals include alteration of Ca2+ signaling via changes in critical processes.\n\nPAF is used to transmit signals between neighboring cells and acts as a hormone, cytokines, and other signaling molecules. The PAF signaling system can trigger inflammatory and thrombotic cascades, amplify these cascades when acting with other mediators, and mediate molecular and cellular interactions (cross talk) between inflammation and thrombosis. Unregulated PAF signaling can cause pathological inflammation and has been found to be a cause in sepsis, shock, and traumatic injury. PAF can be used as a local signaling molecule and travel over very short distances or it can be circulated throughout the body and act via endocrine.\n\nPAF initiates an inflammatory response in allergic reactions. This has been demonstrated in the skin of humans and in the paws and skin of lab rabbits and rodents. The inflammatory response is enhanced by the use of vasodilators, including prostaglandin E1 (PGE,) and PGE2 and inhibited by vasoconstrictors.\n\nPAF also induces apoptosis in a different way that is independent of the PAF receptor. The pathway to apoptosis can be inhibited by negative feedback from PAF acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH), an enzyme that catabolizes platelet-activating factor.\n\nIt is an important mediator of bronchoconstriction.\n\nIt causes platelets to aggregate and blood vessels to dilate. Thus, it is important to the process of hemostasis. At a concentration of 10 mol/L, PAF causes life-threatening inflammation of the airways to induce asthma like symptoms.\n\nToxins such as fragments of destroyed bacteria induce the synthesis of PAF, which causes a drop in blood pressure and reduced volume of blood pumped by the heart, which leads to shock and possibly death.\n\nSeveral molecular species of platelet-activating factor that vary in the length of the O-alkyl side-chain have been identified.\n\nStudies found that PAF could not be modified without losing its biological activity. Thus, small changes in the structure of PAF could render its signaling abilities inert. Investigation led to the understanding that platelet and blood pressure response were dependent on the sn-2 propionyl analog. If the sn-1 was removed then PAF lacked any sort of biological activity. Finally, the sn-3 position of PAF was experimented with by removing methyl groups sequentially. As more and more methyl groups were removed, biological activity diminished until it was eventually inactive.\n\nPAF is produced by stimulated basophils, monocytes, polymorphonuclear neutrophils, platelets, and endothelial cells primarily through lipid remodeling. A variety of stimuli can initiate the synthesis of PAF. These stimuli could be macrophages going through phagocytosis or endothelium cells uptake of thrombin.\n\nThere are two different pathways in which PAF can be synthesized: \"de novo\" pathway and remodeling. The remodeling pathway is activated by inflammatory agents and it is thought to be the primary source of PAF under pathological conditions. The \"de novo\" pathway is used to maintain PAF levels during normal cellular function.\n\nThe most common pathway taken to produce PAF is remodeling. The precursor to the remodeling pathway is a phospholipid, which is typically phosphatidylcholine (PC). The fatty acid is removed from the sn-2 position of the three-carbon backbone of the phospholipid by phospholipase A2 (PLA2) to produce the intermediate lyso-PC (LPC). An acetyl group is then added by LPC acetyltransferase (LPCAT) to produce PAF.\n\nUsing the \"de novo\" pathway, PAF is produced from 1-O-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (AAG). Fatty acids are joined on the sn-1 position with 1-O-hexadecyl being the best for PAF activity. Phosphocholine is then added to the sn-3 site on AAG creating PAF.\n\nThe concentration of PAF is controlled by the synthesis of the compound and by the actions of PAF acetylhydrolases (PAF-AH). PAF-AH are a family of enzymes that have the ability to catabolize and degrade PAF and turn it into an inactive compound. The enzymes within this family are lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2, cytoplasmic platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase 2, and platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase 1b.\n\nCations are one form of regulation in the production of PAF. Calcium plays a large role in the inhibition of enzymes that produce PAF in the \"denovo\" pathway of PAF biosynthesis.\n\nThe regulation of PAF is still not completely understood. Enzymes that are associated with the production of PAF are controlled by metal ions, thiol compounds, fatty acids, pH, compartmentalization, and phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. These controls on these PAF producing enzymes are believed to work in conjunction to control it, but the overall pathway and reasoning is not well understood.\n\nPAF antagonists is a type of receptor ligand or drug that does not provoke an inflammatory response upon binding, but blocks or lessens the effect of PAF. Examples of PAF antagonists are:\n\nHigh PAF levels are associated with a variety of medical conditions. Some of these conditions include:\n\n•Allergic reactions\n•Stroke\n•Sepsis\n•Myocardial infarction\n•Colitis, inflammation of the large intestine\n•Multiple sclerosis\n\nWhile the effects that PAF has on inflammatory response and cardiovascular conditions are well understood, PAF is still a hot subject for discussion. Over the past 15 years, papers written on PAF have almost doubled from approximately 7,500 in 1997 to 13,000 in 2012. Research into PAF is ongoing.\n\nAnti-PAF drugs are currently being used in cardiac rehabilitation trials. Anti-PAF drugs are used to block angiotensin II type 1 receptors to lower in the risk of atrial fibrillation in individuals with paroxysmal fibrillation. It is also used to lessen the effects of allergies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848654", "title": "Sheikh Mohammad Rashid", "text": "Sheikh Mohammad Rashid\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid, one of the founding fathers of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) was regarded as an ideologue by thousands of PPP activists and was committed to a socialist cause. This had earned him a reputed nickname in Lahore as \"Baba-e-Socialism\" (Father of Socialism).\n\nBut after the PPP's return to power, following long years of the military rule in the 1980s, Sheikh Rashid had gradually felt alienated within the party, despite being its one time Senior Vice Chairman.\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid was born in 1915 in Sheikhupura into a family of farmers and entered politics by joining the All India Muslim League in 1940. He was initially attracted by the Khaksar Tehrik but did not join it. Rashid also got involved in the Quit India Movement of the Ghadar Party led by Subhash Chandra Bose. Locally in British-ruled Punjab, he participated in the movement against the pro-British Unionist government of Khizar Hayat Khan Tiwana. In 1947 just before the independence of India and Pakistan, when religious and ethnic tensions arose and riots erupted, he formed a local \"bombard group\" against the Unionist government and was arrested while transporting some bombs in a \"tonga\" (a horse-driven vehicle commonly used at that time).\n\nAfter the independence of Pakistan in 1947, Sheikh Rashid started his career as a lawyer but soon his socialist leanings led him to join the \"Azad Pakistan Party\" headed by \"Pakistan Times\" newspaper owner Mian Iftikharuddin. This organization had a broadly progressive programme and he was appointed its first \"secretary-general\". True to his socialist ideals, he also led many peasants movements in Pakistan.\nIn 1967, he joined hands with the late Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in the formation of the Pakistan Peoples Party. He was a founding member of the party's central executive committee and later a member of the first ever PPP cabinet, initially as Health Minister and then Chairman of the Land Reforms Commission. His efforts at land reforms were said to have made him unpopular with many including some of his own land-owning party colleagues because he confiscated, as \"Federal Land Reforms Commission\" chairman, thousands of acres of land of big landowners of Pakistan regardless of what political party they belonged to. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto himself was a big landowner in Sindh. Eventually, the land reforms saw only a half-hearted implementation by the Bhutto administration. Besides Bhutto, Pakistan has been a land of too many influential feudal lords and stiff resistance was expected from them anyway to any socialist-type land reforms.\n\nHe was elected twice as member of the National Assembly of Pakistan on Pakistan Peoples' Party tickets both in 1970 General Election in Pakistan and 1977 Pakistani general election.\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid remained close to the then Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who treated him as his most senior cabinet colleague, perhaps to retain a balance between the progressive and conservative elements within the party. It was during the period of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq as the military ruler, that Sheikh Rashid's role as an ideologue for thousands of party workers, was boosted.\n\nOnce the Bhutto government was overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq, Pakistan Peoples Party workers including Rashid were repressed and he spent many years in exile in Britain. Then in September 1988, General Zia died in a mysterious plane crash and attempts at restoring democracy to Pakistan were made. Benazir Bhutto returned triumphantly to Pakistan to campaign for the upcoming 1988 Pakistani general election.\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid failed to get re-elected in the 1988 national election. He was getting old and was in poor health with asthma. Another reason given for his election defeat was that 1988 election was manipulated by Pakistan's intelligence agencies. However, the PPP's return to power in 1988 marked the beginning of his gradual alienation with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who regarded his socialist ideals as being increasingly out of tune with contemporary trends. Despite ideological differences with the leadership, Sheikh Mohammad Rashid, unlike many other fellow party members, remained steadfast with his commitment to the party and never joined any other political group. He was refused a PPP party ticket to contest the 1990 elections in Pakistan.\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid had asthma for a long time and finally died in Lahore, aged 87, on 12 September 2002. His survivors included his wife Shakeela and his four sons from his previous marriage.\n\nIn the early years of Pakistan, there is an often told story of a debate on the party's drafted charter that Faiz Ahmed Faiz had drafted for the \"Azad Pakistan Party\". Everyone accepted Faiz's draft but Sheikh Rashid. This debate took place among the founders of the party over a word which Sheikh Rashid alone wanted changed. Of course the word was about the distribution of land among the peasants. He debated the rest of the party founders over it for many hours because he wanted it expressed a certain way. All through his political career, he was recognized by his contemporaries as a defender of peasant rights.\n\nSheikh Mohammad Rashid was ridiculed in the early 1970s for trying to bring a generic drugs scheme to Pakistan. Although his idea was proven valid later because similar generic drug schemes were later implemented in many countries including Egypt, Bangladesh and it was endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO). Now some people feel in Pakistan that his idea was in common public's interest.\n\nSheikh Rashid was among the first to advise Bhutto to accept Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's \"Six Point Program\" which later became Six point movement to achieve greater autonomy for East Pakistan. This movement finally resulted in separation of former East Pakistan becoming Bangladesh in 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848657", "title": "Partnership for Peace Information Management System", "text": "Partnership for Peace Information Management System\n\nPartnership for Peace Information Management System (PIMS) is a US Department of Defense Bilateral Cooperative Development Program started in 1996 to enable collaboration and communication between Partnership for Peace (PfP) countries and the NATO community.\n\nPIMS is a US bilateral program which supports US-Partner relations and PfP mission through Information technology.\nThe mission of the PIMS is to enable efficient reliable information exchange between PfP countries and the NATO community - a key first step in the orderly process of incorporating Partners into NATO initiatives. It aims at facilitating the rapid communications and coordination required to support individual PfP objectives as well as the overall goals of the PfP Program. By extending economical communications connectivity and an automated means for common access to information, PIMS is expected to support an environment conducive to multinational cooperation in Europe. \n\nThe Program was established on the premise that each Partner has relevant and pertinent information to contribute and is also in the best position to determine its own information requirements. Collaborative database development provides the practical approach to leverage information resources for all coalition partners. O&M cost sharing provides an economical means of accommodating individual needs for processing, connectivity, maintenance, system familiarization, and other technical services, when PIMS hardware is required. The terms of both arrangements are implemented through Memorandum of Agreement between US DOD and PIMS-installed Partners.\n\nPIMS is a virtual organization that includes users from the USA and across Eurasia. The PIMS Program is managed by SPAWAR Systems Center Charleston, European Division, located in Stuttgart, Germany. 10 In-Country Coordinators (ICCs) in PfP partner countries round out the PIMS team.\n\nAs of July 2010, the following PfP countries participate in the PIMS program: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Tajikistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.\n\nParticipating countries in the past include Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkmenistan. All of these, but Turkmenistan, have eventually joined NATO.\n\n\nSoutheastern Europe Defence Ministerial Process' (SEDM) main objective is strengthening understanding and politico-military cooperation in the region in order to enhance the stability and security in SEE. Southeastern Europe Defence Ministers gather regularly to discuss issues of security and cooperation in the region.\n\nIn October 2008 in Ohrid, Macedonia were discussed all the questions regarding regional security, stability and development of civil military relationships in all the countries in the region.\n\nIn October 2009, in Sofia, the Heads of Delegations signed the Agreement on the Coordination Committee in the Framework of Southeastern Europe Defence Ministerial Process and the 5th Additional Protocol to the Agreement on Multinational Peace Force of Southeastern Europe (MPFSEE) initiative. By signing this protocol, the nations expressed their approval of the updating of some essential parameters of the MPFSEE activities, including of the structure of the Southeastern Europe Brigade’s Headquarters (SEEBRIG HQ). Its adoption also resulted in the amendment of clauses of the Agreement concerning financial, logistic and organizational changes in SEEBRIG’s activities. The activities of the Southeastern Europe Brigade were also reviewed at the meeting, leading to the conclusion that the Brigade’s potential is greater than what has been employed so far. The Defence Ministers endorsed SEEBRIG’s annual plan and budget for 2010, as well as the financial framework and activities plan up to 2012.\nDuring Bulgaria's chairmanship, Serbia became a full member.\nThe Process of Meetings of Southeast Europe Defence Ministers has a rotating two-year presidency.\n\n\nThe following NATO members participate in SEDM:\nThe following PfP members participate in SEDM:\nThe following PfP members are observers to SEDM:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848661", "title": "Sally Magnusson", "text": "Sally Magnusson\n\nSally Magnusson (born 11 October 1955) is a Scottish broadcaster and writer. She is the presenter of \"Reporting Scotland\" for BBC Scotland as well as \"Tracing Your Roots\" on BBC Radio 4 and is one of the main presenters of the long-running religious television programme \"Songs of Praise.\"\n\nSally Magnusson was born in 1955 and is the daughter of the Icelandic-born broadcaster and writer Magnus Magnusson. Her mother, Mamie Baird, also worked as a journalist. Footballer Archie Baird was her maternal uncle.\n\nMagnusson was educated at \"Laurel Bank School for Girls\", a former independent school (which later merged with another independent school, \"The Park School\", to form \"Laurel Park School\", itself to merge in 2001 into Hutchesons' Grammar School) in the city of Glasgow, followed by the University of Edinburgh, where she studied English Language and Literature.\n\nMagnusson started her career in journalism at \"The Scotsman\" newspaper in Edinburgh and then the \"Sunday Standard\" in Glasgow. She is often seen on BBC television, most notably as a long-serving presenter of BBC Scotland's \"Reporting Scotland\" news programme, a role she shares with Jackie Bird.\n\nIn the 1980s, Magnusson was a presenter on the BBC's \"Breakfast Time\". In 1987 she was part of the \"Breakfast Time\" team, including Frank Bough, Jeremy Paxman and Peter Snow, which covered the results of the general election. From 1989 onwards, she co-presented the programme's replacement, \"Breakfast News\", initially with Laurie Mayer, and in later years, with Justin Webb.\n\nIn 1999, Magnusson narrated the Q.E.D documentary \"Saving Trudy\".\n\nMagnusson has presented many television programmes, ranging from \"Reporting Scotland\" to \"Panorama\" to \"Songs of Praise\". In 2005 she joined BBC Two's \"The Daily Politics\" as its Friday presenter. In 2005 she presented the BBC's \"Scottish Election Night\" coverage.\n\nMagnusson is the author of \"Life of Pee: The Story of How Urine Got Everywhere\". She has also written books about the Scottish runner Eric Liddell, who refused to run on the Sabbath day due to his Christian beliefs, and about the Cornish Christian poet Jack Clemo and his marriage to Ruth Peaty.\n\nMagnusson wrote the children's book \"Horace and the Haggis Hunter\", which was illustrated by her husband, Norman Stone.\n\nShe is married to Norman Stone, a TV director. She lives in the village of Torrance, East Dunbartonshire.\nMagnusson and her husband have five children.\n\nShe has received Honorary degrees from several institutions: in 2009 a Doctorate of Letters from Glasgow Caledonian University, in 2015 an honorary degree from the University of Stirling and from the Open University on 29 October 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848675", "title": "Alphabet of the Magi", "text": "Alphabet of the Magi\n\nAlphabet of the Magi is the modern name of a variant of the Hebrew alphabet used for inscriptions in talismans in 17th-century occultism.\n\nIt is based on a variant of the Semitic alphabet given by Theseus Ambrosius (1469–1540) in his \"Introductio in chaldaicam linguam\" (1539, pp. 202f.)\nAmbrosius here simply gives variant glyphs of the Hebrew alphabet, labelled \"Aleph, Beth, Gimel, Daleth, He, Vau, Zain, Hhet, Teth, Iod, Caph, Lamed, Mem, Nun, Samech, Ain, Phe, Zadai, Coph, Res, Sin, Thau\". The alphabet is different from the other variants of the Semitic abjad given by Ambrosius in that he mentions that these letters are said to have been invented by Gamaliel and transmitted in the a book called \"Liber ignis\" associated with the angel \"Raphiel\".\n\nClaude Duret (1570?–1611) included it in his \"Thresor\" (1613, p. 117) under the name \"the characters of the angel Raphael\", citing Ambrosius. \n\nEdmund Fry included it in his \"Pantographia\" (pp. 28–29), stating:\n\"Theseus Ambrosius asserts that this character was brought from Heaven by the Angel Raphael by who it was communicated to Adam who used it in composing Psalms after his expulsion from the terrestrial paradise. Some authors pretend that Moses and the prophets used this letter and that they were forbidden to divulge it to mortal man.\"\n\nThat alphabet is described in the pseudo-Paracelsian \"Archidoxis magica\", translated into English by R. Turner (1656).\n\nS.L. MacGregor Mathers included it in his 1888 edition of the \"Key of Solomon\" (plate XV) under the name \"Alphabet of the Magi.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848678", "title": "Tonbridge Angels F.C.", "text": "Tonbridge Angels F.C.\n\nTonbridge Angels Football Club also known as “The Angels” are an English football club who play at Longmead Stadium in Tonbridge, Kent, since moving from the Angel Ground in 1980.\n\nThe club reached the Conference South after winning the play-off final of the Isthmian League Premier Division in the 2010–11 season but were relegated back to the Isthmian League in 2014. They competed in that league until they were promoted back to the National League South at the end of the 2018–19 season.\n\nNotable ex-players include England international Malcolm Macdonald, Aston Villa's league championship winning manager Ron Saunders and former England manager Roy Hodgson.\n\nTonbridge Football Club was formed in October 1947 following the suggestion of local businessman and founder chairman Mr. Herbert Portch, and was one of four clubs to be elected to the Southern Football League for the 1948–49 season. The club took out a lease on the Angel Ground, formerly the home of Kent County Cricket Club and named after the nearby hotel, 'The Angel'. Hence Tonbridge FC became known as 'The Angels'. A crowd of around 5,000 turned up for the club's opening league fixture against fellow newcomers Hastings United but the match was lost 2–1, with Albert Robson scoring the club's first ever goal. Progress was slow in the early days, with the club rock bottom at Christmas and with Harold Hobbis taking over as manager from Dunoon and Marshall Raybould, but the club would improve their form in the second half of the season to finish third from last.\n\nThroughout the 1950s the Angels (as they were nicknamed at the time, although it was not yet formally part of the club's name) would struggle to make any progress in the Southern League and a peak of 11th place was reached in 1949–50, the club's second season. However, Tonbridge would prove to be a strong side in cup competitions. In 1949–50, the club reached the semi-finals of the Southern League Cup, losing 3–2 to Colchester United. In three successive seasons, 1950–51, 1951–52 and 1952–53, Tonbridge reached the First Round Proper of the FA Cup, only to lose each of the three after a replay. The Angels' opponents were Chelmsford City, Aldershot and Norwich City respectively. The Aldershot tie at the Angel Ground saw a record attendance of 8,236, while the Norwich City game was shrouded in controversy, with a late goal at Carrow Road settling the tie. The first trophy to be lifted came in 1951/52 with the Angels winning the Kent Senior Shield. Tonbridge would go on to win this trophy a further four times, in 1956, 1958, 1959 and 1964. Two Southern League Cup finals were reached and lost, beaten in 1954–55 by Yeovil Town and two seasons later by Hereford United, and two Kent Senior Cup finals were also lost in 1956–57 and 1958–59. The club were relegated from the Premier Division in 1961–62, but were promoted two seasons later finishing in 4th place after narrowly missing out the year before. However the club were then relegated back to Division One in 1965–66. The notable success of the 1960s was the achievement of reaching the First Round Proper for a fourth time, this time being knocked out 1–0 by Dagenham. The club also won the Kent Senior Cup for the first time in 1964–65.\n\nIn 1972–73 the Angels won promotion to the Premier Division by finishing as runners-up to Maidstone United. In the same season the First Round Proper of the FA Cup was reached once again as Charlton Athletic were the visitors to the Angel Ground. A crowd of 7,770 saw Charlton win 5–0. Tonbridge won the Kent Senior Cup in 1974–75 while managed by former World Cup winner George Cohen. After struggling to stay in the Premier Division, the club suffered financial troubles and went into voluntary liquidation in 1976. Tonbridge Angels FC was then formed and allowed to complete the fixture list on the understanding that relegation would result at the end of the 1975–76 season, wherever the club finished. Another major problem loomed soon after. The club's landlords, the local council, wanted the Angel Ground for development. A battle lasting up to three years that went as far as the High Courts ensued before the club was eventually offered a new ground at Longmead, its present home. The appropriately named Micky Angel scored the last ever goal at the old Angel Ground in 1980.\n\nFormer Tonbridge and Arsenal goalkeeper Tony Burns took over as manager for the 1980–81 season and the club's new Longmead Stadium hosted its first game on 18 August 1980, a crowd of 701 watching a Southern League Cup game against Crawley Town. Despite having a new home, finances proved to be a problem for the club. Burns departed for Gravesend & Northfleet in December 1982 to be replaced by John Keirs, who took the club to fourth place in the 1983–84 season, promotion only denied to the Angels on the final day of the season. Phil Emblen took over the reins in July 1985 and led the club to another Southern League Semi Final appearance in 1987, but his departure along with several key players at the end of the 1987–88 season led to a slump in the 40th anniversary season.\n\n1988–89 proved to be a disaster for the club. Former Tottenham Hotspur man Terry Naylor took charge and lasted for just seven games, in that time only managing to earn a single drawn match. With the Angels at the bottom of the league Tommy Sampson came in to try to steady the ship but the damage was already done. The Angels bade farewell to the Southern League after 40 years, relegation to the Kent League being the club's \"reward\" after ending the season in next to bottom spot.\n\nThe Angels regrouped for the 1989–90 season with former player and manager Tony Burns returning to manage the club for a second time. Tonbridge finished in a worthy third place, not enough for a quick return to Southern League football, but silverware was forthcoming in the form of the Kent League Cup. Another former manager returned for the 1990–91 season, Phil Emblen, and he sparked a revival in the club's fortunes. Emblen patiently built a winning team and after two fourth-placed finishes, money-spinning Cup runs and another Kent League Cup win, the title finally arrived at Longmead in the 1992–93 season. And so, after a few seasons away, Tonbridge returned to the league which they had graced for so many years.\n\nThe Angels briefly topped the Southern Division on their return to Southern League football in the 1993–94 season but settled for a mid-table finish, which was to be repeated the following season. The club struggled in the 1995–96 season with Phil Emblen resigning as Manager in February 1996 to be replaced by Bill Roffey and the club finished in 18th position. In 1996–97 Tonbridge had an improved season finishing in 8th place and in the summer of 1997 Paul Emblen broke the club's record transfer fee, moving to Charlton Athletic for £7,000. He was later transferred to Wycombe Wanderers for £60,000. His brother, ex-Angel Neil, has appeared for Millwall, Wolverhampton Wanderers, Crystal Palace and Norwich City.\n\nAfter a disappointing start to the 1997–98 season Colin Blewden took over as Player-Manager in October and hauled the club away from the relegation zone to finish in 14th place and led the Angels to a 16th-place finish in 1998–99. The 1999–2000 season was the club's most successful since re-joining the Southern League. A run of fourteen games at the end of the season, in which just one defeat was suffered, secured a final league placing of seventh. The following season, it appeared that the Angels might better that seventh-place finish. A storming start to the season saw just two of their first nineteen league matches lost. However, a run of five defeats in six matches late on left the Angels in eighth spot come the end of the season.\n\nThe 2001–02 season was not a successful one for the club. Blewden resigned in October and Tonbridge were one of several clubs involved in a relegation dogfight. They escaped the drop by winning two and drawing one of their last four matches, leaving them four points ahead of relegated Wisbech Town at the end.\n\nAlan Walker was appointed manager at the start of season 2002–03 and that season was arguably the most successful since joining the Southern League, the club eventually finishing ninth after a fine end of season run. That run continued into the 2003–04 with a club record of 26 league matches unbeaten being ended in December 2003, at which point the Angels were comfortable leaders of the Eastern Division. Walker left the club shortly after due to a loss of sponsorship and the Angels replaced him with player-manager Tony Dolby. After an initial period of mixed results, Dolby steadied the ship and brought in Mike Rutherford as assistant coach before keeping the Angels in the title battle until the penultimate game of the season. The Angels finally finished in third, the club's highest position in the Southern League for more than 25 years.\n\nThe 2004 reorganisation of the English football league system saw the Angels placed in the Isthmian League Premier Division. They were relegated in their first season but bounced back at the first attempt, in the most dramatic of fashions, after a rollercoaster 2005–06 season. Tonbridge were undefeated until October but a bad run of results threatened to undermine the promotion bid, but the Angels always did enough to stay in the play-off places and a late surge secured third place and with it home advantage in the play-offs. Tooting & Mitcham were defeated in the Semi-Final match before a dream Final pitted the Angels at home to old Kent rivals Dover Athletic. The Lilywhites were beaten 3–2 in front of a new record Longmead Stadium attendance of 1,863.\n\nThe Angels finished the 2006–07 season in 11th place with striker Jon Main scoring 44 goals in all competitions. They then went on to better that by finishing 8th in 2007–08, missing out on the playoffs by a matter of points, despite having been languishing second from bottom when new manager Tommy Warrilow took over. Season 2008–09 saw the Angels finish in third place, reaching the play-off semi-final where they lost to Carshalton Athletic.\n\nIn the 2010–11 season the team confirmed a play-off place with the final league game. They beat Harrow Borough 3–2 in the play-off semi-final to set up a meeting with Lowestoft Town in the final. Tonbridge won the game 4–3 with Lewis Taylor scoring the winner just 10 minutes from the end to confirm the Angels' promotion into the Conference South for the 2011–12 season, the highest achievement ever by the club.\n\nThe club's inaugural campaign in the Conference South saw them finish in 9th place after enjoying a moderately successful season.\n\nThe following season, the club narrowly escaped relegation and reached the Kent Senior Cup finals where they lost 7–1 at home to a Charlton XI.\n\nThe Angels were relegated from the Conference South to the Isthmian League Premier for the start of the 2014/15 season. Manager Tommy Warrilow left the club after 7 years to be replaced by long-term Sutton United coach Steve McKimm.\n\nThe Angels remained in the Isthmian League Premier division until the 2018–19 season. During the 2018/19 season they finished 4th place and gained a spot in the play-offs. Tonbridge played 3rd place Haringey Borough away in the semi-final and beat them 2–1. The final of the play-offs would be played against 5th placed Merstham in a game that the Angels won 2–0 at home in front of a crowd of 2,268. Owing to a change in the National League structure for the 2018–19 season, this meant that Tonbridge would have to play a further 'Step 3 Super Play-off' final against the winners of the Southern Football League Premier Division South play-offs, Metropolitan Police. This took place on 11 May 2019 and Tonbridge ended up the victors after a 3–2 win after extra time away at Met's ground. This victory gained Tonbridge promotion to the National League South for the 2019–20 season.\n\nDuring the 2014–15 season, steps were taken by supporters to purchase shares in the club to make it majority owned by supporters. They will contest the 2015–16 pre-season Supporters Direct shield, with their first match against Fisher F.C. on 25 July.\n\nThe club plays their home games at Longmead Stadium, Darenth Avenue, Tonbridge TN10 3JF. The stadium has a capacity of 3,000 people. Covered terraces are in place behind each goal, which were named after the Mezzanine Floor Company who helped build them. In 2008 the North Stand was renamed The Jack Maddams Stand in memory of the young player who died that year. In the same year, the club installed over 760 seats in the West Stand which was brought over from the old Angel Ground when the club first moved to the Longmead.\n\n\nDuring the club's Kent League days, Longmead Stadium's record attendance for a competitive match was remarkably beaten three times in ten days during a memorable FA Cup run. After an abandoned 3rd Qualifying Round replay with Hampton in front of over 800 fans, the game was rearranged and drew an impressive attendance of 1,274. Just five days later the 4th Qualifying Round tie against Yeovil drew a crowd of 1,483. Season 1997–98 saw an attendance of 2,412 when the full Crystal Palace first team squad appeared for a charity match in aid of two local hospices, making 30 March 1998 a memorable evening in the club's history. The current record attendance for a competitive match at Longmead is 2,411, which was set on 7 May 2011 in the Isthmian League Premier Division play-Off final against Lowestoft Town. The largest attendance for any game by the club was witnessed at the Angel Ground where an FA Cup tie in 1951–52 against Aldershot was attended by 8,236 spectators.\n\nThe Angels’ biggest win came about in the FA Cup in 1951 (Angel Ground) when Worthing were beaten 11–1. Two seasons before that a 2–11 loss at Folkestone in the Kent Senior Cup had given the club its record defeat. The biggest win at Longmead Stadium was on 5 September 2017 when the Angels defeated Herne Bay 10–1 in the Isthmian League Cup.\n\nKevin McCurley had held the record for goals in a season for 45 years, having amassed 40 goals in 1961–62. His record was finally beaten by prolific striker Jon Main who scored 44 goals. This tally included seven hat-tricks which was a record for trebles in a season, and also equalled the record for career hat-tricks set by Jimmy Constantine in the 1950s. Main claimed this record in October 2007 by scoring an eighth treble against Stotfold in the FA Cup.\n\n1. Players that have played/managed in the Football League or any foreign equivalent to this level (i.e. fully professional league).\n2. Players with full international caps.\n3. Players that hold a club record.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848680", "title": "Football Association of Singapore", "text": "Football Association of Singapore\n\nThe Football Association of Singapore (FAS) is the governing body of football in Singapore. It was founded as the Singapore Football Association in 1892, which lays claim to being the oldest football association in Asia. The association changed to the Singapore Amateur Football Association on 14 May 1929 before adopting its current name on 13 January 1966.\n\nThe FAS is responsible for the organisation and development of football and advancing the game at all levels in Singapore, including its flagship Singapore Premier League, and the men's, women's and youth national football teams. Providing a structure for the game to flourish and governing the running of football in Singapore, the FAS also ensures that the Laws of the Game are adhered to, from the professional S.League to amateur leagues. \n\nThe FAS also manages the organisation and running of league and cup competitions, the stewardship of international teams, the establishment of youth development, women's football, refereeing and coaching frameworks.\n\nFAS president had been appointed by the governing People's Action Party for three decades. In 2015, global football governing body FIFA requested an end to political interference in the appointment of the national body's council members, and non-compliance would make Singapore ineligible to take part in international competitions. FAS has since changed its constitution in 2016 and held general elections for its council members.\n\nThe Singapore national football team, administered by FAS, is the most successful side that incorporated foreign-born players in ASEAN Football Championship history, winning the regional international tournament four times in 1998, 2004/5, 2007 and 2012. Singapore is behind Thailand after the Thais won their 5th time in the regional competition (as of 2016).\n\nThe FAS focuses on football development and operates national age group programmes with U-15, U-16, U-17, U-18 and U-23 teams (known as Young Lions, who compete in the country's professional Singapore Premier League).\n\nAll Singapore Premier League clubs have also fully implemented their own programmes for the Under-14s, adding on to the existing U-16s and U-18s program.\n\nThe FAS council was first appointed by the government since 1968, and has been controlled continually by government appointees for more than three decades from the 1980s to 2015. From 2004 to 2015, the FAS president had been an elected member of the ruling People's Action Party, and was appointed by the Minister for Sports. In 2015, global football governing body FIFA took issue with the politically-appointed leaders of the organisation. It requested an end to political interference in the appointment of the national body's council members and non-compliance would cause a suspension in Singapore's FIFA membership, making the country ineligible to take part in international competitions. FAS has since changed its constitution in 2016, and held general elections for its council members in 2017. FAS president and then PAP member of parliament Zainudin Nordin declared the association had \"not done anything wrong\".\n\"We have always been in consultation with FIFA over the last 30 years. They are aware of the uniqueness of our situation, and have always given us special dispensation.\"\n\nDuring the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on September 2016, it was revealed that organising expenses on grassroots competitions like the National Football League (NFL), Island Wide League (IWL) and FA Cup amounted to about $70,000 during the previous financial year from April 2015 to March 2016. This figure which represented a mere 0.2 per cent of the FAS' total annual budget of S$35.8 million sparked outrage within the local football community with many perceiving it as a clear indication of FAS's lack of regard for grassroots football. In a press conference on 13 October 2016, FAS vice-president Bernard Tan clarified that the amount did not include prize money and participation fees contributed by the teams counted under S. League account.\n\nIn April 2017, Bill Ng, owner of 2 Singapore football clubs, Hougang United and Tiong Bahru Football Club (TBFC), claimed that he had donated S$850,000 to the FAS with the intention of helping Singapore football, but that the money had gone to the ASEAN Football Federation (AFF) instead. The allegations came in the prelude to the first open election of the FAS council. FAS secretary Winston Lee responded that Ng was aware of where the funds were used, that $200,000 went to the LionsXII, while $500,000 was used to support the AFF's Football Management System. Lee said that it was former FAS president and Member of Parliament Zainudin Nordin who asked Ng to donate to the AFF, while Ng disputed the claim. FAS responded with a statement that Ng's allegations of financial impropriety within FAS to damage the credibility of the association was regretable, and it was unusual that Ng had chosen to hide Zainudin’s role in the transaction.\n\nOn 20 April 2017, the police raided the Football Association of Singapore over reports of financial misuse of funds filed by Sport Singapore. Zainudin Nordin, Winston Lee, Bill Ng and his wife Bonnie Wong, were arrested and subsequently released. The four assisted with the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) with the probe into the alleged misuse of funds and obstruction of club audits of TBFC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReference:\n\n\n\n\nNotable Former National Players – Singapore National Football Team\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848682", "title": "Markham River", "text": "Markham River\n\nThe Markham River is a river in eastern Papua New Guinea. It originates in the Finisterre Range and flows for to empty into the Huon Gulf at Lae.\n\nThe river was named in 1873 by Captain John Moresby, R.N., in honour of Sir Clements Markham, then Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society. A single-lane steel bridge, 1690 feet long – by far the longest bridge built in Papua until that time – was opened in January 1955.\n"}
{"id": "1848689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848689", "title": "Fusee (horology)", "text": "Fusee (horology)\n\nUsed in antique spring-powered mechanical watches and clocks, a fusee (from the French \"fusée\", wire wound around a spindle) is a cone-shaped pulley with a helical groove around it, wound with a cord or chain which is attached to the mainspring barrel. Fusees were used from the 15th century to the early 20th century to improve timekeeping by equalizing the uneven pull of the mainspring as it ran down. Gawaine Baillie stated of the fusee, \"Perhaps no problem in mechanics has ever been solved so simply and so perfectly.\"\n\nThe origin of the fusee is not known. Many sources erroneously credit clockmaker Jacob Zech of Prague with inventing it around 1525, The earliest definitely dated fusee clock was made by Zech in 1525, but the fusee actually appeared earlier, with the first spring driven clocks in the 15th century. The idea probably did not originate with clockmakers, since the earliest known example is in a crossbow windlass shown in a 1405 military manuscript. Drawings from the 15th century by Filippo Brunelleschi and Leonardo da Vinci show fusees. The earliest existing clock with a fusee, also the earliest spring-powered clock, is the \"Burgunderuhr\" (Burgundy clock), a chamber clock whose iconography suggests that it was made for Phillipe the Good, Duke of Burgundy about 1430, now in the Germanisches Nationalmuseum The word fusee comes from the French \"fusée\" and late Latin \"fusata\", 'spindle full of thread'.\n\nSprings were first employed to power clocks in the 15th century, to make them smaller and portable. These early spring-driven clocks were much less accurate than weight-driven clocks. Unlike a weight on a cord, which exerts a constant force to turn the clock's wheels, the force a spring exerts diminishes as the spring unwinds. The primitive verge and foliot timekeeping mechanism, used in all early clocks, was sensitive to changes in drive force. So early spring-driven clocks slowed down over their running period as the mainspring unwound. This problem is called lack of isochronism.\n\nTwo solutions to this problem appeared with the first spring driven clocks; the \"stackfreed\" and the fusee. The stackfreed, a crude cam compensator, added a lot of friction and was abandoned after less than a century. The fusee was a much more lasting idea. As the movement ran, the tapering shape of the fusee pulley continuously changed the mechanical advantage of the pull from the mainspring, compensating for the diminishing spring force. Clockmakers apparently empirically discovered the correct shape for the fusee, which is not a simple cone but a hyperboloid. The first fusees were long and slender, but later ones have a more squat compact shape. Fusees became the standard method of getting constant force from a mainspring, used in most spring-wound clocks, and watches when they appeared in the 17th century.\n\nAt first the fusee cord was made of gut, or sometimes wire. Around 1650 chains began to be used, which lasted longer. Gruet of Geneva is widely credited with introducing them in 1664, although the first reference to a fusee chain is around 1540. Fusees designed for use with cords can be distinguished by their grooves, which have a circular cross section, where ones designed for chains have rectangular-shaped grooves.\n\nAround 1726 John Harrison added the maintaining power spring to the fusee to keep marine chronometers running during winding, and this was generally adopted.\n\nThe mainspring is coiled around a stationary axle (arbor), inside a cylindrical box, the barrel. The force of the spring turns the barrel. In a fusee clock, the barrel turns the fusee by pulling on the chain, and the fusee turns the clock's gears.\n\nThe gear on the fusee drives the movement's wheel train, usually the center wheel. There is a ratchet between the fusee and its gear (not visible, inside the fusee) which prevents the fusee from turning the clock's wheel train backwards while it is being wound up. In quality watches and many later fusee movements there is also a \"maintaining power\" spring, to provide temporary force to keep the movement going while it is being wound. This type is called a \"going fusee\". It is usually a planetary gear mechanism (epicyclic gearing) in the base of the fusee \"cone\") which then provides turning power in the opposite direction to the 'winding up' direction therefore keeping the watch or clock running during winding.\n\nMost fusee clocks include a 'winding stop' mechanism to prevent the mainspring and fusee from being wound up too far, possibly breaking the chain. As it is wound, the fusee chain rises toward the top of the fusee. When it reaches the top, it presses against a lever, which moves a metal blade into the path of a projection sticking out from the edge of the fusee. As the fusee turns, the projection catches on the blade, preventing further winding.\n\nThe fusee was a good mainspring compensator, but it was also expensive, difficult to adjust, and had other disadvantages:\nAchieving isochrony was recognised as a serious problem throughout the 500-year history of spring-driven clocks. Many parts were gradually improved to increase isochronism, and eventually the fusee became unnecessary in most timepieces.\n\nThe invention of the pendulum and the balance spring in the mid-17th century made clocks and watches much more isochronous, by making the timekeeping element a harmonic oscillator, with a natural \"beat\" resistant to change. The pendulum clock with an anchor escapement, invented in 1670, was sufficiently independent of drive force so that only a few had fusees.\n\nIn pocketwatches, the verge escapement, which required a fusee, was gradually replaced by escapements which were less sensitive to changes in mainspring force: the cylinder and later the lever escapement. In 1760, Jean-Antoine Lépine dispensed with the fusee, inventing a \"going barrel\" to power the watch gear train directly. This contained a very long mainspring, of which only a few turns were used to power the watch. Accordingly, only a part of the mainspring's 'torque curve' was used, where the torque was approximately constant. In the 1780s, pursuing thinner watches, French watchmakers adopted the going barrel with the cylinder escapement. By 1850, the Swiss and American watchmaking industries employed the going barrel exclusively, aided by new methods of adjusting the balance spring so that it was isochronous. England continued to make the bulkier full plate fusee watches until about 1900. They were inexpensive models sold to the lower classes and were derisively called \"turnips\". After this, the only remaining use for the fusee was in marine chronometers, where the highest precision was needed, and bulk was less of a disadvantage, until they became obsolete in the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848701", "title": "Freestyle BMX", "text": "Freestyle BMX\n\nFreestyle BMX is bicycle motocross stunt riding on BMX bikes. It is an extreme sport descended from BMX racing that consists of five disciplines: street, park, vert, trails, and flatland. In June 2017, the International Olympic Committee announced that it was to be added as an Olympic event to the 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe earliest photographic documentation of BMX freestyle shows Devin and Todd Bank in 1974 riding BMX bikes on an eight foot tall skateboard ramp they built at their childhood home in West Los Angeles, California. This was the birth of BMX ramp riding. Devin Bank was also documented doing 360 degree freestyle spinning tricks on the street and also in the air by jumping off curbs. Skateboarder Magazine then published photos of kids on bikes riding in empty household swimming pools in 1975.. In 1975 kids started riding bikes in concrete reservoir channels in Escondido San Diego, California. In 1976 Devin and Todd Bank began riding BMX bikes inside the Runway Skatepark in Carson California. And, bike riders were also seen in 1976 riding at Carlsbad Skatepark in Carlsbad, California.. Bob Haro and John Swanguen rode BMX bikes at Skateboard Heaven, a concrete skatepark in San Diego, California, late 1976. Later they transformed freestyle beyond skateparks by creating new bike tricks on flat streets. In the fall of 1977 Bob Haro was hired as a staff artist at BMX Action Magazine where he be friended R.L. Osborn, son of the magazine publisher Bob Osborn. Haro and R.L. often practiced freestyle moves in their free time.\nIn the summer of 1978, Paramount, Lakewood, and other Southern California skateparks began reserving sessions or whole days exclusively for BMX bikes. BMX racer Tinker Juarez was innovating freestyle moves in vert bowls at Lakewood Ca Park, while William \"Crazy Lacy\" Furmage was innovating freestyle at the Paramount Ca Skatepark.\n\nBMX Action Magazine published the first freestyle how to article in their January/February 1979 issue which showed Bob Haro doing a \"rock walk.\" \n\nBMX bike riders also performed a demonstration freestyle show in 1979 during a skate competition at Rocky Mountain Surf Skatepark in Salt Lake City, Utah.\n\nTowards the end of 1979, William \"Crazy Lacy\" Furmage and Tony Ray Davis formed the Super Style II BMX Trick Team and later began performing freestyle shows at BMX races and other events. After the Super Style II BMX Trick Team became known, other organized trick teams were founded and quickly gained prominence. The freestyle movement at this point was all underground. Although several BMX manufacture-sponsored freestyle teams were touring the US, they were promoting the sport of BMX in general, not specifically freestyle.\n\nThe American Freestyle Association (AFA) was the first governing body for BMX freestyle, founded by Bob Morales in 1982.\n\nBob Osborn founded a slick quarterly magazine devoted solely to freestyle BMX. In the summer of 1984, Freestylin' Magazine made its debut. The BMX world suddenly noticed the sport's massive potential. Manufacturers hurried to the drawing boards to develop new freestyle bikes, components, and accessories, and began searching for talented riders to sponsor. Bike shops began stocking freestyle products. The AFA began to put on organized flatland and quarter-pipe competitions.\n\nFrom 1980 until 1987, freestyle BMX increased in popularity to a peak in 1987. During this period, the sport progressed with the release of new bike models, components, and accessories designed strictly for freestyle. For example, Haro released the Haro FST, Sport, and Master each year, with blazing graphical colors, new look, and new frame designs.\n\nIn the early 1990s, BMX freestyle suffered a decline in its commercial popularity; subsequently a number of large companies reduced or terminated their investment in the sport. In this economic climate, communities of new rider-owned companies and initiatives began to re-define the sport according to their own needs and interests, paving the way for what is now a largely new lead in the industry with clothing companies and material companies. This decline and subsequent new phase of the sport's development into an independently driven industry was notably referenced in the introduction to the BMX video \"Ride On\" (directed by Eddie Roman).\n\nFreestyle BMX riders participate in several well-established disciplines. As in the other forms of freestyle riding, there are no specific rules; style/aesthetics, skills, and creativity are emphasised.\n\nStreet riders make use of urban and public spaces to perform tricks. These tricks can be performed on curbs, handrails, stairs, ledges, banks, and other obstacles. Styles among street riders vary, as riders often depend upon their own urban surroundings. BMX street rose to prominence as an increasingly defined discipline in the late 1980s.\n\nIn modern BMX, the progression of more technical tricks on street obstacles has led to this discipline becoming more divided from other freestyle disciplines. BMX bikes aimed at street riding typically have steeper angles and shorter wheelbases, making them easier to maneuver, but less stable at the higher speeds associated with ramp and dirt riding.\n\nWithin street BMX there are a handful of competitions, however the majority of professional street riders tend to focus on making videos for DVDs and YouTube videos on behalf of their sponsors. Only a handful of riders tend to focus on both, with competition courses and corporate sponsorships not considered 'core' street riding by many riders. One rider that has succeeded in both competitions and video projects is Garret Reynolds. Garret has won 13 X Games medals, as well as Ride BMX Nora Cup Awards for Video Part of The Year and Street Rider of the Year, and is largely considered one of the best BMX Street riders ever.\n\nPark denotes the BMX discipline of exclusively riding skateparks, often with an emphasis on riding bowl transitions or ramp jumps.\n\nSkateparks are used by BMX riders as well as skateboarders, inline skaters and freestyle scooter-riders. Skateparks themselves can be made of wood, concrete or metal. Styles of riding will depend on the style of the parks. Wood is more suited to a flowing style, with riders searching for gaps and aiming to get the highest airs from the coping. Concrete parks usually tend to contain bowls and pools. However, it is not unusual for riders to merge the two styles in either type of park.\nConcrete parks are commonly built outdoors due to their ability to withstand years of exposure to the elements of conditions. Concrete parks are also often publicly funded due to their permanent and low cost nature in comparison to wood parks. Parks made from wood are popular with commercial skateparks, but harder to maintain, as the wood can start to decompose over time, or the features can be damaged through extensive use. Wooden parks are often considered safer than concrete, as during an impact, the wooden surface deflects by a small amount, in contrast to concrete, which is inelastic. Parks designed with BMX use in mind will typically have steel coping along the side that is less prone to damage than concrete or pool coping.\n\nThere are a number of competitions that focus on the BMX Park discipline, with X Games typically focussing on progressive tricks and large jumps, and other competitions such as the Vans BMX Pro Cup focusing more on flowing and stylish riding on bowl style courses.\n\nIn June 2017, the Olympic Committee announced that BMX Freestyle Park would be featured at the Summer 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games.\n\nVert is a freestyle BMX discipline performed in a half pipe consisting of two quarter pipes set facing each other (much like a mini ramp), but at around 10–15 feet tall (around 2.5 to 3.5 meters high). The biggest ramp ever used in competition is the X-Games big air ramp at tall. Both ‘faces’ of the ramp have an extension to the transition that is vertical, hence the name. Coping is a round metal tube at the lip of the vert that helps freestyle BMXers do grinds, and stalls on the lip of the vert.\n\nRiders go up each jump, performing air tricks before landing into the transition having turned 180 degrees. A typical run involves going from one side to the other, airing above the coping each side. Also possible are 'lip tricks' - tricks on the platform at the top of the ramps before dropping into the ramp. Many tricks consist of the rider grabbing a part of the bike or removing body parts off the bike.\n\nTrails are paths that lead to jumps made of heavily compacted dirt. Jumps in the same path, or \"line\", are sometimes referred to as packs, such as a four pack, a six pack, or an eight pack, which would have two, three, and four jumps respectively. A dirt jump consists of a steep take off, called a lip, with an often slightly less steep landing. The lip and landing are usually built as separate mounds, divided by a gap. The gap is measured from the topmost part of the lip, horizontally to the topmost part of the far side of the landing. Gaps typically range from only a couple of feet to over twenty feet. A moderate gap is around twelve feet.\n\nTrails riding is sometimes also referred to as \"dirt jumping\". Most trails riders maintain that a subtle difference exists in the style and flow of \"dirt jumps\" and \"trails\"; trails riders focus more on a flowing smooth style from one jump to the next while performing other stylish tricks, while dirt jumpers try to perform the craziest tricks they can over larger, less flow-oriented jumps.\nTrails riders usually run a rear brake only as they have no use for a front brake, and usually a rotor (gyro) to make it easier to do barspins, so they do not have to spin the bars back the other way to untangle them, which is hard to do on trails. In general, trail/dirt jumping bikes have longer wheelbases (chainstays) than other BMX bikes to aid with stability in mid-air.\n\nFlatland BMX occupies a position somewhat removed from the rest of freestyle BMX. People who ride in the above disciplines will generally take part in at least one of the others, but flatlanders tend to only ride flatland. They are often very dedicated and will spend several hours a day perfecting their technique.\n\nFlatland also differs from the others in that the terrain used is nothing but a smooth, flat surface (e.g. an asphalt parking lot, basketball courts, etc.). Tricks are performed by spinning and balancing in a variety of body and bicycle positions. Riders almost always use knurled aluminum pegs to stand on to manipulate the bike into even stranger positions.\nFlatland bikes typically have a shorter wheelbase than other freestyle bikes. Flatland bikes differ from dirt jumping bikes and freestyle bikes in one way. The frames are often more heavily reinforced because the people riding flatland often stand on the frames. This shorter wheelbase requires less effort to make the bike spin or to position the bike on one wheel. One of the primary reasons flat landers often ride only on flatland is the decreased stability of a shorter bike on ramps, dirt courses and streets.\nA variety of options are commonly found on flatland bikes, because it is in an open space. The most unifying feature of flatland bikes is the use of four pegs, one on the end of each wheel axle. Flatland riders will choose to run either a front brake, a rear brake, both brakes, or no brakes at all, depending on stylistic preference.\n\nThese tricks take place in the air. Freestyle dirt BMX involves many air tricks.\n\n\nVariations and combinations of these tricks also exist, for example a 360° tailwhip would be where the rider spins 360° in one direction and the frame of the bike spins 360° around the steer tube, both bike and rider will then meet again, with the rider catching the pedals, facing the same direction as before the trick.\n\nBMX flatland tricks usually involve much balance, more often than not with only one wheel in contact with the ground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848711", "title": "Pandaceae", "text": "Pandaceae\n\nThe family Pandaceae consists of three genera that were formerly recognized in the Euphorbiaceae. Those are:\n\nThese genera contain 17 species, which especially live in West Africa or Southeast Asia.\n\nThe genus \"Centroplacus\" was formerly included in the Pandaceae and had also been recognized in the tribe Centroplaceae, family Phyllanthaceae). The APG III system recognized this genus as a part of the family Centroplacaceae.\n"}
{"id": "1848712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848712", "title": "Cryptographically Generated Address", "text": "Cryptographically Generated Address\n\nA Cryptographically Generated Address (CGA) is an Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) address that has a host identifier computed from a cryptographic hash function. This procedure is a method for binding a public signature key to an IPv6 address in the Secure Neighbor Discovery Protocol (SEND).\n\nA Cryptographically Generated Address is formed by replacing the least-significant 64 bits of the 128-bit IPv6 address with the cryptographic hash of the public key of the address owner. The messages are signed with the corresponding private key. Only if the source address and the public key are known can the verifier authenticate the message from that corresponding sender. This method requires no public key infrastructure. Valid CGAs may be generated by any sender, including a potential attacker, but they cannot use any existing CGAs.\n\nA Cryptographically Generated Address is an IPv6 address whose interface identifier has been generated according to the CGA generation method. The interface identifier is formed by the least-significant 64 bits of an IPv6 address and is used to identify the host's network interface on its subnet. The subnet is determined by the most-significant 64 bits, the subnet prefix.\n\nApart from the public key that is to be bound to the CGA, the CGA generation method takes several other input parameters including the predefined subnet prefix. These parameters, along with other parameters that are generated during the execution of the CGA generation method, form a set of parameters called the CGA Parameters data structure. The complete set of CGA Parameters has to be known in order to be able to verify the corresponding CGA.\n\nThe CGA Parameters data structure consists of:\n\nAdditionally, a security parameter codice_6 determines the CGA's strength against brute-force attacks. This is a 3-bit unsigned integer that can have any value from 0 up to (and including) 7 and is encoded in the three leftmost bits of the CGA's interface identifier. The higher the value of codice_6, the higher the level of security, but also the longer it generally takes to generate a CGA. For convenience, the intermediate codice_6 values in the pseudocode below are assumed to be stored as 8-bit unsigned integers that cannot have a value greater than 7.\n\nThe following piece of pseudocode represents the CGA generation method, which is used to create a new Cryptographically Generated Address.\n\nThe CGA's interface identifier is largely formed by codice_9, which is taken from the first 64 bits of the digested CGA Parameters data structure (lines 20 to 24). On line 27, the first three bits are overwritten by the codice_6 value and the reserved \"u\" and \"g\" bits (the seventh and eighth bit) are set to 0.\n\nThe codice_6 parameter implements a hash extension by enforcing the first 16 times codice_6 bits of another hash, codice_13, to be 0. This hash is the result of the digested CGA Parameters data structure with codice_2 and codice_3 essentially set to 0. A brute-force search is performed to find a suitable codice_13, incrementing the codice_1 by 1 each iteration (lines 6 to 15). Because more bits need to be 0 with a higher codice_6 value, the average time required to perform the search increases exponentially with the value of codice_6.\n\nAfter concatenating the subnet prefix and the generated interface identifier to create the CGA, duplicate address detection may be performed. If the address is already in use, then the collision counter codice_3 is incremented by 1 and a new interface identifier is generated (lines 20 to 39). Because codice_3 is not used in calculating codice_13, it is not necessary to search for a new codice_13 when an address collision occurs. For a similar reason, codice_2 is not used either so that if the subnet prefix of the address changes but the host's public key does not, then the same modifier could be reused and there is no need to search for a new codice_13.\n\nOn line 41 the CGA is returned, along with the CGA Parameters data structure.\n\nA Cryptographically Generated Address is used to verify that received signed messages were sent by the host to which that address has been assigned. This is done by verifying that the key pair used for signing has been bound to the CGA. Because the authenticity of the public key can be verified this way, there is no need for a public key infrastructure. If the host itself is required to be authenticated as well, however, then the CGA itself needs to be authenticated beforehand since the bound public key cannot be trusted if the address is not trusted in such a case (assuming it has not been verified by other methods than CGA).\n\nThe CGA verification method, in which a public key is verified to be bound to a CGA, requires the corresponding CGA Parameters data structure as input and can be implemented as follows.\n\nThe method starts with checking if codice_3 from the CGA Parameters data structure has a valid value and if codice_2 from the same data structure matches the CGA's subnet prefix (on line 2). This is done for security reasons.\n\nFrom line 6 to 18, codice_9 is calculated from the CGA Parameters data structure (which includes the public key and the subnet prefix) and the relevant bits are compared to those of the CGA's interface identifier. In this case, this is done by setting the first three bits (codice_6) and the seventh and eighth bit (\"u\" and \"g\" bits) of both codice_9 and the interface identifier to 0 on lines 11 and 14 for easy comparison.\n\nAfter extracting codice_6 from the CGA's interface identifier, codice_13 is calculated and the first 16 times codice_6 bits of the hash are compared to 0 (lines 22 to 30). If all checks turn out well, then the public key has been verified to be bound to (i.e. to be valid for) that CGA.\n\nIn order for an attacker to make a client believe it received a valid message from a certain CGA that isn't owned by the attacker, the attacker must find a hash collision for the relevant bits of codice_9 and codice_13 by performing a brute-force attack. If the attacker finds a set of CGA Parameters (including a public key for which the attacker knows the private key) that can be used to generate the same CGA as the target CGA, then the attacker can impersonate the host who actually owns the CGA without being detected (except perhaps when the client has contacted the host before and notices that the public key has changed but the CGA has not).\n\nOf the 64 bits of codice_9, only 59 are used in the interface identifier since 5 bits are being overwritten. For a CGA with codice_6 equal to 0, this means that the cost of finding a set of CGA Parameters that yield the desired 59 bits is approximately formula_1 (in big O notation). A larger value of codice_6, however, increases this cost by a factor of formula_2 to formula_3 because the first 16 times codice_6 bits of codice_13 then become relevant (i.e. it implements a hash extension by demanding those bits to be equal to 0). In the CGA generation process, the cost of generating an address is increased by the same factor depending on the value of codice_6, but the cost of using and verifying a CGA remains constant.\n\nBecause codice_6 is not part of the CGA Parameters data structure but of the address itself, an attacker cannot use a codice_6 value smaller than that of the target address (like 0) in an attempt to skip (or scale down) the brute-force attack on codice_13. This would namely yield a different CGA from the target CGA since at least one of the three leftmost bits of the interface identifier would not match. If the target codice_6 value is written to the interface identifier anyway, then codice_13 will (almost certainly) be found to lack the required amount of leftmost 0-bits during the verification process.\n\nDuring the CGA generation process, it is very unlikely that three address collisions occur. If a duplicate address would be detected for the third time, then this would most likely be due to a configuration or implementation error or a denial-of-service attack. For this reason, the number of valid values for codice_3 is limited to the range from 0 to 2. This parameter must be verified to be in this range during the CGA verification process in order to prevent an attacker from exploiting it and trying all different values without the need to perform another brute-force search for codice_13 each time a different value is tried.\n\nBy including the subnet prefix in the digest operation that results in codice_9, it can be prevented that an attacker is able to use a single pre-computed database to attack addresses with different subnet prefixes. A verifier can also be sure that the public key has been bound to this exact address and not possibly to an address with the same interface identifier but a different subnet prefix. Since the CGA specification prescribes to use the codice_2 from the CGA Parameters data structure for the digest operations, it must be verified that it matches the subnet prefix of the CGA during the CGA verification process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848717", "title": "Pump organ", "text": "Pump organ\n\nThe pump organ is a type of free-reed organ that generates sound as air flows past a vibrating piece of thin metal in a frame. The piece of metal is called a reed. Specific types of pump organ include the reed organ, harmonium, and melodeon.\n\nMore portable than pipe organs, free-reed organs were widely used in smaller churches and in private homes in the 19th century, but their volume and tonal range were limited. They generally had one or sometimes two manuals, with pedal-boards being rare. The finer pump organs had a wider range of tones, and the cabinets of those intended for churches and affluent homes were often excellent pieces of furniture. Several million free-reed organs and melodeons were made in the US and Canada between the 1850s and the 1920s. During this time Estey Organ and Mason & Hamlin were popular manufacturers.\n\nChristian Gottlieb Kratzenstein (1723–1795), professor of physiology at Copenhagen, was credited with the first free-reed instrument made in the Western world, after winning the annual prize in 1780 from the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg. The harmonium's design incorporates free reeds and derives from the earlier regal. A harmonium-like instrument was exhibited by (1756–1837) in 1810. He called it an \"orgue expressif\" (expressive organ), because his instrument was capable of greater expression, as well as of producing a crescendo and diminuendo. Alexandre Debain improved Grenié's instrument and gave it the name harmonium when he patented his version in 1840. There was concurrent development of similar instruments. A mechanic who had worked in the factory of Alexandre in Paris emigrated to the United States and conceived the idea of a suction bellows, instead of the ordinary bellows that forced the air outward through the reeds. Beginning in 1885, the firm of Mason & Hamlin, of Boston made their instruments with the suction bellows, and this method of construction soon superseded all others in America.\n\nHarmoniums reached the height of their popularity in the West in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. They were especially popular in small churches and chapels where a pipe organ would be too large or expensive; in the funeral-\"in-absentia\" scene from Mark Twain's \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\", the protagonist narrates that the church procured a \"melodeum\" (a conflation, likely intended by Twain for satirical effect, of the names \"melodeon\" and \"harmonium\") for the occasion. Harmoniums generally weigh less than similar sized pianos and are not easily damaged in transport, thus they were also popular throughout the colonies of the European powers in this period not only because it was easier to ship the instrument out to where it was needed, but it was also easier to transport overland in areas where good-quality roads and railways may have been non-existent. An added attraction of the harmonium in tropical regions was that the instrument held its tune regardless of heat and humidity, unlike the piano. This \"export\" market was sufficiently lucrative for manufacturers to produce harmoniums with cases impregnated with chemicals to prevent woodworm and other damaging organisms found in the tropics.\nAt the peak of the instruments' Western popularity around 1900, a wide variety of styles of harmoniums were being produced. These ranged from simple models with plain cases and only four or five stops (if any at all), up to large instruments with ornate cases, up to a dozen stops and other mechanisms such as couplers. Expensive harmoniums were often built to resemble pipe organs, with ranks of fake pipes attached to the top of the instrument. Small numbers of harmoniums were built with two manuals (keyboards). Some were even built with pedal keyboards, which required the use of an assistant to run the bellows or, for some of the later models, an electrical pump. These larger instruments were mainly intended for home use, such as allowing organists to practise on an instrument on the scale of a pipe organ, but without the physical size or volume of such an instrument. For missionaries, chaplains in the armed forces, travelling evangelists, and the like, reed organs that folded up into a container the size of a very large suitcase or small trunk were made; these had a short keyboard and few stops, but they were more than adequate for keeping hymn singers more or less on pitch.\n\nThe invention of the electronic organ in the mid-1930s spelled the end of the harmonium's success in the West (although its popularity as a household instrument declined in the 1920s as musical tastes changed). The Hammond organ could imitate the tonal quality and range of a pipe organ whilst retaining the compact dimensions and cost-effectiveness of the harmonium as well as reducing maintenance needs and allowing a greater number of stops and other features. By this time, harmoniums had reached high levels of mechanical complexity, not only through the need to provide instruments with a greater tonal range, but also due to patent laws (especially in North America). It was common for manufacturers to patent the action mechanism used on their instruments, thus requiring any new manufacturer to develop their own version; as the number of manufacturers grew, this led to some instruments having hugely complex arrays of levers, cranks, rods and shafts, which made replacement with an electronic instrument even more attractive.\n\nThe last mass-producer of harmoniums in North America was the Estey company, which ceased manufacture in the mid-1950s; a couple of Italian companies continued into the 1970s. As the existing stock of instruments aged and spare parts became hard to find, more and more were either scrapped or sold. It was not uncommon for harmoniums to be \"modernised\" by having electric blowers fitted, often very unsympathetically. The majority of Western harmoniums today are in the hands of enthusiasts, though the instrument still remains popular in South Asia.\n\nModern electronic keyboards can emulate the sound of the pump organ.\n\nThe acoustical effects described below are a result of the free-reed mechanism. Therefore, they are essentially identical for the Western and Indian harmoniums and the reed organ. In 1875, Hermann von Helmholtz published his seminal book, \"On the Sensations of Tone\", in which he used the harmonium extensively to test different tuning systems:\n\"Among musical instruments, the harmonium, on account of its uniformly sustained tone, the piercing character of its quality of tone, and its tolerably distinct combinational tones, is particularly sensitive to inaccuracies of intonation. And as its vibrators also admit of a delicate and durable tuning, it appeared to me peculiarly suitable for experiments on a more perfect system of tones.\"\n\nUsing two manuals and two differently tuned stop sets, he was able to simultaneously compare Pythagorean to just and to equal-tempered tunings and observe the degrees of inharmonicity inherent to the different temperaments. He subdivided the octave to 28 tones, to be able to perform modulations of 12 minor and 17 major keys in just intonation without going into harsh dissonance that is present with the standard octave division in this tuning. This arrangement was difficult to play on. Additional modified or novel instruments were used for experimental and educational purposes; notably, Bosanquet's \"Generalized keyboard\" was constructed in 1873 for use with a 53-tone scale. In practice, that harmonium was constructed with 84 keys, for convenience of fingering. Another famous reed organ that was evaluated was built by Poole.\n\nLord Rayleigh also used the harmonium to devise a method for indirectly measuring frequency accurately, using approximated known equal temperament intervals and their overtone beats. The harmonium had the advantage of providing clear overtones that enabled the reliable counting of beats by two listeners, one per note. However, Rayleigh acknowledged that maintaining constant pressure in the bellows is difficult and fluctuation of the pitch occurs rather frequently as a result.\n\nIn the generation of its tones, a reed organ is similar to an accordion or concertina, but not in its installation, as an accordion is held in both hands whereas a reed organ is usually positioned on the floor in a wooden casing (which might make it mistakable for a piano at the very first glimpse). Reed organs are operated either with pressure or with suction bellows. Pressure bellows permit a wider range to modify the volume, depending on whether the pedaling of the bellows is faster or slower. In North America and the United Kingdom, a reed organ with pressure bellows is referred to as a harmonium, whereas in continental Europe, any reed organ is called a harmonium regardless of whether it has pressure or suction bellows. As reed organs with pressure bellows were more difficult to produce and therefore more expensive, North American and British reed organs and melodeons generally use suction bellows and operate on vacuum.\n\nReed organ frequencies depend on the blowing pressure; the fundamental frequency \"decreases\" with medium pressure compared to low pressure, but it \"increases\" again at high pressures by several hertz for the bass notes measured. American reed organ measurements showed a sinusoidal oscillation with sharp pressure transitions when the reed bends above and below its frame. The fundamental itself is nearly the mechanical resonance frequency of the reed. The overtones of the instrument are harmonics of the fundamental, rather than inharmonic, although a weak inharmonic overtone (6.27\"f\") was reported too. The fundamental frequency comes from a transverse mode, whereas weaker higher transverse and torsional modes were measured too. Any torsional modes are excited because of a slight asymmetry in the reed's construction. During attack, it was shown that the reed produces most strongly the fundamental, along with a second transverse or torsional mode, which are transient.\n\nRadiation patterns and coupling effects between the sound box and the reeds on the timbre appear not to have been studied to date.\n\nThe unusual reed-vibration physics have a direct effect on harmonium playing, as the control of its dynamics in playing is restricted and subtle. The free reed of the harmonium is riveted from a metal frame and is subjected to airflow, which is pumped from the bellows through the reservoir, pushing the reed and bringing it to self-exciting oscillation and to sound production in the direction of airflow. This particular aerodynamics is nonlinear in that the maximum displacement amplitude in which the reed can vibrate is limited by fluctuations in damping forces, so that the resultant sound pressure is rather constant. Additionally, there is a threshold pumping pressure, below which the reed vibration is minimal. Within those two thresholds, there is an exponential growth and decay in time of reed amplitudes .\n\nThe harmonium was somewhat embraced by European and American composers of classical music. It was also used often in the folk music of the Appalachians and South of the United States. \nHarmoniums played a significant part in the new rise of Nordic folk music, especially in Finland. In the late 1970s, a harmonium could be found in most schools where the bands met, and it became natural for the bands to include a harmonium in their setup. A typical folk band then—particularly in Western Finland—consisted of violin(s), double bass and harmonium. There was a practical limitation that prevented playing harmonium and accordion in the same band: harmoniums were tuned to 438 Hz, while accordions were tuned to 442 Hz. Some key harmonium players in the new rise of Nordic folk have been Timo Alakotila and Milla Viljamaa.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the introduction of the harmonium triggered a boom in religious house music. Its organ-like sound quality allowed Reformed families to sing psalms and hymns at home. A lot of new hymns were composed expressly for voice and harmonium, notably those by Johannes de Heer.\n\nThe harmonium repertoire includes many pieces written originally for the church organ, which may be played on a harmonium as well, because they have a small enough range and use fewer stops. For example, Bach's Fantasia in C major for organ BWV 570 is suitable for a four-octave harmonium.\n\n\nHarmoniums have been used in western popular music since at least the 1960s. John Lennon played a Mannborg harmonium on the Beatles' hit single \"We Can Work It Out\", released in December 1965, and the band used the instrument on other songs recorded during the sessions for their \"Rubber Soul\" album. They also used the instrument on the famous \"final chord\" of \"A Day in the Life\", and on the song \"Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite!\", both released on the 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". The group's hit single \"Hello, Goodbye\" and the track \"Your Mother Should Know\" were both written using a harmonium.\n\nMany other artists soon employed the instrument in their music, including; Pink Floyd on the title song \"Chapter 24\" of their first album \"The Piper at the Gates of Dawn\" in 1967, Elton John on his 1973 album \"Don't Shoot Me I'm Only the Piano Player\", 1976's \"Blue Moves\", the 1978 album \"A Single Man\", and 1995's \"Made in England\", and in more recent times Greg Weeks and Tori Amos on their recordings and live performances. German singer Nico was closely associated with the harmonium, using it as her main instrument, during the late 60s and 70s, on albums such as \"The Marble Index\", \"Desertshore\" and \"The End...\".\n\nDonovan employed the harmonium on his 1968 album \"The Hurdy Gurdy Man\" where he played it in droning accompaniment on the song \"Peregrine\", and where it was also played on his song \"Poor Cow\" by John Cameron. Roger Hodgson from Supertramp used his harmonium on many of the group's songs including \"Two of Us\" from \"Crisis? What Crisis?\", \"Fool's Overture\" from \"Even in the Quietest Moments...\", the title track to their 1979 album \"Breakfast in America\" and \"Lord Is It Mine\". Hodgson also used a harmonium on \"The Garden\" from his 2000 solo album \"Open the Door\".\n\nThe Damned singer Dave Vanian bought a harmonium for £49 and used it to compose “Curtain Call”, the 17-minute closing track from their 1980 double LP The Black Album. In 1990, Depeche Mode (band) used a harmonium on a version of their song \"Enjoy The Silence\". The Divine Comedy used a harmonium on \"Neptune's Daughter\" from their 1994 album \"Promenade\". Sara Bareilles used the harmonium on her 2012 song \"Once Upon Another Time\".\n\nThe harmonium has become a mainstay instrument of Hindu and Sikh-based devotional mantra music known as kirtan, a 7th-8th century Indian music, which popularly emerged in the west during the 1990s. Within this style of music the harmonium is often played as the lead instrument by many kirtan artists; notably Jai Uttal who was nominated for a Grammy award for new-age music in 2004, Snatam Kaur, and Krishna Das who was nominated for a Grammy award for new age music in 2012.\n\nThe harmonium is popular to the present day, and the harmonium remains an important instrument in many genres of genres of Indian and Pakistani music. For example, it is a staple of vocal North Indian classical music and Sufi Muslim Qawwali concerts. It is commonly found in Indian homes. Though derived from the designs developed in France, the harmonium was developed further in India in unique ways, such as the addition of drone stops and a scale-changing mechanism. In Kolkata, Dwarkanath Ghose of the Dwarkin company modified the imported harmony flute and developed the hand-held harmonium, which has subsequently become an integral part of the Indian music scene.\n\nDwijendranath Tagore is credited with having used the imported instrument in 1860 in his private theatre, but it was probably a pedal-pumped instrument that was cumbersome or possibly some variation of the reed organ. Initially it aroused curiosity, but gradually people started playing it, and Ghose took the initiative to modify it. It was in response to the Indian needs that the hand-held harmonium was introduced. All Indian musical instruments are played with the musician sitting on the floor or on a stage, behind the instrument or holding it in his hands. In that era, Indian homes did not use tables and chairs. Also, Western music being harmonically based, both a player's hands were needed to play the chords, thus assigning the bellows to the feet was the best solution; Indian music, being melodically based, only one hand was necessary to play the melody, and the other hand was free for the bellows.\n\nThe harmonium was widely accepted in Indian music, particularly Parsi and Marathi stage music, in the late 19th century. By the early 20th century, however, in the context of nationalist movements that sought to depict India as utterly separate from the West, the harmonium was portrayed as an unwanted foreigner. Technical concerns with the harmonium included its inability to produce meend (slides between notes) which can be done in instruments like Sitar and Sarod, and the fact that, once tuned, it cannot be adjusted in the course of performance. The former prevents it from articulating the subtle inflections (such as andolan, gentle oscillation) so crucial to many ragas; the latter prevents it from articulating the subtle differences in intonational color between a given svara in two different ragas. For these reasons, it was banned from All India Radio from 1940 to 1971; a ban still stands on harmonium solos.\n\nOn the other hand, many of the harmonium's qualities suited it very well for the newly reformed classical music of the early 20th century: it is easy for amateurs to learn; it supports group singing and large voice classes; it provides a template for standardized raga grammar; it is loud enough to provide a drone in a concert hall. For these reasons, it has become the instrument of choice for accompanying most North Indian classical vocal genres, with top vocalists (e.g., Bhimsen Joshi) routinely using harmonium accompaniment in their concerts. However, it is still despised by some connoisseurs of Indian music, who prefer the sarangi as an accompanying instrument for khyal singing.\n\nA popular usage is by followers of the Hindu and Sikh faiths, who use it to accompany their devotional songs (bhajan and kirtan) respectively . There is at least one harmonium in any gurdwara (Sikh temple) around the world. The harmonium is commonly accompanied by the tabla as well as a dholak. To Sikhs, the harmonium is known as the \"vaja\" or \"baja\". It is also referred to as a \"peti\" (literally, box) in some parts of North India and Maharashtra. The harmonium plays an integral part in Qawwali music. Almost all Qawwals use the harmonium as their sole musical accompaniment. It has received international exposure as the genre of Qawwali music has been popularized by renowned Pakistani musicians, including Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. There is some discussion of Indian harmonium makers producing reproductions of Western-style reed organs for the export trade.\nVidyadhar Oke has developed a 22-microtone harmonium, which can play 22 microtones as required in Indian classical music. The fundamental tone (Shadja) and the fifth (Pancham) are fixed, but the other ten notes have two microtones each, one higher and one lower. The higher microtone is selected by pulling out a knob below the key. In this way, the 22-shruti harmonium can be tuned for any particular raga by simply pulling out knobs wherever a higher shruti is required.\n\nIn 1954, Late Jogesh Chandra Biswas first modified the then-existing harmoniums, so it folds down into a much thinner space for easier-maneuverability. Prior to that, if the instrument was boxed, it used to need two people to carry it, holding it from either side. This improvisation became a generic design in most harmoniums since then and coined with the term \"Folding Harmoniums\".\n\nSee also: the Shruti box, a keyless harmonium used only to produce drones to support other soloists.\n\nIn the view points of maintenance and restoration, the pump organs are often categorized into several types.\n\nHarmoniums are pressure system free-reed organs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848720", "title": "Secure Neighbor Discovery", "text": "Secure Neighbor Discovery\n\nThe Secure Neighbor Discovery (SEND) protocol is a security extension of the Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) in IPv6 defined in RFC 3971 and updated by RFC 6494.\n\nThe Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) is responsible in IPv6 for discovery of other network nodes on the local link, to determine the link layer addresses of other nodes, and to find available routers, and maintain reachability information about the paths to other active neighbor nodes (RFC 4861). NDP is insecure and susceptible to malicious interference. It is the intent of SEND to provide an alternate mechanism for securing NDP with a cryptographic method that is independent of IPsec, the original and inherent method of securing IPv6 communications.\n\nSEND uses Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGA) and other new NDP options for the ICMPv6 packet types used in NDP.\n\nSEND was updated to use the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) by RFC 6494 and RFC 6495 which define use of a SEND Certificate Profile utilizing a modified RFC 6487 RPKI Certificate Profile which must include a single RFC 3779 IP Address Delegation extension.\n\nThere have been concerns with algorithm agility vis-à-vis attacks on hash functions used by SEND expressed in RFC 6273, as CGA currently uses the SHA-1 hash algorithm and PKIX certificates and does not provide support for alternative hash algorithms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848721", "title": "European Cultural Foundation", "text": "European Cultural Foundation\n\nThe European Cultural Foundation (ECF) is a Netherlands-based independent cultural foundation. Its mission is to “make a tangible impact on civil society, citizen initiatives, public opinion and policy proposals to combat the fragmenting forces jeopardising peace and social progress in Europe”.\n\nThe European Cultural Foundation was set up in Geneva in 1954 by the Swiss philosopher Denis de Rougemont. ECF’s first President was Robert Schuman, one of the principal architects of the European Economic Community, which later evolved into the European Union.\n\nFrom the start, ECF focused on implementing a European grants programme, based on the idea of putting culture at the intersection of education, social sciences and history.\n\nIn 1960, ECF moved to Amsterdam at the initiative of Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, who was ECF’s President from 1955-77.\nSince then ECF’s programme has evolved with the shifting dynamics of European politics. In the 1960s, ECF focused on the future of Europe through a youth forum on education and an initiative called Plan Europe 2000. In the 1970s, the emphasis shifted towards student mobility – and from 1987 to 1995, ECF managed the Erasmus student exchange programme. \n\nAs Europe continued to expand, ECF’s focus turned to the cultural dimension of European integration and enlargement – encompassing the wider European Neighbourhood and including capacity building work in the Mediterranean area and Eastern Europe. \n\nThe foundation’s work continues to support cultural exchange and creative expression across wider Europe today, through advocacy work, media activism, partnerships, events and grant programmes. This includes STEP travel grants, which encourage mobility; and the TANDEM Cultural Exchange programme, which facilitates the exchange of cultural managers.\n\nSince 2013, ECF has been working in close collaboration between cultural organisations in Croatia, France, Poland, Moldova, Spain and Sweden as part of the Connected Action for the Commons network this has led to a series of Idea Camps in France, Sweden and Spain – inspiring several special editions of \"Eurozine\".\n\nIn 2008, ECF launched the ECF Princess Margriet Award for Culture to recognise cultural change-makers across Europe. The annual award is made in honour of Princess Margriet of the Netherlands, who served as ECF President from 1984 to 2007. Past laureates include the late cultural theorist Stuart Hall, museum director Charles Esche and film director John Akomfrah.\n\nPrincess Laurentien of the Netherlands is currently the President of ECF and Extraordinary Member of ECF’s Board. \n\nECF is a registered charity and is funded by and Nederlandse Loterij in partnership with Prins Bernhard Cultuurfonds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848732", "title": "Kolbotn", "text": "Kolbotn\n\nKolbotn is the centre of Oppegård, Norway. The population is about 6,000. Kolbotn has several elementary schools, four middle schools and a high school. Town is located at the end of Kolbotnvannet, a lake.\n\nJazz guitarist Eivind Aarset was born in Kolbotn in 1961, and the Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone formed there in 1986. There's also a lot of known rappers as well, like Vinni, Cast from Equicez, Feit'n fra Kolbotn, Saile, and more.\n\nThe football team Kolbotn IL hails from here. In 2006 Kolbotn women's team were top of the top league for women in Norway, the Toppserien. The team included Norwegian national footballers Solveig Gulbrandsen, Trine Rønning, Christine Colombo Nilsen and Isabell Herlovsen. Striker Rebecca Angus from Middlesbrough, England also played four seasons for Kolbotn in 2007-10. Kolbotn won the 2007 Cup competition by beating Asker 4-2 on 10-11-07. Kolbotn finished in third place in the Toppserien league for three seasons 2009-11 while coached by Dan Eggen. Kolbotn is also the first professional club of Ada Hegerberg, first women's Ballon d'Or in history (2018).\n\nIn the Norwegian legal drama \" Aber Bergen\", lead character Erik Aber is \"a Kolbotn boy\" and implies he is from a rough neighborhood compared to his refined middle class Bergen wife, Elea Wessel.\n"}
{"id": "1848736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848736", "title": "Sumantra Ghoshal", "text": "Sumantra Ghoshal\n\nSumantra Ghoshal (26 September 19483 March 2004) was an Indian scholar and educator. He served as a Professor of Strategic and International Management at the London Business School, and was the founding Dean of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad.\n\nHis \"Managing Across Borders: The Transnational Solution,\" co-authored with Christopher A. Bartlett, has been listed in the Financial Times as one of the 50 most influential management books, and has been translated into nine languages.\n\nBorn in Calcutta, Ghoshal attended the Ballygaunge Government High School, and graduated from Delhi University with Physics major and at the Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management\n\nGhoshal started his career in industry. He worked for Indian Oil Corporation, rising through the management ranks before moving to the United States on a Fulbright Fellowship and Humphrey Fellowship in 1981. Ghoshal was awarded an S.M. and a PhD from the MIT Sloan School of Management in 1983 and 1985 respectively, and was also awarded a D.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School in 1986. He worked on these degrees at the same time, writing two distinct dissertations on two different topics\n\nIn 1985, he joined INSEAD Business School in France and wrote a stream of influential articles and books. In 1994, he joined the London Business School. Ghoshal was a Fellow of the Advanced Institute of Management Research (AIM) in the U.K and a Professor of Strategic and International Management at the London Business School. He served as a member of The Committee of Overseers of the Harvard Business School.\n\nGhoshal married Sushmita and they had two sons. He died of a brain hemorrhage.\n\n\nGhoshal's early work focused on the matrix structure in multinational organizations, and the \"conflict and confusion\" that reporting along both geographical and functional lines created. His later work is more ambitious, and hence perhaps more important – the idea that it is necessary to halt economics from taking over management. This, he theorised, is important since firms do not play on the periphery of human life today, but have taken a central role.\n\nIn co-operation with Christopher A. Bartlett, Ghoshal researched successful enterprises on international markets. They found three types of internationalization, differing in structural approach and strategic capabilities. The types were dubbed \"Multinational\", \"Global\" and \"International\".\n\nDue to an ever-faster changing environment, Bartlett and Ghoshal see a further need for adaptation with a drive toward a company, that masters not one, but all three of the strategic capabilities of the named types. The ideal-type thus created, they dubbed the \"transnational enterprise\".\n\nAlso with Bartlett in 1997, Ghoshal set up a \"management context and individual behavior model\" highlighting a context shaped by stretch, trust, support, and discipline. They identified that kind of context as a cornerstone that elicits behaviours of the individual which contribute to an organisation's self-renewal, allowing the organisation to be vigorous and energetic.\n\nHis treatment of management issues at the level of the individual led him to conclude that management theory that focuses on the economic aspects of man to the exclusion of all others is incorrect at best. According to him, \"A theory that assumes that managers cannot be relied upon by shareholders can make managers less reliable.\"\n\nSuch theory, he warned, would become a self-fulfilling prophecy, a particularly stinging critique of the output of a majority of his colleagues in business schools that made him controversial. To his death, his fight was against the \"narrow idea\" that led to today's management theory being \"undersocialized and one-dimensional, a parody of the human condition more appropriate to a prison or a madhouse than an institution which should be a force for good.\"\n\nGhoshal published 10 books, over 70 articles, and several award-winning case studies. Books, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n"}
{"id": "1848740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848740", "title": "Shaw Library", "text": "Shaw Library\n\nThe Shaw Neighborhood Library or Watha T. Daniel Library is a building of award-winning design and one of the recently renovated libraries in the District of Columbia Public Library's system. Originally constructed in 1975 as a two-story structure in the Shaw neighborhood, the building was extensively renovated and reopened as a three-story structure in August 2010. With its distinctive translucent facade, glass enclosure, and light flooded interior, it has been hailed as a model for future libraries.\n\nThe Shaw library opened on September 27, 1975 at the intersection of Rhode Island Avenue and 7th Street NW with a ceremony led by Mayor Walter Washington. It reflected a design for the library, drawn up after the 1968 riots that devastated Shaw, which was so prison-like that the National Capital Planning Commission directed the District to open it up with larger windows, bigger setbacks, and arcades. The artictect, Eason Cross of the Alexandria VA-based firm Cross and Adreon, rejected the advice and persisted with the original Brutalist design that had only slits for windows. He continued with his plans, despite an attempt to get a federal injunction to stop, with the justification that the small, irregular size of the lot prohibited any redesign.\n\nThe original library, constructed at a cost of $1.2 million, came from Federal appropriations budgeted by the D.C. Commissioners. The two story building contained adult reading room, a lounge area, and a listening booth on the first floor while the second floor provided space for a children's room complete with a specially designed enclosure for story hours. The original building was razed in 2004.\n\nThe massive renovation, started with plans received in 2007, was part of a wave of upgrades to DC Public Library facilities undertaken by Chief Librarian Ginnie Cooper. Costs were estimated to be $15,707,441 or $433 per square foot, though final costs were reported at $12 million. Of any of the projects, the renovation of the Shaw Library showed the greatest transformation from its previous state, according to Cooper.\n\nThe building was named after Watha T. Daniel, a master plumber, Shaw resident and community leader who was the first chairman of the DC Model Cities Commission and died in 1971.\n\nIn March 2016, a security guard at the library was observed by multiple patrons harassing a Muslim patron for wearing a hijab. Protests were held outside the library and the security guard admitted to harassing the woman although he claimed he thought she was wearing a hoodie. The security guard, who had been previously terminated by Metropolitan Police for destruction of private property, was not fired despite there being no policy against wearing hoodies in the library.\n\nThe library fills a triangular site and has three stories — one below grade and two above. The entry plaza on the east end of the cite opens to the main lobby that provides access to the lower level which houses community spaces. Peter D. Cook, principal in charge of design at the Davis Brody Bond Aedas architectural firm responsible for the project, explained that “The Library will anchor the neighborhood by providing a civic facility rich in aesthetic, environmental and programmatic assets that is representative of DC Public Library’s commitment to a standard of excellence for all residents.”\n\nThe defining features of the building is a corrugated, perforated aluminum screen wall system across its southern façade which forms a distinctive jutting prow. With a 40% open area, the screen wall sits three feet in front of an expansive glazed curtain wall and provides shading of the upper level reading room while allowing natural daylight to enter the space. The shading system allows a reduced dependence on artificial lighting and protects the Library’s collection from harmful solar exposure. To take full advantage of the location's potential for unobstructed natural light, clerestory windows and translucent, insulated fiberglass panels on the north provide illumination from the sun on all sides. Lighting design firm MCLA validated light levels in the large, open room through a detailed analysis. The lighting designers developed an electric lighting system based primarily on the T5 linear fluorescent with a 3500-Kelvin color temperature—the lamp preferred by the client for energy and maintenance efficiency. Special fixtures are cantilevered from the tall stacks for vertical illumination on the books, and suspended luminaires are mounted over reading tables and workstations.\n\nThe renovated building was designed to meet LEED Silver Certification and incorporates a vegetative green roof, displacement air system, solar control and daylight management and uses of recyclable and renewable materials. It received LEED Gold Certification.\n\nThe design for the new library went through several iterations. At one point, amidst budget constraints, model was proposed that scrapped much of the glass and proposed a structure similar to the old version. This was driven by the discovery that Metro has both a tunnel and a large vent under and abutting the library site, making it more expensive to do construction there.\n\nIn addition to functioning as a library, the building has been hailed as a \"hybrid community, recreation and learning center.\" \n\nThe library contains 40,000 books, DVDs, CDs and other library materials with capacity for 80,000 items. Computer access includes 32 public access computers, free Wi-Fi Internet access, and 8 Mac computers in the teen space. There is comfortable seating for 200 customers, one large program room for up to 100 people, two 12-person conference rooms, and a vending area. Among its community offerings are yoga and Bollywood dance classes. The facilities have been used for mayoral announcements.\n\nThe entry plaza at the east end of the site welcomes the public to the library and displays a 22-foot neon sculpture by local artist Craig Kraft. Entitled \"Vivace\", according to the artist the piece was inspired by jazz and is intended to capture \"the spirit of creativity, vibrancy and color\" that he associates with the Shaw neighborhood.\n\nA graphic mural in the upper level displays a collage of portraits depicting over 250 members of the community and an inspirational quote from President Barack Obama’s inaugural address which reads, “We know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are shaped by every language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth; and because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation, and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass; that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve; that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself; and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace.” \n\nThe District of Columbia’s Mayor Adrian M. Fenty presented the architects with a National Association of Builders and Contractors Proclamation Award. The Urban Land Institute named the library one of the Top 10 Buildings in Washington DC and it received the Developers and Builders Alliance Community Advancement Award for the Best Developments of the Year, USA & Canada. The \"Wall Street Journal\" named it one of the top 10 buildings in the US for 2010. Other awards include the Associated General Contractors Washington Contractor Award, NAIOP Award of Excellence and ENR Mid-Atlantic Construction Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848741", "title": "Multilevel feedback queue", "text": "Multilevel feedback queue\n\nIn computer science, a multilevel feedback queue is a scheduling algorithm. Solaris 2.6 Time-Sharing (TS) scheduler implements this algorithm. The MacOS and Microsoft Windows schedulers can both be regarded as examples of the broader class of multilevel feedback queue schedulers.\nThis scheduling algorithm is intended to meet the following design requirements for multimode systems:\n\n\nThe Multi-level Feedback Queue scheduler was first developed by Fernando J. Corbató et al. in 1962, and this work, along with other work on Multics, led the ACM to award Corbató the Turing Award.\nUnlike multilevel queue scheduling algorithm where processes are permanently assigned to a queue, multilevel feedback queue scheduling allows a process to move between queues. This movement is facilitated by the characteristic of the CPU burst of the process. If a process uses too much CPU time, it will be moved to a lower-priority queue. This scheme leaves I/O-bound and interactive processes in the higher priority queues. In addition, a process that waits too long in a lower-priority queue may be moved to a higher priority queue. This form of aging also helps to prevent starvation of certain lower priority processes.\n\nMultiple FIFO queues are used and the operation is as follows:\n\n\nFor scheduling, the scheduler always starts picking up processes from the head of the highest level queue. Only if the highest level queue has become empty will the scheduler take up a process from the next lower level queue. The same policy is implemented for picking up in the subsequent lower level queues. Meanwhile, if a process comes into any of the higher level queues, it will preempt a process in the lower level queue.\n\nAlso, a new process is always inserted at the tail of the top level queue with the assumption that it will complete in a short amount of time. Long processes will automatically sink to lower level queues based on their time consumption and interactivity level. In the multilevel feedback queue a process is given just one chance to complete at a given queue level before it is forced down to a lower level queue.\n\nIn general, a multilevel feedback queue scheduler is defined by the following parameters:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848742", "title": "Nuala Ahern", "text": "Nuala Ahern\n\nNuala Ahern (; born 5 February 1949 in Omeath, County Louth) is a former Irish Green Party member of the European Parliament representing Leinster in Ireland from 1994–2004. Ahern became active in politics in 1991 becoming elected to Wicklow County Council. She joined the Green Party in 1989. \n\nHer involvement in politics began through community action in Wicklow to prevent sewage pollution into the Irish Sea. She is a long-term anti-nuclear campaigner, promoting the use of renewable energy. She grew up in the Cooley peninsula of North County Louth which is close to the plutonium reprocessing plant in Sellafield on the West coast of the UK. She campaigned against the construction of a nuclear power plant in Carnsore Point, County Wexford in the late 1970s and for the closure of Sellafield which still operates today. She campaigned against the use of genetically modified food stating concerns of inadequate scientific knowledge. She has also campaigned against animal testing in the European Union.\n\nIn the European Parliament Ahern was vice-president of the Petitions Committee, vice-president of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research & Energy, member of the Culture Committee and Legal Affairs Committee and president of the Intergroup on Complementary and Natural Medicine.\n\nAhern is founding member of the Irish Women's Environment Network and the Wicklow Greens.\n\nHer father Vincent MacDowell from Newry, is a former councillor and political activist, a former vice chairman of Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association and a representative of the Green Party and the Labour Party.\n"}
{"id": "1848746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848746", "title": "Oregon City-class cruiser", "text": "Oregon City-class cruiser\n\nThe Oregon City class was a class of heavy cruisers of the United States Navy. Although it was intended to build ten, only four were completed – one of those as a command ship. The three ships completed as cruisers were in commission from 1946 to 1970.\n\nThe \"Oregon City\"-class cruisers were a modified version of the previous design; the main difference was a more compact pyramidal superstructure with single trunked funnel, intended to improve the arcs of fire of the anti-aircraft (AA) guns. The same type of modification also differentiated the and classes of light cruisers.\n\nTen ships were authorized for the class with three being completed and the fourth suspended during construction. The final six ships were cancelled, five after being laid down. Construction on the incomplete fourth ship was resumed in 1948 and the ship served as a command ship . All three completed cruisers were commissioned in 1946. \"Oregon City\" was decommissioned after only 22 months of service, one of the shortest active careers of any World War II-era cruiser. \"Albany\" was later converted into a guided missile ship, becoming the lead ship of the and served until 1980. A similar conversion was planned for \"Rochester\" but was cancelled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848749", "title": "Ingleburn railway station", "text": "Ingleburn railway station\n\nIngleburn railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Ingleburn. It is served by Sydney Trains T8 Airport & South line services.\n\nIngleburn station opened on 19 August 1883.\n\nAn additional track was opened to the west of the station in 1995 as part of the Glenfield - Ingleburn passing loop. This unelectrified track was used by freight and long distance passenger trains. In December 2012, the track was incorporated into the Southern Sydney Freight Line and became freight only.\n\nIn April 2014, a major upgrade commenced. This will include lifts being installed at the south end of the station and a new structure on Platform 1. It was scheduled to be completed in 2016.\n\nSince the second half of 2017, Ingleburn railway station has been served exclusively by the Airport and East Hills line, meaning commuters have to change at Glenfield to travel to either the city via Granville or to Blacktown via the Cumberland Line.\n\nThe crossovers to the south and north of the station can be used to terminate trains if there is an obstruction (e.g. broken down train) ahead. In the early 2000s there were a few trains a day timetabled to terminate at Ingleburn, but these have since disappeared from the timetable. The signals at Ingleburn can be switched between automatic and controlled mode. In automatic mode, the signals will automatically change depending on where trains are detected and the points are locked in the normal position. In controlled mode, the signals and points can be controlled from Campbelltown Signal Box or the Rail Operations Centre at Alexandria.\n\nInterline Bus Services operate six routes via Ingleburn station:\n\nIngleburn station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848756", "title": "List of places in Vale of Glamorgan", "text": "List of places in Vale of Glamorgan\n\nThis is a list of towns and villages in the principal area of Vale of Glamorgan, Wales.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848769", "title": "Flatland BMX", "text": "Flatland BMX\n\nFlatland is a freestyle BMX riding style performed on smooth flat surfaces that do not include any ramps, jumps, or grindrails. It is sometimes described as a form of artistic cycling with a blend of breakdancing. \n\nFlatland occupies a position somewhat removed from the rest of freestyle BMX. They are often very dedicated, and will spend several hours a day perfecting their techniques.\nFlatland also differs from the others in that the terrain used is nothing but a smooth, flat surface. Tricks are performed by spinning and balancing on the bike in a variety of unexpected positions. Riders almost always use either knurled/grip taped aluminum or plastic pegs to stand on to manipulate the bike into even more imaginative positions.\n\nFlatland bikes typically have a shorter wheelbase than other freestyle bikes. This shorter wheelbase requires less effort to make the bike spin or to position the bike on one wheel. One of the primary reasons flatlanders often ride only flatland is the decreased stability of using their shorter bikes on ramps, dirt and street.\nA variety of options is commonly found on flatland bikes. The most unifying feature of flatland bikes is the use of four pegs, one on the end of each wheel axle. Flatlanders will choose to run a front brake (or a dual front brake; one front brake with two brake levers using one brake cable), front and rear brakes, or no brakes at all, depending on stylistic preference.\n\nAlthough the flatland bicycle is similar to most other BMX bicycles, flatland is often performed with specially designed frames with geometry (head tube angle, top tube length, etc.) suited to the needs of flatlanders. Front and rear bolt-on pegs, a hollow compression bolt on the forks for the front brake cable, and a rear brake cable detangler or \"Gyro\" to allow the bars to rotate endlessly without tangling the brake cables. Also invented specifically for flatland riding is the rear hub mechanism known as a freecoaster, which allows the rear wheel to roll backwards without engaging the hub and making the cranks rotate backwards as they would on a normal freewheel or cassette style hub. Other technical bicycle setup specifics can include zero offset forks, narrow handlebars, very high pressure tires (100psi and higher), and a very small front sprocket (18-28 teeth).\nIn competition, talent and skill are judged by the ability to maintain coordination, and balance while performing a variety of difficult and elegant moves. There are usually several categories for judging purposes which can include: \n\nFlatland is an involving, time-consuming discipline in which the rider learns different balance/counterbalance points and center-of-gravity in motion techniques through repetition and trial-and-error. Some tricks can be learned in hours, while others may take years to master.\n\nVarious riders emphasize different aspects of the discipline: the artistic nature of flatland and the originality of tricks, the number and difficulty of tricks, or the simple enjoyment of the activity. Only contest riders need to be concerned with the competitive side of the discipline, as there are many riders who prefer doing shows, taking parts in videos, or simply riding with their friends and enjoying themselves.\n\nRiders usually pedal a few times for speed, and then perform various stunts often involving difficult and/or awkward stances on pegs, mounted to the axles of their front or back wheels. Pegs are aluminum or plastic tubes, which are bolted onto both sides of the front and back axles. When flatland riding first began, most riders would do one trick and then return to the pedals. However, by combining different body and bicycle positions into \"combos\" and \"linking\" them together, riders began to do several tricks in a row without stopping between each move. Flatland riding is now usually a combination of many different kinds of moves, often linked together non-stop as the rider goes through as many as 10-12 consecutive moves, and position/direction changes, before returning to the pedals.\n\nFlatland originated from three pioneers; R. L. Osborn, Bob Haro, and Bob Morales. R. L. Osborn was a fan favorite in the mid 80s, being the highest paid BMX flatland professional ever after signing a contract with General Bicycles for around US$100,000. Bob Haro went on to become founder of Haro Bicycles. Bob Morales was the founder of the once elite American Freestyle Association. The AFA was the dominating league for both professional and amateur flatland and quarter pipe events. While there were several amateur AFA events the Masters series contest, held throughout the US was the biggest pro/am flatland/quarter pipe event of the time.\nFlatland's roots can be dated back to the 1950s. Flatland has gone through many stylistic changes since its beginnings in the late 1970s. Riders once wore full protective gear and full face helmets, starred in feature-length films such as Rad (film), and performed in large-scale events such as NBA halftimes. Following the decline in popularity and subsequent recession in most action sports at the end of the 80s, flatland went \"underground\". It resurfaced in the late 90s with the return of media attention in the form of events such as the X Games. Flatland was dropped from the X Games and other large-scale events in the early 2000s, forcing the sport/artform to become more independently run and owned. Most flatland companies and events now exist outside of other BMX circles, although there is still, somewhat limited, coverage in mainstream BMX magazines and videos. \nWith the removal of flatland from events such as the XGames, many independent event organizers have stepped up and taken flatland to the masses through creative, independently organized events such as the Red Bull Circle Balance, Circle Cow, and BMX Masters events in Europe, the Elevation Flatland series and Voodoo Jams in the US, and smaller \"jams\" such as the Athens Jam and Hollywood Jams which take place in the US. These independent events and jams are what has helped keep flatland \"alive\" and thriving over the years.\n\nFlatland tricks are given names, usually by the first person to invent it. For example, the first flatland \"bunnyhop tailwhip\" was first landed in a Burger King parking lot by Bill Nitschke, and there named a \"whopper\". Terry Adams invented a trick following Hurricane Katrina (since Terry lives in Louisiana), and named his new trick \"The Katrina\".\n\nThe name may be modified (referencing whether it is rolled, scuffed, g-turned, stationary, etc.) or included in a list of other tricks, with \"links\" such as \"bar-flip into\" or \"jump to\", to indicate a combination, often shortened to \"combo.\"\n\nThese names generally apply to popular positions, or combinations of tricks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848778", "title": "Great hall", "text": "Great hall\n\nA great hall is the main room of a royal palace, nobleman's castle or a large manor house or hall house in the Middle Ages, and continued to be built in the country houses of the 16th and early 17th centuries, although by then the family used the great chamber for eating and relaxing. At that time the word \"great\" simply meant big and had not acquired its modern connotations of excellence. In the medieval period, the room would simply have been referred to as the \"hall\" unless the building also had a secondary hall, but the term \"great hall\" has been predominant for surviving rooms of this type for several centuries, to distinguish them from the different type of hall found in post-medieval houses. Great halls were found especially in France, England and Scotland, but similar rooms were also found in some other European countries.\n\nA typical great hall was a rectangular room between one and a half and three times as long as it was wide, and also higher than it was wide. It was entered through a screens passage at one end, and had windows on one of the long sides, often including a large bay window. There was often a minstrels' gallery above the screens passage. At the other end of the hall was the dais where the high table was situated. The lord's family's more private rooms lay beyond the dais end of the hall, and the kitchen, buttery and pantry were on the opposite side of the screens passage.\n\nEven royal and noble residences had few living rooms until late in the Middle Ages, and a great hall was a multifunctional room. It was used for receiving guests and it was the place where the household would dine together, including the lord of the house, his gentleman attendants and at least some of the servants. At night some members of the household might sleep on the floor of the great hall.\n\nThe hall would originally have had a central hearth, with the smoke rising through the hall to a vent in the roof; later, chimneys were added, and it would then have one of the largest fireplaces of the palace, manor house or castle, frequently large enough to walk and stand inside. The hearth was used for heating and also for some of the cooking, although for larger structures a medieval kitchen would customarily lie on a lower level for the bulk of the cooking. Commonly the fireplace would have an elaborate overmantel with stone or wood carvings or even plasterwork which might contain coats of arms, heraldic mottoes (usually in Latin), caryatids or another adornment. In the upper halls of French manor houses, the fireplaces were usually very large and elaborate. Typically, the great hall had the most beautiful decorations in it, as well as on the window frame mouldings on the outer wall. Many French manor houses have very beautifully decorated external window frames on the large mullioned windows that light the hall. This decoration clearly marked the window as belonging to the lord's private hall. It was where guests slept.\n\nIn Scotland, six common furnishings were present in the sixteenth-century hall: the high table and principal seat; side tables for others; the cupboard and silver plate; the hanging chandelier, often called the 'hart-horn' made of antler; ornamental weapons, commonly a halberd; and the cloth and napery used for dining. \n\nIn western France, the early manor houses were centred on a central ground-floor hall. Later, the hall reserved for the lord and his high-ranking guests was moved up to the first-floor level. This was called the \"salle haute\" or upper hall (or \"high room\"). In some of the larger three-storey manor houses, the upper hall was as high as second storey roof. The smaller ground-floor hall or \"salle basse\" remained but was for receiving guests of any social order. It is very common to find these two halls superimposed, one on top of the other, in larger manor houses in Normandy and Brittany. Access from the ground-floor hall to the upper (great) hall was normally via an external staircase tower. The upper hall often contained the lord's bedroom and living quarters off one end.\n\nOccasionally the great hall would have an early listening device system, allowing conversations to be heard in the lord's bedroom above. In Scotland, these devices are called a laird's lug. In many French manor houses, there are small peep-holes from which the lord could observe what was happening in the hall. This type of hidden peep-hole is called a \"judas\" in French.\n\nMany great halls survive. Two very large surviving royal halls are Westminster Hall and the Vladislav Hall in Prague Castle (although the latter was only used for public events, never used as a great hall here described). Penshurst Place in Kent, England has a little altered 14th century example. Surviving 16th and early 17th century specimens in England, Wales and Scotland are numerous, for example those at Longleat (England), Burghley House (England), Bodysgallen Hall (Wales), Muchalls Castle (Scotland) and Crathes Castle (Scotland); however, by the late 18th century the great hall was beginning to lose its purpose. The greater centralization of power in royal hands meant that men of good social standing were less inclined to enter the service of a lord to obtain his protection, and the size of the inner household shrank. As the social gap between master and servant grew, the family retreated, usually to the 1st floor, to private rooms. In fact, servants were not usually allowed to use the same staircases as nobles to access the great hall of larger castles in early times; for example, the servants' staircases are still extant in places such as Muchalls Castle. The other living rooms in country houses became more numerous, specialized and important, and by the late 17th century the halls of many new houses were simply vestibules, passed through to get to somewhere else, but not lived in. Other great halls like that at Bank Hall in Lancashire were downsized to create two rooms.\n\nThe domestic model applied also to Collegiate institutions during the Middle Ages. Many colleges at Durham, Cambridge, Oxford and St Andrews universities have halls on the great hall model which are still used as dining rooms on a daily basis, the largest in such use being that of University College, Durham. So do the Inns of Court and the Livery Companies in London, and King's College School in Wimbledon. The \"high table\" (often on a small dais at the top of the hall, farthest away from the screens passage) seats dons (at the universities) and Masters of the Bench (at the Inns of Court), whilst students (at the universities) and barristers or students (at the Inns of Court) dine at tables placed at right angles to the high table and running down the body of the hall, thus maintaining the hierarchical arrangement of the medieval domestic or collegiate household.\n\nFrom the 15th century onwards halls lost most of their traditional functions to more specialised rooms, first for family members and guests to the great chamber and parlours, withdrawing rooms, and later for servants who finally achieved their own servants hall to eat in and servants bedrooms in attics or basements). The halls of late 17th, 18th and 19th-century country houses and palaces usually functioned almost entirely as impressive entrance points to the house, and for large scale entertaining, as at Christmas, for dancing, or when a touring company of actors performed. With the arrival of ballrooms and dedicated music rooms in the largest houses by the late 17th century, these functions too were lost. There was a revival of the great hall concept in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with large halls used for banqueting and entertaining (but not as eating or sleeping places for servants) featuring in some houses of this period as part of a broader medieval revival, for example Thoresby Hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848779", "title": "TLV mirror", "text": "TLV mirror\n\nA TLV mirror is a type of bronze mirror that was popular during the Han Dynasty in China. They are called TLV mirrors because symbols resembling the letters T, L, and V are engraved into them. They were produced from around the 2nd century BCE until the 2nd century CE.\n\nThe first mirrors with TLV symbols appeared during the 2nd century BCE, with some believing that they were related to Liu An's astrological and cosmological interests. The dragon was an important symbol of these early TLV mirrors. In early mirrors from the 2nd century BCE, the dragons were often used as an arabesque, however by the 1st century BCE, the dragons lost their arabesque form and became full-fledged figures. \n\nIn the later part of the Western Han period, the dragons were replaced by winged figures, monsters and immortals. These new mirrors also saw the division of the main area into two separate rings, with the TLV symbols being placed in the inner part of the main area, and other decorations being placed in the outer area. By the end of the 1st century BCE, the band dividing the main area into two concentric rings had largely lost its structural function of separating the mirror into two sections. Instead it existed merely as a line, or not at all.\n\nMirrors from the Xin Dynasty (8–23 CE) usually have an outer band with cloud or animal motifs, and an inner circle with a square containing a knob. The inner circle often contains a series of eight 'nipples,' and various mythological animals and being, often including the Queen Mother of the West. The central square could have an inscription, or contain the characters of the Twelve Earthly Branches. Inscriptions placed in between the mirror's sections frequently discuss Wang Mang and his reign.\n\nScholars are engaged in a debate as to what the symbols on TLV mirrors mean. Some scholars believe that they represent ideas from Chinese cosmology, while others believe that they could also be used to play the boardgame of liubo.\n\nTLV mirrors are circular. At their centers is a circular boss inset on a square panel. According to Schuyler Camman, the design of TLV mirrors was cosmologically significant. The V shapes served to give the inner square the appearance of being placed in the middle of a cross. This forms an illustration of the Chinese idea of the five directions – North, South, West, East and Center. The central square represents China as the ‘Middle Kingdom.’ The area in between the central square and the circle represented the ‘Four Seas.’ During the Han Dynasty the ‘Four Seas’ represented territories outside China, and did not literally refer to water. The central square within the round mirror likely alludes to the ancient Chinese idea that heaven was round and earth was square. The Ts represented the concept of the ‘Four Gates of the Middle Kingdom,’ an idea present in Chinese literature. They could have also represented the idea of the four inner gates of the Han place of sacrifice, or the gates of the imperial tombs built during the Han period. The Ls possibly symbolized the marshes and swamps beyond the ‘Four Seas,’ at the ends of the earth. The bending of the Ls could possibly have served to create a rotating effect which symbolized the four seasons, which were very closely related to the cardinal directions. The nine nipples in the central square likely represented the ‘nine regions of the earth as discussed by Cammann as having come from the Shiji. The eight nipples outside of the central square were most likely a representations of the Eight Pillars, mountains that held up the canopy of heaven. The area between the inner round border and the outer rim of the mirror was often filled with swirls that represented the clouds in heaven.\n\nSome scholars believe that the design of TLV mirrors is derived from an ancient Chinese boardgame called liubo, which was played on a square board with the same markings as seen on this type of mirror.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848782", "title": "Glyndon", "text": "Glyndon\n\nGlyndon may refer to several locations in the United States:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848795", "title": "Faith (Faith Evans album)", "text": "Faith (Faith Evans album)\n\nFaith is the debut album by American recording artist Faith Evans. It was released by Bad Boy Records on August 29, 1995 in the United States. A collaboration with the label's main producers The Hitmen, including members Sean \"Puff Daddy\" Combs and Chucky Thompson, as well as Mark Ledford, Herb Middleton, and Jean-Claude Olivier, among others.\n\nThe album, which spawned the gold-certified hits \"You Used to Love Me\" and \"Soon as I Get Home\", was certified Platinum by the RIAA in March 1996. \"Faith\" contains a cover of the Rose Royce's single \"Love Don't Live Here Anymore\" which featured an appearance from Mary J. Blige on the album's original pressings.\n\nNewly contracted to Bad Boy Records, Evans was consulted by executive producer Combs to contribute backing vocals and writing skills to Mary J. Blige's \"My Life\" (1994) and Usher's self-titled debut album (1994) prior to starting work on her debut record album \"Faith\". Producer Chucky Thompson- who helmed most of the album- recalls meeting Evans for the first time by her doing vocal production work on Usher's album. Though she initially was a protégé of Al B. Sure!'s, she eventually signed to Bad Boy and insisted on Thompson producing her entire album after hearing him playing music on the piano in the studio. Thompson said Evans' first single \"You Used To Love Me\" was originally planned for her labelmates Total, but Evans wrote to the track after hearing the music and it was the first song finished for her album. The second single \"Soon As I Get Home\" was done to pass the time at the studio because Thompson had a flight to catch later that day. As he was about to leave, he received a call from Combs insisting he record the music Evans heard him play before he got on the plane. Evans later left a message on Thompson's answering machine- which was the song she wrote and recorded. Thompson said the song was finished and he didn't add any other touches to it.\n\nAnother song on the album, \"You Don't Understand\", was primarily influenced by Evans' marriage to The Notorious B.I.G.. The music of R. Kelly was the primary inspiration for the musical arrangement, according to Thompson. The third single from the album was the song \"Ain't Nobody\". Thompson said it was influenced by the song \"Can't Let Her Get Away\" by Michael Jackson from his 1991 album \"Dangerous\". When he started on the music, he didn't do the tracking until after Combs came to hear the song and gave him the go ahead to track it. When Thompson attempted the first time after Combs left, the plug came out from the machine and the entire track was erased- which led him having to do it all over again from scratch. The final single released from the album, \"Come Over\", was initially supposed to be an interlude. However, Evans insisted the interlude should be made into a full song. Another album track on \"Faith\", \"All This Love\" was written by Evans and her boyfriend prior to her marriage to The Notorious B.I.G., but Thompson revealed the music was composed five years before he met Evans. The CD bonus track \"Reasons\" featured uncredited background vocals from Blackstreet member Dave Hollister. The reason for his appearance was due to Evans and Blackstreet recording their debut albums at the same studio, but only on different floors. Also originally planned as an interlude, Blackstreet member and producer Teddy Riley came looking for Hollister and overheard the two singing \"Reasons\". Riley then suggested to Combs that it should be made into a full song. \"Faith\" was recorded primarily at The Hit Factory and Combs' personal studio Daddy's House Recording- both of which were based in New York City.\n\n\"Faith\" received critical acclaim upon its release. \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the album an A- rating, describing \"Faith\" as \"packed with sensual, smoky R&B torch songs and titanium-hard hip-hop beats--Faith seems set to take her place at the top of the mountain of young soul divas.\" \"Vibe\" complimented the albums vocal production, noting that Evans \"possesses a perfect voice. Folks have likened that voice to rain, and it's an appropriate metaphor [...] can sound as lilting as a summer shower or as electric as a thunderstorm. Her instrument's potential seems boundless [...] more Whitney than Mary, more classic than nouveau.\" \"The Source\" praised Sean Combs production, writing that \"for those closet sentimentalists or those who like to get their slow drag on [...] when you're working with the man who perfected the remix, there's still a good chance that \"Faith\" will not only be pumping on rainy nights in the crib but also on summer days in the Land Cruisers too.\"\n\nReleased on August 29, 1995, the album became a success based on the hit singles \"You Used to Love Me\", \"Soon as I Get Home\" and Ain't Nobody\". It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) with over 1,500,000 copies sold.\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes.\n\nSamples\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848813", "title": "Uetendorf", "text": "Uetendorf\n\nUetendorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.\n\nIt is situated close to the city of Thun, and connected to traffic through the A8 motorway and the BLS AG's Thun-Belp-Bern railway line. Due to its favourable geographic situation, it is home to several small to medium-sized industry companies, most notably the \"Sarner Cristal\" Glass Hut.\n\nUetendorf is first mentioned in 994 as \"udendorf\".\n\nThe number of scattered neolithic, Bronze Age and La Tène artifacts indicate that the area around Uetendorf was home to many prehistoric settlements. During the Roman era, in the 2nd century AD, there was a large country estate near the modern village. After the collapse of the Western Roman Empire the estate probably remained in operation and eventually became a royal estate under the Kings of Burgundy. In 994, Emperor Otto III donated many of his royal estates, including Uetendorf, to support the imperial Selz Abbey in Alsace. The estate and village apparently passed through several owners over the next centuries. In 1232 the Lords of Uetendorf appear in records as members of the city council of Bern. In 1370 they apparently sold Uetendorf to Johann Zeinigen of Thun. He and his descendants owned the village and lands until some time in the 15th century, when they were sold to the hospital in Thun. In 1521 the hospital combined Uetendorf, Längenbühl and Uttigen together into the municipality of Uetendorf in the district court of Seftigen where it remained for over two centuries. In 1783 it became a municipality in the Thun District where it remains today.\n\nThe village of Uetendorf was part of the parish of Amsoldingen. In 1528 Bern adopted the new faith of the Protestant Reformation and the entire parish converted. In 1578 it became part of the nearby parish of Thierachern, but remained without its own church until 1955.\n\nThe village economy was based on raising crops and livestock in the flood plains and valley floors of the Glütschbach and Kander rivers. However, the frequent floods forced the villages to build and maintain an extensive network of levees and dikes. During the 1860s the Aare River correction projects finally reduced the flood risk and drained the swampy land around the rivers. The projects opened up additional farm land and reduced losses due to flooding.\n\nThe completion of the Gürbetal railroad in 1902 connected the village with its neighbors and the growing city of Thun. The railroad brought industry and jobs to the municipality. In 1953 the Selve AG metal works opened in the village. The large factory brought other machinery and engineering companies into the municipality and fueled population growth. Completion of the A8 motorway in 1971 provided another connection for the growing population. Along with small businesses and factories, a waste water treatment plant was built. Today the plant treats water for 32 neighboring communities. When the factory closed in 1993, the local economy was diversified enough that the population remained steady. In 2005 about 70% of the working population commuted to jobs outside the municipality, however about 48% of the jobs in Uetendorf were filled by workers who commuted into the municipality.\n\nThe Eichberg estate, which was built in 1792-93 for Carolus von Fischer, became a boarding school in 1932. The boarding school remained open until 1984. The Uetendorfberg Switzerland Foundation opened a school and residence for the deaf in 1921.\n\nUetendorf had its own primary school and shared a secondary school with Thierachern. However the secondary school district dissolved in 1959, forcing the municipality to build their own school in that year.\n\nUetendorf has an area of . As of the 2004 survey, a total of or 71.1% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 7.9% is forested. Of rest of the municipality or 20.9% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.2% is either rivers or lakes. Between the 1981 and 2004 surveys the settled area increased from to , an increase of 36.77%.\n\nFrom the same survey, industrial buildings made up 3.5% of the total area while housing and buildings made up 10.2% and transportation infrastructure made up 5.5%. A total of 6.4% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.5% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 53.4% is used for growing crops and 15.9% is pasturage, while 1.9% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality is located on the western edge of the Aare valley. It consists of the village of Uetendorf, which is made up of the Dorf, Berg and Allmend neighborhoods, as well as scattered farm houses.\n\nOn 31 December 2009 Amtsbezirk Thun, the municipality's former district, was dissolved. On the following day, 1 January 2010, it joined the newly created Verwaltungskreis Thun.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure on a Bend Argent three Roses Gules barbed and seeded proper.\"\n\nUetendorf has a population () of . , 5.7% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Between the last 2 years (2010-2012) the population changed at a rate of -0.8%. Migration accounted for -1.4%, while births and deaths accounted for -0.1%.\n\nMost of the population () speaks German (5,434 or 95.3%) as their first language, Albanian is the second most common (44 or 0.8%) and various African languages (not further specified) are the third (43 or 0.8%). There are 41 people who speak French, 31 people who speak Italian and 1 person who speaks Romansh.\n\n, the population was 49.6% male and 50.4% female. The population was made up of 2,756 Swiss men (46.2% of the population) and 202 (3.4%) non-Swiss men. There were 2,845 Swiss women (47.7%) and 163 (2.7%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality, 1,426 or about 25.0% were born in Uetendorf and lived there in 2000. There were 3,000 or 52.6% who were born in the same canton, while 667 or 11.7% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 397 or 7.0% were born outside of Switzerland.\n\n, children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 20.0% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 60.0% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 20.0%.\n\n, there were 2,258 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 2,878 married individuals, 293 widows or widowers and 273 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 720 households that consist of only one person and 140 households with five or more people. , a total of 2,223 apartments (93.4% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 108 apartments (4.5%) were seasonally occupied and 50 apartments (2.1%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 1.5 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0.5%. In 2012, single family homes made up 58.5% of the total housing in the municipality.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n, Uetendorf had an unemployment rate of 1.2%. , there were a total of 3,111 people employed in the municipality. Of these, there were 127 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 46 businesses involved in this sector. The secondary sector employs 1,227 people and there were 115 businesses in this sector. The tertiary sector employs 1,757 people, with 322 businesses in this sector. There were 3,057 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.4% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 1,464 workers who commuted into the municipality and 2,157 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.5 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. A total of 900 workers (38.1% of the 2,364 total workers in the municipality) both lived and worked in Uetendorf. Of the working population, 16.5% used public transportation to get to work, and 51.8% used a private car.\n\nThe local and cantonal tax rate in Uetendorf is one of the lowest in the canton. In 2012 the average local and cantonal tax rate on a married resident, with two children, of Uetendorf making 150,000 CHF was 11.5%, while an unmarried resident's rate was 17.2%. For comparison, the average rate for the entire canton in 2011, was 14.2% and 22.0%, while the nationwide average was 12.3% and 21.1% respectively.\n\nIn 2010 there were a total of 2,688 tax payers in the municipality. Of that total, 890 made over 75,000 CHF per year. There were 17 people who made between 15,000 and 20,000 per year. The average income of the over 75,000 CHF group in Uetendorf was 109,635 CHF, while the average across all of Switzerland was 131,244 CHF.\n\nIn 2011 a total of 1.9% of the population received direct financial assistance from the government.\n\nIn the 2011 federal election the most popular party was the Swiss People's Party (SVP) which received 37.3% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the Conservative Democratic Party (BDP) (15.8%), the Social Democratic Party (SP) (13.7%) and the Green Party (7.6%). In the federal election, a total of 2,407 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 51.8%.\n\nFrom the , 4,333 or 76.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church, while 514 or 9.0% were Roman Catholic. Of the rest of the population, there were 19 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.33% of the population), there were 4 individuals (or about 0.07% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 234 individuals (or about 4.10% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 6 individuals (or about 0.11% of the population) who were Jewish, and 137 (or about 2.40% of the population) who were Muslim. There were 11 individuals who were Buddhist, 4 individuals who were Hindu and 10 individuals who belonged to another church. 272 (or about 4.77% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 158 individuals (or about 2.77% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Uetendorf about 62.5% of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 15.7% have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 575 who had completed some form of tertiary schooling listed in the census, 79.1% were Swiss men, 17.9% were Swiss women, 2.6% were non-Swiss men.\n\nThe Canton of Bern school system provides one year of non-obligatory Kindergarten, followed by six years of Primary school. This is followed by three years of obligatory lower Secondary school where the students are separated according to ability and aptitude. Following the lower Secondary students may attend additional schooling or they may enter an apprenticeship.\n\nDuring the 2012-13 school year, there were a total of 649 students attending classes in Uetendorf. There were a total of 103 students in the German language kindergarten classes in the municipality. Of the kindergarten students, 4.9% were permanent or temporary residents of Switzerland (not citizens) and 3.9% have a different mother language than the classroom language. The municipality's primary school had 323 students in German language classes. Of the primary students, 7.7% were permanent or temporary residents of Switzerland (not citizens) and 9.6% have a different mother language than the classroom language. During the same year, the lower secondary school had a total of 223 students. There were 6.7% who were permanent or temporary residents of Switzerland (not citizens) and 12.6% have a different mother language than the classroom language.\n\n, there were a total of 758 students attending any school in the municipality. Of those, 715 both lived and attended school in the municipality, while 43 students came from another municipality. During the same year, 115 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\nUetendorf is home to the \"Bibliothek Uetendorf\" library. The library has () 14,775 books or other media, and loaned out 40,108 items in the same year. It was open a total of 250 days with average of 12 hours per week during that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848822", "title": "Kienersrüti", "text": "Kienersrüti\n\nKienersrüti is a former municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Bern in Switzerland. On 1 January 2014 the former municipality of Kienersrüti merged into the municipality of Uttigen.\n\nIt was the third-smallest independent municipality in the canton. It is rural in character and its economy based mostly on farming. A regional popular saying names it \"the one street lantern town\".\n\nBefore the merger, Kienersrüti had a total area of . Of this area, or 87.8% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 12.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 2.7% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.7% and transportation infrastructure made up 0.0%. 12.2% of the total land area is heavily forested. Of the agricultural land, 48.6% is used for growing crops and 35.1% is pastures, while 4.1% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nKienersrüti had a population (as of 2011) of 52. Over the last 10 years the population has decreased at a rate of -9.1%. All of the population () speaks German.\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SPS which received 30% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SVP (29.3%), the local small left-wing parties (14.3%) and the Green Party (8.9%).\n\nThe age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 13.5% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 71.2% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 15.4%. In Kienersrüti about 80.6% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\").\n\nKienersrüti has an unemployment rate of 0%. , there were 24 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 6 businesses involved in this sector. 1 person is employed in the secondary sector and there is 1 business in this sector. No one is employed in the tertiary sector.\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848826", "title": "Liu Kai-chi", "text": "Liu Kai-chi\n\nLiu Kai-chi () is a Hong Kong actor, best known for his \"everyman\" supporting roles. For 25 years he worked for TVB, Hong Kong's first over-the-air commercial station, but did not renew his contract in 2005.\n\nAlthough Liu was interested in acting at an early age, he first worked behind the scenes as a camera assistant, lighting and in sound production to accumulate industry experience before becoming an actor.\n\nTwo out of seventeen Hong Kong Television Network drama productions were selected by a public poll for their online launch on 19 November 2014. Liu was cast in a leading role for both dramas The Election and The Borderline.\n\nLiu has 3 sons with wife Money (Barbara) Chan Man-yee.\n\nIn April 2006, Liu lost his youngest son, 6-year-old Liu Man-lok to leukemia. Man-lok died after a three-year struggle with the terminal illness.\n\nThe following is the filmography for both TV series and films of Liu Kai-chi.\n"}
{"id": "1848827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848827", "title": "Lancaster Royal Grammar School", "text": "Lancaster Royal Grammar School\n\nLancaster Royal Grammar School (LRGS) is a selective grammar school (day and boarding) for boys aged 11–18 in Lancaster, Lancashire, England. It also has academy status. Old students belong to The Old Lancastrians. It is one of England's 36 state boarding schools. The school has a sixth form for girls, which commenced in 2019. LRGS is also in the United Kingdom’s thirty oldest schools.\n\nThe school was founded between 1235–1256, probably nearer to the former, and was later endowed as a free school by John Gardyner.\nThe first definite mention of the old grammar school is found in a deed dated 4 August 1469, when the Abbess of Syon granted to John Gardyner, of Bailrigg (near Lancaster), a lease of a water-mill on the River Lune and some land nearby for two hundred years to maintain a chaplain to celebrate worship in the Church of St. Mary, Lancaster, and to instruct boys in grammar freely, \"unless perchance something shall be voluntarily offered by their friends\".\n\nIn 1472, John Gardyner's will made further provisions for the endowment of the school, and also for William Baxstonden to keep the school so long as he could teach the students. In 1682, the school was rebuilt and in 1852 was removed from the old site on the slopes by the priory to the outskirts of the city, where it now stands (though the city has expanded beyond it).\n\nThis building (now known as Old School House), which stands on the north side of East Road, was designed by the local architects Sharpe and Paley at a cost of £8,000 (). The foundation stone was laid on 5 May 1851 by Rt Revd James Prince Lee, the Bishop of Manchester. The title \"Royal\" was granted by Queen Victoria in the same year. This building is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade II listed building.\n\nIn 1969, the school celebrated its quincentenary and was visited by HM The Queen. In 1995, the school received a visit from the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, The Rt Hon Roger Freeman MP.\n\nIn 2001, to mark the 150th anniversary of becoming the Royal Grammar School, the school welcomed The Princess Royal. In 2011, the school was granted Academy status. On 6 November 2017, the school stated that they will be accepting sixth form girls from September 2019.\n\nDates are of taking office.\n\nThe Grammar School has a tradition of raising money for charity each year during the Lenten term. The charities are selected by the Seward Committee where students propose and select which organisations to donate money to, generally two local, two national and two international charities. All students take part in a yearly set run and are encouraged to collect sponsorship donations, helping raise up to £20,000 in a year. Not all the income comes from the run, though, as students organise a large variety of events amongst which are cake sales, raffles and even a teachers' version of the BBC Radio 4 panel show \"Just a Minute\", organised by the Whewell Society.\n\nWhen the national anthem is sung at events such as Founders' Day, the second line is changed to \"Long live our noble Duke\" in recognition of the Duchy of Lancaster. Duke is kept irrespective of whether the ruling Monarch is male or female; thus Queen Elizabeth II is known by tradition as the Duke of Lancaster, not Duchess.\n\nUntil September 2015, LRGS used the more traditional '1st year, 2nd year, 3rd year...' system for naming years, rather than the modern 'Year 7, 8, 9...' system - a tradition that had been in place since the 1973/74 academic year. The tradition came under threat in May 2015, when some of the school's teachers made it clear that they would rather use the modern system, to avoid confusion when communicating with other schools and organisations using that system. An online petition was set up, garnering over a thousand signatures from students, teachers and Old Lancastrians. The change was also opposed by the senior prefect team. However, at the start of the next academic year (2015/16), the school officially changed to the modern system, despite the considerable opposition.\n\nFor a period the school ran a preparatory department, which was located in Gardyner House as was officially \"Form 1\". Although this closed in the 1950s it was not until 1973 that the year groups were renumbered - prior to September that year year groups were numbered 2, 3, 4, Shell (abbreviated to \"Sh\") and 5 (followed by Lower, Middle and Upper Sixth). Other traditions that ended in the 1970s were the singing of the school song (before 1972 - but still sung at Old Lancastrian meetings. It was also temporarily sung in 2012 at the occasional first year assembly.), the requirement to wear a school cap (ended from 1972/3 - though they were still on sale until 1979), shorts for junior boarders (which was also abolished in September 1973), and houses for day-students (which were wound up sometime in the late 1970s, probably around 1978 or 1979, in fact somewhat petering out rather than being formally abolished.\n\nThe school is regularly one of the strongest state schools both regionally and nationally. In 2019, students achieved top A and A* grades in more than half of all the A level exams that they sat. Over 75% of all results were graded A*, A or B.\n\nThe 2007 Ofsted report stated that \"this is an outstanding school that provides very good value for money. The overwhelming majority of parents value greatly the school and its impact on their children.\"\n\nIn 2005 just under three-quarters of A-level entries resulted in grades A or B (excluding General Studies) while at GCSE three-quarters of all grades were A* or A, with nearly all pupils gaining 10 passes and five pupils gaining a clean sweep of A* grades. In 2011 the A*-C grade was over 95%, only 1% below its counterpart Lancaster Girls' Grammar school.\n\nLRGS is a state boarding school with four boarding houses (Storey, Frankland, Ashton and School Houses) and 170 boarders. The majority of boarders come from the northwest of England; others come from across the UK and overseas. Ofsted inspectors found boarding to be Outstanding in all categories in 2013.\n\nLRGS is home to a wide range of student run societies, including a Literature Society, History Society, Economics Society, STEM Club, Labour Students Society, Bad Boyz Baking Club, Warhammer Club, Conservative Club, Armchair Generals, Beginners’ Mandarin, German Club, MFL Film Club, Junior Debating, Duke of Edinburgh's award, and the Whewell Society (A more comprehensive list can be found here). The Whewell Society, named in honour of William Whewell, an old student, was founded in 1908 and is the oldest continuous society in the school. It was founded by the sixth form as a society to promote the arts, music and debate. Since the 1950s, the society has been purely a debating society and has enjoyed success in competitions. It debates a mixture of heavy motions (such as 'This House Would Criminalise Abortion in the UK') and lighter ones (for example, This House Believes Tea is Better Than Coffee'). It continues to thrive under student leadership.\n\nThe school offers a wide range of sporting activities to the students throughout their school careers including tennis, sailing, swimming, rowing, cross country running etc. but remains a bastion of rugby union. Achievement in this code is generally accorded more prominence in school life than other activities but the school has achieved more notable success in rowing and cross country running, especially when their far lower budgets are taken into account. Nonetheless, the school has produced some notable figures in rugby union such as the former England and Bath coach Brian Ashton, former captain of Norway Erik Lund and his brother the England international Magnus Lund.\n\nFormer Pupils have achieved Olympic success. Jason Queally, took track cycling gold in the 1 km time trial at the 2000 Summer Olympics and Scott Durant won gold with the British Men's Eight in the 2016 Summer Olympics (see Boat Club).\n\nIn 2011, the LRGS lst XI won the Local Football Cup, beating Morecambe High School 1–0 at the Globe Arena with a fine performance from the entire squad.\n\nIn 2015 the U13s won the Lancashire Cup Final against Audenshaw 20 points to 5\n\nIn 2012, the LRGS 1st XV reached the last 8 of the Rosslyn Park National 7s tournament and the U16s reached the last 32.\n\nIn 2010, the 1st XV, won the Lancashire Cup Final, and became champions in a hard-fought match against Merchant Taylor's Crosby, this achievement was followed by the U14s and the U15s who were victorious in finals against Merchant Taylor's Crosby and Manchester Grammar School, respectively.\n\nIn 2009, the U13s and U14s reached the finals of the Lancashire Cup, however both lost narrowly against Manchester Grammar School. In the 2008/2009 season, LRGS won the Lancashire schools cup in the U18s and the U13s as well as winning the Floodlit cup for Lancashire and Cheshire in the U16s. They also set a new record with four teams reaching the county finals. While, in 2007/2008 season, LRGS won the Lancashire Cup in the U15 and U16 age groups.\n\nIn recent years the school has enjoyed an improved reputation in cricket with recent highlights including the school's 1st XI Cricket team's narrow defeat in the Sir Garfield Sobers Tournament at The Kensington Oval Barbados in July 2011. The school achieved a victory over Charterhouse School in the final of the Lord's Taverners Cricketer Colts Trophy for Schools in 1999, and enjoyed a run to the semi final of the Daily Mail U18 Cup in 2004.\n\nIn 2010, LRGS became the U19 and U16 district champions for table tennis.\n\nLancaster Royal Grammar School Boat Club was founded in 1948.\nThey were tenants of Lancaster John O' Gaunt Rowing Club from 1985 to 2011. In 2011 the Boat Club relocated to Halton Army Training Camp.\n\nThe boat club had 15 years of national success under Tim Lucas achieving medal success in either the Schools' Head of the River Race, The National Schools Regatta or the National Rowing Championships for ten consecutive years from 1992 to 2002. The club also made at least the final of a national event from 1992 to 2006. The club has had much international success with members of the boat club rowing at a national level, including the Munich International Regatta in 2006 and the Coupe de la Jeunesse in 2006.\nHis successor Peter Jago coached OL Scott Durant who was member of the Great Britain Eight that won gold in the 2016 Olympic Summer Games. Scott started rowing at Lancaster Royal Grammar School aged 15 with his twin brother Mason.\n\nIn 2015 Storm Desmond devastated the boathouse, destroying many boats from the fleet. However, the club has since obtained a new fleet of Kanghua boats and a larger boathouse.\n\nAlthough the school's main sports during the summer and winter are cricket and rugby respectively, in recent years, it is the school's cross country squad that has achieved the most recognition nationally. The school's rise to prominence began in the late 2000s under the coaching of Mr Andrew Yelland, with several LRGS athletes being chosen to represent Lancashire, at the English School's Cross Country. In 2009 for instance, the school had 6 County runners. In 2010 LRGS won the prestigious Northern School Cross Country Championships for the first time, and repeated this feat in 2011 and 2012 – the latter being particularly special as LRGS were the victors in all 5 students' races. The school also won the famous Stonyhurst Invitation Race in 2011 and 2012, recorded a 5th-place finish in the National Schools Cross Country Relays in 2011, and a 3rd-place finish in the Intermediate Boys English Schools Cross Country Cup in the same year. The club also boasts the National Schools Senior Fell Running Champions from 2011, and several National medalists – Ben Akin was 2nd at the English Schools Intermediate Boys 800m in 2009, Beau Smith was 3rd at the English National Championships over 800m the following year, and Callum Mason was 3rd at the English Schools Mountain Running Championships in 2011.\n\nThe Combined Cadet Force (CCF) at LRGS comprises Royal Navy, Army and Royal Air Force sections. Pupils in year nine and above are allowed to join. It parades on Tuesday afternoons after school and is voluntary. All sections participate in camps throughout the year, including an annual summer camp during the summer holidays, and an Easter camp involving adventurous training in which all three sections can participate. The Contingent, as of 2019 maintains around 200 members, and is led by a Cadet RSM, which can be drawn from any section.\nPast Regimental Sergeant Majors include:\nCadet RSM L. Wong (2014–15),\nCadet RSM B. Taylor (2015-2016),\nCadet RSM C. Tetlow (2016-2017),\nCadet RSM M. Blackett-Ord (2017-2018),\nCadet RSM E. Powell (2018-2019).\n\nThe School has had its own CCF since 1914, then known as the Officer Training Corps. Its roots, however, can be traced back further still, as there are \"references to the existence at Lancaster of a Cadet Volunteer Battalion in the early nineteenth century\". and in 1861, the seventy-strong Battalion was presented with a silver bugle \"by Mrs Lee, wife of the Headmaster\".\n\nThe Royal Navy Section consists of around 25 cadets, including girls from Lancaster Girls' Grammar School, who have been participating since September 2012. The main activities offered are water-based, and the section often goes sailing on Marine Lake, Southport. Cadets in the Navy section also attend national camps and courses run by HQ CCF RN, on which cadets can gain nationally recognised qualifications in topics from power boating to first aid.\n\nThe Army Section is approximately 60 students strong. They participate in camps throughout the year including an annual camp that lasts over a week, and an Easter Camp where they take part in adventurous training activities, a range day where the cadets fire the L98-A2 Cadet GP Rifle, a field day where the cadets deploy on Manoeuvers for 24hours equipped with blank rounds and a night navigation exercise named Operation Night Owl. Annual Camp 2007 was at a CCF Central Camp at Wathgill, in North Yorkshire. Annual camp 2016 was in Warcop, Cumbria, with annual camp 2017 held at Nesscliffe training camp, Shropshire, with cadets winning both the inter-force gun run, tug of war and arm wrestling competitions, overall emerging as the best cadet force on camp.\n\nThe Royal Air Force section, similar to the Navy Section, contains female cadets. It is the most popular section with about 100 cadets, who receive flying lessons in the Grob Tutor T.1 aircraft and gliding lessons in the Grob Vigilant G 109 glider. Opportunities for flying and gliding scholarships, as well as various leadership courses, are also available to the most dedicated and talented cadets. The RAF section recently qualified for the national AST competition and has had multiple cadets complete the ACLC course at RAF Cranwell. The most recent RAF Easter camp was held at RAF Halton, with the summer camp being held at RAF Valley. An inspection, known as the Bi-ennial inspection takes place every two years. In 2012 the inspection took place at Halton Training Camp. Former pupils have gone on to become commercial pilots.\n\nAll three sections of the CCF learn how to use the L98-A2 Cadet GP Rifle. Various shooting activities take place for all three sections and new recruits in the Army section are tested on the GP Rifle during Easter at Sealand Ranges\n\nFormer pupils are known as \"Old Lancastrians\" and there are several branches of the club in the UK and worldwide. Notable Old Lancastrians include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848829", "title": "Koma (film)", "text": "Koma (film)\n\nKoma () is a 2004 Hong Kong psychological thriller directed by Law Chi-Leung, starring Karena Lam and Angelica Lee.\n\nThe movie begins with a young woman, who attended a wedding party held in a hotel and became drunk, waking up in one of the hotel rooms; only to realize in horror that her kidney has been surgically removed. Socialite Ching (Angelica Lee), who also attended the party, identified Ling (Karena Lam) as the prime suspect because she found out that Ling was the only stranger presented in the ball room. She is unknown to everyone in the party, even to the hotel staff. During the police investigation, Ching discovers that Ling has been secretly involved with her boyfriend Wai (Andy Hui Chi-On), and this is the very reason why she was in the hotel when the crime was committed. Ling was released uncharged due to insufficient evidence as police believed Ching could be framing her for cheating with her boyfriend. Rather than quickly disappear, Ling starts stalking Ching, apparently jealous that Ching could have everything Ling wanted without an effort while Ling has to fight for it. Ching, at the beginning, sees that as a form of harassment, but soon twists it around and follows Ling instead. Ling seems accepting of this, showing her the darker side of life living as a poor girl compared to Ching's rich-girl background. The two engage in a subtle cat-and-mouse game, and Ching begins to fear for her life when Ling starts making threats to remove her kidney too.\n\nOne night, Ching is kidnapped by a mysterious man that seems to be an ally of Ling's. Here, Ching reveals that her kidney is weak, and the man will not be able to sell it for much. She passes out, and wakes to find Ling injured beside her. Ching takes her to the hospital, and it isn't long before Ching finds out that Ling is actually a kind person, more true then the friendships Ching shares with her superficial socialite friends. She learns that Ling has a childhood sweetheart, whose identity she does not reveal.\n\nChing and Ling then make a deal with the mysterious man so that Ching can get a kidney. However Ching informs the police beforehand, and when they arrive, the man holds Ling hostage. However, Ling supposedly kills the man. Wai begins to suspect Ling, and breaks into her house. Meanwhile, Ching invites Ling to her house where she learns that the man who was killed was none other than Ling's childhood sweetheart. Ling tells her that since she was in need of money for her mother, she and the man planned to make a living selling kidneys. However, because of Ching's 'betrayal', the man killed himself. Ling then discovers that Wai has been searching her house. She holds Wai hostage and asks Ching to come to her workplace, a research center, and give her kidney. Ching, armed with an axe chases Ling, her anger intensifying when she learns that Wai is dead. But Ling suffocates her with plastic.\n\nIn the end, Ching wakes up in hospital, where a doctor tells her that she was in critical condition, but saved by a kidney that belonged to the dead at the scene where she was found. She realizes that Ling hacked herself to death to give her the kidney she always wanted. Unable to digest this information, she starts screaming, begging the doctor to remove her kidney, as the camera cuts to a shot of Ching telling Ling they will always be together, and another of Ling lying dead with her voiceover saying, \"You'll owe me this forever.\" There is a final shot of Ching, under the effect of sedatives, falling unconscious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848831", "title": "Shepherding Movement", "text": "Shepherding Movement\n\nThe Shepherding Movement (sometimes called the \"Discipleship Movement\") was an influential and controversial movement within some British, Australian and American charismatic churches. It emerged in the 1970s and early 1980s. The doctrine of the movement emphasized the \"one another\" passages of the New Testament, and the mentoring relationship described in the Second Epistle to Timothy.\n\nA charismatic Bible study that met weekly in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, the \"Fort Lauderdale Five\" evolved into The Holy Spirit Teaching Mission. This interdenominational group was incorporated in 1966 and expanded its scope with teaching conferences in Florida, later sponsoring conferences in other states. In 1969, it launched a magazine, New Wine, and, in 1972, changed its name to Christian Growth Ministries. \n\nThe Shepherding Movement arose out of a concern for the weak commitment, shallow community, and the general worldliness characteristic of many American churches. But their solution was extra-biblical requirements - membership in a house-group which included having life-decisions “covered” by the house-group leader, elder, or pastor. Such decisions included things like where to live and work, whom to marry, or whether to see a doctor when someone was ill.\n\nAt the zenith of the movement, \"They had a national network of followers who formed pyramids of sheep and shepherds. Down through the pyramid went the orders, it was alleged, while up the same pyramid went the tithes.\" The relationships that were formed became known theologically as \"covenant relationships.\" A network of cell groups were formed. Members had to be submitted to a \"shepherd\", who in turn was submitted to the Five or their subordinates. \"...large numbers of charismatic pastors began to be shepherded by the CGM leaders, a development that went uncharted but not unnoticed. It was uncharted because these relationships were personal and not institutional, so there were never any published lists of pastors and congregations being shepherded by CGM leaders...\" \n\nOther movements influenced by the Shepherding doctrine were the Shiloh houses scattered across the USA (some of them transitioned into Calvary Chapels when they abandoned the shepherding movement ideas), International Churches of Christ, Maranatha Campus Ministries, the Jesus People USA (in or around '91 were adopted by the Evangelical Covenant Church), and Great Commission International (today known as Great Commission Ministries/Great Commission Association of Churches).\n\nThe Shepherding Movement became controversial:\n\nFigures within the charismatic movement (such as Pat Robertson) denounced the Shepherding Movement:\n\nThe Fort Lauderdale Five eventually parted company. Derek Prince and Bob Mumford both publicly distanced themselves from the teachings. Derek Prince withdrew in 1983, stating his belief that \"we were guilty of the Galatian error: having begun in the Spirit, we quickly degenerated into the flesh.\" Bob Mumford issued a \"Formal Repentance Statement to the Body of Christ\" in November 1989 and was quoted as saying, \"I repent. I ask forgiveness.\" In the same article, Mumford also acknowledged abuses that had occurred because of his teaching on submission: \n\"Mumford decided that he needed to publicly 'repent' of his responsibility in setting up a system where so many people were hurt by \"misuses of authority\". 'Some families were split up and lives turned upside down,' says Mumford. 'Some of these families are still not back together.'\"\nThis emphasis resulted in \"perverse and unbiblical obedience\" to leaders, Mumford said.\n\"In his statement, Mumford admitted that he had not heeded earlier warnings about doctrinal error from Hayford and two others. \"While it was not my intent to be willful,\" he said, \"I ignored their input to my own hurt and the injury of others.\" ...He admitted that there had been an \"unhealthy submission resulting in perverse and unbiblical obedience to human leaders.\" He took personal responsibility for these abuses, saying that many of them happened under his sphere of leadership.\"\n\nThe Shepherding movement within Australia was represented by the Logos Foundation under the leadership of Howard Carter. It came to a sudden end when Carter was found to be immoral, although it did persist beyond the peak of the North American movement. Relocating from the Blue Mountains of NSW in 1987, its headquarters were in the Queensland city of Toowoomba, providing a conservative and sympathetic demographic. During this period Carter was living an extravagant lifestyle which frequently involved first class air travel to North American and other international locations, five-star hotels and many other luxuries. Carter drove a Mercedes Benz and lived in a large mansion with magnificent views from the Toowoomba escarpment. The Logos Foundation owned and operated with Australian staff, a Bible College and motel in Canada. The financial affairs of the Logos Foundation were shrouded in secrecy from most followers with little or no true accountability regarding the vast sums of money that were now involved.\n\nCarter is arguably most infamous for the Logos Foundation's political campaign in the 1989 Queensland State election where he pushed the position that adherence to fundamentalist Christian doctrine was a more important consideration than opposition to the widespread corruption in the conservative Queensland government that had been exposed by the Fitzgerald Inquiry. The campaign was anti-homosexual and at times the death penalty for homosexuals was advocated, in accordance with Old Testament Law. The Sydney Morning Herald later described part of this campaign when they published, \"Homosexuality and censorship should determine your vote, the electorate was told; corruption was not the major concern.\" The same article quoted Carter from a letter he had written to supporters at the time, \"The greenies, the gays and the greedy are marching. Now the Christians, the conservatives and the concerned must march also\". These views were not new. An earlier article published in the Herald quoted a Logos spokesman in reference to the call for the death penalty for homosexuals, who stated \"the fact a law is on the statutes is the best safeguard for society\".\n\nAt the peak of his power towards the end of this period, Carter was virtually unquestioned in authority. The Sydney Morning Herald published an article in October 1990 which quoted several disillusioned followers, including the statement, \"...we felt we had lost control over our lives. It was all dictated to us from above and that was very oppressive. Everything centered around Howard Carter; he had all the power\".\n\nLogos Foundation ceased to operate from the early 1990s.\n\nThe degree to which the Shepherding Movement still exists today is unclear. While both Charles Simpson and Bob Mumford have made public statements disavowing the movement, or at least distancing themselves from it, Simpson's biography on the website of Charles Simpson Ministries highlights his co-founding of \"New Wine\" Magazine and specifically mentions Baxter, Mumford, and Prince as \"notable Bible teachers\" associated with the magazine. The website also lists Derek Prince Ministries and Lifechangers by Bob Mumford as \"ministry allies.\"\n\nDavid Moore's 2004 book on the Shepherding Movement includes interviews with many relevant individuals.\n\nThe Shepherding Movement ideologies live on today in some groups, most notably the Korean group called University Bible Fellowship, which is currently active on over 70 US college campuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848858", "title": "Shell Game (short story)", "text": "Shell Game (short story)\n\n\"Shell Game\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was submitted to the Scott Meredith Literary Agency and received by SMLA on December 12, 1953. It was published in \"Galaxy Science Fiction\" in September 1954\n\nA group of paranoid mental patients, long stranded on an alien planet by shipwreck of the robot controlled hospital spaceship transporting them to a mental hospital, believe themselves to be constantly under attack by aliens or Terrans. They discover the damaged ship in a bog, and from recorded tapes they learn their condition and the circumstances of the shipwreck. Even when they discover this evidence of the truth and attempt to verify or disprove the information on the ship's tapes, they construct sophisticated explanations to explain the \"attacks\" as a plot by the enemy who they now regard as definitely Terrans. After much internal dispute and sometimes violent conflict at the end of the story the survivors of the infighting are unsure if they are paranoid or victims of a plot. As one of them states they are like rulers who are all 12 or 13 inches long so have no basis for comparison. The central question of this story is how would people determine whether their judgments are reasonable or unreasonably paranoid when they agree they have evidence that all or none of them are, in fact, paranoid.\n\nThis story was later expanded in the novel \"Clans of the Alphane Moon\".\n\nShell Game\" is still under United States copyright protection.\n\n\"Shell Game\" appears in the following Philip K. Dick collections:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848860", "title": "Results of the 2005 United Kingdom general election", "text": "Results of the 2005 United Kingdom general election\n\nResults of the 2005 United Kingdom general election.\n\nA total of 63 seats changed hands, since the 2001 general election.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nØ Indicates Scottish seat. Due to boundary changes, these are notional gains/losses.\n"}
{"id": "1848867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848867", "title": "Functional load", "text": "Functional load\n\nIn linguistics and especially phonology, functional load, or phonemic load, refers to the importance of certain features in making distinctions in a language. In other words, a high functional load will make it hard to guess a phoneme that is not known because of noise or omission.\n\nThe term \"functional load\" goes back to the days of the Prague School; references to it can be found in the work of Vilém Mathesius in 1929. Its most vocal advocate was André Martinet, a historical linguist who claimed it was a factor in the likelihood of a phonological merger.\n\nThe first suggested measurement for functional load was the number of minimal pairs, but that does not take into account word frequency and is difficult to generalize beyond binary phonemic oppositions. Charles Hockett proposed an information theoretic definition in 1955\n, which has since been generalized. Now, with a large text corpus, one can compute the functional load of any phonological contrast including distinctive features, suprasegmentals, and distinctions between groups of phonemes. For instance, the functional load of tones in Standard Chinese is as high as that of vowels: the information lost when all tones sound alike is as much as that lost when all vowels sound alike. \nMartinet predicted that perceptually similar pairs of phonemes with low functional load would merge. This has not been proved empirically; indeed, all empirical tests have come out against it; for example, merged with in Cantonese in word-initial position in the late 20th century although of all the consonants in binary opposition to , only the opposition had a higher functional load than the opposition.\n\nEnglish vowels, for example, have a very high functional load. There are innumerable sets of words distinguished just by their vowels, such as \"pin, pen, pan, pun, pain, pine\". Voicing is similar, as can be seen in \"pat - bad, few - view\". Speakers who do not control these differences make it very difficult for others to understand them. \n\nHowever, although voicing is generally important in English, the voicing difference between the two fricatives written ⟨th⟩, , has a very low functional load: it is difficult to find meaningful distinctions dependent solely on this difference. One of the few examples is \"thigh\" vs. \"thy\" although the two can be distinguished from context alone. Similar is the difference of (written ⟨j⟩, ⟨ge⟩, etc.) versus (resulting from , or the ⟨j⟩, ⟨ge⟩, etc. in some recent French loanwords), as in \"virgin\" vs. \"version\". The difference between the two ⟨ng⟩ sounds, , found in \"singer\" and \"finger\", is so unimportant that it makes no practical difference if confuses them, and some dialects pronounce the sounds the same in both words. The functional load is nearly zero, whis is unsurprising since the phoneme originated as a coalescence of when it was word-final.\n\nAn ongoing example would be the merger of the AIR and EAR vowels in New Zealand English. The phonetic similarity between words like \"here\" and \"hare\" does not seem to hamper oral communication greatly if context is provided. Therefore, those vowels have low functional load in New Zealand English despite their high frequency of occurrences in that dialect. The distinction is fully maintained in nearby Australian English, where many find comedy and confusion in mergers such as \"sheep-sharing\" vs. \"sheep-shearing\" and \"bare-chested\" vs. \"bear-chested\".\n\nAnother example is the functional load of tone in Mandarin Chinese, which is nearly as high as that of their vowels. This means that the loss of information when all tones sound alike in Mandarin is approximately equal to that when all vowels sound alike in the language. By contrast, in many Bantu languages, the tones have a low functional load, and in Swahili tones disappeared altogether.\n"}
{"id": "1848876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848876", "title": "Igualada Cemetery", "text": "Igualada Cemetery\n\nIgualada Cemetery or New Cemetery (Catalan: Cementiri Nou) is a cemetery in Igualada, near Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain, designed by the architects Enric Miralles and Carme Pinós after winning an architectural competition in 1984. Constructed between 1985 and 1994 as a replacement for the Old Cemetery (Catalan: \"Cementiri Vell\"), the cemetery became widely regarded as one of the most poetic works of twentieth century Catalan architecture. Enric Miralles, who died in the year 2000 is buried in one of the tombs.\n\nMiralles and Pinós were concerned, not just to design a cemetery, but to explore poetic ideas regarding the acceptance of the cycle of life to enable a link between the past, the present, and the future.\n\nThe project is conceived, in part, as an earthwork that transforms the surrounding landscape and also, in part, as a metaphor for the river of life. A processional \"street\" descends from the entrance, where crossed, rusting, steel poles doubling as gates and likened to the crosses at Calvary, proclaim the start of a winding pathway towards the burial area. The route is lined with repeatable concrete loculi forming retaining walls and the floor of the path has railway sleepers set into its concrete surface. The intention was to bring the bereaved down into the landscape to a 'city of the dead', an in between place where the dead and the living are brought closer together. The spaces are designed to provoke thoughts and memories.\n\nZabalbeascoa sees Miralles's work in general, and the cemetery in particular, as being architecture \"which 'naturally' adapts itself to a given site\" but cannot be termed simply organic architecture. His work is \"more than simply interpreting the programme [brief] or observing a site's geographical landscape, however attentively, his architecture explores pre-existing traces in the cultural landscape of each project.\" The cemetery can thus be considered as architecture of the land that involves a humanisation of the brief and appreciation of the topography - that is, the visible, physical land as well as the memories contained within it. This is seen by Zabalbeascoa in contrast to the particular form of critical regionalism which prevailed in the Spanish architectural scene of the 1970s which had tended towards a more sentimental or scenographic type of architecture.\n\n\"What sort of cultural landscape is it, in other words, that takes up sides with nature against the monumentalist enterprise of culture, especially when it was to offer visitors an intimation of immortality? ...[it is] one that redefines the terms, such that nature is no longer understood as the unproblematic opposite of culture, death no longer the mere antithesis of life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848891", "title": "Paper craft", "text": "Paper craft\n\nPaper craft is the collection of art forms employing paper or card as the primary artistic medium for the creation of one, two or three-dimensional objects. Paper sculpture being the most difficult to master because it involves drawing, design and complex interlocking pattern making skills. Paper and card stock are the most widely used material in arts and crafts. They lend themselves to a wide range of techniques and can be folded, curved, bent, cut, glued, molded, stitched, or layered. Papermaking by hand is also an important paper craft. Painting and calligraphy though they are commonly applied as decoration are normally considered as separate arts or crafts.\n\nPaper crafts are known in most societies that use paper, with certain kinds of crafts being particularly associated with specific countries or cultures. In Caribbean countries paper craft is unique to Caribbean culture which reflect the importance of native animals in life of people. \n\nIn addition to the aesthetic value of paper crafts, various forms of paper crafts are used in the education of children. Paper is a relatively inexpensive medium, readily available, and easier to work with than the more complicated media typically used in the creation of three-dimensional artwork, such as ceramics, wood, and metals. It is also neater to work with than paints, dyes, and other coloring materials. Paper crafts may also be used in therapeutic settings, providing children with a safe and uncomplicated creative outlet to express feelings.\n\nThe word \"paper\" derives from papyrus, the name of the ancient material manufactured from beaten reeds in Egypt as far back as the third millennium B.C. Indeed, the earliest known example of \"paper folding\" is an ancient Egyptian map, drawn on papyrus and folded into rectangular forms like a modern road map. However, it does not appear that intricate paper folding as an art form became possible until the introduction of wood-pulp based papers. \n\nThe first Japanese origami is dated from the 6th century A.D. In much of the West, the term origami is used synonymously with paper folding, though the term properly only refers to the art of paper folding in Japan. Other forms of paper folding include Zhezhi (Chinese paper folding), Jong-i.e.-jeop-gi, from Korea, and Western paper folding, such as the traditional paper boats and paper planes.\n\nPapel picado, as practiced in Mexico and other places in Latin America is done using chisels to cut 50 to a hundred sheets at a time, while Chinese paper cutting uses knives or scissors for up to 8 sheets. Wycinanki and other European forms usually are done on one single sheet. In either of these traditions, paper sheets are folded prior to cutting to achieve symmetrical designs.\n\nA technique in which you can recreate a 3d model. The polygons of a 3d mesh are unfolded to a printable pattern. With the help of glue tabs, cutting lines, mountain fold lines and valley fold lines the pattern comes together.\n\nImages built using colored paper pulp are a form of paper art that started in the 20th century. Chuck Close, Lynn Sures are among contemporary artist developing this medium. Paper pulp craft is widely used in rural India for making kitchen utility baskets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848897", "title": "Nemegtosauridae", "text": "Nemegtosauridae\n\nNemegtosauridae is a family of titanosaurian sauropod dinosaurs based originally on two late Cretaceous Mongolian species known only from their diplodocid-like skulls: \"Nemegtosaurus\" and \"Quaesitosaurus\".\n\nDue to the diplodocid-like nature of the taxa placed in Nemegtosauridae, the systematic position of this family in Sauropoda was disputed until recently. McIntosh (1990) included both these animals in the family Diplodocidae, subfamily Dicraeosaurinae, as they resemble the skull of \"Dicraeosaurus\", although differing in certain details. Although the skull of \"Nemegtosaurus\" was found in the same formation as the headless skeleton of \"Opisthocoelicaudia\", McIntosh (1990) kept \"Nemegtosaurus\" in Diplodocoidea while keeping \"Opisthocoelicauda\" separate from the former, a position reiterated by Upchurch (1995, 1999), and Upchurch et al. (2004). A cladistic analysis published in 2002 transferred \"Nemegtosaurus\" and \"Opisthocoelicauda\" from Diplodocoidea to Titanosauria.\n\nApesteguia (2004), in a paper describing a new Patagonian sauropod, \"Bonitasaura salgadoi\", may have been the first to properly define the taxon, although without the use of cladistic analysis: the stemclade consisting of all titanosaurs more closely related to \"Nemegtosaurus\" than to \"Saltasaurus\". He argued for a close relationship between \"Nemegtosaurus\", \"Quaesitosaurus\", \"Rapetosaurus\", and \"Bonitasaura\" and referred to the previous phylogenetic analysis and use of Nemegtosauridae by Wilson (2002).\n\nIn his redescription of the \"Nemegtosaurus\" holotype, Wilson (2005) elaborated on the titanosaurian nature of \"Nemegtosaurus\", defining Nemegtosauridae as a stem-based clade that includes all titanosaurs more closely related to \"Nemegtosaurus\" than to \"Saltasaurus\". He also suggested that \"Opisthocoelicaudia\" may eventually be shown to be a junior synonym of \"Nemegtosaurus\". For her part, Kristina Curry Rogers (see also Cuury Rogers and Forster [2001]) agreed with Wilson that both \"Nemegtosaurus\" and \"Quaesitosaurus\" were titanosaurs rather than diplodocoids, but rejected the validity of Nemegtosauridae and the clade concepts given under that name. \"Quaesitosaurus\" was placed in the Saltasaurinae and \"Nemegtosaurus\" in a new, unnamed \"\"Rapetosaurus\" clade\" (which, under ICZN rules, would, if named, be termed subfamily Nemegtosaurinae or tribe Nemegtosaurini, depending on its position). \"Opisthocoelicaudia\" was placed in a separate clade, the Opisthocoelicaudiinae. All three clades are included in the Saltasauridae (= Titanosauridae).\n\nIn a paper discussing new anatomical data on the skull of \"Tapuiasaurus\", Wilson and his colleagues cast doubt on the monophyly of Nemegtosauridae, judging from a rescoring of the Zaher et al. 2011 cladistic analysis regarding cranial characters. \"Tapuiasaurus\" was recovered as basal to Lithostrotia, rendering its position within Nemegtosauridae questionable. A 2014 cladistic analysis gleaning new anatomical data from \"Diamantinasaurus\" also rendered Nemegtosauridae paraphyletic, with \"Rapetosaurus\" falling out as a member of Saltasauridae closer to \"Isisaurus\" than to \"Nemegtosaurus\". The cladistic analysis of \"Patagotitan\" recovered \"Tapuiasaurus\" as the sister taxon of \"Rapetosaurus\" and \"Isisaurus\" but not \"Nemegtosaurus\".\n\nThe cladogram below follows Zaher \"et al.\" (2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848907", "title": "Shaheed Udham Singh College of Engineering &amp; Technology", "text": "Shaheed Udham Singh College of Engineering &amp; Technology\n\nShaheed Udham Singh Group of Institutions with a history dating back to 1996, is a centre of higher technical education and research offering graduate, post-graduate and doctoral level research programs, located in the periphery of Chandigarh.\nThe college offers undergraduate programs in the following disciplines:\n\n\nThe college offers Post-graduate programs in the following disciplines:\n\n\nThe college offers Diploma programs in the following disciplines:\n\n"}
{"id": "1848912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848912", "title": "Scorpion (solitaire)", "text": "Scorpion (solitaire)\n\nScorpion is a Patience game using a deck of 52 playing cards. Although somewhat related to Spider, the method of game play is akin to Yukon. The object of this game is to form four columns of suit sequence cards from king down to ace.\n\nThe game starts with 49 cards dealt into seven columns of seven cards each on the tableau. The first four columns each have three face-down cards with four face-up cards placed over them. The cards in the remaining three columns are all faced up. The three leftover cards are set aside for later.\n\nCards in the tableau are built down by suit and every face up card is available for play, no matter where in the column it is. That means that any card can be placed on top of a card that is a rank higher. Once a card from the bottom or middle of a column is moved, all cards on top of it are moved as well, as one unit. Nothing can be placed on an ace and gaps on the tableau can only be taken by kings or sequences with Kings as their top cards. Once a face-down card is exposed, it is turned face up.\n\nWhen no more moves are possible, the three leftover cards are dealt onto the first three columns and put into play.\n\nAs earlier mentioned, the object of the game is to build four columns of suit sequences from king down to ace. So when one such column is built successfully, it is a general rule to leave this column alone, unless it covers a face-down card.\n\nThe game is won when the object is fulfilled.\n\nThe rules above state the prevalent version of the game. There is also a second version of the game in which the number of columns containing three face-down cards and the number of columns in which all cards are faced up are the reverse of the prevalent version, i.e. the first \"three\" columns each have three face-down cards with four face-up cards placed over them while the cards in the remaining \"four\" columns are all faced up. Despite the reversal, the game remains the same but making it easier than regular \"Scorpion\".\n\nWasp is a Patience game that is almost identical to Scorpion. It is played like Scorpion except that when a gap is formed, any card or sequence can be placed in it. This gives the player more chances of winning than in Scorpion.\n\nThree Blind Mice is another solitaire game which is a variation of Scorpion.\n\nFirst 10 columns of five cards each are dealt. The three rightmost columns should each have three bottom cards faced down and two top cards face up. The three cards in each of those columns gave the game its name after the nursery rhyme. The five cards in each of the rest of the columns are all face up. The two leftover cards are set aside face up to be used any time in the game whenever necessary.\n\nGame play is the same as in Scorpion.\n"}
{"id": "1848918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848918", "title": "Wiesmann", "text": "Wiesmann\n\nWiesmann GmbH is a German automobile manufacturer that specialises in hand-built custom convertibles. The company, which has its factory in Dülmen, was founded by brothers, engineer Martin Wiesmann and businessman Friedhelm Wiesmann, in 1988. \nThe business was temporarily closed in May 2014, but is set to return with a new model, powered by a BMW M division-sourced V8 engine.\nThe relaunch of the Wiesmann brand has more than one model in the pipeline and the pre-development phase of the car has been completed. A teaser video of the brand's rebirth, posted on their website, tells viewers to “expect the unexpected”, while showing glimpses of what could be the first car of the brand's new era. \n\nIn its previous era, Wiesmann used BMW six-cylinder engines to power its MF models, until the introduction in 2003 of the GT MF4, which used BMW's 4.8-litre V8, and the MF 5, which used the M5's 5.0-litre V10.\n\nThe company's first roadster left the workshop in 1993. By 2006, they were producing the Wiesmann MF 3 and MF 30 roadsters and the Wiesmann GT MF 4 coupé, all of which utilized engine and transmission components supplied by BMW. The company, which made around 180 hand-built cars each year, used a gecko logo because they claimed their cars \"stick to the road like geckos to a wall\"\n\nWiesmann planned to begin exporting vehicles to the US by 2010, however, factors including a poor exchange rates and the high costs of modifying and testing cars in order to make them road-legal in the US stymied these plans. On August 14, 2013 Wiesmann filed for insolvency at the local court in Münster. Four months later Weismann's management board filed to dismiss the insolvency proceedings due to abolition of the insolvency reasons while the creditors’ meeting was also postponed. Following unsuccessful talks with CMMW, a UK-based consortium that was interested in taking over Wiesmann and resuming production, the company was closed a month later in May 2014, but is relaunching in 2020, details of which will be available on the Wiesmann website.\n\n\"Wiesmann MF30\" is the first Wiesmann model ever built.\n\nThe \"MF 30\" is powered by a six-cylinder M54B30 engine borrowed from BMW, with a capacity of 2979 cm and a power output of at 5,900 rpm and of torque at 3,400 rpm. It has a dry weight of and can accelerate from 0 to 60 mph (97 km/h) in 5.9 seconds, with a top speed of .\n\nThe model was discontinued in order to give way to the new slightly modified model named \"MF 3\".\n\nThe primary difference between the \"MF 3\" and the \"MF 30\" was the new engine. The engine featured on the \"MF 3\" was a BMW S54, which is originally from the M3 (E46). The engine has a displacement of 3246 cc with a maximum power output of at 7900 rpm, and a maximum torque of at 4900 rpm. With the new engine and due to its weight of , this car can accelerate from 0–60 mph (97 km/h) in 5.0 sec and reaching a maximum speed of .\n\"MF3\" came with a 5-speed manual transmission as basic, and a 6-speed sequential gearbox as an option.\n\nAnother additional option were the 20-inch rims running on (front: 235/30/20, rear: 285/25/20) rubber.\n\nOther models exist such as the \"MF 28\" or the \"MF 35\".\n\nThe GT is a closed two-seater with more power than the other models, intended for long distance touring. The GT was first produced in 2003.\n\nThe \"GT MF5\" is a closed two-seater & two-seater roadster with more power than the other models. The \"GT MF5\" roadster, first produced in 2009, was limited to just 55 cars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848921", "title": "Roma Downey", "text": "Roma Downey\n\nRoma Downey (born 6 May 1960) is an actress, producer, and author from Derry, Northern Ireland. She produced the mini-series, \"The Bible\", for the History Channel and also starred in it, as Mary, mother of Jesus. For nine seasons she played Monica, the tender-hearted angel and employee of Tess (played by Della Reese), on the CBS television series \"Touched by an Angel\", for which she earned multiple Emmy Award and Golden Globe Award Best Actress nominations. Born in Derry, Northern Ireland, she has performed on stage with the Abbey Theatre and has appeared both on and off Broadway. She played the leading role of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis in the miniseries for NBC, \"A Woman Named Jackie\".\n\nDowney starred in and was executive producer for a number of hit television movies for the CBS network. Downey is an ambassador for Operation Smile. On August 11, 2016 Downey was honored for her work as an actress and producer with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In her acceptance speech, she dedicated her star to the people of Derry and anyone who ever \"walked Hollywood Boulevard with a dream in their hearts.\" \n\nAs President of Lightworkers Media, the family and faith division of MGM, Downey and her husband, Mark Burnett, produced the Emmy-nominated miniseries \"The Bible\" for History channel which was watched by over 100 million people in the United States. Downey and Burnett also executive produced the feature films, \"Ben-Hur\" starring Jack Huston, Toby Kebbell and Morgan Freeman, \"Son of God\" (2014), \"Little Boy\", and \"Woodlawn\". \"Variety\" recognized Downey and Burnett as \"Trailblazers\" and listed Downey as one of \"Variety's\" \"100 Most Powerful Women in Hollywood\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" included the couple in their \"Most Influential People of 2013\" and Downey as one of the \"100 Women in Entertainment Power\" in 2014. She was honored on \"Variety's\" \"Women of Impact in 2014\". Downey and Burnett also produced \"The Dovekeepers\" based on the best selling book by Alice Hoffman for CBS and \"A.D. The Bible Continues\" for NBC, \"Women of the Bible\" for Lifetime, and \"Answered Prayers\" for TLC. Downey is executive producer of the documentary \"Faithkeepers\" about the persecution of Christians in the Middle East. \n\nDowney was born and raised in Derry, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland, in 1960, in the Bogside district. Roma is named after her two grandmothers, Ro from Rose and Ma from Mary, joined together to make Roma. She attended Thornhill College, a Catholic girls school. Her mother, Maureen O'Reilly Downey, a homemaker with an interest in the performing arts, died from a heart attack at age 48 when Downey was 10 years old. Her father, Patrick Downey, was a school teacher by training but worked as a mortgage broker. Her father died when Downey was 20. Originally, she planned to be a painter and earned a Bachelor of Arts at Brighton College of Art. Roma studied BA(Hons) Expressive Arts at Brighton Polytechnic (which later became Brighton University). Based at the Falmer campus Downey combined Art and Drama for her degree.\n\nShe joined the Abbey Players in Dublin, Ireland, and toured the United States in a production of \"The Playboy of the Western World\". Downey moved to New York after an agent, whom she met during the tour of \"The Playboy of the Western World\", suggested she had potential for success there. She took a job as a coat checker at an Upper West Side restaurant before getting cast in Broadway shows \n\nThe production led to a nomination during the Broadway run for the Helen Hayes Best Actress Award in 1991. She also starred on Broadway in \"The Circle\" with Rex Harrison and also at the Roundabout Theater and The Public Theater in New York City.\n\nDowney played the role of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis in the American television miniseries \"A Woman Named Jackie\" (1991) which won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Miniseries in 1992.\n\nDowney's role as Jacqueline Kennedy led to her most famous role, as the angel Monica, on the CBS series \"Touched by an Angel\", opposite singer-actress, Della Reese, which ran from 1994 to 2003.\n\nShe received one nomination and one win at the TV Guide awards for favorite actress and also received two Emmy Award nominations and two Golden Globe nominations. Downey has said the character Monica interested her because it was a strong female role, which were \"few and far between\" and for its spiritual aspects: Downey has also spoken of her deep and lasting love for and friendship with Della Reese. The two remained close until Reese's death on November 19, 2017. She commented that Reese was \"such an influence on my life. She was my mother. I was a girl without a mother and for certain God brought her into my life. She was one of the lasting gifts of \"Touched by an Angel\".\"\n\nOn May 24, 2011, Downey and husband Mark Burnett announced they were producing a 10-hour docudrama for the History channel, \"The Bible\", based on stories from the Bible scheduled to air in 2013. They began planning it in 2009 and lined up their own financing. The full production cost was $22 million USD. Downey and Burnett wanted to stay as true to the content in the Bible as possible so they put together a wide variety of pastors and academics to review the script and filming. For example, they worked with Pastors Joel Osteen and Rick Warren and academics such as Craig A. Evans and Mark Goodacre.\n\n\"The Bible\" has been watched by over 100 million viewers in the United States alone The series has been the number one downloaded series in iTunes and ranked on Amazon's best sellers in movies and television. A theatrical release was released on 28 February 2014 in the United States, under the title \"Son of God\". \"The Bible\" was nominated for the 2013 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Miniseries or Movie. Downey played the role of Mary, the mother of Jesus. \"The Bible\" was filmed in 2012 in Morocco.\n\nIn July 2013, it was announced that Downey and Burnett would produce \"A.D.\", the sequel to \"The Bible\". In December 2013, NBC ordered \"A.D.\". The series covered the spread of Christianity after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.\n\nDowney also produced and starred in television movies including \"Borrowed Hearts\" and \"Second Honeymoon\". During the run of \"Touched by an Angel\", she recorded the spoken-word album \"Healing Angel.\" and wrote the children's book \"Love Is A Family\". She also coauthored a book with her husband \"A Story of God and All of Us\". She hosted \"It's a Miracle\" (TV series), on the Pax Network and appeared on stage in \"A Picasso\" at the Geffen Theatre in Los Angeles. She portrayed Annie Sullivan in the TV movie \"Monday After the Miracle\" (1998). She has hosted \"Saturday Night Live\", was one of \"People Magazine\"'s most beautiful people. She is a spokesperson for the volunteer group \"Operation Smile\". In 2009, she starred in the movie \"Come Dance at My Wedding\" alongside John Schneider. On 16 July 2011, she appeared with actress Marion Ross in the made-for-TV movie \"Keeping up with the Randalls\", broadcast on the Hallmark Channel.\nDowney is the executive producer of the animated video series, \"Little Angels\", which was released on DVD with 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment on February 14, 2012.\n\nIn December 2013, CBS announced a new miniseries with Downey and her husband, Mark Burnett, \"The Dovekeepers\" based on the New York Times Bestseller by Alice Hoffman. The miniseries aired in 2015. In September 2014, MGM acquired a 55% interest in One Three Media and Lightworkers Media. The two companies consolidated into a new film and television company, United Artists Media Group. Burnett became UA's CEO and Downey became president of LightWorkers Media.\n\nIn December 2015, MGM acquired the remaining 45% of Hearst’s, Burnett’s and Downey‘s interests in United Artists Media Group (UAMG), which was absorbed under the MGM Television Group umbrella. Downey remains President of LightWorkers Media, which became the Faith & Family division of MGM.\n\nDowney executive produced a re-telling of \"Ben-Hur\", starring Jack Huston, which was released in August 2016.\n\nDowney’s newest book, \"Box of Butterflies\", is set for release in March 2018.\n\nDowney is married to television producer Mark Burnett. She has two step-sons, James Burnett and Cameron Burnett, and a daughter, Reilly Marie Downey Anspaugh (born 3 June 1996) from her previous marriage to director David Anspaugh. She was also previously married to actor Leland Orser. Reilly is named after her grandmother, Maureen O'Reilly Downey. On Thanksgiving Day 2006, Burnett proposed to Downey during a family vacation in Zihuatanejo, Mexico. They wed on 28 April 2007 in their Malibu home. Her \"Touched by an Angel\" co-star, Della Reese, officiated at the wedding.\n\nDowney is a \"Smile Ambassador\" for the non-profit organization Operation Smile which provides surgeries for children around the world who were born with severe cleft lip and palate. She has traveled on several international missions with the group to Vietnam, Honduras, and Jordan.\n\nShe supported the unsuccessful candidacy of Martin McGuinness for President of Ireland in 2011. Downey received the Sally Award by the Salvation Army for her contribution to entertainment and helping those in need on 1 October 2015.\n\nDowney was raised a Roman Catholic.\n\nOn 18 April 2009, Downey and Burnett delivered the keynote address and accepted an honorary doctorate of law at Pepperdine University's Graziadio School of Business and Management commencement ceremony.\nIn 2010, Downey graduated from the University of Santa Monica with a master's degree in Spiritual Psychology. Downey also has two honorary degrees; a Doctor of Fine Art (DFA) from the University of Ulster for her outstanding contribution to acting and philanthropy and a Doctor of Letters from Nyack College.\n\nIn 1999, Downey signed with RCA Victor Records and recorded a CD called \"Healing Angel\", released on 14 September 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848923", "title": "John Downer", "text": "John Downer\n\nSir John William Downer, KCMG, KC (6 July 1843 – 2 August 1915) was an Australian politician who served two terms as Premier of South Australia, from 1885 to 1887 and again from 1892 to 1893. He later entered federal politics and served as a Senator for South Australia from 1901 to 1903. He was the first of four Australian politicians from the Downer family dynasty.\n\nBorn in Adelaide, John Downer (the son of Henry Downer who came to South Australia in 1838 and his wife Jane, \"née\" Field) was educated on a scholarship at St Peter's College, Adelaide, where he was a brilliant student. On 23 March 1867 he was admitted to the bar, and soon won a reputation as being among Adelaide's most talented and eloquent lawyers.\n\nDowner became a Queen's Counsel in 1878, the same year in which he was elected to the House of Assembly for Barossa. He represented this constituency until 1901, leaving it only to enter federal politics.\n\nIn the House of Assembly he soon made his mark and became Attorney-General in John Cox Bray's cabinet on 24 June 1881. He endeavoured to bring in several law reforms, and though his married women's property bill was not passed, he succeeded in carrying bills allowing accused persons to give evidence on oath, and amending the insolvency and marriage acts. The government was defeated in June 1884, but a year later, on 16 June 1885, Downer himself became Premier for the first time, as well as being Attorney-General once again.\n\nWhile Premier, Downer oversaw the construction of the first train line from Adelaide to Melbourne. He also made significant contributions to establishing irrigation settlements along the Murray River. Although this ministry lasted two years and passed a fair amount of legislation, it was often in difficulties, and in June 1886 had to be reconstructed.\n\nAt the Colonial Conference held in London during 1887, Downer represented South Australia, but during his return journey to Australia his government was defeated. This ministry was responsible for a tariff imposing increased protective duties. Downer was not in office again for several years, but in October 1892 again became Premier, taking also the portfolio of Chief Secretary. In May 1893 he exchanged this for the position of Treasurer of South Australia, but was ousted at the 1893 election by liberal Protectionist Kingston with the support of the new Labor Party led by John McPherson. Downer remarked of this party: 'They are very clever fellows. I have great respect for the way they use either side for their purposes with absolute impartiality'. For most of the period until 1899 Downer led the Opposition.\n\nDowner was a strong federalist and had represented South Australia at the 1883 and 1891 conventions. At the latter meeting, he took an important part in protecting the interests of the smaller states, and was a member of the constitutional committee. He was elected one of the 10 representatives of South Australia at the 1897 convention, and was again on the constitutional committee.\n\nAt the time of Federation in 1901, Downer was elected as one of the inaugural senators for the Protectionist Party in South Australia at the first Parliament of Australia, but he did not seek re-election in 1903. He entered the South Australian Legislative Council as a National Defence League (Liberal Union from 1910) representative of the southern district in 1905, and continued to be re-elected until his death on 2 August 1915.\n\nAlfred Deakin assessed Downer in the following terms: 'bull-headed, and rather thick-necked, … with the dogged set of the mouth of a prize fighter' and 'smallish eyes'. Downer was regarded a first-rate barrister, and some of his speeches to juries were singled out by contemporaries as laudable examples of forensic art. He was equally successful in parliamentary debate; one of his colleagues called him the best debater in a house that contained Charles Kingston, Frederick Holder, John Cockburn, and John Jenkins.\n\nIn politics Downer tended to be conservative without being obstinate. He described himself as a Tory, and partly on account of this he often found himself in a minority during his later years in parliament. Nevertheless, he consistently advocated the rights of married women to their own property, female suffrage, protection of local industries, and federation.\n\nDowner married twice: firstly in 1871 to Elizabeth Henderson (c. 1852 – 3 May 1896), daughter of the controversial Rev. James Henderson; and secondly, in Sydney 29 November 1899 to Una Stella Haslingden Russell, daughter of Henry Edward Russell. With Elizabeth he had three children, John Henry (born 1872), James Frederick (born 1874) and Harold Sydney (born in 1875 and died in infancy).\nThe son of his second marriage was Alexander Russell \"Alick\" Downer (born 1910), who served in the Menzies government, was knighted, and served as Australian High Commissioner in London, and whose son, Alexander Downer served as leader of the (Opposition) Liberal party in 1994 and Foreign Minister in the Howard government.\n\nThe home he purchased in 1880 at 42 Pennington Terrace, North Adelaide, is now St Mark's College and the original part of the building is known as Downer House. A draft of the Australian Constitution was prepared in the ballroom in 1897.\n\nA brother and partner in his business, Henry Edward Downer (1836–1905), entered the South Australian parliament in 1881 and was attorney-general in the John Cockburn ministry from May to August 1890. Another brother, A(lexander) George Downer (1839–1916) was his partner in the legal firm G & J Downer and a prominent businessman.\n\nIn 1887, at the Imperial Conference in London (now the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting), Downer was created KCMG, recommended to the Queen by the Marquis of Salisbury.\nDuring retirement, he joined the Adelaide University Council and became president of the Commonwealth Club.\n\nThe Canberra suburb of Downer, Australian Capital Territory was named after him in 1960. On Garema Place, Canberra stands a commemorative sculpted fountain titled Father and Son and was presented by his son Sir Alick in 1964.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848926", "title": "Judith Hann", "text": "Judith Hann\n\nJudith Hann (born 8 September 1942 at Littleover, Derby, England) is a broadcaster and writer specialising in science, food and the environment.\n\nHann was educated at the state girls' school Parkfields Cedars Grammar School in Derby. She then attended the University of Durham, from which she graduated with a BSc degree in zoology.\n\nHann presented BBC's \"Tomorrow's World\" between 1974 and 1994. She has since made television guest appearances, and also some TV commercials. In 1997 she appeared in a Shredded Wheat advertisement, in which she used her scientific judgement to inform viewers that the product could possibly help keep their hearts healthy. In 2006 she presented \"Two's A Crowd\", a series on BBC Radio 4 that searched for the secrets of human identity. She runs her own media training and presentation skills company.\n\nHann lives on a farm near the small town of Lechlade, in the Cotswolds. She was married to John Exelby, a former executive at BBC News; they have two sons. She is passionate about herbs and has a very large garden. She is the daughter of former Derby County footballer and trainer Ralph Hann.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848927", "title": "Triatominae", "text": "Triatominae\n\nThe members of the Triatominae , a subfamily of the Reduviidae, are also known as conenose bugs, kissing bugs (so-called from their habit of feeding around the mouths of people), or vampire bugs. Other local names for them used in the Latin Americas include \"barbeiros\", \"vinchucas\", \"pitos\", \"chipos\" and \"chinches\". Most of the 130 or more species of this subfamily feed on vertebrate blood; a very few species feed on other invertebrates. They are mainly found and widespread in the Americas, with a few species present in Asia, Africa, and Australia. These bugs usually share shelter with nesting vertebrates, from which they suck blood. In areas where Chagas disease occurs (from the southern United States to northern Argentina), all triatomine species are potential vectors of the Chagas disease parasite \"Trypanosoma cruzi\", but only those species (such as \"Triatoma infestans\" and \"Rhodnius prolixus\") that are well adapted to living with humans are considered important vectors. Proteins released from their bites have been known to induce anaphylaxis in sensitive and sensitized individuals.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, Charles Darwin made one of the first reports of the existence of triatomines in America in his \"Journal and Remarks\", published in 1839 and commonly known as \"The Voyage of the Beagle\". The following is an extract which he based on his journal entry dated 26 March 1835:\n\nConsiderable medical speculation has occurred as to whether or not Darwin's contact with triatomines in Argentina was related to his later bouts of long-term illness, though it is unlikely to have been caused on this specific occasion, as he made no mention of the fever that usually follows the first infection.\n\nIn 1909, Brazilian doctor Carlos Chagas discovered that these insects were responsible for the transmission of \"T. cruzi\" to many of his patients in Lassance, a village located on the banks of the São Francisco River in Minas Gerais (Brazil). Poor people living there complained of some insects they called \"barbeiros\" that bite during the night. Carlos Chagas put his first observations in words:\n\nTriatomines undergo incomplete metamorphosis. A wingless first-instar nymph hatches from an egg, and may be small as 2 mm. It passes successively through second, third, fourth, and fifth instars. Finally, the fifth instar turns into an adult, acquiring two pairs of wings.\n\nAll triatomine nymph instars and adults are haematophagous and require the stability of a sheltered environment, where they aggregate. Most species are associated with wild, nesting vertebrates and are named \"sylvatic\" triatomines. These live in ground burrows with rodents or armadillos, or in tree dwellings with bats, birds, sloths, or opossums. Few species (5%) live in human dwellings or in the surroundings of human houses (peridomicile) in the shelters of domestic animals, these are named \"domestic\" species. Many sylvatic species are in process of domiciliation (i.e. \"semidomestic\").\n\nMost triatomines aggregate in refuges during day and search for blood during night, when the host is asleep and the air is cooler. Odors and heat guide these insects to their hosts. Carbon dioxide emanating from breath, as well as ammonia, short-chain amines, and carboxylic acids from skin, hair, and exocrine glands from vertebrate animals, are among the volatiles that attract triatomines. Vision also serves triatomines for orientation. At night, adults of diverse species fly to houses attracted by light.\n\nAdults produce a pungent odor (isobutyric acid) when disturbed, and are also capable of producing a particular sound by rubbing the rostrum over a stridulatory sulcus under its head (stridulation).\n\nDomestic and sylvatic species can carry the Chagas parasite to humans and wild mammals; birds are immune to the parasite. \"T. cruzi\" transmission is carried mainly from human to human by domestic kissing bugs; from the vertebrate to the bug by blood, and from the bug to the vertebrate by the insect's feces, and not by its saliva as occurs in most bloodsucking arthropod vectors such as malaria mosquitoes.\n\nTriatomine infestation especially affects older dwellings. One can recognize the presence of triatomines in a house by its feces, exuviae, eggs, and adults. Triatomines characteristically leave two kinds of feces like strikes on walls of infected houses; one is white with uric acid, and the other is dark (black) containing heme. Whitish or pinkish eggs can be seen in wall crevices. After having had a blood meal, the insects sometimes show a limited mobility and can be identified easily.\n\nSynthetic pyrethroids are the main class of insecticides used to control triatominae infestations. Insecticide treatment is more effective on nonporous surfaces, such as hardwood timber, fired bricks, and plastered walls, than on porous surfaces such as mud. A single treatment with insecticide typically protects against triatomine infestation for a year or more on timber walls vs. 2–3 months on adobe walls. Wettable powders, suspension concentrates, and insecticide paints can improve treatment effectiveness on porous surfaces.\n\nRates of insecticide resistance among triatomines are fairly low due to their long lifecycle and low genetic variability, but some instances of resistance have been reported, particularly among\" Triatoma infestans\" populations in Bolivia and Argentina.\n\nThe monophyletic nature of the Triatominae subfamily is strongly supported by molecular data, indicating that their blood-sucking character has occurred only once within the Reduviidae.\nThe classification within the subfamily is not stable, with different proposed relationships among the tribes and genera. The classification below largely follows Galvão et al. 2003, but in 2009 this same author eliminated the tribe Linshcosteini and also eliminated the genera \"Meccus\", \"Mepraia\", and \"Nesotriatoma\"\n\n\nAll 138 Triatominae species are potentially able to transmit \"T. cruzi\" to humans, but these five species are the most epidemiologically important vectors of Chagas disease.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848930", "title": "Duroplast", "text": "Duroplast\n\nDuroplast is a composite thermosetting plastic, a close relative of Formica and Bakelite. It is a resin plastic reinforced with fibers (either cotton or wool) making it a fiber-reinforced plastic similar to fiberglass.\n\nDuroplast was used by the German Democratic Republic state-owned automobile manufacturer VEB Sachsenring Automobilwerke Zwickau from 1955 until just after German Reunification in 1991. It was the material used to produce the outer body of the Trabant. There were four main versions of the Trabant; the 1963–1990 Trabant 601 was the longest running. The successor company is called HQM Sachsenring GmbH.\n\nThe product was first used in the body of the IFA F8 and later also the AWZ P70 or Zwickau P70 and the Trabant. It was also used to make suitcases.\n\nDuroplast is light and strong. It is made of recycled material, cotton waste and phenol resins. Because it can be made in a press similar to shaping steel, it is more suitable for volume car production than fiberglass.\n\nSimilar to fiberglass, Duroplast has limited possibilities for efficient disposal. As discarded Trabants began to fill junkyards, creative solutions sprung up for disposing of them. One of these was developed by a Berlin biotechnology company, which experimented with a bacterium to consume the body in twenty days. Urban legends, depicted in the movie \"Black Cat, White Cat\" and described in a song by the Serbian band Atheist Rap, described recycling Duroplast by feeding the cars to pigs, sheep and other farm animals. In the late 1990s, the same Trabant factory in Zwickau developed a solution for disposing of the Duroplast shells by shredding them and using them as an aggregate in cement blocks for pavement construction. This was featured in an episode of the program \"Scientific American Frontiers\" on the American PBS TV channel.\n\nThe use of Duroplast in Trabants and subsequent GDR jokes and mockery in western auto magazines such as \"Car and Driver\" gave rise to an urban myth that the Trabant is made of corrugated cardboard.\n"}
{"id": "1848933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848933", "title": "BrickOS", "text": "BrickOS\n\nbrickOS (previously legOS, developed by Markus Noga) is an alternative operating system for the Lego Mindstorms RCX Controller. It also provides a C/C++ development environment for RCX programs using gcc and g++ (the GNU C and C++ cross compilation tool chain) and the necessary tools to download programs to the RCX.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848935", "title": "Guaguancó", "text": "Guaguancó\n\nGuaguancó () is a subgenre of Cuban rumba, combining percussion, voices, and dance. There are two main styles: Havana and Matanzas.\n\n\nOther instruments may be used on occasion, for example spoons, palitos (wooden sticks striking the side of the drum), and tables and walls played like drums.\n\nRumba clave is the key pattern (guide pattern) used in guaguancó. There is some debate as to how the 4/4 rumba clave should be notated for guaguancó. In actual practice, the third and fourth stroke often fall in rhythmic positions that do not fit neatly into music notation. Triple-pulse strokes can be substituted for duple-pulse strokes. Also, the clave strokes are sometimes displaced in such a way that they don't fall within either a triple-pulse or duple-pulse \"grid\". Therefore, many variations are possible.\n\nThe guagua pattern (also known as palitos, or cáscara) contains all of the strokes of clave.\n\nThe following nine-measure excerpt is from the guaguancó “La polémica\" by Los Muñequitos de Matanzas (1988). This passage moves between the main modes of playing (A,B,C). The A section is the basic \"lock\" or \"ride\", as it is known in North America. It spans one clave (measure). An alternate phrase (B) is also one measure in length. Cross-beats, the basis of the third section (C), contradict the meter. By alternating between the lock and the cross, the quinto creates larger rhythmic phrases that expand and contract over several clave cycles. The great Los Muñequintos quintero Jesús Alfonso (1949–2009) described this phenomenon as a man getting \"drunk at a party, going outside for a while, and then coming back inside.\"\n\nThe term guaguancó originally referred to a narrative song style (coros de guaguancó) which emerged from the coros de claves of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Rogelio Martínez Furé states: \"[The] old folks contend that strictly speaking, the guaguancó is the narrative.\" The guaguancó song often begins with the soloist singing meaningless syllables, which is called the \"diana\". According to Larry Crook, the diana is important because it \"... also contains the first choral refrain. The lead singer provides a phrase or motive for the choral sections, or they may present new, but related material. Parallel harmonies are usually built above or below a melodic line, with thirds, sixths, and octaves most common.\" Therefore, the singer who is presented with singing the diana initiates the beginning of the guaguancó. He then may proceed to improvise lyrics stating the reason for holding the present rumba ('decimar'; span.: to make ten-line stanzas), During the verses of the song the quinto is capable of sublime creativity, while musically subordinate to the lead vocalist. There are natural pauses in the cadence of the verses, typically one or two measures in length, where the quinto can play succinct phrases in the \"holes\" left by the singer. Once the chorus (or montuno section) of the song begins, the phrases of the quinto interact with the dancers more than the lead singer.\n\nGuaguancó is a couple dance of sexual competition between the male and female. The male periodically attempts to \"catch\" his partner with a single thrust of his pelvis. This erotic movement is called the vacunao (‘vaccination’ or more specifically ‘injection’), a gesture derived from yuka and makuta [dances], symbolizing sexual penetration. The vacunao can also be expressed with a sudden gesture made by the hand or foot. The quinto often accents the vacunao, usually as the resolution to a phrase spanning more than one cycle of clave. Holding onto the ends of her skirt while seductively moving her upper and lower body in contrary motion, the female \"opens\" and \"closes\"{ her skirt in rhythmic cadence with the music. The male attempts to distract the female with fancy (often counter-metric) steps, accented by the quinto, until he is in position to \"inject\" her. The female reacts by quickly turning away, bringing the ends of her skirts together, or covering her groin area with her hand (botao), symbolically blocking the \"injection.\" Most of the time the male dancer does not succeed in \"catching\" his partner. The dance is performed with good-natured humor—David Peñalosa.\n\nVernon Boggs states that the woman's \"dancing expertise resides in her ability to entice the male while skillfully avoiding being touched by his vacunao.\" See: \"Guaguancó performed by Los Munequitos De Matanzas\". Arcata Theatre, Arcata, CA 21 July 1992. The pattern of quinto strokes and the pattern of the man's dance steps are at times identical, and at other times, imaginatively matched. The quinto player must be able to switch phrases immediately in response to the dancer’s ever-changing steps. See: rumba dancer steps in tandem to quinto cross-beats at 3:09. \"Yambú\" by Conjunto Clave y Guaguancó. Víctor Quesada \"Tatín\" on quinto.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848943", "title": "2000 Fijian coup d'état", "text": "2000 Fijian coup d'état\n\nThe Fiji coup of 2000 was a complicated affair involving a civilian coup d'état by hardline i-Taukei nationalists against the elected government of a Fijian of Indian Descent Prime Minister, Mahendra Chaudhry, on 19 May 2000, the attempt by President Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara to assert executive authority on 27 May, and his own resignation, possibly forced, on 29 May. An interim government headed by Commodore Frank Bainimarama was set up, and handed power over to an interim administration headed by Ratu Josefa Iloilo, as President, on 13 July.\n\nParliamentary elections in May 1999, had resulted in a decisive victory for the People's Coalition, a multiracial grouping that was dominated by the predominantly Labour Party but which also included three other parties supported. Mahendra Chaudhry had become the country's first Prime Minister of Indian descent.\n\nThe election result and Chaudhry's subsequent appointment as Prime Minister angered hardline i-Taukei nationalists. His government's hints at land reform caused further alarm. When a group led by George Speight, a businessman who had been declared bankrupt following the cancellation of several contracts by the Chaudhry government, entered Parliament buildings on 19 May 2000, disaffected elements of the i-Taukei population rallied to his side. For 56 days, Prime Minister Chaudhry and most of his cabinet, along with many Parliamentarians and their staff, were held as hostages while Speight attempted to negotiate with the President, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, who denounced the coup and declared a state of emergency, and with the military administration which took office on 29 May.\n\nOn 26 May, fifteen soldiers and two officers defected to the rebels, and, the following day, gunfire was exchanged. In a move that constitutional experts have described as of questionable constitutionality, Mara dismissed the government from office (for being \"unable to act\") prorogued Parliament for six months, and assumed executive authority himself. In doing so, he claimed to be following the advice of the Chief Justice, Sir Timoci Tuivaga, but he refused to abrogate the constitution, which Tuivaga had also advised. Mara admitted that his actions were at the very edge of constitutionality but said he believed they were within that boundary and necessary.\n\nSpeight's claims to be a Fijian nationalist and a champion of indigenous rights attracted support from certain elements of the Fijian population who were angered by the results of the 1999 election, which had swept away a government dominated by ethnic Fijians and brought to power a multiracial government led by Mahendra Chaudhry, who became Fiji's first-ever Indo-Fijian Prime Minister. Hints that the Chaudhry government might institute some form of land reform also generated considerable resentment among sections of the indigenous population, despite Constitutional guarantees of ethnic Fijian land ownership. Speight thus found sizeable number of sympathizers when he launched his putsch on 19 May.\n\nSpeight proceeded to appoint a \"Cabinet\". He initially named himself President, before appointing Ratu Jope Seniloli to the post two days later. Ratu Timoci Silatolu was appointed Prime Minister, downgraded to Deputy Prime Minister two days later, when Speight himself was named to the post by Seniloli. Other appointments included Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu as Minister for Fijian Affairs, Ratu Rakuita Vakalalabure as Minister for Home Affairs, and Simione Kaitani, Isireli Leweniqila, Levani Tonitonivanua, Berenado Vunibobo, Ratu Tu'uakitau Cokanauto and Ratu Inoke Kubuabola as Ministers without portfolio. Some, including Seniloli, Lalabalavu, and Vakalalabure were later convicted of coup-related offences, but whether all of the others had consented to their ministerial \"appointments\" as announced by Speight is not known.\n\nClaims have been made that Fijian nationalism may have been nothing more than a political ploy to attract supporters to what was, in reality, a personal grab for money and power on the part of Speight and his co-conspirators. During the 1990s, Speight had built up a modestly successful marketing business, but many contracts were lost after the Chaudhry government came to power in 1999. Charging corruption, Chaudhry revoked the contracts of two marketing firms chaired by Speight that were involved in the country's lucrative timber trade. By the time of the coup he was allegedly bankrupt. Several of his accomplices were undischarged bankrupts as well. Conspiracy theories hold that the real motive for the coup was to loot the treasury. Ratu Isireli Vuibau, the deposed Assistant Minister for Fijian Affairs, declared on 31 August 2000, after the rebellion was over, that many of those involved with Speight had links to the Timber Resource Group, comprising Fijian politicians who were investors in Speight's Timber Resource Management Limited company, which had interests in pine, mahogany, and hardwood. He said these politicians had joined Speight against the government when their proposals were rejected. \"\"Indigenous Fijians were used but little did they know that the coup was for a little group here and abroad,\"\" Ratu Vuibau said.\n\nMahendra Chaudhry has supported the view that ethnic nationalism was only a mask to gain the support of nationalist Fijians, and that the true purpose was to loot the treasury. He alleged in court papers and on his party's website that some of those who helped to finance and support certain aspects of the coup, such as the mutiny that took place at the Sukunaivalu Barracks in Labasa on 7 July 2000, were, in fact, Indo-Fijians. Another view sees the rebellion as one supported by a very disparate group of individuals, all for diverse reasons for their own. It was also alleged that the coup was supported by the Methodist church.\n\nTwo days later, on 29 May 2000, Mara resigned under disputed circumstances. Following orchestrated threats to his life and his family, he was evacuated to a naval vessel where a delegation including Armed Forces Commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama, Police Commissioner Isikia Savua, Great Council of Chiefs Chairman and former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka (who had instigated two earlier coups in 1987), and his own son-in-law, Ratu Epeli Ganilau (a former Army commander) met him and pressed him to abrogate the constitution. He refused, and resigned.\n\nWhether or not Mara's resignation was forced remains (as of 2005) the subject of a police investigation. Some, including Mahendra Chaudhry, believe that he was forcibly deposed. However, Mara's daughter Adi Ateca Ganilau, who is married to Ratu Ganilau, maintains that her father chose to resign and subsequently refused to be reinstated because he was upset at the abrogation of the constitution.\n\nAlmost a year later, Mara publicly accused the police chief, Colonel Isikia Savua and former Prime Minister, Sitiveni Rabuka, of instigating the coup. In an interview with Close-Up on Fiji Television on 29 April 2001, he claimed that Speight (who was then in custody and was later convicted of treason) was only a front. Mara said that he had confronted Savua and Rabuka two days after the coup about their possible involvement. \"I could see it in their faces,\" said Mara, emphatically rejecting their denials. Mara told the programme that within half an hour of Speight's forcible occupation of the Parliament, Rabuka had telephoned Government House (the official residence of the President) to offer to form a government.\n\nMara said that he was shocked to learn that the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit of the Army had been involved in the coup. He alleged that they took George Speight to Parliament, and that their senior officers supplied them with weapons, blankets, and food. Mara also declared that the Counter Revolutionary Warfare officers who joined Speight's coup had trained on a farm owned by Rabuka.\n\nCommodore Bainimarama announced on radio and television that he had taken over the government, and declared martial law at 6 pm. He abrogated the constitution on 30 May, and proceeded to appoint an interim government. He initially nominated Ratu Epeli Nailatikau (a son-in-law of Mara's and the husband of Adi Koila Nailatikau, who was one of Speight's hostages) as Prime Minister, but withdrew the nomination the next day. It was not until 4 July that he actually appointed a Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase (who remained in office until he was ousted from power by another coup in December 2006). Rebels, still holding hostages, staged a number of incidents around the country, cutting off Suva's power supply on 6 July, and over-running an army base on Vanua Levu Island and exchanging fire with the military in Suva the next day.\n\nThe interim military government signed an accord with Speight on 9 July, granting him immunity from prosecution and a review of the constitution in return for the release of the hostages. Nine were freed on 12 July, and the others, including Chaudhry, on the 13th. Ratu Josefa Iloilo was sworn in as President the same day, with Ratu Jope Seniloli as Vice-President. The appointment of Seniloli, a supporter of the rebels who had sworn himself in as President at Speight's behest, was seen as a gesture of appeasement to the rebel forces.\n\nOn 27 July, Aparama Vulavou and Peter Hazelman was arrested along with 369 supporters. The government reneged on the accord granting Speight immunity from prosecution, with Bainimarama saying that the military had signed it \"under duress.\"\n\nA second attempt by hardline elements to seize power took place on 2 November that year, when rebel soldiers mutinied at Suva's Queen Elizabeth Barracks. The mutiny resulted in the death of four loyal soldiers. Four rebels were subsequently beaten to death after the mutiny had been quelled. Bainimarama accused Rabuka of involvement, but as of April 2015, Rabuka has never been charged.\n\nOn 15 November, the High Court declared that the interim government was illegal. Mara remained the lawful President; Parliament had not been dissolved but only suspended, and should now be reconvened, and by implication, Chaudhry remained the lawful Prime Minister. As Mara had not been performing his duties, however, Iloilo had been rightly exercising the prerogatives of the office in his place. Mara subsequently resigned officially, with his resignation backdated to 29 May. The Qarase government appealed the court ruling; on 1 March 2001, the Court of Appeal confirmed the High Court decision reinstating the constitution. The government accepted the decision.\n\nAn estimated 7,500 jobs were lost because of the coup.\n"}
{"id": "1848947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848947", "title": "Prototype Verification System", "text": "Prototype Verification System\n\nThe Prototype Verification System (PVS) is a specification language integrated with support tools and an automated theorem prover, developed at the Computer Science Laboratory of SRI International in Menlo Park, California. \n\nPVS is based on a kernel consisting of an extension of Church's theory of types with dependent types, and is fundamentally a classical typed higher-order logic. The base types include uninterpreted types that may be introduced by the user, and built-in types such as the booleans, integers, reals, and the ordinals. Type-constructors include functions, sets, tuples, records, enumerations, and abstract data types. Predicate subtypes and dependent types can be used to introduce constraints; these constrained types may incur proof obligations (called type-correctness conditions or TCCs) during typechecking. PVS specifications are organized into parameterized theories.\n\nThe system is implemented in Common Lisp, and is released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848952", "title": "Electrical resistivities of the elements (data page)", "text": "Electrical resistivities of the elements (data page)\n\nAs quoted at http://www.webelements.com/ from these sources:\n\nAs quoted from various sources in an online version of:\n\nAs quoted in an online version of:\nwhich further refers to:\n\nAs quoted from:\n"}
{"id": "1848956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848956", "title": "Heat sealer", "text": "Heat sealer\n\nA heat sealer is a machine used to seal products, packaging, and other thermoplastic materials using heat. This can be with uniform thermoplastic monolayers or with materials having several layers, at least one being thermoplastic. Heat sealing can join two similar materials together or can join dissimilar materials, one of which has a thermoplastic layer.\n\nHeat sealing is the process of sealing one thermoplastic to another similar thermoplastic using heat and pressure.\nThe direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together. Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, film media, plastic ports or foil sealing.\n\nHeat seal connectors are used to join LCDs to PCBs in many consumer electronics, as well as in medical and telecommunication devices.\n\nHeat sealing of products with thermal adhesives is used to hold clear display screens onto consumer electronic products and for other sealed thermo-plastic assemblies or devices where heat staking or ultrasonic welding are not an option due to part design requirements or other assembly considerations.\n\nHeat sealing also is used in the manufacturing of bloodtest film and filter media for the blood, virus and many other test strip devices used in the medical field today. Laminate foils and films often are heat sealed over the top of thermoplastic medical trays, Microtiter (microwell) plates, bottles and containers to seal and/or prevent contamination for medical test devices, sample collection trays and containers used for food products.\n\nPlastic bags and other packaging is often formed and sealed by heat sealers. Medical and fluid bags used in the medical, bioengineering and food industries. Fluid bags are made out of a multitude of varying materials such as foils, filter media, thermoplastics and laminates.\n\n\n\nA type of heat sealer is also used to piece together plastic side panels for light-weight agricultural buildings such as greenhouses and sheds. This version is guided along the floor by four wheels.\n\nGood seals are a result of time, temperature and pressure for the correct clean material. Several standard test methods are available to measure the strength of heat seals. In addition, package testing is used to determine the ability of completed packages to withstand specified pressure or vacuum. Several methods are available to determine the ability of a sealed package to retain its integrity, barrier characteristics, and sterility.\n\nHeat sealing processes can be controlled by a variety of quality management systems such as HACCP, statistical process control, ISO 9000, etc. Verification and validation protocols are used to ensure that specifications are met and final materials/packages are suited for end-use.\n\nThe efficacy of heat seals is often detailed in governing specifications, contracts, and regulations. Quality management systems sometimes ask for periodic subjective evaluations: For example, some seals can be evaluated by a simple pull to determine the existence of a bond and the mechanism of failure. With some plastic films, observation can be enhanced by using polarized light which highlights the birefringence of the heat seal. Some seals for sensitive products require thorough verification and validation protocols that use quantitative testing. Test methods might include:\n\nSeal Strength testing, also known as Peel Testing, measures the strength of seals within flexible barrier materials. This measurement can then be used to determine consistency within the seal, as well as evaluation of the opening force of the package system. Seal strength is a quantitative measure for use in process validation, process control and capability. Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.\n\nThe burst test is used to determine the packages strength and precession. The burst test is performed by pressurizing the package until it bursts. The results for the burst test include the burst pressure data and a description of where the seal failure occurred. This test method covers the burst test as defined in ASTM F1140. The Creep test determines the packages ability to hold pressure for an extended period. The creep test is performed by setting the pressure at about 80% of the minimum burst pressure of a previous burst test. The time to seal failure or a pre-set time is measured.\n\nDetermination of package integrity. The package is submerged in a transparent container filled with a mixture of water and dye. Vacuum is created inside the container and maintained for a specific length of time. When the vacuum is released, any punctured packages will draw in dye revealing the imperfect seal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848990", "title": "Mutinies of the 2000 Fijian coup d'état", "text": "Mutinies of the 2000 Fijian coup d'état\n\nTwo military mutinies took place in connection with the civilian coup d'état that occurred in Fiji in 2000, the first while the rebellion instigated by George Speight was in progress, and the second four months after it had ended.\n\nOn 7 July 2000, rebel soldiers supporting George Speight overran the Sukunaivalu Barracks in Labasa, the largest town on the northern island of Vanua Levu. Besides seizing the barracks, these soldiers harassed ordinary Indo-Fijian citizens of Labasa, kidnapping bus commuters, ransacking homes, and seizing crops. Indo-Fijian women were also raped.\n\nDeposed Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry, an Indo-Fijian, condemned a number of businessmen, also Indo-Fijians, as \"traitors to their people\" for having financed and fed the mutineers in a rebellion ostensibly aimed at promoting nationalistic indigenous Fijian political interests. Chaudhry has made these allegations in court papers, as well as on his party's website.\n\nThe second mutiny, which took place on 2 November 2000 at Suva's Queen Elizabeth Barracks, was led by Captain Shane Stevens. It left four dead. In the aftermath of the failed attempt to depose the Military Commander, Commodore Frank Bainimarama, four of the rebels were beaten to death by loyal soldiers. A total of 42 soldiers from the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit were subsequently convicted of involvement in the mutiny.\n\nAccusations were levelled against former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka, who had himself instigated two military coups in 1987. In an interview with the Fiji Times on 12 November 2000, Commodore Bainimarama charged that while the revolt was in progress, Rabuka had visited the barracks with his army uniform in the car, ready to take over command of the army. He also allegedly started issuing orders to soldiers, telling them to obey his orders. \"\"Rabuka's words to one of my colonels at the height of the shootings raised my suspicions,\"\" Bainimarama said. \"\"He said the Colonel should listen to his instructions. He also criticised my leadership.\"\" Bainimarama accused Rabuka of leading soldiers astray by using \"confusing\" and \"deceiving\" words.\n\nBainimarama also accused Rabuka of having \"politicised\" the Counter Revolutionary Warfare (CRW) unit, which he had founded as a bodyguard in 1987, to favour both the mutiny and the earlier takeover of parliament in May. Members of the CRW were involved in both the May coup and the November mutiny.\n\nBainimarama's version was supported by Lieutenant Colonel Viliame Seruvakula, who led the counteroffensive to put down the mutiny. On 13 November 2000, he said that rebels interrogated by the military had implicated Rabuka. He accused Rabuka of trying to take civilians into the barracks to act as human shields for the mutineers, and stated that Rabuka's intention was to \"\"claim military leadership and ultimately overthrow the Government of the day.\"\"\n\nRabuka, a retired officer, denied supporting the mutiny, but refused to comment on an accusation from Bainimarama that he had called a meeting of senior officers loyal to him to depose Bainimarama. Despite his continued protests of innocence, the allegations continued to dog Rabuka, and thwarted his intended appointment as Fiji's Ambassador to the United States. On 14 May 2005, Commissioner of Police Andrew Hughes said the police were close to making a decision on whether to formally charge a number of unnamed individuals, one of whom the New Zealand Herald believed to be Rabuka.\n\nOn 5 November 2000, Foreign Minister Phil Goff of New Zealand publicly accused Lieutenant Colonel Filipo Tarakinikini, who had served as the Military's principal spokesman during the main events of the coup, of complicity in the mutiny of 2 November. According to Goff, the rebels' plan was to depose Commodore Bainimarama in favour of Tarakinikini. The next day, Tarakinikini angrily denied the charges, and said that in the light of the Military's decision to investigate, he was reconsidering his career with the Army.\n\nShortly after the allegation were made, Tarakinikini left Fiji for New York to take up a post as a security adviser at the United Nations. His resignation from the Army, handed to President Ratu Josefa Iloilo in 2002, was rejected by the President at the request of Commodore Bainimarama, who has continued in his efforts to have Tarakinikini deported to face a court martial for his alleged role in the mutiny and in the coup itself.\n\nTarakinikini is fighting the President's refusal of his resignation in the courts. The trial was supposed to begin on 12 September, but was postponed because Tarakinikini's lawyer, Samuela Matawalu, was recovering from a minor stroke. On 30 November, High Court Justice Gerald Winter scheduled a hearing for 22 February 2006 and ordered Matawalu to file submissions by 16 January, and the President's Office to reply by 17 February.\n\nStevens later testified that Ratu Inoke Takiveikata, the Qaranivalu, a senior chief of Naitasiri Province and a Senator and former Cabinet Minister, had visited the barracks during the mutiny to offer moral and practical support, which included supplying the mutineers with cellphones. On 23 November, Takiveikata was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in the mutiny.\n\nOn 16 August 2005, the Fiji Court of Appeal delivered a landmark ruling, ordering a retrial of 20 soldiers from the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit (CRW) who had been convicted in a court martial of participating in the 2000 coup and in a subsequent mutiny in November 2000, and sentenced to prison terms of between three and six years. Various legal technicalities have resulted in several adjournments in the court martial retrial since the naming of the court martial panel, under Judge Advocate Graeme Leung, on 5 October.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848992", "title": "Anthony Beaumont-Dark", "text": "Anthony Beaumont-Dark\n\nSir Anthony Michael Beaumont-Dark (11 October 1932 – 2 April 2006) was a British politician.\n\nHe was born in Birmingham on 11 October 1932, the son of a businessman. He was educated at Cedarhurst School, Solihull; Shirley College; Birmingham College of Arts and Crafts; and Birmingham University. He trained as an investment analyst and became a stockbroker by profession.\n\nHe was a Conservative City Councillor for Birmingham from 1956 to 1967, and stood unsuccessfully for Birmingham Aston in 1959 and 1964. Subsequently, he became MP for the constituency of Birmingham Selly Oak from 1979 to 1992. He was known for being a \"rent-a-quote\" MP who would deliver a pithy and memorable comment on almost any public issue.\n\nHe defeated Tom Litterick of the Labour Party in 1979, and served as a backbencher until his defeat in the 1992 general election by Dr Lynne Jones, the Labour candidate. He was knighted the same year.\n\nViz comic featured a regular character, Sir Anthony Regents-Park, MP for Fulchester Sunnyoak, who appears to refer to Beaumont-Dark.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848998", "title": "Byron Newman", "text": "Byron Newman\n\nByron Newman (born in London, England, United Kingdom) is a British photographer.\n\nHe has been a photographer for over 25 years. Most of the years in partnership with French actress , his producer, stylist, muse and also his wife.\n\nNewman started out studying graphic design and photography at the London College of Printing. Afterwards, he interviewed and photographed musicians for \"Cream\" magazine in the 1960s and 1970s. He started his own fashion magazine \"Deluxe\" in 1977. From that experience he was offered a job in Paris as the art director with Mode International. Once there he also started working for \"LUI\" magazine where he was a staff photographer. Whilst there he met Brigitte Ariel.\n\nIn 1982, whilst Newman and Ariel were in Hollywood on promoting her latest film, Hugh Hefner got in touch and met them at the Playboy Mansion. Byron has photographed for \"Playboy\" magazine, assisted by Brigitte, in the United States since 1984. His photographs appear in Playboy magazine and also are for the \"Playboy Special Editions\". He has also photographed for Playboy's other foreign editions including Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Russia, Mexico, South Africa, Croatia etc.\n\nDuring the time Byron has worked for them, he has photographed some of Britain's top glamour models including Samantha Fox, Katie Price aka Jordan, Jessica-Jane Clement, Marina Baker (whom he had discovered and photographed for her Miss March 1987 pictorial), and 2006 Playboy Special Edition model of the year Louise Glover.\n\nHis pictorial in \"Playboy USA\" (Sept 07) entitled \"\"Rubber Rules\"\" explores the sensuality of latex clothing.\n\nDuring the 1980s, he produced four books of erotic photographs:\n\n\nNewman also plays guitar, harmonica and sings in a rock band, Senior Service.\n\nIn 2014, his first novel \"Landscape of a Woman\" was published as an ebook. In 2017, his second novel 'First, Last, Everything' was published as an ebook. An exhibition at the Herrick Gallery in Picadilly called \"Ultimate Angels\" featuring photos of transgender sex workers in Paris was held in July 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848999", "title": "La Parka", "text": "La Parka\n\nAdolfo Margarito Tapia Ibarra (born November 14, 1965) is a Mexican \"luchador enmascarado\" (masked professional wrestler), who currently performs as L.A. Park for Major League Wrestling in the United States and Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA) in Mexico. He is best known throughout the world as La Parka, especially from his many years in the American World Championship Wrestling promotion. He has worked for every major and multiple minor wrestling promotions in Mexico, as well as participating on multiple wrestling tours in Japan. He is a three-time world champion, having held the IWC World Heavyweight, IWC World Hardcore, and IWL World Heavyweight championships all once.\n\nTapia was forced to change his ring name from \"La Parka\" to \"L.A. Park\" (short for \"La Auténtica Park\"; \"The Original Park\") in early 2003 when AAA owner Antonio Peña asserted his copyright claims to the La Parka character, barring Tapia from using the name as he promoted his own version of the gimmick (AAA's new \"La Parka\" is widely known as La Parka II among fans). \n\nIn March 2010, L.A. Park returned to AAA and started a storyline with AAA's La Parka, pitting the original and the new La Parka against each other. At Triplemania XVIII, Park defeated La Parka and earned the rights to once again be known as \"La Parka\". The result, however, was later thrown out.\n\nTapia's uncle changed his character to Super Parka after Tapia gained worldwide fame. Several of Tapia's other family members are professional wrestlers, including his sons El Hijo de L.A. Park and L.A. Park Jr., brother El Hijo de Cien Caras, nephew Volador Jr., and great nephew Flyer, among others. L.A. Park's family is referred to in Mexico as \"La Familia Real\".\n\nAdolfo Tapia made his professional wrestling debut in 1982 at the age of 16, using his real name. Later on he would wrestle as the masked \"El Gringo\" in the Monclova, Coahuila region and as \"El Minero\" in Mexico City. Tapia lost his first \"Lucha de Apuesta\", or bet match, to Climax II and was forced to take off the El Minero mask and reveal his real name, as per Lucha libre traditions. In 1988 he changed his ring character to \"El Asesino de Tepito\" (\"The Assassin from Tepito\"), a \"rudo\" (villain) character he used in 1988. He lost the \"Asesino de Tepito\" mask in an \"Apuesta\" match against Astro de Oro at some point in 1988. Following the mask loss Tapia adopted a character called \"Principe Island\" (\"Island Prince\"), a character he would use until 1992. As \"Principe Island\" he won the masks of wrestlers Gran Cóndor, Principe Judas, Guerrero Negra and Bestia Negra I. On November 21, 1987 he lost the \"Principe Island\" mask to El Hijo del Santo. Following his mask loss he started working as the masked \"Invasor del Norte I\" as well as still taking bookings as \"Principe Island\". The double bookings came to an end on June 26, 1991 when Stuka unmasked the Invasor del Norte character, revealing that Tapia played both characters.\n\nIn 1992 Antonio Peña founded a new wrestling promotion called Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA), signing Tapia to a contract early on. Peña came up with the idea to repackage Tapia as \"La Parka\" (an altered spelling of \"La Parca\", Spanish for \"The Reaper\", a character who wore a full bodysuit and mask that resembled a skeleton like the ones used in Mexico's Day of the Dead ceremonies. The character was an almost instant success with the fans, the imagery combined with Tapia's charisma and flamboyant actions in the ring made him a big crowd favorite despite La Parka initially being a \"rudo\" character. One of his initial storyline feuds was with Lizmark, a feud that resulted in a match for the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship at AAA's inaugural Triplemania event, in which Lizmark successfully defended the title against La Parka. In August 1993 La Parka won his first championship when he defeated Lizmark for the WWA Light Heavyweight Championship on a WWA/AAA co-promoted show. The title reign lasted until October 23, 1993 when Lizmark won the title back. The feud between the two saw La Parka defeat Lizmark for the WWA title for a second time on June 20, 1994. La Parka was one of the wrestlers that worked the \"When Worlds Collide\" show, a joint AAA/World Championship Wrestling (WCW) pay-per-view where he teamed with Jerry Estrada and Blue Panther, losing to the team of The Pegasus Kid, 2 Cold Scorpio, and Tito Santana. On September 9, 1994 La Parka won the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship that he had been chasing for over a year when he defeated Lizmark for the title, finishing off the storyline between the two. La Parka held the title for 200 days losing it to Jerry Estrada. La Parka would wear the Mexican National Light Heavyweight championship two further times while working for AAA, in 1995 and in 1996 until he lost the belt to Pimpinela Escarlata on May 13, 1996. In 1995 he would make an appearance for Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) in the United States, teaming with Psicosis, losing a tag team match against Konnan and Rey Misterio Jr.\n\nWhen WCW began using a number of AAA wrestlers for their cruiserweight division in mid to late 1996 La Parka gained worldwide exposure by appearing on WCW's weekly television shows and PPVs. La Parka often wrestled against other AAA \"Luchadors\" such as Juventud Guerrera or Super Caló and often teamed with Psicosis (known in WCW as Psychosis). Due to La Parka's more comedic style he stood out from the rest of the AAA wrestlers who were generally high fliers. He was nicknamed \"the chairman of WCW\" due to the fact that he often carried a chair to the ring, play air guitar on it during his entrances and generally use it both in matches and in post match celebrations. At one point he and Psychosis were managed by Sonny Onoo, although the team failed to achieve much success as a unit. He later dropped Onoo as a manager and begin to feud with Psychosis and Disco Inferno. While La Parka often wrestled on WCW's Monday Nitro show his PPV appearances were rare. On July 13, he teamed with Psychosis and Villano IV on the undercard of WCW's Bash at the Beach PPV, losing to Héctor Garza, Juventud Guerrera and Lizmark Jr. He also wrestled at SuperBrawl VIII, losing to Disco Inferno. \n\nLa Parka's biggest achievement in WCW did not even involve Adolfo Tapia. One night in a match against Randy Savage, La Parka suddenly executed Diamond Dallas Page's finisher, the Diamond Cutter on Savage and gained the pinfall. After the match \"La Parka\" unmasked to show that it was Savage's rival Diamond Dallas Page under the mask, using the ruse to get back at Savage. A couple of weeks later, Savage wrestled against the real La Parka defeating him to gain a small measure of revenge. In October 1998, La Parka became part of Eddie Guerrero's Latino World Order (LWO), a group that also included Psychosis, Juventud Guerrera, Villano IV, Villano V, El Dandy, Silver King, Héctor Garza, Damián 666, and a reluctant Rey Mysterio Jr. The group feuded mainly with Konnan and Perry Saturn. In January 1999, Guerrero was injured in a car accident and the LWO group was subsequently abandoned.\n\nWhen Vince Russo and Ed Ferrara took over the creative portion of WCW in late 1999, the duo had Ferrara's voice dub English over the intercom while La Parka would be doing interviews in Spanish. This often ended with a confused Gene Okerlund exclaiming \"What the hell was that?!\" Among other things the voice-over explained that La Parka was a fan of Skeletor from \"Masters of the Universe\" and other comedic comments. During this time, he teamed with Kaz Hayashi, a Japanese wrestler who also used a \"Comedic voice over\" gimmick and referred to La Parka as \"Skull Captain\". La Parka left WCW in 2000.\n\nWhile La Parka had been busy working exclusively for WCW for a number of years Peña had given the \"La Parka\" outfit and character to another wrestler under AAA contract and had him working as La Parka Jr. from late 1996 and forward, cashing in on La Parka's popularity in the states. Initially Peña and La Parka did not clash over the use of the La Parka name since Tapia worked mainly for various US independent promotions and for smaller Mexican promotions. When Tapia signed a contract with Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), AAA's main rival, in 2003 Peña took legal actions against Tapia. He renamed \"La Parka Jr.\" and had a court order drawn up that prevented Tapia from being billed as \"La Parka\" in Mexico, claiming that Peña had the copyright to the character. The legal battle between Tapia and AAA forced Tapia to change his name to \"L.A. ParK\", short for \"La Autentica ParK\" (K pronounced as \"Ka\"). In subsequent years both parties filed various legal petitions to stake their claims on the copyright. For a period of time Tapia was barred from appearing on television wearing the black and white outfit he had worn for years. This led to Tapia wearing a modified version of the outfit in other color combinations such as black and red, black and yellow, white and black or even variations of silver. He had already modified the original \"La Parka\" outfit to differentiate between himself and the AAA version, adopting a mask that looked less like a skull and more like the face of Darth Maul from the \"\" movie. Later on Tapia would return to wearing the black and white outfits once again.\n\nIn 2003 L.A. ParK began working for CMLL, although he was often kept off their television broadcasts due to the ongoing legal battles with Peña and AAA. In January 2004 L.A. Park teamed up with Shocker to defeat \"Los Guerreros del Infierno\" (Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero) to win the CMLL World Tag Team Championship. Guerrero and Bucanero regained the titles 56 days later, after which L.A. Park challenged Último Guerrero to defend the CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship against him at CMLL's 71st Anniversary Show, a match which L.A. Park lost two falls to one.\n\nTapia worked for CMLL in an on again, off again capacity, not being booked for CMLL for long stretches of time. During one of those \"off again\" periods L.A. Park won the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship for a fourth time when he defeated El Dandy for the title on October 15, 2004 making him one of only two wrestlers to hold the title four times. In early 2007 La Parka returned to CMLL full-time and began a storyline with Perro Aguayo Jr., a storyline that saw the two face off in a singles match at the 2007 \"Sin Piedad\" event where L.A. Park won by disqualification after \"Los Perros del Mal\" interfered in the match. The storyline ended in mid-2008 with no satisfactory end, instead L.A. Park began a feud with Dr. Wagner Jr.. Initially, L.A. Park was the \"tecnico\" in the feud, but the fan reactions began to turn against L.A. Park as the CMLL crowd began siding with Dr. Wagner Jr. This led to a double turn between the competitors. Playing the \"Rudo\" L.A. Park was disqualified several times for excessive violence, including a match at the CMLL 75th Anniversary Show that L.A. Park lost by disqualification. In the months following the Anniversary show both L.A. Park and Dr. Wagner Jr. left CMLL.\n\nWhile working for CMLL La Parka was allowed to also wrestle for independent promotions in Mexico, the US and Japan. During his time on the independent circuit L.A. Park developed a long-running and very intense feud with El Hijo del Santo and Blue Demon Jr., interjecting himself in a storyline that played off the original rivalry between El Santo and Blue Demon creating a feud that headlined various shows all over Mexico and involves three of the most famous masks of the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn 2004, Tapia made a number of appearances for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), as both L.A. Park and La Parka. He wrestled in a Gauntlet for the Gold for the TNA X Division Championship at one of TNA's weekly PPVs and then appeared in yet another X Division gauntlet match at TNA's inaugural monthly PPV Victory Road, losing on both occasions. On May 7, 2005, L.A. Park debuted for Detroit's Independent Wrestling Revolution (IWR) brand \"Revolucha\", teaming with American Kickboxer in a losing effort to El Hijo del Santo and Konnan. Park continued his rivalry with El Hijo del Santo culminating on October 29, 2005 at \"Revolucha 2: Dia de los Muertos\" in a \"Lucha en la Jaula\" match (a steel cage match). Both Park and Santo had their masks ripped apart and were bleeding profusely during the match. In February 2006, L.A. Park began a bitter feud with then IWR Champion Conrad Kennedy III (CK3). L.A. Park finally defeated CK3 on August 27, 2006 at \"Brawl at the Hall 6\" and defended the IWR Heavyweight Championship on October 14, 2007 at \"Revolucha 4\". After leaving CMLL in 2008 L.A. Park worked regularly for the newly started \"Perros del Mal Producciones\", reviving his old rivalry with Perro Aguayo Jr. Working on the \"Perros del Mal\" shows also allowed Tapia to help his son make his start in the wrestling business. Originally Tapia's son wrestled as \"Black Spirit\" without acknowledging the relationship between L.A. Park and Black Spirit. In early 2010 Tapia officially acknowledge that Black Spirit was his son announcing that he would wrestle as El Hijo de L.A. Park (\"The Son of L.A. Park\") from then. In 2011, Tapia was part of Lucha Libre USA as LA Park.\n\nL.A. Park won the Xtreme Latin American Wrestling (X-LAW) Heavyweight Championship in Friday, April 9, 2004. The bout was a decision match for the vacant title against Rey Misterio in a X-LAW show co-promoted with Baja Stars Wrestling in Auditorio Fausto Gutiérrez Moreno, in Tijuana. In subsequent years, X-LAW closed down, leaving L.A. Park as the last X-LAW Heavyweight Champion. In 2009, X-LAW's owner, Ernesto Ocampo, Súper Luchas Magazine publisher, decided to restart his promotion, promoting the return show on August 8, 2009, headlined with Tapia against The Sandman for the title. Tapia hyped the show in Ocampo's magazine and website weeks in advance as a \"return to the Hardcore style\" of ECW. The next show was on March 20, 2010, with L.A. Park facing Sabu in the main event. Super Parka was the special referee. L.A. Park beat Sabu after Super Parka hit Tapia with a steel chair, he fell on top of Sabu for the win. Super Parka then took the belt and ran off with it. This storyline is unresolved, because after Tapia jump to AAA, in subsequents X-LAW shows, Sabu has been promoted as X-LAW top star. On October 30, 2010, Sabu defeated Damián 666 to win Xtreme Latin American Wrestling's International Championship., but no word about the fate of the Heavyweight title.\n\nOn March 12, 2010, during the 2010 \"Rey de Reyes\" event Dorian Roldan, son of AAA boss Joaquin Roldan announced that he, Dorian, was going to take control of the promotion and that he had some help to do so. That help turned out to be L.A. Park, the original La Parka returning to AAA after years and years of legal battles and threats. After unveiling himself during the show L.A. Park announced that he was siding with Konnan and Dorian Roldan, targeting the \"impostor Parka\". In order to maintain the illusion that L.A. Park did not really work for AAA, L.A. Park claimed that he came to AAA to beat up La Parka, and since he had done that already he was not sure if he even felt like returning to AAA. L.A. Park did however return to an AAA ring as he had another brawl with La Parka on their April 18 television taping. During the event La Parka challenged L.A. Park to a match at Triplemania XVIII, under any stipulation the original Parka wanted. During AAA's television taping on April 30, 2010 L.A. Park accepted La Parka's challenge for a match at Triplemania XVIII. At an AAA press conference on May 12, 2010 it was announced that the match between the two would be for the rights to the name \"La Parka\". At Triplemania XVIII L.A. Park faced La Parka in the main event of the show. Near the end of the match Park used a tombstone piledriver, a move that is illegal in Lucha Libre. Joaquin Roldan entered the ring, when L.A. Park attempted to use a steel chair on La Parka. When L.A. Park teased using the chair on Joaquin instead, Dorian entered the ring to protest, but was pushed down by Park, who then hit Joaquin with the chair, which caused Dorian to turn on him, hitting him with a steel chair three times. Halloween and Damián 666 from the Perros del Mal wrestling promotion run to the ring to chase Dorian Roldan away. Then they drag L.A. Park on top of La Parka before \"rúdo\" referee Hijo del Tirantes counts for three to give L.A. Park the victory. After the bell rings the rest of \"Los Perros del Mal\", (including Park's son Hijo de L.A. Park) came to the ring to celebrate with L.A. Park who had won the rights to the name \"La Parka\". After a couple of minutes a group of AAA wrestlers led by Octagón came to ringside and in combination with the arena security managed to remove Los Perros del Mal from the ring. La Parka was taken from the ring on a stretcher, not having moved since L.A. Park applied the piledriver. A bit later it was announced that the match results had been thrown out due to interference by Los Perros del Mal, but the following morning it was confirmed that Tapia had indeed won and would now be known as \"La Parka\" once again. However, on June 10 AAA announced that it would respect Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission's decision to throw out the match and as a result both L.A. Park and La Parka would keep their names. Park stated that for him the Triplemania match was all about pride and not about names and that all that mattered to him was that he had proven who the true La Parka is, regardless of the names they now go by.\n\nOn July 4 La Parka defeated L.A. Park in a rematch. Afterwards, L.A. Park aligned himself with Dorian Roldan's \"La Sociedad\", a superstable consisting of \"La Legión Extranjera\", \"La Milicia\", \"Los Maniacos\" and the invading \"Los Perros del Mal\" stables. On December 5 at \"Guerra de Titanes\" L.A. Park defeated El Mesías to become the number one contender to the AAA Mega Championship, though, at the same event his \"La Sociedad\" stable mate El Zorro became the new champion by defeating Dr. Wagner Jr. In February 2011 the next title shot was awarded to Charly Manson to set up a grudge match between him and El Zorro, causing dissension between Park and Konnan. On February 28 Park entered the 2011 \"Rey de Reyes\" tournament in order to solidify his spot as the number one contender, defeating Dr. Wagner Jr., Halloween and Nicho el Millonario in his semifinal match. During the match Park was attacked by \"La Sociedad\" member Damián 666, who was seemingly trying to prevent him from advancing in the tournament, but instead the interference distracted Wagner Jr. and cost him the match. On March 18 at the Rey de Reyes pay-per-view, Park was eliminated from the finals of the tournament, after brawling with rival El Mesías to a double countout. The following month, when El Zorro caught wind of Park's intention of challenging for his title, he seemingly started interfering in Park's matches under his old mask, costing him back–to–back multi–man tag team matches at the April 27 and 30 TV tapings, escalating the dissension within \"La Sociedad\", eventually leading to the group turning on El Zorro, after which it was revealed that the masked attacker had actually been Charly Manson and this had all been Cibernético's plan to cause dissension within the ranks of \"La Sociedad\". On May 18, Park accepted El Mesías' challenge for a Mask vs. Hair match at Triplemanía XIX. Park added to the stakes of the match by announcing that he would retire, should he lose his mask. On June 18 at Triplemanía XIX, Park defeated El Mesías, forcing him to have his head shaved.\n\nOn July 31 at \"Verano de Escándalo\", Park faced \"La Sociedad\" stablemate and new AAA Mega Champion Jeff Jarrett and Dr. Wagner Jr. in a three-way match for the title, with Konnan stating that Park's job was to ensure that the title stayed with Jarrett. After Wagner Jr. was eliminated from the match, Jarrett pinned Park to retain his title, when someone masked as El Zorro interfered and hit him with a guitar. This person was later revealed as \"La Sociedad\" member Chessman, whom Konnan had sent to interfere in the match in order to have Park go after El Zorro instead of continuing to chase his stablemate's title. On October 9 at Héroes Inmortales, Park took part in the \"Copa Antonio Peña\" gauntlet match. After turning on Jeff Jarrett and eliminating him from the match, Park was once again attacked by a masked El Zorro, which led to Electroshock defeating him to win the match. Héroes Inmortales also saw La Parka turning on AAA and joining \"La Sociedad\", which led to him and L.A. Park forming an unlikely tag team on December 1, when they defeated the team of Dr. Wagner Jr. and Electroshock in the main event. On December 16 at Guerra de Titanes, Park defeated Dr. Wagner Jr. for the AAA Latin American Championship. The rivalry between Park and Jeff Jarrett continued on March 18, 2012, at \"Rey de Reyes\", where Jarrett's interference eliminated Park from the \"Rey de Reyes\" tournament. During the main event of the evening, Park in turn cost Jarrett the AAA Mega Championship in his match against El Mesías.\n\nOn April 30, Park officially quit \"La Sociedad\" and joined AAA to continue his rivalry with the Jarretts. On August 5 at \"Triplemanía XX\", Park teamed up with Electrochock as Team Joaquín Roldán in a Hair vs. Hair match, where they faced Team Dorian Roldán (Jeff Jarrett and Kurt Angle), with the Roldáns' hairs on the line. Electroshock won the match for his team by pinning Angle, forcing Dorian to have his head shaved bald. However, after the match, the \"rudos\" overpowered the \"technicos\" and shaved Joaquín bald.\n\nOn April 23, 2013 L.A. Park announced that he had left AAA, citing his desire to be free. Even after his AAA exit he kept promoting the possibility of a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match against Dr. Wagner Jr. possibly promoted by El Hijo del Santo's Todo X el Todos (TxT) promotion. On June 16, Park made an appearance for AAA at Triplemanía XXI to present Blue Demon Jr. with the AAA Latin American Championship belt and officially announce his departure from the promotion.\n\nOn October 31, 2014 during CMLL's \"Dia de los Muerte\" Super Viernes show L.A. Park returned to CMLL, accompanied by his son. He interrupted a fight between Diamante Azul and Thunder as he walked to the ring, then issued an open challenge to any CMLL wrestler. At the time no one took the challenge. The following week it was announced that Park was not joining CMLL, but was only there to promote a partnership between CMLL and the new independent \"Liga Elite\" promotion.\n\nOn August 19, 2015, Park announced his return to CMLL. On August 28, Park returned to CMLL to team with Volador Jr. and Atlantis to wrestle Dr. Wagner Jr., Rush and La Sombra. On September 8, CMLL announced it had severed its ties with Park for the time being for \"violating the rules of CMLL\" by insulting the Arena México crowd.\n\nOn June 5, 2018 L.A. Park was revealed as one of the surprise competitors in AAA's \"Poker de Ases\" (\"Poker Aces\") match at \"Triplemanía XXVI\", betting his mask against Psycho Clown, El Hijo del Fantasma and Pentagón Jr in the headline match of the show. Park won the battle, winning the mask of Hijo del Fantasma. On July 21, 2018, at \"AAA vs. Elite\", L.A. Park teamed with Electroshock and Puma King as representatives of Liga Elite, defeating Team AAA (Psycho Clown, El Hijo del Fantasma and Rey Wagner).\n\nIn April 2018, L.A. Park was announced to be returning to MLW as a member of Promociones Dorado, led by Salina de la Renta. Park then entered a feud with Pentagon Jr. and Rey Fénix, defeating the former in a Mexican Death match at MLW War Games on September 6, 2018. He would continue to feud with the two, as well as other people such as Sami Callihan and Mance Warner, before losing to Pentagon and Fenix in a match for the MLW World Tag Team Championship in November. L.A. Park would then defeat Pentagon on April 4, 2019 at MLW Rise of the Renegades. Park would receive a push in early 2019, after winning the second MLW Battle Riot, earning a future title shot against the MLW World Heavyweight Champion. On September 15, 2019, Salina de la Renta announced that L.A. Park would be cashing in his Battle Riot title shot against Jacob Fatu at Saturday Night SuperFight.\n\nAdolfo Tapia is part of an extended wrestling family that beyond himself also includes his brother Eustacio Jiménez Ibarra, who wrestled as El Hijo de Cien Caras (\"The son of Cien Caras\") before his death on November 29, 2010, as well as his son who wrestles as El Hijo de L.A. Park (\"The son of L.A. Park\"). Three of Adolfo Tapia's uncles are also wrestlers working under the ring names Super Parka, Johnny Ibarra and Desalmado. Super Parka's son, Tapia's cousin, wrestles for CMLL as Volador Jr. In January 2019 L.A. Park introduced \"L.A. Park Jr.\"; presented as a son who decided to follow in L.A. Park's footsteps and become a professional wrestler. He had worked under the ring name \"Último Sadox\" up until that point. It is unclear if L.A. Park Jr. was related to Tapia or if it was a case of someone paying for the use of the name in the same vein as El Hijo de Cien Caras or El Hijo del Gladiador where they paid for the use of the name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849001", "title": "Erika Fuchs", "text": "Erika Fuchs\n\nErika Fuchs, née Petri (7 December 1906 in Rostock – 22 April 2005 in Munich), was a German translator. She is largely known in Germany due to her translations of American Disney comics, especially Carl Barks' stories about Duckburg and its inhabitants.\n\nMany of her creations (re)entered the German language, and her followers today recognize her widely quoted translations as standing in the tradition of great German-language light poetry such as by Heinrich Heine, Wilhelm Busch, and Kurt Tucholsky. Unlike the English originals, her translations included many hidden quotes and literary allusions. As Fuchs once said, \"You can't be educated enough to translate comic books\".\n\nBorn into a well to do large family, Fuchs spent most of her childhood and youth in Belgard in Pomerania, where in 1921 she was the first girl to be admitted to the boys' \"Gymnasium\" (grammar school) - she passed her \"Abitur\" exam there in 1926. She went on to study art history in Lausanne, Munich and London and took her degree in 1931–1932. In 1935 her dissertation was entitled \"Johann Michael Feuchtmayr: Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des deutschen Rokoko\" - \"a contribution to the history of German Rococo\". It received a summa cum laude. Her husband, Dipl.-Ing. Günter Fuchs (1907–1984), was an industrialist and inventor and tried various inventions at home.\n\nAfter the Second World War she worked as a translator for the German edition of \"Reader's Digest\", before carrying out translating jobs for other American magazines. In 1951, she became chief editor of Disney's newly founded German \"Micky Maus\" magazine, where she worked until she retired in 1988.\n\nMany of her creations as translator of Carl Barks comics entered or reentered the German language. The phrase \"\"Dem Ingeniör ist nichts zu schwör\"\" - \"nothing is too hard for an engineer\" but with the vowels (umlauts) at the end of \"Ingenieur\" and \"schwer\" altered to make them rhyme amusingly was often attributed to Fuchs, as she had made it Gyro Gearloose's German catchphrase. However, it was originally based on a song written by Heinrich Seidel. A somewhat more clumsy version of the phrase was the first verse of \"Seidels Ingenieurlied\" (\"The Engineer's Song\") and had been used by fraternities at technical universities for the German equivalent of The Ritual of the Calling of an Engineer. Fuchs had heard it from her husband, who was an engineer himself.\n\nA classical Fuchs is as well to be found in her translation of Barks's 1956 story \"Three Un-Ducks\" (INDUCKS story code W WDC 184-01), where Huey, Dewey, and Louie speak the oath \"\"Wir wollen sein ein einig Volk von Brüdern, in keiner Not uns waschen und Gefahr\"\" (\"We Shall be a United People of Brethren, Never to Wash in Danger nor Distress\"), thereby parodying Friedrich Schiller's version of the Rütlischwur from his 1804 play \"William Tell\" in a suitable way.\n\nShe also used verbs shortened to their stems not only to imitate sounds (onomatopoeia), such as \"schluck\", \"stöhn\", \"knarr\", \"klimper\" (gulp, groan, creak, chink/jingle), but also to represent soundless events: \"grübel\", \"staun\", \"zitter\" (ponder, goggle, tremble). The word for these soundwords in German is now an \"Erikativ\", a tongue-in-cheek word utilizing Fuchs's first name, made to resemble grammatical terms such as \"Infinitiv\" (infinitive), \"Indikativ\" (indicative mood), \"Akkusativ\" (accusative case), etc. \"Erikative\" are commonly used in Internet forums and chatrooms to describe what people are doing as they write, which has become the common German form of the Internet slang behavior known in English as emoting. English examples: *ducks*, *runs away*, etc. The \"Erikativ\" is the German form of those (\"*duck*\", \"*weglauf*\", respectively).\n\nIn 2001 she was awarded the Heimito von Doderer Prize for Literature for her work on Duckburg. Until her death at 98, Erika Fuchs was an honorary member of the \"D.O.N.A.L.D.\" (\"Deutsche Organisation nichtkommerzieller Anhänger des lauteren Donaldismus\" or the \"German Organization of Non-commercial Devotees of the true Donaldism\"). Some members of this organisation (Patrick Bahners and Andreas Platthaus) occasionally sprinkled Fuchsian tidbits amongst the headlines of the serious \"FAZ\" newspaper, although these were often recognisable only by those in the know.\n\nIn 1991, painter Gottfried Helnwein set a portrait of Fuchs among his work \"Die 48 bedeutendsten Frauen des Jahrhunderts\" (\"48 Most Important Women of the Century\"). The work is now to be found at Museum Ludwig in Cologne.\n\nA comic museum in her hometown of Schwarzenbach an der Saale, named after Erika Fuchs, saw its opening on August 1, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849003", "title": "Mohammad-Hashem Mohaymeni", "text": "Mohammad-Hashem Mohaymeni\n\nMohammad Hashem Mohaimeni (or Mohaymeni) (born 1955 in Gorgan, Iran) was appointed the third governor general of Golestan Province, Iran in May 2002.\n"}
{"id": "1849006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849006", "title": "Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse", "text": "Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse\n\nSciences Po Toulouse, or The Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse is one of the nine Institutes of Political Studies of France. Based in the center of Toulouse, France, next to the Université Toulouse 1 Capitole, this highly selective political science \"grande école\" was founded by a Decree in 1948 under the name of Institut d'études politiques de l'université de Toulouse. Since 2004 the courses have been 5 years long.\n\nFour institutes of political studies (in Bordeaux, Lyon, Grenoble and Toulouse) were established in 1946 following an executive decree by General Charles de Gaulle. The institut d'études politiques de Toulouse is one of them as an autonomous body within Toulouse 1 University Capitole. Since 2008, the cooperation between the different institut d'études politiques has increased and its students can now leave their institute in order to apply nearly freely in another one, furthermore, the competitive written examination (for students selection) is co-organized with five other institutes, respectively in Aix-en-Provence, Lille, Lyon, Rennes and Strasbourg.\n\n\nThe institute is modeled on the former École Libre des Sciences Politiques. Besides, it is a member of the consortium of French universities, grandes écoles and other institutions of higher education and research University of Toulouse. The main peculiarity of the Sciences Po model is that it is an interdisciplinary approach to excellence in education which provides future generalists with the high level of grounding in skills that they need in History, Law, Economic Sciences, Sociology, Political science and International relations, enriched by specialization in years 4 and 5, after a 3rd year either on a professional placement in France or overseas or alternatively studying at a foreign university.\n\nLike the other institutes of political studies, it provides students with general training in political sciences, law, sociology, economics, general knowledge, and history. Since 2004, Courses have been 5 years long. it main diploma is equivalent to a master's degree. Its specialty is national security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849008", "title": "Naval actions at the siege of Ochakov (1788)", "text": "Naval actions at the siege of Ochakov (1788)\n\nThis was a series of mainly small-ship actions which occurred along the coast of what is now Ukraine during the Russo-Turkish War (1787–1792) as Russian and Turkish ships and boats supported their land armies in the struggle for control of Ochakov, a strategic position. The main actions at sea happened on 17, 18, 28 and 29 June and 9 July 1788. On 9 July also, the larger Turkish ships left and on 14 July they fought the Russian Sevastopol fleet about 100 miles to the south.\n\nThe Russians had a small sailing ship fleet, commanded by Alexiano, but finally taken command of by John Paul Jones on 6 June, and a gunboat flotilla (the makeup of which changed over the course of the fighting), commanded by Prince Charles of Nassau-Siegen. Both of these men had been made Russian Rear-Admirals, and were themselves commanded by Prince Potemkin. The Russian land armies were commanded by Alexander Suvorov.\n\nThe Turks had a large mixed fleet, commanded by Kapudan Pasha (admiral in chief) Hassan el Ghazi, part of which came in close to support the fighting, and part of which stayed out. It is hard to determine the makeup of this force accurately. Most of its ships were probably armed merchantmen, carrying around 40 guns, a few were probably larger. Different accounts give different numbers, but according to an 8 April list from Istanbul, the fleet consisted of 12 battleships, 13 frigates, 2 bombs, 2 galleys, 10 gunboats and 6 fireships. There were some xebecs (oared vessels of 30 or more guns) as well, but perhaps these were counted as frigates.\n\nSailing ship fleet (Jones): (Only the first 3 were built as warships)\n\"Vladimir\" 48 \"(reduced from 66 due to shallow water)\"\n\"Aleksandr Nevskii\" 40 \"(reduced from 50 due to shallow water)\"\n\"Skoryi\" 40\n\"Cherson\" 32\n\"Sv. Nikolai\" 26\n\"Malyi Aleksandr\" 34 - Sunk 28 June\n\"Boristen\" 24\n\"Taganrog\" 34\n\"Ptchela\" 24\n\"Bogomater Turlenu\"\n\"Sv. Anna\"\n\"Grigorii Potemkin\"\n\"Melent\"\n\"Bityug\" (bomb)\nFlotilla (Nassau-Siegen):\n\n12 battleships, mostly small\n13 frigates or xebecs\n2 bombs\n2 galleys\n10 gunboats\n6 fireships\n\nOn 19 March 1788, the Russian sailing fleet moved from its position near Cherson to Cape Stanislav.\n\nOn 21 April, Nassau-Siegen reached Cherson with his flotilla and on 24 April moved into the Liman.\n\nOn 27 May, the Russian Sevastopol' fleet under Count Voinovitch attempted to leave port but was forced back almost immediately by adverse conditions. If it had sailed, it might have met the Turkish fleet earlier than it did.\n\nOn 30 May Jones arrived, but left to confer with Suvorov about the building of a new battery at Kinburn (on the south coast, facing Ochakov) before returning on 6 June.\n\nMeanwhile, on 31 May the Turkish fleet had arrived. The Russian flotilla waited too long before retreating, and one of its vessels, the double-sloop \"No. 2\", was overtaken by small craft and its commander, Saken, blew himself up.\n\nAfter a minor action on 17 June, on 18 June at about 7.30 am 5 Turkish galleys and 36 small craft attacked the inshore end of the Russian line, which was perpendicular to the coast. At first the Russians had only 6 galleys, 4 barges and 4 double-sloops to oppose them. At about 10 a.m. el Ghazi arrived with 12 more vessels, but Nassau-Siegen and Jones had advanced the offshore ends to bring their whole forces into action and at 10.30 the Turks withdrew with the loss of 2 or 3 vessels burnt and blown up. At about 11 a.m. firing stopped and by 12 p.m. the Russian flotilla had rejoined the sailing ships.\n\nOn 27 June at 12 p.m., the Turkish fleet steered for the left (windward) end of the Russian line but at 2 p.m. their flagship ran aground and the other ships anchored in disarray. Adverse winds prevented the Russians from attacking until about 2 a.m. on 28 June when it shifted to the NNE, but the Turkish ship had been refloated and the Turks tried to form a line. At about 4 a.m. all the Russians advanced and at 5.15 a.m. they were in action. The Turkish second flagship ran aground and Nassau-Siegen sent in the left wing of his flotilla to attack her. This left his right wing weak, and \"Malyi Aleksandr\" was sunk by Turkish bombs. However, the Turkish battleship was burnt, this fate also falling to her flagship later. At 9.30 p.m., the Turks withdrew under the Ochakov guns; el Ghazi decided to withdraw his sailing ships completely, but the new battery at Kinburn forced him so far to the north that 9 of his ships ran aground, and the next morning the Russian flotilla surrounded these and several small craft and destroyed them all except for one 54-gun battleship, which they refloated.\n\nThe Turks had lost 2 battleships and 885 captured on 28 June, and perhaps 8 battleships, 2 frigates, 2 xebecs, 1 bomb, 1 galley and 1 transport and 788 captured on 29 June. Russian casualties were 18 killed and 67 wounded in the flotilla, and probably slight losses in the sailing ships.\n\nThe Turkish fleet appeared near Pirezin Adası, west of Ochakov, on 1 July, to try to rescue the small craft, but decided not to pass the batteries again and on 9 July it put to sea to meet the Russian Sevastopol' fleet, which it fought in the Battle of Fidonisi to the south on 14 July.\n\nOn 9 July also the Russian army began to assault Ochakov and the Russian flotilla attacked the Turkish vessels there. Forces involved in this were as follows: Russian: 7 galleys, 7 double-sloops, 7 floating batteries, 7 \"decked boats\" and 22 gunboats. Turkish: 2 20-gun xebecs/frigates, 5 galleys, 1 kirlangitch (very similar to a galley), 1 16-gun brigantine, 1 bomb and 2 gunboats.\n\nAt 3.15 a.m. firing started. The 2 Turkish gunboats and 1 galley were captured by the Russians and the rest were burnt. Firing ceased at 9.30. Russian casualties were 24 killed and 80 wounded.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849011", "title": "The Notorious Byrd Brothers", "text": "The Notorious Byrd Brothers\n\nThe Notorious Byrd Brothers is the fifth album by the American rock band the Byrds, and was released in January 1968, on Columbia Records. The album represents the pinnacle of the Byrds' late-60's musical experimentation, with the band blending together elements of psychedelia, folk rock, country, electronic music, baroque pop, and jazz. With producer Gary Usher, they made extensive use of a number of studio effects and production techniques, including phasing, flanging, and spatial panning. The Byrds also introduced the sound of the pedal steel guitar and the Moog modular synthesizer into their music, making it one of the first LP releases on which the Moog appears.\n\nRecording sessions for \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" took place throughout the latter half of 1967 and were fraught with tension, resulting in the loss of two members of the band. Rhythm guitarist David Crosby was fired in October 1967 and drummer Michael Clarke left the band midway through recording, returning briefly before finally being dismissed after completion of the album. Additionally, original band member Gene Clark, who had left the group in early 1966, rejoined for three weeks during the making of the album, before leaving again. Author Ric Menck has commented that in spite of these changes in personnel and the conflict surrounding its creation, \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" is the band's most cohesive and ethereal-sounding album statement.\n\n\"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" reached number 47 on the \"Billboard\" Top LPs chart and number 12 on the UK Album Chart. A cover of the Gerry Goffin and Carole King song \"Goin' Back\" was released in October 1967 as the lead single from the album to mild chart success. Although \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" was critically praised at the time of its release, it was only moderately successful commercially, particularly in the United States. The album later came to be widely regarded as one of the Byrds' best album releases, as well as their most experimental and progressive. Byrds expert Tim Connors has commented that the album's title evokes the American Old West.\n\nThe recording of \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\", during the latter half of 1967, was marked by severe internal dissolution and acrimony. The Byrds began the recording sessions as a four-piece band, consisting of Roger McGuinn, David Crosby, Chris Hillman, and Michael Clarke—the same line-up that had recorded their two previous albums. By the time of the album's release, however, only McGuinn and Hillman remained in the group. The first line-up change occurred when drummer Michael Clarke quit the group over disputes with Crosby and the other band members over his playing ability and his apparent dissatisfaction with the material the three songwriting members of the band were providing. He was replaced temporarily by noted session drummers Jim Gordon and Hal Blaine.\n\nDavid Crosby was then fired by McGuinn and Hillman and replaced by a former member of the Byrds, Gene Clark, who stayed on board for just three weeks before leaving again. Prior to Gene Clark rejoining the band, Michael Clarke had also returned from his self-imposed exile, only to be informed by McGuinn and Hillman that he was once again an ex-Byrd after the album was completed. Amid so many changes in band personnel, McGuinn and Hillman needed to rely upon outside musicians to complete the album. Among these hired musicians was Clarence White, who had also played on the group's previous LP. His contributions to this and the Byrds' \"Younger Than Yesterday\" and \"Sweetheart of the Rodeo\" albums, along with his friendship with Hillman, eventually led to his being hired as a full-time member of the band. \n\nDavid Crosby was fired by McGuinn and Hillman in October 1967, as a result of friction arising from, among other things, Crosby's displeasure at the band's wish to record the Goffin–King composition \"Goin' Back\". Crosby felt that recording the song was a step backwards artistically, especially when the band contained three active songwriters. Another factor that contributed to Crosby's dismissal was his controversial song \"Triad\", a risqué composition about a ménage à trois that was in direct competition with \"Goin' Back\" for a place on the album. He eventually gave the tune to Jefferson Airplane, who included a version of the song on their 1968 album, \"Crown of Creation\". Although the Byrds did record \"Triad\", the song's daring subject matter compelled McGuinn and Hillman to prevent it from being released at the time. The track eventually surfaced on the band's 1987 archival compilation album, \"Never Before\", and was later added to \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" as a bonus track on the 1997 Columbia/Legacy reissue.\n\nCrosby had also annoyed the other members of the Byrds during their performance at the Monterey Pop Festival when he gave lengthy in-between-song speeches on a number of controversial subjects, including the JFK assassination and the benefits of giving LSD to \"all the statesmen and politicians in the world.\" He further irritated his bandmates at Monterey by performing with rival group Buffalo Springfield, filling in for ex-member Neil Young.\n\nHis stock within the band deteriorated still further following the commercial failure of his song \"Lady Friend\", when it was released as the A-side of a Byrds' single in July 1967. His absence from many of the recording sessions for \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" represented the final straw for McGuinn and Hillman, and Crosby would soon find himself an ex-Byrd, with a handsome severance package and time to associate with his new musical partner, Stephen Stills. It has been suggested that the horse on the cover of the album was unkindly intended to represent Crosby, although this has been denied by both McGuinn and Hillman. \n\nMuch to Crosby's chagrin, McGuinn and Hillman reworked his unfinished song \"Draft Morning\" following his departure and included it in the final running order for the album, awarding themselves a co-writing credit in the process. In the end, Crosby ended up playing on about half of \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\", appearing on his own three songs, plus \"Change Is Now\" and \"Old John Robertson\". Crosby also appears on several of the bonus tracks included on the 1997 reissue, including \"Triad\", \"Universal Mind Decoder\" and an early version of \"Goin' Back\".\n\nFollowing Crosby's departure, Gene Clark was asked to rejoin the band. Clark had originally left the Byrds in early 1966 due to his fear of flying and his tendency towards anxiety and paranoia. His debut solo album (co-produced by the Byrds' then current producer, Gary Usher, with both Clarke and Hillman playing on it) had been a critical success, but a commercial failure and Clark was currently inactive. Clark rejoined the Byrds in October 1967 for three weeks, during which time he and the band performed on \"The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\" television program, lip-syncing \"Goin' Back\" and \"Mr. Spaceman\". The Byrds also played several live dates with Clark during a tour of the Midwest. Following the final concert of the tour, Clark's fear of flying again became a problem when it prevented him from taking a flight to New York with his bandmates and as a result, he left the band soon after.\n\nIt has been debated by biographers and band historians just how involved Clark was in the recording of \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\". Clark himself claimed during a 1988 interview for radio station KBSG 97 that he was involved in the recording of \"Goin' Back\" and some other songs from the same period, although he didn't specify what his contributions might have been. There is also studio documentation and eyewitness accounts to suggest that Clark contributed backing vocals to \"Goin' Back\" and \"Space Odyssey\". One of those eyewitnesses, John Noreen of the L.A. folk rock band the Rose Garden, has stated in an interview that he clearly remembers being at Columbia Recording Studios during sessions for the album and seeing Clark record his backing vocals. This has been corroborated by the Rose Garden's drummer, Bruce Bowdin, who has claimed that Clark's voice can be heard most clearly on the mono mix of \"Goin' Back\" that was released as a single. However, if Clark is present on either \"Space Odyssey\" or \"Goin' Back\", his contributions are not obvious and must have been buried very low in the mix by producer Gary Usher. The Byrds' lead guitarist, Roger McGuinn, cannot remember whether Clark contributed to the album or not, but he has admitted that it is possible. McGuinn has, however, gone on record as stating that he wrote the song \"Get to You\" with Clark, and that the writing credits on the album are mistaken; they should have read McGuinn/Clark, rather than McGuinn/Hillman.\n\nDespite its troubled genesis, the album contains some of the band's most gentle and ethereal music, as well as some of its most progressive and experimental. In a 2002 interview, McGuinn said it was \"kind of Beatles-inspired\" and cited their album \"Revolver\" as an influence. Lyrically, it attempted to deal with many contemporary themes such as peace, ecology, freedom, drug use, alienation and mankind's place in the universe. The album, as a whole, represented the apex of the McGuinn–Crosby–Hillman songwriting partnership, and took the musical experimentation of the original Byrds to its farthest logical extreme, mixing folk rock, country, psychedelia and jazz, often within a single song. The band and producer Gary Usher also used a number of innovative studio-based production techniques on the album, in particular making heavy use of phasing, spatial panning, and rotary speaker effects. \nThe band also began experimenting with the Moog modular synthesizer on a number of tracks, making \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" one of the very first rock albums to feature the instrument. McGuinn had first discovered the Moog during the Monterey Pop Festival, where the instrument's inventor, Robert Moog, had set up a booth to demonstrate his new creation to the musicians who were performing at the festival. Being something of an electronics buff, McGuinn was eager to experiment with the synthesizer in the recording studio, although reportedly, Hillman failed to share his enthusiasm for the instrument. Although McGuinn and Usher played the Moog parts on the song \"Space Odyssey\" themselves, they ceded the instrument's other appearances on the album to electronic music pioneer and session musician Paul Beaver.\n\nThe album also featured the pedal steel guitar playing of session musician Red Rhodes, which represented the first use of the instrument on a Byrds' recording. This use of pedal steel, along with Clarence White's countrified guitar playing, foreshadowed the country rock direction that the band would explore on their next album, \"Sweetheart of the Rodeo\".\n\nThe album's opening track, \"Artificial Energy\", features a prominent horn section and as such, can be seen as a stylistic relative of \"Lady Friend\" and \"So You Want to Be a Rock 'n' Roll Star\", two earlier Byrds' songs that made use of brass. The song deals with the dark side of amphetamine use and it was Chris Hillman who initially suggested that the band should \"write a song about speed\". The title was suggested by drummer Michael Clarke, and his input in the creation of the song was sufficient to afford him a rare writing credit. Although the song's lyrics initially seem to be extolling the virtues of amphetamines, the tale turns darker in the final verse when it becomes apparent that the drug taker has been imprisoned for murdering a homosexual man, as evidenced by the song's final couplet: \"I'm coming down off amphetamine/And I'm in jail 'cause I killed a queen.\" Although the press had accused the Byrds of writing songs about drugs in the past, specifically with \"Eight Miles High\" and \"5D (Fifth Dimension)\", when the band finally did record a song unequivocally dealing with drugs it was largely ignored by journalists.\n\n\"Artificial Energy\" is followed on the album by the poignant and nostalgic Goffin–King song \"Goin' Back\". With its chiming 12-string Rickenbacker guitar and polished harmony singing, band biographer Johnny Rogan has described the song as providing a sharp contrast to the negativity and violence of the opening track. The song's lyrics describe an attempt on the part of the singer to reject the cynicism that comes with being an adult in favor of the innocence of childhood. Thematically, the song recalled the title of the Byrds' previous album, \"Younger Than Yesterday\", and the understated pedal steel guitar playing of Red Rhodes gives the track a subtle country flavor.\nA second Goffin–King composition, \"Wasn't Born to Follow\", also displays country and western influences, albeit filtered through the band's psychedelic and garage rock tendencies. The song's country leanings are underscored by the criss-crossing musical dialogue between the electric guitar and pedal steel. The rural ambiance is further heightened by the striking imagery of the lyrics which outline the need for escape and independence: a subject perfectly in keeping with the hippie ethos of the day.\n\nAnother song on the album that deals with the need to escape the confines of society is David Crosby's \"Dolphin's Smile\". The song was an early example of Crosby's penchant for using nautical imagery in his songs, a thematic trait he would utilize in future compositions, including \"Wooden Ships\" and \"The Lee Shore\". The theme of unfettered idyllic bliss is further explored in the Hillman-penned \"Natural Harmony\". Like \"Goin' Back\", \"Natural Harmony\" conveys a sense of longing for the innocence of youth, albeit filtered through the awareness-raising properties of psychedelic drugs. It has been suggested by some commentators that the song exhibits the strong influence of Crosby's writing style, with its laid-back, jazzy feel and dreamy, high tenor vocal part. \n\nThe McGuinn and Hillman composition \"Change Is Now\", with its lyrics advising the listener to live life to the full, represents a celebration of the philosophy of \"carpe diem\" (popularly translated as \"seize the day\"). Within this context, the song's lyrics explored a number of other themes, including epiphenomenalism, communalism and human ecology. The quasi-philosophical nature of the song prompted McGuinn to flippantly describe it in a 1969 interview as \"another one of those guru-spiritual-mystic songs that no-one understood.\" An early instrumental recording of the song, listed under its original working title of \"Universal Mind Decoder\", was included as a bonus track on the 1997 reissue of \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\". \"Change Is Now\" is notable for being the only song on the album to feature both Crosby and future Byrd Clarence White together on the same track.\n\n\"Draft Morning\" is a song about the horrors of the Vietnam War, as well as a protest against the conscription of men into the military during the conflict. The song was initially written by Crosby, but he was fired from the Byrds shortly after he had introduced it to the rest of the band. However, work had already begun on the song's instrumental backing track by the time of Crosby's departure. Controversially, McGuinn and Hillman decided to continue working on the song, despite its author no longer being a member of the band. Having only heard the song's lyrics in their original incarnation a few times, McGuinn and Hillman couldn't remember all of the words when they came to record the vocals and so decided to rewrite the song with their own lyrical additions, giving themselves a co-writing credit in the process. This angered Crosby considerably, since he felt, with some justification, that McGuinn and Hillman had stolen his song. Despite its troubled evolution, \"Draft Morning\" is often considered one of Crosby's best songs from his tenure with the Byrds. Lyrically, it follows a newly recruited soldier from the morning of his induction into the military through to his experiences of combat and as such, illustrates the predicament faced by many young American men during the 1960s. The song also makes extensive use of battlefield sound effects, provided for the band by the Los Angeles comedy troupe the Firesign Theatre.\nAnother of Crosby's songwriting contributions to the album, \"Tribal Gathering\", was, for many years, assumed to have been inspired by the Human Be-In: A Gathering Of Tribes, a counter-culture happening held in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park on January 12, 1967. However, in recent years, Crosby has revealed that the song was actually inspired by another hippie gathering held at Elysian Park near Los Angeles on March 26, 1967. Played in a jazzy, 5/4 time signature, the song's vocal arrangement was greatly influenced by the music of the Four Freshmen, a vocal group that Crosby had admired as a youngster.\n\nAnother song on the album that uses a 5/4 time signature, albeit with occasional shifts into 3/4 time, is the McGuinn and Clark composition \"Get to You\". The song recounts a plane trip to London, England, just prior to the advent of autumn, but the identity of the enigmatic \"you\" mentioned in the song's title is not specified in the lyrics and thus, can be interpreted as either a waiting lover or as the city of London itself. Although Clark helped to co-write the song, he had left the Byrds by the time it was recorded and therefore does not appear on the track.\n\n\"Old John Robertson\", which had already been issued some six months earlier as the B-side of the \"Lady Friend\" single, was another country-tinged song that looked forward to the band's future country rock experimentation. The song was inspired by a retired film director who lived in the small town near San Diego where Hillman grew up. John S. Robertson was something of an eccentric figure around the town, regularly wearing a Stetson hat and sporting a white handlebar moustache, which gave him the appearance of a character out of the old American West. In the song, Hillman recalls the children of the town and their cruel laughter at this colorful figure, as well as the combination of awe and fear that he elicited in the townsfolk. During the recording of the song, Crosby switched instruments with Hillman to play bass instead of his usual rhythm guitar. The track also makes liberal use of the studio effects known as phasing and flanging, particularly during the song's orchestral middle section and subsequent verse. The version of \"Old John Robertson\" found on the B-side of the \"Lady Friend\" single is a substantially different mix from the version that appears on \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" album. \nThe final track on the album, \"Space Odyssey\", is a musical retelling of Arthur C. Clarke's short story \"The Sentinel\", which was also the inspiration for Stanley Kubrick's 1968 film, \"\". The song makes extensive use of the Moog modular synthesizer and features a droning, dirge-like melody reminiscent of a sea shanty. Since \"Space Odyssey\" predates the release of \"2001: A Space Odyssey\", McGuinn and his co-writer, Robert J. Hippard, composed lyrics that referred to a pyramid being found on the Moon, as was the case in \"The Sentinel\". However, the pyramid was replaced by a rectangular monolith in both the film and the accompanying novelization.\n\n\"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" was released on January 15, 1968, in the United States (catalogue item CL 2775 in mono, CS 9575 in stereo) and on April 12, 1968, in the UK (catalogue item 63169 in mono, S 63169 in stereo). However, there is some evidence to suggest that the U.S. release date may have been brought forward to January 3, 1968. Regardless, the album's appearance during the first month of 1968 surprised many fans of the band, who had been led to believe by contemporary press reports that the album was still in the planning stages. It peaked at number 47 on the \"Billboard\" Top LPs chart, during a chart stay of 19 weeks, but fared better in the United Kingdom where it reached number 12, spending a total of 11 weeks on the UK chart. The album's front cover photograph was taken by Guy Webster, who had also been responsible for the cover of the Byrds' \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\" album. The \"Goin' Back\" single was released ahead of the album on October 20, 1967, and reached number 89 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 but failed to chart in the UK. The album is notable for being the last Byrds LP to be commercially issued in mono in the United States, although subsequent albums continued to be released in both mono and stereo variations overseas.\n\nThe album was almost universally well received by the music press upon release, with Jon Landau in the newly launched \"Rolling Stone\" magazine noting that \"When the Byrds get it together on record they are consistently brilliant.\" Landau went on to praise the Byrds' musical eclecticism, before stating: \"Their music is possessed by a never-ending circularity and a rich, child-like quality. It has a timelessness to it, not in the sense that you think their music will always be valid, but in the sense that it is capable of forcing you to suspend consciousness of time altogether.\" \"Crawdaddy!\" magazine was also enthusiastic in its praise of the album, with Sandy Pearlman describing it as \"enchantingly beautiful\". Pete Johnson, in his review for the \"Los Angeles Times\", summed up the album as \"11 good songs spiked with electronic music, strings, brass, natural and supernatural voices, and the familiar thick texture of McGuinn's guitar playing\". \n\nIn a contemporary review published in \"Esquire\", music critic Robert Christgau described \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" as \"simply the best album the Byrds have ever recorded\". Christgau grouped it with contemporary releases by Love (\"Forever Changes\") and The Beach Boys (\"Wild Honey\"), remarking: \"[i]t's hard to believe that so much good can come out of one place [i.e. Los Angeles].\" In the UK, \"Record Mirror\" gave the album a rare five-star rating, commenting \"Hard though it was for the Byrds to follow-up their near-perfect \"Younger Than Yesterday\" album, they've done it with this fantastic disc.\" \"Melody Maker\" was also complimentary about the album, describing it as \"A beautiful selection, representing US pop at its finest.\" \"Beat Instrumental\" concluded their review by stating \"It's true to say that the Byrds are one of the two best groups in the world. Nobody can say any different with the proof of this album.\" \n\nIn 1997, \"Rolling Stone\" senior editor David Fricke described the album as the Byrds' \"finest hour\" and \"the work of a great rock & roll \"band\", in every special sense of the word\". On his official website, Robert Christgau again commented on the album, declaring that \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" (along with its follow-up, \"Sweetheart of the Rodeo\") is \"[one] of the most convincing arguments for artistic freedom ever to come out of American rock\". Parke Puterbaugh, writing for the \"Rolling Stone\" website in 1999, remarked on the presence of \"burbling Moog synthesizers and purring steel guitars\" on the album, which he ultimately described as \"a brilliant window onto an unforgettable place and time\".\n\nOver the years, \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" has gained in reputation and is often considered the group's best work, while the contentious incidents surrounding its making have been largely forgotten. The album managed to capture the band at the height of their creative powers, as they pushed ahead lyrically, musically and technically into new sonic territory. Band biographer Johnny Rogan has written that the Byrds' greatest accomplishment on the album was in creating a seamless mood piece from a variety of different sources, bound together by innovative studio experimentation. Although the album is widely regarded as the band's most experimental, its running time of a little under 29 minutes also makes it their briefest. \n\nThe album was voted the fourth-best album ever in a 1971 \"ZigZag\" magazine readers' poll and the 1977 edition of the \"Critic's Choice: Top 200 Albums\" book ranked it at number 154 in a list of the \"Greatest Rock Albums of All-Time\". A subsequent edition of the book, published in 1988, ranked the album at number 75. The album was included in Robert Christgau's \"Basic Record Library\" of 1950s and 1960s recordings, published in \"\" (1981). In 1995, \"Mojo\" magazine placed the album at number 36 in their list of \"The 100 Greatest Albums Ever Made\". In 2003, the album was ranked at number 171 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of \"The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time\", maintaining the rating in a 2012 revised list. It also ranked number 32 on the \"NME\"s list of the \"100 Best Albums\". In 2004, \"Q\" magazine included the album in its list of \"The Music that Changed the World\". It was voted number 158 in the third edition of Colin Larkin's \"All Time Top 1000 Albums\" (2000). \n\"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" was remastered at 20-bit resolution as part of the Columbia/Legacy Byrds series. It was reissued in an expanded form on March 25, 1997, with six bonus tracks, including Crosby's controversial ballad \"Triad\", the Indian-influenced \"Moog Raga\", and an instrumental backing track for the outtake \"Bound to Fall\". The final track on the CD extends to include a hidden track featuring a radio advertisement by producer Gary Usher for the album, as well as a recording of an in-studio altercation between the band members.\n\nFollowing the release of the album, the Byrds' recording of \"Wasn't Born to Follow\" was used in the 1969 film \"Easy Rider\" and included on the accompanying \"Easy Rider\" soundtrack album. In addition, the song \"Change Is Now\" has been covered by the progressive bluegrass band The Dixie Bee-Liners, on the tribute album \"Timeless Flyte: A Tribute to The Byrds — Full Circle\", and by rock band Giant Sand, on \"Time Between – A Tribute to The Byrds\". Ric Menck, best known for being a member of the band Velvet Crush, has written a book about the album for Continuum Publishing's \"33⅓\" series.\n\nAdapted from \"So You Want To Be A Rock 'n' Roll Star: The Byrds Day-By-Day (1965–1973)\", \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers (33⅓ series)\", and the compact disc liner notes.\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849015", "title": "The Final Night", "text": "The Final Night\n\nThe Final Night was a 1996 comic book crossover storyline published by DC Comics that ran through a weekly self-titled limited series and a score of tie-in issues spanning most of DC's ongoing titles in the month of September 1996 (cover-dated November 1996). It featured the Justice League of America, several members of the Legion of Super-Heroes and more than two dozen allied heroes, villains and scientists of the DC Universe banding together in the face of global calamity when an extraterrestrial entity called the Sun-Eater envelopes and extinguishes the Sun, causing Earth to freeze and wither into ecological collapse. \n\nUnlike other crossover events published by DC, the conflict of \"The Final Night\" did not revolve around a conventional villain. It was primarily a story of survival that focused on the main characters performing disaster response, while attempting to prevent impending mass extinction of all life on Earth. At the end of each issue was an in-story website feature written by S.T.A.R. Labs, giving information updates and emergency support to residents of the DC Universe as the crisis progressed.\n\nThe storyline is notable in DC canon for the death and disputed redemption of Green Lantern Hal Jordan, whose character at the time had been transformed into the villainous Parallax. Jordan's character was later restored to life and to his role as Earth's Green Lantern in the 2004 miniseries \"\".\n\nIn a brief prologue originally published as a promotional preview to the miniseries, before traveling to Earth's solar system, the Sun-Eater consumes the sun neighboring Starfire's newly-settled planet, New Tamaran and eventually triggers a supernova, seemingly killing all of New Tamaran's inhabitants. \n\nAn unspecified amount of time later, Dusk arrives on Earth to warn the population that a giant extraterrestrial being, known as the Sun-Eater, is heading our way. Dusk is a member of an unknown alien race and does not speak or understand a word of English, so Saturn Girl uses her telepathic powers to translate and teach her the language. Dusk has attempted to warn hundreds of worlds, prior to Earth, about the Sun-Eater. Each planet had tried, in its own way, to stop the Sun-Eater, but every attempt was as unsuccessful as the last one. This has convinced Dusk that the Sun-Eater is indestructible.\n\nDespite her warnings, the Justice League still try to stop the Sun-Eater. For their first attempt, Mister Miracle tries using his boom tube to send it into another dimension. This proves unsuccessful, since they discover that the Sun-Eater is not entirely in our dimension. As a last resort, Superman and several other \"heat-producing\" heroes combine their energies to create a second sun and try to lure the Sun-Eater away from the Sun. The Sun-Eater quickly consumes that sun before moving on to the Sun.\n\nAs the Sun is extinguished, Earth falls into chaos and the planet starts to freeze. There are only five days to restore the Sun, after which Earth will become uninhabitable. Powerless to do anything to stop the freeze, the League tries to help control the chaos and to keep hope alive. Many people freeze to death. Wildcat is badly injured. Etrigan the Demon offers the entire world heat at the cost of their souls; the world rejects him, primarily because his plan was to shift Earth into Hell. Lex Luthor teams up with the League to try to reignite the Sun.\n\nThe events of this series cross over into other books as well. Superman encounters Ferro Lad, who would later make an abortive attempt to destroy the Sun-Eater. The Ray devotes his attentions to a small Mexican town. Tommy Monaghan (Hitman) holes up in his favorite bar, Noonan's.\n\nSeeing Earth as just another failure (and after being attacked by an angry mob who had accused her of bringing the Sun-Eater to Earth in the first place), Dusk decides that it is time for her to move on. As she prepares for takeoff, she encounters a stranger, and is shocked that he understands her language. The stranger takes Dusk on a quick trip around the world and shows her the League's efforts to keep hope alive. Dusk doubts that there is any hope left for the world. Eventually, the stranger disappears and Dusk is left alone in an alleyway. She is found by a small group of people and, thinking they are going to attack her again, prepares to defend herself. To her surprise, the group offer to take her to a shelter where she will be safe. This act of kindness gives her hope for the planet.\n\nMeanwhile, scientists have realized that the Sun is losing energy, but not mass, to the Sun-Eater. This will cause the Sun to go nova and the explosion will catapult the Sun-Eater into another solar system, where it will consume another sun. The assembled heroes construct a technological means of destroying the Sun-Eater. Lex Luthor angrily bows out of piloting the ship needed, revealing that he was in it simply to save his own skin, prompting Superman to volunteer in the hope that his powers will be restored by the solar surge as the Sun is restored. Ferro Lad steals the ship, only to be shunted back to Earth by Hal Jordan, the former Green Lantern then known as Parallax. Parallax sacrifices his life to absorb the Sun-Eater and reignite the Sun, simultaneously using his powers to safely restore it to its original form without causing any side-effects, such as the mass flooding that would have resulted if the Sun had been restored purely by Luthor's plan.\n\nThe League watches in astonishment and Dusk says she no longer believes that anything is impossible.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Final Night\" was primarily self-contained to a weekly four-issue limited series, with a number of tie-in issues reflecting the impacts of the storyline across the DC Universe in different characters' ongoing series. A special eight-page black-and-white preview solicitation was released prior to the first issue starring Starfire, which introduced Dusk and detailed the Sun-Eater's destruction of New Tamaran prior to traveling to Earth's solar system. A special tie-in one-shot starring Hal Jordan, \"Parallax: Emerald Night\" #1, was released between \"The Final Night\" #3 and #4, which told the events leading to Jordan's appearance in \"The Final Night\" #4. Both the Parallax one-shot and the fully colored preview story were later reprinted in the \"Final Night\" collected edition, along with the central miniseries.<br>\n<br>\nWeek Zero<br>\n\"The Final Night Preview\"<br>\n<br>\nWeek One<br>\n\"The Final Night\" #1<br>\n\"The Power of Shazam!\" #20<br>\n\"Sovereign Seven\" #16<br>\n\"Superman\" (vol. 2) #117<br>\n<br>\nWeek Two<br>\n\"The Final Night\" #2<br>\n\"The Adventures of Superman\" #540<br>\n\"Batman\" #536<br>\n\"Green Arrow\" (vol. 2) #114<br>\n\"Supergirl\" (vol. 2) #3<br>\n<br>\nWeek Three<br>\n\"The Final Night\" #3<br>\n\"Action Comics\" #727<br>\n\"Aquaman\" (vol. 4) #26<br>\n\"Detective Comics\" #703<br>\n\"Superboy\" (vol. 3) #33<br>\n<br>\nWeek Four<br>\n\"Parallax: Emerald Night\" #1<br>\n\"The Flash\" (vol. 2) #119<br>\n\"Hitman\" #8<br>\n\"Legion of Super-Heroes\" (vol. 4) #86<br>\n\"Robin\" (vol. 4) #35<br>\n\"The Spectre\" (vol. 3) #47<br>\n\"Superman: The Man of Steel\" #62<br>\n\"Takion\" #6<br>\n<br>\nWeek Five<br>\n\"The Final Night\" #4<br>\n\"Green Lantern\" (vol. 3) #81<br>\n<br>\n\"Green Lantern\" (vol. 3) #81, while not an official tie-in, featured the funeral of Hal Jordan and served as an epilogue to the story. However, it is not included in \"The Final Night\" collected edition. \n\nThe \"Supergirl\" tie-in issue continued into \"Supergirl\" #4, which took place prior to \"The Final Night\"'s conclusion, but was published the following month and was not labeled as an official tie-in.\n\nThe story earned the most votes for the \"Comics Buyer's Guide\" Fan Awards for Favorite Comic-Book Story and Favorite Limited Series for 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849017", "title": "James Henry Gillis", "text": "James Henry Gillis\n\nJames Henry Gillis (14 May 1831 – 6 December 1910) was a rear admiral in the United States Navy. His active-duty career extended from the 1850s through the 1890s, including service in the American Civil War.\n\nBorn in Ridgway, Pennsylvania, Gillis graduated from the Naval Academy in 1854. Three years later, while serving in store ship he rescued the crew of a foundered Argentine ship during a violent storm. \n\nDuring the Civil War he served with Union Squadrons blockading the Confederacy, and subsequently commanded , , the flagship of the European Squadron, , , and , the flagship of the Pacific Squadron.\nGillis served on the frigate at the beginning of the Civil War, he participated in the defeat of the rebel privateer \"Petrel\" on July 28, 1861 off South Carolina.\n\nAfter the Civil War, he became a member of the District of Columbia Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.\n\nHe was promoted to the rank of captain in September 1876 and to commodore in January 1887.\n\nHe commanded the South Atlantic Squadron from 1888 to 1890. During this assignment he held the rank of acting rear admiral. \n\nAdmiral Gillis retired from the Navy on 14 May 1893, having reached the mandatory retirement age of 62. He was known as the \"Sailor with a charmed life\" because he never lost a man at sea. \n\nRear Admiral Gillis died at Melbourne Beach, Florida at the age of 79.\n\nThe destroyer was named for him and Commodore John P. Gillis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849025", "title": "Seven Warring States", "text": "Seven Warring States\n\nThe Seven Warring States or Seven Kingdoms () refers to the seven leading states during the Warring States period (c. 475 to 221 BC) of ancient China:\n\n\nOver the Warring States period, many of the seven states underwent bureaucratic and military reforms in order to mobilise resources on a greater scale. This led to an intensification of warfare over the period, but also led to economic and cultural developments on a large scale.\n\nOf the Seven Warring States, Qin eventually grew to be the strongest and successfully annexed the other six states; Han was the first to fall, in 230 BC, while Qi was the last to surrender in 221 BC. Zheng, the King of Qin, created the new title of huangdi (emperor), and became China's first emperor, Qin Shi Huangdi.\n\nThe formation of the Seven Warring States was the culmination of trends during the preceding Spring and Autumn period, when the patchwork of states created by the Western Zhou dynasty were conquered and absorbed through warfare, coalescing into seven larger polities. Qin, Qi, Chu and Yan already existed as states during that period; Qin and Yan, owing to their remote locations, were traditionally considered second-tier powers, while Chu and Qi were among the dominant states of the period, in direct competition with the State of Jin. In 403 BCE, King Weilie of Zhou recognized Jin's partition, leading to the creation of three new states: Wei, Zhao and Han. Other major states included Wu and Yue, with the latter conquering the former in 473 BC.\n\nMinor Chinese and sinicized states and polities continued to exist well into the Warring States Era, such as Shu (annexed by Qin in 316), Zhongshan (annexed by Zhao in 296 BCE), Song (annexed by Qi in 286 BCE), Lu (annexed by Chu in 256 or 249 BCE).\n\nThese political changes led to changes amongst the ruling families as well: in 481 BC, the Tian clan usurped the state of Qi in a coup and replaced the ruling Jiang clan. Meanwhile, the state of Jin, which had been controlled by different noble clans for decades, was partitioned between the Han, Zhao and Wei clans in 403 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849028", "title": "David Rams", "text": "David Rams\n\nDavid Rams is a music, celebrity and beauty photographer.\n\nDavid Rams has worked with many music artists and celebrities such as Jane Seymour, Woody Harrelson, Sanjay Gupta, John Smoltz, Ciara, Keri Hilson, Ludacris, Usher, Cee Lo Green, Ike Stubblefield, Monica, Outkast, Goodie Mob, Isaac Hayes III and Dallas Austin. Rams has worked for \"Playboy\" and his work has appeared in a large range of publications and magazines including \"People Magazine\".\n\nIn 2010, Rams has collaborated with Atlanta painter William Rossoto to create a Composite series of highly conceptual works of art.\n\nRams has also directed music videos for various artists, in addition to art films.\n\nRams spends his time between Atlanta, where he currently resides and Toronto. He has a seven-thousand-year-old son named Max.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849030", "title": "Trelech", "text": "Trelech\n\nTrelech (Welsh: \"Tre-lech\") is a village in the parish of Tre-lech a'r Betws, Carmarthenshire, in south-west Wales, lying some 10 miles north-west of Carmarthen and 6.5 miles south of Newcastle Emlyn. It also gives its name to a community.\n\nThe community is bordered by the communities of: Cenarth; Cynwyl Elfed; Abernant; Meidrim; and Llanwinio, all being in Carmarthenshire; and by Clydau in Pembrokeshire.\n\nThe village is home to the Welsh-medium Ysgol Hafodwenog (Hafodwenog Community Primary School), which has around 60 pupils aged 4 to 11, and was opened in 1972 to serve the children of the surrounding settlements of Alma, Bryn Iwan, Cilrhedyn, Dinas, Gelliwen, Pandy, Penybont, and Talog, as well as those of Trelech itself.\n\nTrelech has a community centre (in the building, across the road, which housed the modern school's predecessor) and a pub, the Tafarn Beca. However, given the area's very rural and lightly populated nature, the village no longer has a shop or post office. There is a children's play area, and the school also has a small soccer field.\n\nTrelech was the birthplace on 14 November 1801 of David Rees (Y Cynhyrfwr), the reforming Welsh Congregationalist minister, and on 3 November 1879 of the reporter, poet, and short-story writer Perceval Gibbon, who travelled extensively in Europe, Africa, and the Americas and died in Guernsey on 30 May 1926. The travelling surgeon and author of 'War Doctor, Surgery on the front line', David Nott, grew up with his grandparents in Trelech.\n\nAn electoral ward in the same name exists. This ward stretches beyond the confines of Trelech community with a total population at the 2011 Census of 2,072.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849034", "title": "Julien Augustin Joseph Mermet", "text": "Julien Augustin Joseph Mermet\n\nGeneral Julien Augustin Joseph Mermet (born Le Quesnoy 9 May 1772 – died Paris 28 October 1837) fought in the Napoleonic Wars as a division commander in Italy and in the Peninsular War.\n\nMermet commanded a dragoon division in Marshal André Masséna's army during the 1805 Italian campaign. In 1806, still commanding his cavalry division (23rd, 29th and 30th Dragoon Regiments), he was present at the siege and capture of the fortress of Gaeta, on the west coast of Italy.\n\nDuring the second French invasion of Portugal in 1809, Mermet led a division under Marshal Nicolas Soult. He fought at the First Battle of Porto on 28 March and the Battle of Grijó on 11 May. Before the Second Battle of Porto his unit was sent away to guard Soult's artillery and baggage. Mermet led his infantry division at the Battle of Serem at Vouga and Marnel Rivers.\n\nIn the third French invasion of Portugal, Mermet commanded the 2nd Division in Marshal Michel Ney's VI Corps. He fought at the sieges of Ciudad Rodrigo and Almeida, the Battle of the Côa and the Battle of Bussaco in 1810. During the retreat from Portugal, Mermet participated in actions at Redinha and Foz do Arouce as part of Ney's rear guard.\n\nMermet led his division in Maj-General Louis Loison's VI Corps at the Battle of Fuentes de Onoro in May 1811. At the Battle of Vitoria in June 1813, he led a light cavalry division in Maj-Gen Honoré Reille's Army of Portugal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849035", "title": "HandyDART", "text": "HandyDART\n\nHandyDART is an accessible transit service in British Columbia that uses vans or small buses to transport disabled or elderly passengers who cannot use the normal transit system. This service provides door-to-door service and is available in all of the province's larger centres, as well as in many smaller communities.\n\nBC Transit operates 16 Custom Transit (handyDART) Systems\n\nIn Metro Vancouver the current contractor for HandyDART service is First Canada.\n\n\nAccessibility is also linked with other modes of transit on TransLink:\n\nSorter van* TransLink (British Columbia)\n\n"}
{"id": "1849038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849038", "title": "Aftermath of the 2000 Fijian coup d'état", "text": "Aftermath of the 2000 Fijian coup d'état\n\nThe Constitution of Fiji, which had been abrogated by the interim military government of Commodore Frank Bainimarama (who organized a counter-coup to neutralize the civilian coup d'état instigated by George Speight in May 2000), was reinstated by the High Court on 15 November that year. This ruling was upheld by the Court of Appeal on 1 March 2001. Since then, a police investigation has begun (though it has proceeded too slowly for the satisfaction of some critics), and a number of high-profile trials have taken place, resulting in the conviction and imprisonment of some members of the present government, which came to power in the wake of the coup.\n\nIt was announced on 2 May 2005 that 2499 people had been implicated to date in offences related to the coup. Eleven out of 24 alleged plotters had been tried, along with six executors of the coup. Of 21 alleged financial supporters, none had been dealt with, and investigations were still in progress. On 21 September, Home Affairs Minister Josefa Vosanibola announced that 556 people had been tried either thorough the justice system or by court martial. He rejected a call from Labour MP Ganesh Chand to name them, however, saying that many were either serving or had served their sentences, and that to name them would breach their privacy. 120 soldiers had been tried – 56 for their roles in the coup, 28 for the Sukanaivalu mutiny, and 38 for the Suva mutiny on 2 November 2000. He said that there were currently 208 cases pending before the Director of Public Prosecutions. The charges ranged from unlawful assembly and public order breaches to murder, sedition, and treason; apart from a few who were acquitted for lack of evidence, most had been convicted, Vosanibola said.\n\nA number of separate, but overlapping, investigations have been conducted by the police into various aspects of the 2000 coup. Some of these investigations are ongoing as of 2005. These investigations include the organization and financing of the coup, and the identity of the perpetrators. Some have alleged that George Speight was only a front-man for a shadowy group of politicians and businessmen; former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka is reported to be one of those under investigation.\n\nOther cases being investigated include the removal of Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara from the Presidency and the installation of an Interim Military Government by the Military Commander, Commodore Frank Bainimarama, and an alleged plot to remove the subsequently appointed President, Ratu Josefa Iloilo.\n\nPolice Commissioner Andrew Hughes revealed on 4 January 2006 that a total of seven major investigations related to the coup were in progress, with four offices assigned to them full-time. Three files had been reopened, he said, following allegations made by Maciu Navakasuasua, a coup-convict, and Josaia Waqabaca, a self-declared party to the planning of the coup.\n\nA number of prominent participants in the coup have been tried, and some convicted, in 2004 and 2005. Many of those tried have links to the present government, which has come under criticism from some quarters for releasing on parole some of the persons convicted.\n\nPrime Minister Qarase announced on 4 May 2005 that the government would establish a \"Reconciliation and Unity Commission\" empowered to recommend amnesty for persons involved in the coup, provided that their motive had been \"political\" and that they had not done so with \"criminal intent.\" Opposition Leader Chaudhry condemned the proposed Commission, alleging that it would be a cover for pardoning members of the present government who were implicated in the coup. Chaudhry insisted that one set of rules should apply to everyone, regardless of their position in society, and regardless of their motives for having broken the law. He was supported by National Alliance Party president Ratu Epeli Ganilau and by United Peoples Party leader Mick Beddoes. Ganilau said that the notion that politically motivated crimes could be justified was \"\"insulting to the intelligence of ordinary people,\"\" and that it represented a naive and uncaring attitude toward the hurt suffered by many during the 2000 coup. \"\"The intention to bring a closure to investigations and litigation regarding the 2000 coup would be a severe interference of politics into the work of law enforcement in this country,\"\" Ganilau said. On 18 May, he added that he saw \"nothing reconciliatory about the bill,\" which he believed to be aimed at legalizing the Muanikau Accord, which had been proposed by George Speight in 2000. \"\"To use the word reconciliation is a gross violation of the rights of everyone in this nation,\"\" he said. Beddoes, for his part, called the proposal a recipe for disaster which would license any would-be political activist who wanted to engage in coups, to do so. He accused the government of kow-towing to its junior coalition partner, the Conservative Alliance, on which it depends for its parliamentary majority, in order to keep them on board until the next parliamentary election, expected for 2006. On 7 May, Adi Koila Nailatikau added her own voice to the opposition to the commission, saying that if her father were alive, he would not approve of interfering with the course of justice, and that unless all perpetrators of the coup were brought to justice, \"\"Fiji cannot put to rest the ghosts of the coup.\"\" Yet another opponent of the proposal is Commodore Frank Bainimarama, who has called the bill \"Reconciliation bull.\"\n\nOn 3 May 2005, the Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions, Peter Ridgeway, resigned in protest against political interference in the judicial system, namely the early release of prisoners. On 20 June, he was ordered to leave Fiji and return to his native Australia after Prime Minister Qarase vetoed a two-month extension of his contract. Ridgeway had been responsible for a number of high-profile prosecutions, and opposition politicians thought that his dismissal and expulsion were politically motivated.\n\nSpeaking on ABC Radio Australia, Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale said that it was the government's prerogative to decide on the employment of foreign workers in the civil service. Ridgeway's contract had been for a fixed term and had already expired. \"\"It was subject to renewal at the option of the employer,\"\" Bale said. \"\"It is not at his option or the option of any other person who may support him or whatever else.\"\" He denied that there was anything sinister about refusing Ridgeway the requested two-month contract extension to complete cases he had been working on.\n\nRidgeway's expulsion was condemned by Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry and by United Peoples Party leader Mick Beddoes, who claimed that the decision motivated by Ridgeway's prosecution of persons close to the government. He said that \"two very prominent figures\" were among those being pursued by Ridgeway; he did not name them, but one is believed to be former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka. Beddoes predicted that these cases would \"\"now gather dust.\"\"\n\nOn 23 June, Police Commissioner Andrew Hughes said he hoped that Ridgeway's expulsion would not affect the investigations and prosecutions underway. The Australian High Commission in Suva also said that it had been in touch with Fiji's Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the matter. It did not give details. Foreign Minister Kaliopate Tavola was \"too busy\" to comment at the immediately, but later said that he had discussed the affair with Australia's High Commissioner, Jennifer Rawlins. Relations with Australia, he said, would have to go on despite the \"unfortunate\" circumstances surrounding the dismissal of Ridgeway in what he called \"\"a one-off situation.\"\" He did not believe the controversy would tarnish Fiji's image.\n\nThe Military commander, Commodore Bainimarama, reacted angrily to Ridgeway's expulsion, saying on 25 June that it would seriously hinder investigations, which would have to start all over again. Ridgeway himself concurred. \"\"There is nobody in the DPP’s office who has the knowledge of the coup cases that I do,\"\" he said. \"\"And the reason for that is obvious: I have had an instrumental role in each and every coup case; I know it backwards. Nobody knows it as well as I do. For somebody to read into those sort of cases would be a six months job.\"\"\n\nBainimarama further alleged that Ridgeway was \"\"almost closing in on\"\" some major perpetrators of the coup when he was ordered to leave.\n\nForty-nine parliamentarians from the Fiji Labour Party and their People's Coalition partners in the 1999–2000 government have been suing George Speight and co-conspirator Timoci Silatolu for compensation. Former Police Commissioner Isikia Savua, whom the late President Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara accused in his last recorded interview of involvement in the coup, is being sued also. The plaintiffs have been ordered by the court to cover the travel expenses of Savua, who is now Fiji's Ambassador to the United Nations in New York.\n\nIt was announced on 25 July 2005 that the hearing had been postponed to 12 August.\n\nIn addition, former Prime Minister Chaudhry, along with some others who were held as hostages during the coup crisis (including his son Rajendra), are preparing to sue the government for what they say was Military and Police negligence. They allege that the Military and Police knew that a coup was likely, and did nothing about it. \"\"They did not take the necessary steps to insulate the Prime Minister, Government Ministers, Parliamentarians and other staff against the threats,\"\" said Rajendra Chaudhry.\"\"As a result of their negligence, I had to endure physical torture and psychological trauma and am seeking compensation for these and related matters.\"\" On 15 August, Rajendra announced that he was suing for F$500,000, to cover loss of superannuation, medical expenses, and loss of future earnings. He said that his lawsuit was separate from his father's.\n\nA pre-trial conference for the lawsuit laid by the Fiji Labour Party will be held in the High Court on 9 September. Lawyer Vipul Misha is representing both Mahendra and Rajendra Chaudhry, as well as Dr Ganesh Chand, Giyannendra Prasad, Anand Singh, and the estate of Muthu Sami. A Queens Counsel has been asked to join the team.\n\nOn 31 August, Justice Gerard Winter decided to adjourn until 30 September the hearing of the lawsuit of former FLP parliamentarians Lekh Ram Vayeshnoi and Gaffar Ahmed, after defence lawyer Akuila Naco asked for more time to prepare his case.\n\nOn 15 September, Justice Winter set 14 October for Mahendra Chaudhry's compensation trial to begin. He refused a request from Timoci Silatolu's lawyer for a Military investigation into the 2000 upheaval to be made public, after the Military lawyer claimed Military privilege.\n\nSpeight and his co-defendants appeared in Court on 27 January 2006 for a preliminary hearing, pending the full hearing scheduled for 1 May.\n"}
{"id": "1849040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849040", "title": "St Michael's College, Dublin", "text": "St Michael's College, Dublin\n\nSt Michael's College (Irish: Coláiste Naomh Mícheál) is a voluntary Catholic boys' school located on Ailesbury Road in Dublin 4, Ireland. It was founded in 1944 by the Holy Ghost Fathers.\n\nSt Michael's College was founded in 1944 by the Congregation of the Holy Spirit (The Spiritans) as a second feeder school with Willow Park and initially was just a primary school to Blackrock College. The first eight pupils were transferred from Willow Park. The next September, 58 boys were enrolled. In 1952 the first secondary school pupils were admitted. Following expansion in the 1960s and 1970s, the school now has both a primary and secondary school. It has been extensively expanded, including the opening of a cafeteria, a sports pavilion, as well as new classrooms and a new gym.\n\nIn 1952–53 St Michael's had its first boys go into first year, which became the origin of the senior school, which contained just eight pupils that first year. By 1963, the school was growing. For the first time a second first year class was created. In 1967–68, the school started constructing a new wing, which included the assembly hall and swimming pool. From 1944–68, St Michael's had continued to be a junior school which had served as far as second year, but in 1968 it was decided that pupils would stay in St Michael's until after the Intermediate Certificate (4th Year). In 1970–71, Archbishop McQuaid blessed and opened the new Junior School and swimming pool. In December 1970, Fr Seamus Galvin was appointed the first President (1970–1976), and this was the first time St Michael's officially became an independent school and community from Blackrock College.\n\nIn 1972–73 the school started construction of the new library, classrooms and science rooms. In 1974–75 Archbishop Ryan opened the new buildings. In 1975, pupils from St Michael's sat the Leaving Certificate for the first time. The following year, Fr Cyril Sheedy became Superior of St Michael's, Fr Laurence McHugh was appointed Principal of the Junior School with Fr Flood appointed Principal of the Senior School.\n\nIn 1982 Fr Aidan Lehane was appointed Principal of the Senior School until 1991. Fr Galvin became the 1st President of the Past Pupils' Union in 1986. In 1991 while the Senior Cup Team were defeated in the final against Clongowes, the Junior Cup Team won the first title against Clongowes. The following year (1991–92), Fr Willie Bradley was appointed Principal of the Senior School. Ms Mairéad Burke was appointed Principal of the Junior School 1992–93. Fr Lehane was appointed manager of St Michael's later that same year. In 1993–94, St Michael's celebrated its Golden Jubilee.\n\nFr Michael Duggan was appointed Superior in 1995. In 1995–96 Mr Len Howard was appointed Principal of the Senior School, with Mr Noel Turley as Vice Principal and Fr Lehane appointed as manager of the school. In 1997–98, Fr Billy Cleary was appointed manager of the school. The start of the building of the new school began in 1998–99.\n\nThe following year Ms Lorna Heslin was appointed Deputy Principal of the Junior School. In 2000–01 the new school building was opened. Fr Pat Palmer dedicated the new college chapel, Cardinal Desmond Connell blessed the new building and President Mary McAleese visited the school. In 2001–02, Fr Bradley was appointed manager of the school. The Taoiseach Bertie Ahern visited the school. The Junior Cup team defeated Castleknock in the final for a second Junior Cup title. 2001–02. Mr Tim Kelleher was appointed Principal of the Senior School and Mrs Sheila Murray as Deputy Principal.\n\nThe following year, Boards of Managements were set up for both the Senior and Junior Schools. 2006–07 St Michael's won their first-ever Senior Cup and had a school record of 5 players playing for the Irish U-18s in the U-18s World Cup hosted in Belfast that summer.\n\nThe school was ranked ninth in Ireland in terms of the number of students who progressed to third level and by the types of institutions to which the students progressed.\n\nThe school has a strong rugby playing tradition, having won the Leinster Schools Junior Cup five times: in 1991, 2002, 2012, 2017 and 2019 in addition to reaching 6 JCT finals in a row up to 2012. In addition to the run of finals 2007-2012 the school has also finished runners up in the Leinster Schools Junior Cup in 1986, 2000 and 2016. The school has won the Leinster Schools Senior Cup three time 2007, where Conor Cleary was captain, and again in 2012 where current Leinster professional Dan Leavy, beating Clongowes Wood College in the final. In 2019 the school won the cup for the third time beating Gonzaga College. \n\nIn 2013, St Michael's reached the Senior Cup Final with captain Ross Molony but narrowly missed out on a second consecutive victory to Blackrock College. The school placed runner-up in 1988, 1991, 2006 & 2010. The school participates in an U13s (now U14s) Cup rugby competition organised and played by Holy Ghost Schools, and Templeogue, St Mary's, Willow Park (Blackrock) and Rockwell colleges. \n\nIn 2016 St Michael's has invested heavily in on site sporting facilities and has now astro turf all weather training, astro turf all weather pitch and scrumaging areas, modern weights and a gym zone, in addition to a new sports pavilion housing modern changing facilities and showers. In addition St Michael's has a number of rugby pitches and training areas located on its Dublin 4 campus. It also has a large indoor basketball/football/training arena and an 18m indoor swimming pool. St Michael's senior school fields 18-21 rugby teams annually from u14s right through to u19s; its junior school houses a rugby nursery for boys aged from 4 – 12 years.\n\nSimon Keogh (class of 1998), was a member of Senior Cup sides for three years up to 1998 when he also captained the first XV. He has played professional rugby for many seasons having played with Leinster (2000–03), Harlequins (UK; playing 133 times between 2003–09) and re-signing for Leinster in 2009 & 2010. He won a European Cup medal with Leinster in 2009 having won a European Shield medal with Quinns in 2004 where he scored the match winning try. Simon has also represented Ireland at schools, u21, sevens and A levels. In 2011 he was a member of the Old Belvedere RFC 1st XV who won the All Ireland League Division 1 title.\n\nAidan Kearney (class of 1998 and member of the 1st XV that year), played a number of seasons professionally with Leinster (2003–04) and then Ulster. He represented Ireland at u19s and u21 levels winning an under 19 Rugby World Cup medal in 1998.\n\nAs of 2020, St Michael's has more than 20 many past-pupils playing professional rugby, across Ireland, the UK, France and the USA. See Notable Past Pupils, below. \n\nFormer St. Michael's rugby coaches, Greg McWilliams and Mark McDermott coached the USA Rugby and Russian national rugby team, respectively at the 2019 Rugby World Cup.\n\nRugby Honours\n\nThe school provides teams for boys in First and Second year and have entered the Leinster GAA Schools competition since 2008. The junior school also enters cuman na mbunscoile GAA league and they one the shield in 2014.\n\nThe school has had a number of successful entries into the BT Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition. Most recently in the 2012 exhibition, there were two entries. \"Detecting Incidents on roads with Twitter and Traffic Cameras\", by James Eggers and \"Library Book locator\" by James O'Connell, Cian Reid and Sean Nicholson. Eggers' project won the Senior Individual Technology Category as well as the EMC special award. The project by O'Connell, Reid and Nicholson won the ComReg (Communications Regulator of Ireland) award.\n\nBasketball\n\nThe First year basketball team won the all ireland division c championship 2019\n\nThe school year is divided into three terms of which the first, the Michaelmas Term (September to December) is the longest. The Hilary Term is from January to March. The third is the Trinity Term, from April to June, and this is when external public examinations are taken. The Michaelmas Term has a substantial holiday at half-term, when the College closes down.\n\nThe Arts\n\n\nPolitics\n\n\nRugby Union\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849041", "title": "Joachim Lubomirski", "text": "Joachim Lubomirski\n\nJoachim Lubomirski (died 1610) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nJoachim was a courtier in the royal court. He was the starost of Lipnice, Dobczyce and Tymbark. He never married. He died during the war with Muscovy in 1610.\n"}
{"id": "1849043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849043", "title": "Arny Freytag", "text": "Arny Freytag\n\nArny Freytag (born April 12, 1950) is an American photographer who specializes in glamour photography. He began working for \"Playboy\" magazine in 1976 and at one time was one of only two photographers who produced the \"Playboy\" centerfold photographs.\n\nFreytag grew up in Chicago, Illinois, attending Sutherland grammar school and Luther South High School. He graduated from the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts in 1970, and from Brooks Institute of Photography (Santa Barbara, California) in 1974. After an initial period as an apprentice at Playboy, he joined Mario Casilli, Richard Fegley and Ken Marcus as the principal photographers at Playboy's California studio.\n\nDuring his studies at Brooks, Freytag became proficient with the 4”x5” view camera, a skill that served him well shooting the monthly multi-page (gatefold) Playboy centerfold. Attempting to produce the very highest quality possible for the centerfold image, Playboy used the very large 8\"x10” view camera. Due to the amount of strobe (electronic flash) light needed to expose that large a sheet of film, Freytag, at first of necessity and later by choice, specialized in the use of elaborate lighting setups, often using dozens of flash heads.\n\nLater, after \"Playboy\" abandoned film and moved to digital cameras, Freytag continued to create images using up to fifty flash heads, each light meticulously placed and targeted to illuminate a small area of the photo. Freytag likens his technique to that of a painter, using each light as his brush strokes, selectively illuminating each area as he incrementally builds the final image.\n\nFreytag's last centerfold shoot was of Playmate Amanda Streich, Miss December 2012.\n\nFreytag lives in Woodland Hills, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849045", "title": "Feuchtwanger", "text": "Feuchtwanger\n\nFeuchtwanger is a German surname, indicating a family origin from the city of Feuchtwangen. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849048", "title": "Albion Ferry", "text": "Albion Ferry\n\nThe Albion Ferry was a passenger and vehicle ferry service that sailed on the Fraser River between Albion and Fort Langley in the Lower Fraser Valley region of British Columbia, Canada from June 2, 1957, until July 31, 2009.\n\nOriginally operated by the Ministry of Highways as part of their inland ferry services, a single vessel – M.V. \"T'Lagunna\" – provided service every hour from 1:00am to 6:00am and every 30 minutes during the rest of the day. It ran continuously when there were overloads.. Named for the Halqemeylem name for the Golden Ears, it had originally served the communities of Agassiz and Rosedale as M.V. \"Agassiz\". Built in 1931, it had a vehicle capacity of just 16 cars. Tolls of 40 cents per car and driver, and 10 cents per additional passenger, were initially charged but these were removed on February 15, 1972, and the service remained free thereafter. In 1978, after many years of complaints about safety and reliability another ferry – M.V. \"Kulleet\" – was put into service alongside \"T'Lagunna\". In 1985, \"Kulleet's\" sister ship, M.V. \"Klatawa\" replaced \"T'Lagunna\", which was kept as a spare until 1986. Both \"Kulleet\" and \"Klatawa\" had previously been servicing short routes in the Gulf Islands. \"T'Lagunna\" was sold for use as a cargo barge, and eventually sank in Howe Sound; it was salvaged in 2011.\n\nIn 1998, the Greater Vancouver Transit Authority (later known as Translink) was created to handle all transportation in greater Vancouver, including the Albion ferry. A subsidiary company, Fraser River Marine Transportation Ltd., was created to operate the ferry. At a 50th anniversary celebration in June 2007, a commemorative plaque was placed by Maple Ridge's Community Heritage Commission at the Albion ferry terminal. The ferry service was retired shortly after the Golden Ears Bridge opened to traffic on June 16, 2009. The last sailings for \"Kulleet\" and \"Klatawa\" took place on July 31, 2009, just after noon. At the end of its life the ferry employed 58 full-time and as many as 20 auxiliary employees; 2006 traffic amounted to 1.5 million vehicles and 4.0 million passengers. The two ferries were sold in 2011 for $400,000 to a local marine transportation company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849051", "title": "John Ramsbottom", "text": "John Ramsbottom\n\nJohn Ramsbottom may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1849054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849054", "title": "Erik Davis", "text": "Erik Davis\n\nErik Davis (born June 12, 1967) is an American writer, scholar, journalist and public speaker whose writings have ranged from rock criticism to cultural analysis to creative explorations of esoteric mysticism. He is perhaps best known for his book \"Techgnosis: Myth, Magic and Mysticism in the Age of Information\", as well as his work on California counterculture, including Burning Man, the human potential movement, and the writings of Philip K. Dick.\n\nBorn in Redwood City, California in 1967, Davis grew up in Del Mar before attending Yale University, where he graduated \"magna cum laude\" with a degree in English. He wrote a senior thesis on science fiction writer Philip K. Dick, and has since written a number of articles in the popular press about Dick and his unusual religious experiences. Davis would go on to co-edit \"The Exegesis of Philip K. Dick\", which was published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in 2011.\n\nWhile at Yale, Davis began writing for \"Nadine\", an on-campus magazine that turned out a number of rock critics and pop culture writers in the 1980s and 1990s. Soon after graduation in 1988, Davis pitched his first story to the \"Village Voice\", a review of the Swiss heavy metal band Celtic Frost.\n\nWriting for the \"Village Voice\" throughout the early 1990s, Davis also contributed to \"Spin\", \"Details\", \"Rolling Stone\", and \"Wired\" magazines, writing about music, art, film, pop culture and technology.\n\nIn July 1995, Davis published a piece in \"Wired\" magazine called \"Technopagans\", which was one of the precursors for \"Techgnosis: Myth, Magic and Mysticism in the Age of Information\", a dense cultural history of the mystical, magical, and apocalyptic dreams and fantasies that haunt modern technoculture. Published by Harmony Books, the book is a cult classic of media studies and was eventually translated into five languages. It was re-released in paperback by Serpent's Tail in 2004 with a new afterword.\n\nThroughout the late 1990s and 2000s, Davis continued to write for both popular magazines and scholarly publications, and also expanded his speaking career, where his eclectic interests in subject ranging from music, art, popular culture and esoterica led to speaking engagements at such diverse venues as Stanford University, the British Museum, Burning Man, the Boom Festival, the Houston Jung Center, the Ojai Foundation, and Esalen.\n\nIn 2000, Davis won a Maggie Award for his profile of UFO contactee and Silicon Valley mogul Joe Firmage.\n\nIn 2005, he released his second book, \"Led Zeppelin IV\", a monograph on the signature album from one of rock’s most celebrated bands, published by 33⅓. In 2006, \"Blender\" magazine included it in their list of the 40 Greatest Rock ‘N Roll Books.\n\nIn 2006, Davis cemented his reputation as a seminal writer of California counter-culture when he released \"The Visionary State: A Journey Through California’s Spiritual Landscape\", a coffee table book of pictures and rich essays about California’s alternative spiritual movements and architecture. With photographs by Michael Rauner, the book was published by Chronicle Books. A prolific blogger for his site Techgnosis.com, Davis also released a fourth book in 2010, a collection of essays and journalism entitled \"Nomad Codes: Adventures in Modern Esoterica\", published by Yeti Publishing.\n\nIn early 2006, Davis started working with composer Mark Nichols on the libretto for a rock opera inspired by Burning Man. The resulting production debuted in October of 2009 and was entitled \"How to Survive the Apocalypse: A Burning Opera\", in which Davis also performed as the bunny-suited, bullhorn-wielding narrator. Davis also wrote extensively about West Coast festival culture in photographer Kyer Wiltshire's 2009 book \"Tribal Revival\".\n\nIn 2010, Davis began pursuing a PhD in Religious Studies at Rice University in their Gnosticism, Esotericism and Mysticism program. He has taught courses at UC Berkeley, UC Davis, Rice University, Pacifica, and CIIS.\n\nDavis has appeared in a number of documentaries about technology and countercultural topics, including \"DMT: The Spirit Molecule\", \"Electronic Awakening\", and \"The Source Family\". Along with Maja D’Aoust, he hosts a weekly podcast devoted to the “cultures of consciousness” called \"Expanding Mind\", which is part of the Progressive Radio Network.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849055", "title": "Zofia Lubomirska", "text": "Zofia Lubomirska\n\nZofia Lubomirska (1718 - 27 October 1790), was an independently wealthy Polish noblewoman, twice married to Polish magnates known for her political involvement and philanthropy.\n\nShe was born in the Sandomierz Voivodeship the daughter of Aleksander Krasiński and Salomea Trzcińska. She married firstly Jan Tarło (d. 1750), who left her the town of Opole Lubelskie in his will. In 1754, she married the magnate, Antoni Lubomirski, with whom she was actively involved in state affairs. She reportedly persuaded Lubomirski to end his alliance with Austria and instead become a French agent by accepting an alliance with France. Both her first spouse and her brother, Stanisław, were pro-French.\n\nOn finding out about it after the event, she opposed the marriage of her niece, Franciszka Korwin-Krasińska to Charles of Saxony, Duke of Courland, but relented having been persuaded by her husband and brother who saw it as an advancement, since Charles had prospects for the Polish throne. She and August Aleksander Czartoryski insisted that the marriage be made legitimate and public. However abroad, outside Polish Szlachta circles, it was considered a Morganatic marriage. During the interregnum of 1763-64, she supported the candidacy of Charles for the throne, while attempting to build a bridge between the Patriotic Party, which she represented, and the Familia (political party) of her ally, Czartoryski. During the Radom Confederation, she visited Warsaw with her niece, Franciszka. She negotiated with August Czartoryski and Grand Guardian of the Crown, Stanisław Lubomirski (1722–1782), her brother-in-Law, to ally them both to the Confederation in 1769-70. She kept in close contact with her older cousin, Adam Stanisław Krasiński, Bishop of Kamieniec.\n\nShe produced two political commentaries about Polish politics in 1770, in which she argued for the reform of the rights of the nobility as well as to reform the civil and judicial court systems. She spent most of her life on her domains in Opole, Przeworsk and Dobromił, where she reformed farming and stock management. She set up a vast Textile mill with the help of foreign expertise. After the fall of the Radom Confederation, she lived in her palace in Przeworsk with Franciszka Krasińska, whom she eventually reunited with her husband, Charles in Opole in 1775. They managed to have one surviving daughter, Maria Christina whose descendants became members of the Italian Monarchy. In 1781, she hosted Grand Duke Paul of Russia in disguise, as \"Monsieur du Nord\", in Opole, then king Stanisław August Poniatowski in 1787.\n\nZofia refurbished the buildings, especially the palaces on her estates, with the help of leading architects and designers. In the town of Przeworsk aside from the textile factory she set up a silk production making the famous ornate bands favoured by many Polish noblemen, \"Pas kontuszowy\". She was known as a patron of the arts, especially of literary authors. After the death of her first husband, Jan, she founded a new hospital in Opole. With her second husband, Antoni, she founded a church and convent for the congregation of the Sisters of Charity in Przeworsk.\n\nShe died a widow in Warsaw on 27 October 1790.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849059", "title": "Frank G. Jackson", "text": "Frank G. Jackson\n\nFrank George Jackson (born October 4, 1946) is an American attorney and politician who is currently the 57th Mayor of Cleveland, Ohio. He was first elected on November 8, 2005, unseating incumbent Jane Campbell, and re-elected in 2009, 2013, and 2017. Now serving in his fourth term, he is the longest-serving mayor in Cleveland history.\n\nJackson is the son of an African-American father and an Italian-American mother. Jackson grew up in the Kinsman and Central neighborhoods. After graduating from Max S. Hayes High School, Jackson served in the United States Army.\n\nAfter his discharge, Jackson attended Cuyahoga Community College where he earned an associate degree. He later attended Cleveland State University (CSU), earning a bachelor's degree in Urban Studies and History, a master's degree in Urban Affairs from the Maxine Goodman Levin College of Urban Affairs, and a J.D. degree from Cleveland State University.\n\nJackson entered politics with the influence of former Cleveland Councilman Lonnie L. Burten. He passed the Ohio bar exam and started his legal career as an assistant city prosecutor. In 1989, Jackson won a seat on the Cleveland City Council for Ward 5. As Councilman, Jackson spearheaded efforts to bring in approximately a half billion dollars of community investments, working to clean up and stabilize his ward. He fought for the redevelopment of Arbor Park Place, the construction of the only Home Ownership Zone in the city, and worked with the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA) as it began to rebuild its estates.\n\nJackson became an active critic of then-Mayor Michael R. White, who had vowed in his campaign to clean up neighborhoods but had instead dedicated the bulk of his tenure to downtown development. Jackson's progress in Ward 5 aided his election to Council President in 2001, succeeding Michael D. Polensek.\n\nAs Council President, Jackson became increasingly frustrated with the leadership of Mayor Jane L. Campbell. As the 2005 mayoral election approached, Jackson announced his candidacy on April 7.\n\nHe received endorsements from several notable Cleveland and Cuyahoga County politicians, including Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, County Auditor Frank Russo, County Treasurer Jim Rokakis, and most of his colleagues on City Council. In the October 4 mayoral primary, Jackson was the top vote-getter, ahead of the incumbent Campbell. Other candidates in the primary included former Cleveland Public Safety Director, James A. Draper; former mayor of Euclid, Ohio and businessman, David Lynch; former Cleveland Councilman Bill Patmon, and Municipal Court Judge Robert Triozzi, whom Jackson eventually asked to become his law director. In the November 8, 2005 general election, he was elected mayor with 55% of the vote, while Campbell received 45%. At 11:25 p.m. (EST), she conceded to Jackson.\n\nOn January 2, 2006, Jackson was sworn in as Cleveland's 56th mayor at East Technical High School on the city's East Side. Among those in attendance were Congresswoman Tubbs Jones and Bishop Anthony Pilla of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland. In his inaugural address, Jackson vowed to make Cleveland a city where we are \"one people, one community, living and working together, with respect, justice and equality.\" He promised improvements in the city's school system and better relations with Cleveland's neighboring suburbs.\n\n Frank Jackson in April 2009 announced his bid to run for another term. In the September 2009 primary Jackson garnered the most votes; in second place was former Cleveland City Council member Bill Patmon. On Election Day 2009, Jackson defeated Patmon by a large margin, with Jackson receiving 78% of the vote and Patmon receiving 22%.\n\nJackson announced his intention to run for a third term on June 29, 2013. Since Jackson's bid for a third term drew only one challenger, there were no primary elections in the mayoral race. The sole challenger to Jackson was Cleveland businessman Kenneth Lanci. On Election Day 2013, Jackson defeated Lanci, with Jackson receiving 66% of the vote and Lanci receiving 34%. Upon completing his term, Jackson will become just the second Cleveland mayor, along with Michael R. White to serve three terms.\n\nOn November 7, 2017, Jackson won his fourth term, beating councilman Zack Reed, who had finished second behind Jackson in the September nine-way primary election. This made Jackson the first ever four-term mayor in the city's history.\n\nOn December 1, 2005, he announced that he would appoint the city's first point person for regional issues. On December 15, Jackson announced the appointment of his former opponent Triozzi as law director (under the city charter, the law director becomes mayor if the elected mayor is out of the city, resigns or becomes incapable of serving).\n\nFrom the former Campbell administration, Darnell Brown retained his position as the city's chief operating officer. Valarie J. McCall, who had previously served as Clerk of City Council, was appointed chief of government affairs. Shortly after his inauguration, Jackson began working with the Cleveland Police Department. He introduced a new use of force policy that clearly states what previous versions only implied: \"Excessive force shall not be tolerated.\" Jackson has restored the Cleveland Police Aviation Unit (helicopters) and the Cleveland Police Mounted Unit (horses).\n\nHe is a member of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition, a bi-partisan group with a stated goal of \"making the public safer by getting illegal guns off the streets.\" The Coalition was co-chaired by Boston Mayor Thomas Menino and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg.\n\nOn January 18, 2008, the Ohio House of Representatives passed a bill to eliminate residency rules passed by local voters. This included the amendment to the Cleveland municipal charter that restricted city workers from living outside the city, approved by voters in 1982.\n\nIn response, Mayor Jackson and law director Robert Triozzi threatened to take the issue to court. Jackson contended that if the city's residency restrictions are overturned, Cleveland would suffer the ill effects of city workers fleeing the city, and its related effects on the economy and city safety. \"This is about the issue of home rule\", Jackson said at a City Hall news conference. \"They are attempting to usurp our constitutional rights, and we are defending our rights\".\n\nHe threatened to fire any city worker who moved out of their district of employment. The Cleveland Fire Fighters Association Local 93 and four individual union members filed a complaint on January 30 with the 8th Ohio District Court of Appeals to block any actions that Jackson, Triozzi, or the city might take on the matter. On June 10, 2009, the Supreme Court of Ohio struck down the residency requirements of Cleveland and several dozen other Ohio communities in the case of \"Lima v. State of Ohio\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849060", "title": "Nissan X-Trail", "text": "Nissan X-Trail\n\nThe is a compact crossover SUV produced by the Japanese automaker Nissan since 2000. In third generation, it is a three row SUV. \n\nIt was one of Nissan's first crossovers and was released about the same time as several other companies' competing car based crossovers, including the Ford Escape and its Mazda Tribute sibling, the Toyota RAV4, Honda CR-V, Hyundai Tucson and its modern sibling, Kia Sportage as well as the compact body on frame Suzuki Grand Vitara before third generation. \n\nThe X-Trail is positioned below the truck based Xterra and Pathfinder, and was never offered by dealerships in the United States. The first generation was available in Canada until it was replaced by the Rogue, however, both the Rogue and the X-Trail are sold in Mexico. \n\nThe Rogue shares the same platform as the second generation X-Trail, and is very similar to the Qashqai. The X-Trail's All-Mode 4x4 transmission transfer case enables the driver to select between 2WD, 4WD or 4WD Lock through an electronic switch on the dashboard. \n\nThe company currently offers a hydrogen fuel cell model named the X-Trail FCV on lease to businesses. The main production plant of the X-Trail is in Kanda, Fukuoka, Kyushu, Japan; though parts and engines that are produced in Japan are also assembled by other Nissan plants in numerous countries.\n\nAvailable only in the Japanese market is the SR20VET that produces 206 kW (280 ps) and is used in the X-Trail GT. The Australian model is powered by a QR25DE 2.5 L four cylinder engine initially producing 132 kW (177 hp). From January 2006, the Australian spec engine was detuned to 123 kW (169 hp). Also available is the QR20DE four cylinder engine, producing 103 kW (140 hp) or 110 kW (150 hp) with manual or automatic transmission.\n\nThe biggest selling engine in the United Kingdom is the YD22DDTi, a 2.2 litre turbocharged common rail diesel.\n\nThe X-Trail has had three model revisions, the Series 1 and Series 2 (using Nissan FF-S platform) and the Series 3 (using Nissan/Renault C platform). There were various cosmetic and engineering changes made between Series 1 and 2, but the Series 3 T31 is all new despite a similar appearance with new engines apart from the 2.5L which has been retained.\n\nThe T30 series X-Trail was unveiled at the September 2000 Paris Motor Show. It uses the Nissan FF-S platform, shared with the Nissan Almera and the Nissan Primera. It entered production in October, and sales in Japan commenced in November 2000.\n\nThe X-Trail was sold in Canada for the model years of 2005 and 2006 (but Nissan Canada continued to market it until 2007), and in Mexico since 2003. It has been sold in the Philippines since the middle of 2003. In 2007 Nissan introduced the newly remodeled X-Trail T31 model major interior and exterior changes and two turbo diesel 2.0 CC turbo inter-cooler offering 150 bhp or 177bhp with greater fuel efficiency this was the most comprehensive redesign until the release of a completely new X-Trail in 2013 T-32\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the first generation car was available in S, Sport and SE+ between launch and 2004. There was also a FatFace model in 2005, also for the United Kingdom, which was based on the model Sports. They made 1998 of them to celebrate the year FatFace was set up. The trim levels were then revised to SE, Sport, SVE and T-Spec.\n\nIn Australia, it was available in standard ST, mid spec ST-S, high spec Ti and luxury spec Ti-L, with limited editions ST-X, ST-R, ST-S 40th anniversary models. At this point, all models in the United Kingdom were equipped with full electric windows, electricity adjustable door mirrors (on SVE and T-Spec they were electrically folding also), climate control, single CD player, four airbags and remote central locking.\n\nWhile in Australia all models were equipped with full electric windows, electric mirrors (electric folding on Ti-L), single CD player, two airbags and remote central locking. ST-S adds ST on sunroof and 16\" alloy wheels. Ti adds ST on climate control, six disk CD player, fog lamps and 16\" alloy wheels, and Ti-L adds Ti on leather and electric seats, sunroof, and optional DVD player. Limited edition ST-R adds ST on light emitting roof racks, with \"ST-S 40th Anniversary\" adding fog lamps to original ST-S.\n\n2007 Nissan released its completely upgraded X-Trail T31. Nissan replacing the Nissan X-Trail T30. This new newly redesigned T31 X-Trail offers 3 motor options petrol and 2 diesel fuel efficient diesel replacing the old 2.2 CC dCI with 2.0 CC dCI 150bhp and 177bhp. This new design once again put Nissan ahead of its competitors offering a sleek new body and more power with many more options.\n\nFrom mid 2002 to 2009, Nissan launched a special edition X-Trail equipped with the SR20VET petrol turbocharged engine, which produces . Named the X-Trail GT, it was offered only in Japan.\n\nIn 2003, Taiwanese Nissan distributor Yulon launched the Nissan X-Trail with a major design difference in the front end compared to the international version to fit the taste of the Taiwanese market. The design was done by Yulon Asia Technical Center under Yulon-Nissan Motors. The model was sold until 2006, when it received a minor facelift with new front bumper, grilles, headlamps, and LED tail lamps.\n\nDue to the late facelift, Yulon-Nissan skipped the second generation X-Trail and continued the production of the facelifted Taiwanese Nissan X-Trail until 2008 and was replaced by the American imported first generation Nissan Rogue. The X-Trail nameplate did not return until 2015 when the third generation Nissan X-Trail returned and continued to be domestically produced in Taiwan.\n\nIn 2006, Nissan Canada launched a Nissan X-Trail Bonavista Edition commercial, featuring a Nissan dealer speaking in an incomprehensible Newfoundland accent. The commercial itself backfired when Bonavista Mayor Betty Fitzgerald claimed it had portrayed people in Bonavista as people who cannot speak properly. To further expose the commercial's lack of linguistic authenticity, CBC News reported the sales rep was played by an actor from Cape Breton. That commercial was parodied by a local car dealer in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, in a radio advert that takes shots at Ontario marketing companies and Premier Dalton McGuinty's \"nondescript\" personality.\n\nPre-facelift styling\nPost-facelift styling\nTaiwanese market pre-facelift styling\nTaiwanese market facelift styling\n\nThe 2008 Nissan X-Trail had its public debut at the Geneva Motor Show in March 2007, and went on sale in Japan in August 2007, Europe in the third quarter of that year, and Australia and Mexico towards the end of the year. Slightly larger than the previous model, it is based on the Nissan C platform. The second generation was not sold in the United States and Canada, where it was instead replaced by the Rogue.\n\nThe X-Trail GT SR20VET petrol turbocharged engine was not offered in the second generation X-Trail, due to the 2005 Japan vehicle emissions control. In September 2008, the 20GT became available in Japan, equipped with the M9R, a 2.0 litre turbocharged common rail diesel engine developed jointly with Renault. This was the first diesel X-Trail offered in the Japanese domestic market.\n\nA facelift second generation was released in Japan in July 2010. The Nissan X-Trail Platinum, with special features not seen on any other X-Trail, was released in a limited run of 200 vehicles for the United Kingdom in January 2012.\n\nThe second generation was replaced in October 2013, when the third generation X-Trail was unveiled in Japan. Only petrol engine variants were initially offered for Japan, with the diesel-engined second generation continuing to be available for the domestic market.\n\nThe second generation was released in Malaysia in 2010, where it was fully imported from Indonesia. Only one variant was made available, which consisted of the MR20DE engine paired to a CVT transmission. The facelift version was made available in Malaysia in April 2013.\n\nPre-facelift styling\nPost-facelift styling\n\nIn March 2015, models went on sale in China from Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle Company (DFL-PV), badged as Dongfeng Fengdu MX6, with 4WD and 2WD models available. The 2.0 litre MR20DE engine is standard along with a six speed manual or CVT gearbox. Trim levels are Standard, Excellence and Premium. Prices started from 122,800 to 169,800 yuan ($19,760 – 27,330). The Dongfeng Fengdu MX6 is a rebadged version of the Nissan X-Trail T31, featuring restyled front and rear bumpers produced by Zhengzhou-Nissan, and branded under the Dongfeng-Fengdu sub-brand of Dongfeng Motor Corporation.\n\nBased on the jointly developed Nissan/Renault Common Module Family (CMF) platform architecture, the third generation model incorporates styling cues from the Qashqai, Murano, and Patrol. Japanese production of the third generation X-Trail originates from the Nissan Motor Kyushu Co., Ltd. factory. Production also began in Saint Petersburg, Russia.\n\nThe vehicle was unveiled at the 2013 Frankfurt Motor Show and was inspired by the Hi-Cross Concept, followed by the 43rd Tokyo Motor Show 2013, and the 2014 Geneva Motor Show.\n\nJapanese sales commenced on December 11, 2013. Early models include MR20DD engine with Idling Stop (20S, 20X, 20X Emergency Brake package, 20X X-TREMER X, 20X Emergency Brake Package X-TREMER X), XTRONIC CVT, ALL MODE 4X4-i system for 4WD models, 2 or 3 (except 20S) rows of seats.\n\nAutech Japan produced the X-TRAIL X-TREMER Package Stretched (2014): a concept vehicle based on Nissan X-Trail 20X X-TREMER X, with accessory parts and dedicated paint along with bold exterior features such as over fenders. The vehicle was unveiled at the 2014 Tokyo Auto Salon.\n\nChinese models went on sale from Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle Company (DFL-PV) in the end of March 2014.\n\nOn September 12, 2014, prior to the Indonesia International Motor Show 2014, Nissan Motor Indonesia launched the third generation Nissan X-Trail. It is only available with three rows of seats in five variants: 2.0 MT, 2.0 CVT with the MR20DD engine, 2.5 CVT using the QR25DE engine, X-Trail XTREMER based on X-Trail 2.5 CVT and X-Trail Hybrid.\n\nIt is manufactured in Purwakarta, Indonesia primarily for domestic demand and was also launched in Thailand in November 2014 and it is manufactured in Samut Prakan, Thailand for Thai domestic demand. In December 2014, Autech Japan produced the limited edition X-TRAIL 20X BLACK X-TREMER X for the JDM. \n\nIn the Philippines, the third generation X-Trail was launched on 19 September 2014 during the 5th Philippine International Motor Show and is offered in two variants; 2.0L 2WD CVT and 2.5L 4WD CVT. The facelifted X-Trail was launched in the Philippines in September 2017. Engine choices remained the same as the pre-facelift model. It was also launched in Thailand in February 2019 where consumers had the choice between several variants powered by either a 2.5L petrol engine or a 2.0L hybrid powertrain.\n\nThe facelifted X-Trail was also launched in Indonesia on July 18, 2019 at the 27th Gaikindo Indonesia International Auto Show, and went on sale in August 2019. It is only available in VL trim and powered by a 2.5L petrol engine with CVT.\n\nIn April 2015, Nissan announced that an X-Trail hybrid with claimed fuel economy of 4.9 l/100 km was coming to Japan.\n\nFor the Malaysian market, the third generation X-Trail was launched in January 2015 with two variants: 2.0L 2WD (CVT) or 2.5L 4WD (CVT). Since launch, various editions have been made available namely Impul, Aero Edition and X-Tremer. All the various editions were/are sold alongside the regular X-Trail and like the regular X-Trail are available with either a 2.0L 2WD or 2.5L 4WD. \n\nIn March 2019, bookings were opened for the facelifted X-Trail with a media preview happening in March 2019 as well. The facelifted X-Trail has been available in Malaysia since April 2019.and available with four variants: 2.5S 2WD, 2.5V 4WD, 2.0V 4WD Hybrid and 2.0VL 4WD Hybrid. \n\nAustralian models went on sale in March 2014 with both petrol and diesel variants: ST 2.0 2WD 6-speed Manual, ST, ST-L and Ti 2.5 CVT and TS 1.6 dCi 2WD CVT, TS 1.6 dCi 4WD CVT, TL 1.6 dCi 2WD CVT and TL 1.6 dCi 4WD 6-speed manual. On ST and ST-L 2.5, third row seats are available. European models went on sale in July 2014, with the only engine available being a Renault sourced 1.6 dCi R9M diesel engine with CVT or 6-speed Manual.\n\nFor 2017, the Nissan X-Trail has been facelifted, with restyled headlights and taillights which includes, restyled twin LED projector headlamps with High intensity discharge and LED Daytime Running Lights, which is now offered on SL trim levels with the Premium Package, while S, SV trim levels, and the SL trim levels without the Premium Package offers Halogen Headlamps with LED daytime running lights, and LED taillights are available on all trim levels. The 2.5L engine with 170 hp carries over from the previous model.\n\nThe new X-Trail went on sale in October 2016, and also has exterior and interior colours. A hybrid version of the vehicle premiered in January 2017 (Limited Availability) for the 2017 model year.\n\nThe hybrid features regenerative braking, pure drive hybrid emblems, energy monitor, hybrid battery status, under floor storage area replacing Divide-N-Hide@ Cargo System, a 2.0 litre four cylinder gasoline engine (power: 141 hp and torque: 141 lb-ft) and Xtronic CVT combined with an electric motor (power: 40 hp) and Lithium-Ion battery, for a combined power of 176 hp.\n\nThe Lithium-Ion battery is located below the thick flooring of the under floor cargo storage area. The X-Trail Hybrid is available in two trim levels, SV and SL, but the Nissan X-Trail Hybrid will not be available with Third Row Seating (Family Package) and Divide-N-Hide@ Cargo System, due to the Lithium-Ion battery.\n\nOn October 27, 2016, Nissan Motor Corporation announced the production of the next X-Trail at NMUK. In February 2019, these plans were cancelled, with production planned to remain in Japan, citing concerns about Brexit related uncertainty. The declining popularity of diesel cars was another factor.\n\nNissan's Sunderland plant in the United Kingdom has been in operation since 1986, and has around 7,000 employees. Sunderland will continue to manufacture several Nissan models and the company reaffirmed its commitment to manufacture the new Qashqai for 2020 at the plant in the United Kingdom. \n\nBoth Nissan and British officials confirmed that no jobs would be lost due to the modified arrangement, which will see production of the X-Trail moved to Kyushu.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849064", "title": "Tlacoyo", "text": "Tlacoyo\n\nA tlacoyo is an oval-shaped pre-Hispanic Mexican dish made of masa, also called tlayoyis, clacoyos, tlatloyos, tlayoyos and tlaoyos. Somewhat torpedo-shaped, they are fatter than fresh corn tortillas and stuffed with cooked ground beans, cheese, fava beans, chicharron or other ingredients and fried or toasted. Tlacoyos can be served as an accompaniment to soups and stews or as appetizers for celebrations. Most traditional tlacoyos do not have lard or salt in the masa, and if not eaten soon after they are cooked, they become very tough and dry, even if reheated. In Mexican markets, vendors keep their tlacoyos warm by putting them in a covered basket, with the additional effect that the steam keeps them moist for a longer time. This dish is similar to the Salvadoran pupusa.\n\nThe name \"tlacoyo\" is a variation of the Nahuatl word \"tlahtlaōyoh\" ), a name given to an antojito typical of central Mexico.\n\nSince it is similar in shape to a huarache (but smaller), and is made of the same corn as the sope and is even thicker (so it has more resistance to wet toppings), Mexican street vendors, especially in Mexico City, sometimes sell it with toppings on it, as an alternative to the sopes and huaraches. However, the traditional tlacoyo is supposed to be consumed without any toppings on it except for fresh salsa. This is the form in which they are typically found in the streets. \n\nTlacoyos come in three different colors, although no artificial colors are added to its preparation. The color comes from the cornmeal used to prepare the masa which the tlacoyo is made with. The most common is blue masa, made from blue corn kernels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849066", "title": "Jenadriyah", "text": "Jenadriyah\n\nAl-Jenadriyah () is a cultural and heritage festival held in Jenadriyah (or Janadriyah) near Riyadh in Saudi Arabia each year, lasting for two weeks. \" King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz was the first to organize this festival. He fostered it and developed it to become the top Arab festival that showcases the local heritage of all Arabian Peninsula regions as well as the Saudi Arabian heritage\" \n\nIt is organised by the National Guard, and the first was held in 1985. Activities include a camel race, performance of local music and dancing of the Ardah and the Mizmar. The festival draws more than one million visitors every year. The festival \"normally falls during the month of February or March...Long ago, Janadriyah was known as 'Rowdhat Souwais' and was mentioned by numerous historians and writers.\"\n\nIn July 2019, the Saudi cabinet transferred the responsibility of organizing the festival to the Ministry of Culture after it was under the responsibility of the Ministry of National Guard. However, in 2019, the Saudi cabinet decided to make the Ministry of Culture responsible for organizing the event instead of the National Guard. \n\nThe festival opens with the opening ceremony master, and then varied events held, including: \n\n\n\nEvery year Saudi Arabia has hosted a guest of honor such as:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849072", "title": "John Ramsbottom (mycologist)", "text": "John Ramsbottom (mycologist)\n\nJohn Ramsbottom (15 October 1885 – 14 December 1974) was a British mycologist.\n\nRamsbottom was born in Manchester. He graduated from Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and joined the staff of the British Museum of Natural History in 1910.\n\nFrom 1917 to 1919, he served in Salonika, first as a civilian protozoologist, then as captain in the Royal Army Medical Corps. He was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire in the 1919 New Year Honours, \"for valuable services rendered in connection with Military Operations in Salonika,\" and later appointed an Officer of the Order.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1950, he was Keeper of Botany at the British Museum. He served as general secretary and twice as president of the British Mycological Society, and was long editor of its \"Transactions\". He was president of the Quekett Microscopical Club from 1928 to 1931 and was elected an Honorary Member in 1937. He was president of the Linnean Society from 1937 to 1940 and was awarded their Linnean Medal in 1965. Ramsbottom was President of the Society for the History of Natural History from 1943-1972. He was made an Honorary Member in 1972.\n\nDr Ramsbottom made a bequest to the Society in his will and it was decided to utilise this to establish \"The Ramsbottom Lecture\", to be given at the Society's International Meetings, the first being delivered in April 1976.\n\nRamsbottom had a lively style both in his lectures and in his writing, which spanned both popular and technical publications. He could write:\n\nNotable among his published works are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849075", "title": "Discophoros", "text": "Discophoros\n\nThe Discophoros, also spelled Discophorus (Greek – \"Discus-Bearer\"), was a bronze sculpture by the classical Greek sculptor Polyclitus, creator of the \"Doryphoros\" and \"Diadumenos\", and its many Roman marble copies. (It is not, however, to be confused with \"Discobolus\" of Myron, which shows a discus being thrown, not carried.)\n\nLike the \"Doryphoros\" and \"Diadumenos\", it was created as an example of Polyclitus's \"canon\" of the ideal human form in sculpture. It features a young, muscular, solidly-built athlete in a moment of thought before throwing a discus. Most marble copies feature the addition of a marble tree stump – marble is weaker but heavier than bronze- as the stump is needed for support. These copies are also often missing their arms, which are often restored.\n\nA variant is at the Louvre Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849078", "title": "Gesta Treverorum", "text": "Gesta Treverorum\n\nThe Gesta Treverorum (\"Deeds of the Trevians\") is a collection of histories, legends, wars, records of the Archbishops of Trier (Trèves), writings of the Popes, and other records that were collected by the monks of the St. Matthias' Abbey in Trier. It was begun in the 12th century and was continued until 1794 when the Archbishopric of Trier came to an end. An edition was published as an eight-volume set in the 19th century. A new 8-volume edition by Emil Zenz was published in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849079", "title": "Mercedes-Benz Atego", "text": "Mercedes-Benz Atego\n\nThe Mercedes-Benz Atego is a range of general-purpose rigid trucks introduced by Mercedes-Benz in 1998. A new model was introduced in 2004, followed by a facelift in 2010 and another new model in 2013.\nThe latest version is available in gross vehicle weights of 6.5 to 16 metric tonnes (t) and is powered by a straight 4- or 6-cylinder engine.\n\nThe first generation Atego debuted in 1998. It was intended as a successor to the LK model range. At the time of its launch, the Atego offered a total of 25 different basic types and 240 model variants. Around 170,000 units were produced until 2004.\nThe truck won the International Truck of the Year award in 1999 which would later be supplemented with another win by the Atego 2 in 2011. In 2000, a new 240-kW (326-hp) top-of-the-range version of the heavy Atego chassis was brought onto the market. In 2001, the new Axor model series emerged from the heavy-duty Atego weight class with gross vehicle weights of 18 to 40 tonnes. The Axor combined the heavy chassis of the Actros with the long Atego cab.\nThe second generation Atego debuted in 2004 at the International Commercial Vehicle Show. The front section was redesigned, with new H7 clear-glass headlamps, high-set white-glass indicators, wind deflectors and new exterior mirrors. The interior of the four different cab variants was also completely redesigned, with the cockpit more grouped around the driver and a new climate control system which was more similar to the heavy-duty Actros models. A new nine-speed transmission replaced the previous twelve-speed transmission. The new Telligent automated gearshift was also introduced as an optional extra up to 175 kW (238 hp) along with a roll-back lock built into the Telligent brake system. Soon after launch, the Atego was linked to the Fleetboard telematics system.\nIn 2005, a 12-ton payload-optimised model was introduced, which had a low chassis, 17.5-inch tyres and a new 160 kW (218 hp) four-cylinder engine. Also in the same year, Atego models over 18 t were renamed Mercedes-Benz Axor. In 2006, dump truck versions of the Atego were fitted with high-performance disc brake technology on all axles. The 250,000-the Antego was delivered in June 2008 enterduced as Euro 5 in atego. From March 2010 the entire Mercedes-Benz Atego series was made available with EEV (Enhanced Environmentally Friendly Vehicle) compliant engine versions.\n\nThe second generation Atego was initially available with three basic engine variants. The 4,250 cc inline-four OM 904 LA with power, torque, 1:17.75 compression ratio and Unit-Pump System (UPS) technology single-nozzle fuel-injection pumps. The 6,374 cc inline-six OM 906 LA with power and torque or power and torque. Both variants with Unit-Pump System technology with single-plunger fuel-injection pumps and centrally arranged 6-hole injection nozzles.\nThere were five different gearboxes available for the Atego. Firstly, the G56, G60 and G85 all-synchromesh manual gearboxes with six forward gears and one reverse gear. They were available with engine-mounted linkage gearshift (G56 and G60), hydraulic gearshift (G85) or Telligent automated gearshift. The G131-9 was a direct-drive gearbox with eight synchronised forward gears, one constant-mesh crawler gear and one reverse gear. It consisted of a 4-speed basic gearbox with pneumatic rear-mounted range unit. Gears were shifted hydropneumatically. Last but not least was the Allison 3000P electronically controlled automatic gearbox. It featured five forward gears and one reverse gear.\nThe chassis was available in wheelbase lengths between 3,260 mm and 5,360 mm at standard spacing of 300 mm. The frame rails featured a continuous hole spacing of 50 mm. Frame components were made of cold-formed E 380 TM and E 500 TM high-strength steel. It consisted of a two-piece modular frame\nwith two symmetrical Z-profile members on front end and straight, untapered, U-shaped longitudinal flange at the rear which were interconnected by means of riveted gusset plates. The front suspension had parabolic leaf springs and for the rear there was a choice of leaf springs or air-suspension with Telligent level control. Steering was power assisted, recirculating ball with variable steering gear ratio.\n\nThe new facelifted Atego appeared in 2010. The design of the front section was given more resemblance to the current Actros. With regards to the interior, a multifunction steering wheel was made standard on all versions of the Atego, the instrument cluster was redesigned and seats received new fabrics. There were three BlueTec Euro V standards compliant engines to choose from, with power output ranging from to . The new model could also be fitted with a new permanent magnet retarder with up to 180 kW braking power (maximum torque 650 Nm) to help reduce brake and tyre wear on demanding roads.\n\nThe Atego BlueTec Hybrid was premiered in November 2007 at the opening event of the \"Shaping Future Transportation\" initiative in Stuttgard. Daimler developed it together with Eaton, who supplied the hybrid system which included the lithium-ion battery pack and electric motor and helped develop the power management logic and controls. The first five prototype vehicles were deployed by DHL to conduct tests and the first 50 vehicles were sold at the end of 2009. Series production was scheduled to start in 2010.\n\nThe initial hybrid truck was based on the 12-ton Atego 1222 L EEV and featured a 160-kW (218-hp) OM 924 LA turbodiesel engine and a 44-kW water-cooled AC permanent magnet electric motor. The engine also featured a start/stop system. It used a G85-6 automatic transmission. The electric motor was located behind the internal combustion engine and clutch, but in front of the transmission. Electrical energy was stored in lithium-ion batteries, which was fed via the electric motor when braking and allowed moving off under electric power, but also helped optimise the diesel engine's characteristic map. Additional components included a converter, hybrid control system and cooling system. The additional weight compared to a regular Atego was around 350 kg. According to Daimler the Atego hybrid could achieve fuel savings of around 10 - 15 percent compared with an equivalent conventional diesel-powered vehicle.\n\nThe chassis of the Atego is also used by Unvi to produce 27-41 seat coaches, designated Cimo, Voyger GT and Touring GT, which are custom built in Spain. Polish coach company Automet produced a 30-36 seat coach the Apollo based on the chassis. Also, the chilean bodybuilder LR bodied some midibuses on Atego 1016 chassis. Cab area and dashboard on the coach conversions are identical to those used in the Atego goods vehicles.\n\nThe third generation Atego was introduced in 2013 with gross vehicle weight ranging from 6.5 t to 16 t. It was made available with seven new engines based on the inline four-cylinder OM 934 model with 5.1 l displacement and inline six-cylinder OM 936 model with 7.7 l displacement. Performance for the four new OM 934 engines range from to and for the three new OM 936 engines from to . The engines conform to the Euro VI emissions standard and feature common rail injection, cooled exhaust gas recirculation, an exhaust box with an integrated selective catalytic reduction system and closed particulate filter. The trucks are available with six or eight speed Mercedes PowerShift 3 automatic transmission and six or nine speed power-assisted manual transmissions. Electronic stability control is also available along with a permanent magnet retarder. Furthermore, it features a newly designed bumper with integrated daytime running lamps.\n\nRace truck versions of the trucks are called Mercedes-Benz Race Truck. Built by LARAG in the Eastern Switzerland canton of St. Gallen. The race trucks have competed in the ADAC Truck Grand Prix and the NRW Truck Cup.\n\nLudovic Faure won the FIA European Truck Racing Championship in 1998 using an Atego Renntruck. FIA ETRC vehicles develop 1200 hp and 5,600 Nm of torque. Minimum weight is 5400 kg, and the trucks have 6-speed ZF transmissions, with water-cooled disc brakes. This gives a similar power-to-weight ratio as a World Rally Car.\n\nIn 2008, a Mercedes-Benz Atego 1725 race truck took a part in the Brazilian rally raid Rally dos Sertões. The vehicle won this rally in its class (T4.2, for trucks with full weight from 4801 to 5800 kg). This truck develops more than 400 hp and torque of 1800 Nm.\n"}
{"id": "1849081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849081", "title": "Dean Erickson", "text": "Dean Erickson\n\nDean Erickson (born December 5, 1958, Maine) is the founder and CEO of Bionic Capital LLC, a registered investment advisory firm which specializes in wealth management and philanthropic investment solutions.\n\nAfter graduating from Brown University, he worked on Wall Street as an options trader and risk arbitrageur. \n\nAfter six years he became an actor, guest starring on \"Frasier\", starring as Gabriel Knight in the award-winning video game \"\", and starring in several lesser Shakespearean productions. He later turned his focus to writing. He has published a mystery novel, \"No One Laughs at a Dead Clown\", under the name DC Erickson, and a self-help book, \"Choose Your Story, Choose Your Life\".\n\nDean appeared in five episodes of \"Frasier\". In 2010, he was elected to the Midcoast Maine Sports Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849086", "title": "Angela Smith (South Yorkshire politician)", "text": "Angela Smith (South Yorkshire politician)\n\nAngela Christine Smith (born 16 August 1961) is a British Liberal Democrat politician who served as Member of Parliament (MP) for Penistone and Stocksbridge from 2010 until 2019. She previously served as MP for Sheffield Hillsborough from 2005 to 2010.\n\nInitially elected as a Labour MP, Smith was an early opponent to leader Jeremy Corbyn. In 2018 Smith lost a motion of no confidence by her constituency party. Smith resigned from the Labour Party in February 2019 alongside six other MPs in protest at Corbyn's leadership, and they formed The Independent Group (later renamed Change UK).\n\nIn June 2019, she left Change UK to sit as an independent MP. In September she joined the Liberal Democrats. In the 2019 general election, she stood as a Liberal Democrat in Altrincham and Sale West, where she was placed a distant third.\n\nSmith was born on 16 August 1961 in Grimsby. She grew up in Grimsby, where her grandfather had been Mayor. She attended Waltham Leas Primary School (now The Leas Junior School) in Waltham and Tollbar Secondary School, in New Waltham, Lincolnshire.\n\nShe joined the Labour Party at the age of 16 and worked for the NHS for five years, before taking A-levels on an evening course. She studied English at the University of Nottingham in September 1987.\n\nSmith began a PhD at Newnham College, Cambridge, but did not complete it. She was an English lecturer at Dearne Valley College in Wath upon Dearne from 1994 until 2003.\n\nShe stood unsuccessfully as the Labour Party candidate for the Castle Ward of Cambridge City Council in May 1994. She was elected a Labour member of Sheffield City Council in 1996 for the ward of Broomhill, before winning in Birley ward in 2000 and 2004. She stood down in 2005 and the new Labour candidate won the by-election in May 2005.\n\nAt the 2005 general election, Smith was elected Member of Parliament for Sheffield Hillsborough. In 2007, she was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary and chief aide to Yvette Cooper.\n\nThe Sheffield Hillsborough seat was abolished at the 2010 election, but Smith was elected as the MP for the newly created Penistone and Stocksbridge constituency. She was re-elected at the 2015 general election and 2017 general election.\n\nIn 2016, Smith backed a vote of no confidence in Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in events which led to a leadership election in which Corbyn was re-elected as leader with an increased majority.\n\nAfter a period as opposition Whip, Smith was promoted to the front bench as the Shadow Deputy Leader of the House in October 2010.\n\nIn Parliament, she is a member of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee, and is a former member of the Administration Committee, the Procedure Committee, the Regulatory Reform Committee and Transport Committee.\n\nShe is a trustee of the Industry and Parliament Trust, which works to promote an understanding of business amongst parliamentarians and policymakers.\n\nIn 2013, she became a vice-president of the League Against Cruel Sports.\n\nSince February 2016, Smith has served as a member of the Advisory Board at Polar Research and Policy Initiative.\n\nShe was a member of Labour Friends of Israel.\n\nDuring her tenure Smith worked to reinstate the former Woodhead line between Hadfield and Penistone. Smith is one of 71 MPs who have signed a petition to re-open the trans-Pennine route, and she has on more than one occasion headed debates in Westminster on the need for more railway investment in the north.\n\nIn July 2009, she introduced a symbolic Ten Minute Rule Bill to the House of Commons which, if accepted by government, would have changed the law to give people more legal protection against attacks by dogs. She worked with the RSPCA and the Communication Workers Union on the issue. It failed.\n\nSmith was voted Constituency MP of the year 2011–12, voted for by fellow MPs, honouring her campaign against the axing of an £80 million loan to Sheffield Forgemasters.\n\nShe followed this up by being awarded the League Against Cruel Sports' Parliamentarian of the Year in 2013 for her efforts against the trial badger cull, in which she worked with campaigner Brian May, as well as recognition for her wider campaign in protecting animals from cruelty.\n\nIn 2018, Smith opposed Labour Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell's policy of re-nationalising England and Wales's water networks, saying such plans were \"an expensive indulgence in the politics of the past ... founded on the altar of ideology and constantly vulnerable to politicial interference\". She has called for \"rigorous reform\" of Ofwat (England and Wales's water regulator).\n\nOn 16 November 2018, her Constituency Labour Party passed a motion of no confidence in her on the grounds of her lack of support for the party leadership, her support for fracking and her opposition to water re-nationalisation. Smith tweeted that her \"first priority is always to do my job, to the best of my ability\" and that her defeat was as a result of \"a cabal of hard left members\" who had \"absorbed everyone’s precious time and energy on an inaccurate and divisive motion of no confidence\".\n\nSmith was one of 98 MPs who voted unsuccessfully to keep their expense details secret in 2007. She defended her vote on the grounds that it would help member-constituent confidentiality and help prevent the private addresses of MPs being readily available to the public.\n\nIn 2009, Smith was one of the MPs whose expenses were highlighted by \"The Daily Telegraph\" during the Parliamentary expenses scandal, as she had submitted expenses claims for four beds for a one-bedroom flat in London.\n\nSmith employed her husband as her Senior Parliamentary Assistant on a salary of up to £40,000. The practice of MPs employing family members has been criticised by some sections of the media on the grounds that it promotes nepotism. Although MPs who were first elected in 2017 have been banned from employing family members, the restriction is not retrospective.\n\nOn 18 February 2019, Smith and six other MPs (Chuka Umunna, Luciana Berger, Chris Leslie, Mike Gapes, Gavin Shuker, and Ann Coffey) resigned the Labour whip to sit as The Independent Group of MPs in the House of Commons. These resignations were prompted by issues with Jeremy Corbyn's leadership of the Labour Party, including allegations of the mishandling of antisemitism and his approach to Brexit. In June 2019, she left this group to sit as an independent MP.\n\nIn 2019, Smith attracted condemnation when, shortly after citing antisemitism as one of her reasons for leaving Labour at the Independent Group launch earlier that day, she appeared on BBC Two's \"Politics Live\" where she referred to fighting racism as \"not just about being black or a funny tin...\" before hesitating and then finishing the sentence with \"from the BME community\": the unfinished word was widely taken to have been 'tinge'. She later issued a video statement in which she said she \"misspoke very badly\". Smith later told Sky News that she had been \"very, very tired\".\n\nIn July 2019, Smith was a founding member of a grouping of MPs called The Independents.\n\nOn 8 September 2019, it was announced that Smith had joined the Liberal Democrats. In the 2019 general election, she stood as a Liberal Democrat in Altrincham and Sale West, where she was placed third, with 11% of the vote. In anticipation of her defeat, she complained in advance of the election she was being discriminated against because she would not receive the MP's LOOP (double redundancy payment) as a consequence of changing constituencies.\n\nIn 2005, Smith married Steve Wilson, a Sheffield city councillor. She is a Sheffield Wednesday F.C. season ticket holder, a Rolling Stones fan, and a keen walker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849087", "title": "BC Transit", "text": "BC Transit\n\nBC Transit is a provincial crown corporation responsible for coordinating the delivery of public transportation within British Columbia, Canada, outside Greater Vancouver. BC Transit is headquartered in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nBC Transit is the successor to the British Columbia Electric Railway, which started in 1897 and in 1961 became a division of BC Hydro. In 1979, the province separated the transit authority into a separate agency called the Urban Transit Authority which was later restructured into BC Transit in 1983.\n\nBC Transit carries out overall planning and delivery for all of the different municipal transit systems in British Columbia. In 1999, responsibility for the management of transportation in Greater Vancouver, including public transit, was taken over by the newly-formed TransLink. In the future, TransLink's jurisdiction is planned to expand into adjacent regions east and north of Greater Vancouver. (see TransLink 2007 reorganization)\n\nThe BC Electric Railway was incorporated in 1897 to take over the property and business of the Consolidated Railway Company. The Consolidated Railway Company had been formed the previous year, taking over ten other companies engaged in electric light systems or tramways in Vancouver, Victoria and New Westminster. Slowly the streetcars and interurban trams were converted to trolley and gas-powered buses. The province formed the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority in 1962, bringing the transit systems under BC Hydro.In 1979 the province's Livable Region Plan led to the transfer of transit responsibilities to three agencies: the Greater Vancouver Regional District was to be responsible for transit policy and planning; the Urban Transit Authority, to represent provincial government interests in public transit; and the Metro Transit Operating Company, a separate crown corporation that took over operations from BC Hydro. The new structure was meant to provide local governments with more decision-making power and funding of their local systems.\n\nBC Transit was created when, in 1982, the province merged the UTA and MTOC. The GVRD no longer had a role, and regional transit commissions were created in Vancouver and Victoria. The new regional commissions were tasked with approving local tariffs, planning, and some funding.\n\nIn 1999, the responsibility for the transit system in Greater Vancouver was reassigned to TransLink, which had been founded a year earlier. The rest of BC remains under BC Transit.\n\nIn 2018, BC Transit began the operation of its first dedicated intercity buses in Northern British Columbia after Greyhound Canada ended all services in Western Canada. This was in the form of BC Bus North.\n\nIn 2019, to address rising concerns of driver safety, the installation of driver safety doors on all buses began. The first bus with this modification was in Victoria. In the same year, during the coronavirus outbreak, BC Transit went to a province-wide free-fare operation and required boarding through the rear door of buses with multiple doors.\n\nThe Victoria Regional Transit System, in the provincial capital of Victoria, is the only system operated by BC Transit itself. Beyond Victoria, there are regional transit systems. In four locations (Nanaimo, Nelson, Powell River, and the Sunshine Coast) the municipality operates the service, while private operators are contracted to deliver the transit services elsewhere.\n\nThe Alberni-Clayoquot Regional District announced in 2017 that it was studying the feasibility of public transit connecting Tofino and Ucluelet. Feasibility studies concluded in November 2019, with approval from the ACRD provided in late December 2019. BC Transit began their first tests of the routes in February 2020.\n\nHandyDART is an accessible transit service in British Columbia that uses vans or small buses to transport disabled or elderly passengers who cannot use the normal transit system. This service provides door-to-door service and is available in all of the province's larger centres, as well as in many smaller communities. There are 16 custom accessible transit systems.\n\nBC Transit operates a limited intercity service with a hub in Prince George, serving as a replacement to connections lost when Greyhound left Western Canada. While it bears no BC Transit markings and, it receives a large subsidy for operation and its scheduling, routing, and organization is guided by BC Transit.\n\nBC Transit operates small interregional buses on infrequent schedules to primarily serve patients in rural areas needing access to urban centres, but makes the service available to all members of the public. The Health Connections network focuses on the Cariboo, Fraser Canyon, South Okanagan, Columbia and West Kootenays. These services, while scheduled, are not listed in standard riders guides as published by local agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849092", "title": "Early Cretaceous", "text": "Early Cretaceous\n\nThe Early Cretaceous (geochronological name) or the Lower Cretaceous (chronostratigraphic name), is the earlier or lower of the two major divisions of the Cretaceous. It is usually considered to stretch from 145 Ma to 100.5 Ma.\n\nProposals for the exact age of the Barremian-Aptian boundary ranged from 126 to 117 Ma until recently (as of 2019), but based on drillholes in Svalbard the defining early Aptian Oceanic Anoxic Event 1a (OAE1a) was carbon isotope dated to 123.1±0.3 Ma, limiting the possible range for the boundary to c. 121–122 Ma. There is a possible link between this anoxic event and a series of Early Cretaceous large igneous provinces (LIP).\n\nThe Ontong Java-Manihiki-Hikurangi large igneous province, emplaced in the South Pacific at c. 120 Ma, is by far the largest LIP in earth's history.\nThe Ontong Java Plateau today covers an area of 1,860,000 km². In the Indian Ocean another LIP began to form at c. 120 Ma, the Kerguelen Plateau-Broken Ridge together covering 2,300,000 km².\nAnother LIP on the Liaodong Peninsula, China,  131–117 Ma lasted for 10 million years. It was the result of the subduction of the Kula and Pacific plates, which was probably caused by a superplume.\n\nDuring the opening of the South Atlantic the Paraná–Etendeka LIP produced 1.5 million km³ of basalts and rhyolites per year beginning 133 Ma and lasting for a million years.\n\nThe opening of the Central Atlantic continued as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge spread north to separate the Iberian Peninsula from the banks of Newfoundland and connect to the Canada Basin in the Arctic Ocean. With the opening of the Labrador Sea Greenland became a separate tectonic plate and Laurentia became North America. The Proto-Caribbean Sea continued to grow and the Paraná-Etendeka LIP began to break Africa into three pieces. The Falkland Plateau broke-up from southern Africa at 132 Ma and Madagascar ceased to move independently c. 120 Ma. In the Panthalassic Ocean the Pacific Plate continued to grow; the Arctic Alaska-Chukotka terrane formed the Bering Strait. Continued rifting opened new basins in the Indian Ocean, separating India, Antarctica, and Australia.\n\nBy 110 Ma the Mid-Atlantic Ridge reached south into the Proto-Caribbean and South Atlantic, effectively separating South America from Africa, and continued rifting in the northern end completed the longitudinal extent of the Atlantic. In Panthalassa the Ontong-Java Mega-LIP resulted in the formation of new tectonic plates and in the Indian Ocean the Kerguelen LIP began to push India northward.\n\nDuring this time many new types of dinosaur appeared or came into prominence, including ceratopsians, spinosaurids, carcharodontosaurids and coelurosaurs, while survivors from the Late Jurassic continued to persist.\n\nAngiosperms (flowering plants) appeared for the first time during the Early Cretaceous; Archaefructaceae, the oldest (124.6 Ma) was found in the Yixian Formation, China.\n\nThis time also saw the evolution of the first members of the Neornithes (modern birds).\n\n\"Sinodelphys\", a 125 Ma-old boreosphenidan mammal found in the Yixian Formation, China, is one of the oldest mammal fossils found. The fossil location indicates early mammals began to diversify from Asia during the Early Cretaceous. Sinodelphys was more closely related to metatherians (marsupials) than eutherians (placentals) and had feet adapted from climbing trees.\n\"Steropodon\" is the oldest monotreme (egg-lying mammal) discovered. It lived in Gondwana (now Australia) at 105 Ma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849096", "title": "Cantley, Quebec", "text": "Cantley, Quebec\n\nCantley is a rural municipality in Quebec, Canada, north of the city of Gatineau, east of the Gatineau River, located within Canada's National Capital Region approximately from Parliament Hill. Its roots are in farmland, but recent housing projects since its creation in 1989 have resulted in a high rate of population growth. The population at the 2016 Canadian Census was 10,699, an increase of 8.2% from the 2011 population of 9,888. French is the first language of 86.7% of Cantley's residents.\n\nThe town of Cantley was founded in the 1830s by Colonel Cantley, a subordinate of Colonel John By during the period that included the birth of the city of Bytown (now Ottawa). During this time, Colonel Cantley went north and set foot in land several kilometres from Bytown where he remained until his death. In the 1850s, the area started to develop with the construction of its post office in honour of Cantley and a mass arrival of Irish descendants. Education started to play a role in the same period when a Roman Catholic chapel and school were built as a result of the increasing number of residents in the area. Another school was built on a farmer's land in 1858.\n\nIn 1925, two hydroelectric dams were constructed along the Gatineau River, making them the biggest economic and industrial project of the town's history. These are now known today as the Chelsea and Rapides-Farmers Hydroelectric Stations (Centrale Chelsea and Centrale Rapides-Farmers). The latter station is now within the city of Gatineau limits.\n\nThe Mont Cascades resort opened in 1976 and represents a major part of the town's recreational and touristic assets.\n\nPreviously, Cantley was a rural village within Touraine, previously Hull-Est, until the merger that created the original city of Gatineau in 1975. This move proved highly unpopular with Cantley's rural residents who worked to petition the provincial government to recreate an independent municipality. In 1989, Cantley became an independent rural community.\n\nCantley is also the home of the Gatineau Landsat satellite tracking station for Natural Resources Canada.\n\nMother tongue:\n\nCantley is governed by a seven member council consisting of six councillors, each representing a district, and the mayor. The districts and current councillors are as follows:\n\nCantley's main artery is Route 307 also known as Montée de la Source (formerly known as la rue Principale) which is the extension of Rue Saint-Louis in Gatineau. Major collector roads include Chemin du Mont-Cascades, Chemin Ste-Élisabeth, Montée des Érables and Montée St-Amour. Most of the roads in the town connect to Route 307 and most of them are dead-ends. There are very few that connect to secondary roads.\n\nBeginning June 15, 2015, Transcollines provides public transportation services in Cantley. Routes 931 and 933 replace the previous Société de transport de l'Outaouais (STO) routes 15 and 16, providing weekday service between Cantley and the De La Gappe Rapibus station with connections to Ottawa and the Hull and Gatineau sectors of Gatineau. Route 934 provides reverse service during peak periods. Route 935 provides peak period service between Cantley's eastern sector and the STO De La Cité Rapibus station. Route 936 provides morning and afternoon connector service between the Mont Cascades sector and the Hogan Park and Ride lot. Route 946 provides peak period service between Poltimore and Cantley, connecting to service to Gatineau. Route 960 provides midday service between Cantley and La Peche, via Gatineau (Rapibus stations De La Gappe and Les Galeries de Hull). Park and Ride lots are available on rue Hogan (at Montée de la Source), at the Town Hall (rue River), on rue Mont-Joel (at rue Marsolais), rue Denis (at Parc Denis) and at the Mont Cascades ski resort.\n\nChemin du Mont-Cascades gives access to the Mont Cascades Ski Resort and Waterpark, as well as the Mont Cascades Golf Club. The waterpark is the largest in the Outaouais region while the Ski Resort offers 20 ski trails. Cantley is also home to Nakkertok, the largest cross country ski club in the National Capital Region. Cantley is centrally located with easy access to many recreational activities within the National Capital Region. These include the Gatineau Park, ski resorts such as Sommet Edelweiss (Edelweiss Valley) and Vorlage in La Pêche (Wakefield), Camp Fortune in Chelsea and Mont Ste-Marie in Lac Ste-Marie.\n\nThe Commission Scolaire des Draveurs has three French-language primary schools in Cantley: École Sainte-Élisabeth, École de la Rose-des-Vents, and École de l'Orée-des-Bois.\n\nEnglish language education is provided by the Western Québec School Board. Students attend school in neighbouring communities, such as Chelsea, since there are no English-language schools in Cantley.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007 controversy arose concerning a dry materials dump located in the northern end of the town. Nearby residents complained about toxic pollutants generated by the dump that caused effects on their health. Many residents and mayor Steve Harris firmly requested the closure of the dump. In late 2005, a fire broke out underneath the material for several weeks and caused an evacuation from the nearby residents The fire was initially thought to be caused by combustible fuel, but according to the owners of the dump, a criminal act may have been involved.\n\nSeveral lawsuits were planned by residents against the owner and on July 11, 2006, the town went to court against the dump for a compensation of over $55,000 for the fire and cover costs for the evacuation process and firefighters salary Tensions rose once more when the owner, Gilles Proulx, launched a $750,000 lawsuit against a local couple. Proulx claimed that the couple had made comments against his reputation.\n\nThe Quebec Ministry of Environment forced the owners to adopt measures to reduce the amount of toxic pollutants and gave them several delays to comply. About a year later, it received a second warning and was giving another 10-day notice to meet the Ministry's standards or it would be forced to shut down its operations.\n\nOn September 21, 2006, the Minister Claude Béchard ordered its closure but as the owners challenged the decision to court, it was re-opened occasionally. The site is currently not in operation as the case is still under study by a provincial court, but the Tribunal administratif du Québec supported in October 2007 the Minister's decision. An appeal to that decision did not lead to changes, and the landfill operator further appealed to the Quebec Superior Court, to no avail.\n\nDue to its closure, it created a significant waste problem across the region as only one landfill site remains in operation in Val-des-Monts. Many businesses are forced to travel longer for waste disposals while costs skyrocketed. In some occasions, various materials were dumped in many fields and lands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849103", "title": "List of Washington railroads", "text": "List of Washington railroads\n\nThe following railroads operate in the U.S. state of Washington.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849120", "title": "Four, Isère", "text": "Four, Isère\n\nFour is a commune in the Isère department in southeastern France.\n\nFour is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849129", "title": "Battle of Grijó", "text": "Battle of Grijó\n\nThe Battle of Grijó () (10–11 May 1809) was a battle that ended in victory for the Anglo-Portuguese Army commanded by Sir Arthur Wellesley (the future 1st Duke of Wellington) over the French army commanded by Marshal Nicolas Soult during the second French invasion of Portugal in the Peninsular War. The next day, Wellesley drove Soult from Porto in the Second Battle of Porto.\n\nIn \"The History of the Rifle Brigade\", Willoughby Verner describes how the \"ad hoc\" 1st Battalion of Detachments, made from soldiers and officers of multiple regiments who had become stranded with the evacuation of Coruna, fought for the first time near the village of Grijó (Vila Nova de Gaia):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849134", "title": "List of Xbox 360 games", "text": "List of Xbox 360 games\n\nThis is a list of Xbox 360 games that were released via retail disc, digital download or as part of the Xbox Live Arcade (XBLA) program. There are 2086 games on both parts of this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849135", "title": "Fell pony", "text": "Fell pony\n\nThe Fell Pony is a versatile, working breed of mountain and moorland pony originating in the north of England in Cumberland and Westmorland (now Cumbria) and Northumberland. It was originally bred on the fell farms of northwest England, and is used as a riding and driving pony. The breed is closely related to its geographic neighbour, the Dales Pony, but is a little smaller and more pony-like in build. The Fell Pony is noted for hardiness, agility, strength, and sure-footedness.\n\nFell Ponies vary a good deal in weight and size, so ponies may be found to carry almost any rider. The average height of the breed is , and the upper height limit for the breed is . The breed was bred for the unforgiving mountainous environment of Cumbria in north-west England, so they are adaptable to almost any temperate climate.\n\nThe colours accepted in the breed are black, brown, bay, grey. Chestnuts, piebalds, and skewbalds are not allowed. A star on the head and/or a small amount of white on or below the hind fetlock is acceptable. However, excess white markings are discouraged.\n\nThe Fell Pony should be hardy and show good pony characteristics, including strong, flat bone. It should exhibit intelligence and self-preservation considered common to British mountain and moorland pony breeds, and at the same time, have a lively and alert attitude. The breed generally has a steady temperament.\n\nThe Fell Pony has the regular gaits, noted for correct movement and is considered sure-footed in rough terrain.\n\nFell Ponies are reliable jumpers and agile, which makes them useful for cross-country riding or hunting. Most animals of the breed lack the scope to make top-class jumping ponies, but Fells generally are well up to local show or Pony Club event standards.\n\nThe Fell Pony shares its origins with the now-extinct Galloway Pony, which was also the root of the Dales Pony. It is believed to have originated on the border between England and Scotland, quite probably antedating Roman times. The Fell Pony Society makes no claims about any input from imported Roman war stallions being crossed with these ponies.\n\nIn the early stud books, 50% of ponies were brown in colour, though over the last few decades, black has become predominant, followed by brown, bay, and grey.\n\nThey are primarily a working breed of pony with activity, stamina, hardiness, and intelligence that enables them to live and thrive in tough conditions out on the fells in the Lake District.\n\nThe Fell Pony was originally used as a packhorse, carrying slate and lead, copper, and iron ores. They were also used for light agriculture and the transportation of bulky farm goods such as wool. With their sturdy bodies, strong legs, and equable disposition, and being good, fast walkers, they would travel up to a week. They were favoured by the Vikings as packhorses, as well as for ploughing, riding, and pulling sledges. Their use as pack ponies continued into the 20th century, when they were also used in pack-pony trains and by postal services. Some Fells were famed in the north as fast trotters. Tales are told of distances covered at great speeds by these ponies.\n\nFells at the present are being used for pleasure riding and competitive uses, pack-work, trekking, and shepherding. The Fell Pony can be seen in the horse show world, seen in in hand, under saddle, and working hunter pony classes. They also do well in driving and endurance riding. They are very suitable for riding and driving for persons with disabilities.\n\nA Fell Pony can be used as an all-round family pony. It is capable of carrying both children or adults, and versatile enough to fulfill a variety of jobs otherwise carried out by two or three more specialised animals. The rise of carriage driving as a recreational activity has provided the Fell a renewed job, which it traditionally performed for centuries. A few Fell Ponies are still used in Scotland carrying the stags and grouse panniers down from the moors. Some of the ponies of Queen Elizabeth II are sometimes used for this purpose at Balmoral, while others are used for both riding and driving by the royal family. Fell Ponies have recently been used to carry equipment into the hills for repair of footpaths in the Lake District and they are increasingly being used for British Dressage \"Team Quest\" competitions (FPS Magazine, Spring 2016, p61) \n\nThe Fell Pony Committee resolved to become a society in 1916, \"to keep pure the old breed of pony that has roamed the northern hills for years\". However, with the end of World War I, the resolution became reality. In 1922, the society restructured itself on \"more liberal lines\" to attract more members to the support of the Fell Pony. Nonetheless, the breed's numbers decreased considerably, until 1945, when a breeding \"stallion enclosure\" program and a grading-up system were started. The program was discontinued in 1970. In the affluent 1950s, riding for pleasure began to gain popularity, securing the future of many British native breeds. The number of ponies being registered with the Fell Pony Society has risen gradually.\n\nAll Fell Ponies are registered through the society, with an annual stud book published each year. The society's patron is Queen Elizabeth II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849137", "title": "Mobile phone tracking", "text": "Mobile phone tracking\n\nMobile phone tracking is a process for identifying the location of a mobile phone, whether stationary or moving. Localization may be effected by a number of technologies, such as using multilateration of radio signals between (several) cell towers of the network and the phone, or simply using GPS. To locate a mobile phone using multilateration of radio signals, it must emit at least the idle signal to contact the next nearby antenna tower, but the process does not require an active call. The Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) is based on the phone's signal strength to nearby antenna masts.\n\nMobile positioning may include location-based services that disclose the actual coordinates of a mobile phone, which is a technology used by telecommunication companies to approximate the location of a mobile phone, and thereby also its user.\n\nThe location of a mobile phone can be determined in a number of ways.\n\nThe location of a mobile phone can be determined using the service provider's network infrastructure. The advantage of network-based techniques, from a service provider's point of view, is that they can be implemented non-intrusively without affecting handsets. Network-based techniques were developed many years prior to the widespread availability of GPS on handsets. (See for one of the first works relating to this.)\n\nThe technology of locating is based on measuring power levels and antenna patterns and uses the concept that a powered mobile phone always communicates wirelessly with one of the closest base stations, so knowledge of the location of the base station implies the cell phone is nearby.\n\nAdvanced systems determine the sector in which the mobile phone is located and roughly estimate also the distance to the base station. Further approximation can be done by interpolating signals between adjacent antenna towers. Qualified services may achieve a precision of down to 50 meters in urban areas where mobile traffic and density of antenna towers (base stations) is sufficiently high. Rural and desolate areas may see miles between base stations and therefore determine locations less precisely.\n\nGSM localization uses multilateration to determine the location of GSM mobile phones, or dedicated trackers, usually with the intent to locate the user.\n\nThe accuracy of network-based techniques varies, with cell identification as the least accurate (due to differential signals transposing between towers, otherwise known as \"bouncing signals\") and triangulation as moderately accurate, and newer \"advanced forward link trilateration\" timing methods as the most accurate. The accuracy of network-based techniques is both dependent on the concentration of cell base stations, with urban environments achieving the highest possible accuracy because of the higher number of cell towers, and the implementation of the most current timing methods.\n\nOne of the key challenges of network-based techniques is the requirement to work closely with the service provider, as it entails the installation of hardware and software within the operator's infrastructure. Frequently the compulsion associated with a legislative framework, such as Enhanced 9-1-1, is required before a service provider will deploy a solution.\n\nThe location of a mobile phone can be determined using client software installed on the handset. This technique determines the location of the handset by putting its location by cell identification, signal strengths of the home and neighboring cells, which is continuously sent to the carrier. In addition, if the handset is also equipped with GPS then significantly more precise location information can be then sent from the handset to the carrier.\n\nAnother approach is to use a fingerprinting-based technique, where the \"signature\" of the home and neighboring cells signal strengths at different points in the area of interest is recorded by war-driving and matched in real-time to determine the handset location. This is usually performed independent from the carrier.\n\nThe key disadvantage of handset-based techniques, from service provider's point of view, is the necessity of installing software on the handset. It requires the active cooperation of the mobile subscriber as well as software that must be able to handle the different operating systems of the handsets. Typically, smartphones, such as one based on Symbian, Windows Mobile, Windows Phone, BlackBerry OS, iOS, or Android, would be able to run such software, e.g. Google Maps.\n\nOne proposed work-around is the installation of embedded hardware or software on the handset by the manufacturers, e.g., Enhanced Observed Time Difference (E-OTD). This avenue has not made significant headway, due to the difficulty of convincing different manufacturers to cooperate on a common mechanism and to address the cost issue. Another difficulty would be to address the issue of foreign handsets that are roaming in the network.\n\nUsing the subscriber identity module (SIM) in GSM and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) handsets, it is possible to obtain raw radio measurements from the handset. Available measurements include the serving Cell ID, round-trip time, and signal strength. The type of information obtained via the SIM can differ from that which is available from the handset. For example, it may not be possible to obtain any raw measurements from the handset directly, yet still obtain measurements via the SIM.\n\nCrowdsourced Wi-Fi data can also be used to identify a handset's location. The poor performance of the GPS-based methods in indoor environment and the increasing popularity of Wi-Fi have encouraged companies to design new and feasible methods to carry out Wi-Fi-based indoor positioning. Most smartphones combine Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), such as GPS and GLONASS, with Wi-Fi positioning systems.\n\nHybrid positioning systems use a combination of network-based and handset-based technologies for location determination. One example would be some modes of Assisted GPS, which can both use GPS and network information to compute the location. Both types of data are thus used by the telephone to make the location more accurate (i.e., A-GPS). Alternatively tracking with both systems can also occur by having the phone attain its GPS-location directly from the satellites, and then having the information sent via the network to the person that is trying to locate the telephone. Such systems include Google Maps, as well as, LTE's OTDOA and E-CellID.\n\nThere are also hybrid positioning systems which combine several different location approaches to position mobile devices by Wi-Fi, WiMAX, GSM, LTE, IP addresses, and network environment data.\n\nIn order to route calls to a phone, the cell towers listen for a signal sent from the phone and negotiate which tower is best able to communicate with the phone. As the phone changes location, the antenna towers monitor the signal, and the phone is \"roamed\" to an adjacent tower as appropriate. By comparing the relative signal strength from multiple antenna towers, a general location of a phone can be roughly determined. Other means make use of the antenna pattern, which supports angular determination and phase discrimination.\n\nNewer phones may also allow the tracking of the phone even when turned on and not active in a telephone call. This results from the roaming procedures that perform hand-over of the phone from one base station to another.\n\nA phone's location can be shared with friends and family, posted to a public website, recorded locally, or shared with other users of a smartphone app. The inclusion of GPS receivers on smartphones has made geographical apps nearly ubiquitous on these devices. Specific applications include:\n\nIn January 2019, the location of her iPhone as determined by her sister helped Boston police find kidnapping victim Olivia Ambrose.\n\nLocating or positioning touches upon delicate privacy issues, since it enables someone to check where a person is without the person's consent. Strict ethics and security measures are strongly recommended for services that employ positioning.\nIn 2012 Malte Spitz held a TED talk on the issue of mobile phone privacy in which he showcased his own stored data that he received from Deutsche Telekom after suing the company. He described the data, which consists of 35,830 lines of data collected during the span of Germany's data retention at the time, saying, \"This is six months of my life [...] You can see where I am, when I sleep at night, what I'm doing.\" He partnered up with ZEIT Online and made his information publicly available in an interactive map which allows users to watch his entire movements during that time in fast-forward. Spitz concluded that technology consumers are the key to challenging privacy norms in today's society who \"have to fight for self determination in the digital age.\"\n\nChinese government has proposed using this technology to track commuting patterns of Beijing city residents. Aggregate presence of mobile phone users could be tracked in a privacy-preserving fashion.\n\nIn Europe most countries have a constitutional guarantee on the secrecy of correspondence, and location data obtained from mobile phone networks is usually given the same protection as the communication itself.\n\nIn the United States, there is a limited constitutional guarantee on the privacy of telecommunications through the Fourth Amendment. The use of location data is further limited by statutory, administrative, and case law. Police access of seven days of a citizen's location data is unquestionably enough to be a fourth amendment search requiring both probable cause and a warrant.\n\nIn November 2017, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Carpenter v. United States\" that the government violates the Fourth Amendment by accessing historical records containing the physical locations of cellphones without a search warrant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849140", "title": "List of tallest structures built before the 20th century", "text": "List of tallest structures built before the 20th century\n\nList of pre-twentieth century structures by height\n\n"}
{"id": "1849146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849146", "title": "Age of Bronze (comics)", "text": "Age of Bronze (comics)\n\nAge of Bronze is an American comics series by writer/artist Eric Shanower retelling the legend of the Trojan War. It began in 1998 and is published by Image Comics.\n\nThe series aims to be true to all literary traditions, from Homer's \"Iliad\" to Shakespeare's \"Troilus and Cressida\", as well as to the archaeology of the Bronze Age Aegean. When complete it is projected to comprise seven volumes.\n\n34 issues, four trade paperback collections and two specials have been published as of 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter a six year hiatus issue 34 was published in 2019, the first to be in color. Individual issues will henceforth be solely digital except a handful printed to fulfill existing print subscriptions. No further print subscriptions will be accepted. Book collections are being reissued in color. Plans are to publish two issues a year.\n\nShanower won the Eisner Award for best writer/artist in 2001 and 2003, and was nominated for the Ignatz Award for outstanding artist in 1999, for his work on \"Age of Bronze.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1849148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849148", "title": "Hinge and Bracket", "text": "Hinge and Bracket\n\nDr Evadne Hinge and Dame Hilda Bracket were the stage names of George Logan and Patrick Fyffe respectively. The characters of Hinge (somewhat brittle and acerbic) and Bracket (more flamboyant) were elderly intellectual female musicians; in these personae the male Logan and Fyffe played and sang songs to comic effect. They made many appearances on television and radio. The two generally performed together, but on rare occasions appeared separately. Logan retired the character of Dr Hinge after Fyffe died in 2002, but returned her to the stage for a comic opera \"The Dowager's Oyster\" in 2016.\n\nA genteel English inter-war world was recalled via the act. Their work was frequently decorated with double entendres. The ladies shared a house (The Old Manse or Utopia Ltd) in the fictional village of Stackton Tressel in Suffolk, where they employed the services of an eccentric housekeeper, Maud, played in the radio series by English character actress Daphne Heard. Hinge and Bracket spent two years in the 1970s performing in London pubs and clubs. This included the Royal Vauxhall Tavern (a popular gay venue), and the Kensington restaurant AD8, owned by Desmond Morgan and April Ashley.\n\nHinge and Bracket appeared in 1974 at the Edinburgh Festival. They toured for several years before appearing on the BBC Radio 4 series \"The Enchanting World of Hinge and Bracket\", which ran from 1977 to 1979. Their TV show \"Dear Ladies\" was shown on BBC Two from 1983 to 1985. In 1983, they appeared in a televised Royal Opera House production of the opera \"Die Fledermaus\". \"The Random Jottings of Hinge and Bracket\" ran on BBC Radio 2 from 1982 to 1989 and \"At Home with Hinge and Bracket\" ran for a single series in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849152", "title": "Creative work", "text": "Creative work\n\nA creative work is a manifestation of creative effort including fine artwork (sculpture, paintings, drawing, sketching, performance art), dance, writing (literature), filmmaking, and composition.\n\nCreative works require a creative mindset and are not typically rendered in an arbitrary fashion although some works demonstrate [have in common] a degree of arbitrariness, such that it is improbable that two people would independently create the same work. At its base, creative work involves two main steps—having an idea, and then turning that idea into a substantive form or process. The creative process can involve one or more individuals. Based upon technological advances as well as artificial intelligence there is the possibility that creative works can be created without human intervention - thereby removing the step of \"having an idea\". Typically the creative process has some aesthetic value which is identified as a creative expression which itself generally invokes an external stimuli which a person views as creative.\nThe term is frequently used in the context of copyright.\n\nFor the purpose of section 221(2)(c) of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005, the expression \"creative works\" means:\n"}
{"id": "1849161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849161", "title": "Kōsa", "text": "Kōsa\n\n, also known as Hongan-ji Kennyo (本願寺 顕如), was the 11th head of the Hongan-ji in Kyoto, and Chief Abbot of Ishiyama Hongan-ji, cathedral fortress of the Ikkō-ikki (Buddhist warrior monks and peasants who opposed samurai rule), during its siege at the end of the Sengoku period. He engineered many alliances, and organized the defenses of the cathedral to the point that most at the time considered Ishiyama Hongan-ji to be unbreachable.\nIn 1570, Takeda Shingen, a relative of Kōsa through marriage, faced not one but three major rivals: Oda Nobunaga, Tokugawa Ieyasu, and Uesugi Kenshin. He asked the Abbot for aid, and Kōsa persuaded the Ikkō sectarians (also called \"monto\") in Kaga Province to rise up against Uesugi Kenshin. Several years later, after the death of Takeda Shingen, Kōsa secured the aid of the Mōri clan in fighting Oda Nobunaga and defending the Hongan-ji's supply lines from blockade.\n\nOda Nobunaga's Siege of Ishiyama Hongan-ji began in 1570, and would be the longest siege in Japanese history. In accordance with Kōsa's strategic organization of the defenses and alliances, the fortress was all but impervious to attack, and the Mōri clan fleet defended the supply lines for some time. Kōsa (and the Mōri) requested aid from both Takeda Katsuyori (son of Shingen) and Uesugi Kenshin, as well as the Ikkō armies of other provinces, to attack Nobunaga, relieving the siege. But neither Takeda nor Uesugi answered his call. When Nobunaga attacked the fortress with 3,000 troops, the monks answered with 15,000; Nobunaga then turned to attacking Kōsa's allies, the Asakura, Uesugi, and Azai clans as well as other outposts of Ikkō-ikki monks. The Abbot wrote a desperate letter to Ikko followers in Musashi and Sagami Provinces, asking them to stand fast, and to send supplies and reinforcements. The fortress' supplies were nearly exhausted, and their outposts were nearly all destroyed by 1580. Nobunaga ordered the Abbot to evacuate the fortress, and to leave Osaka. Kōsa deliberated with his allies, particularly the Mōri, and then left for Kii Province, hoping to raise reinforcements. He left his son in charge of the fortress, who surrendered after an Imperial Messenger arrived with an official request from the Emperor that he do so. The fortress mysteriously burned down after the monks left it. \nDespite this incredible defeat, Kōsa remained devoted to the Ikko sect, and to the idea of regaining a central cathedral fortress for the sect. He began to enlist the help of Ikko sectarians to aid Toyotomi Hideyoshi, in order to gain Hideyoshi's favor. In 1583, Kōsa sent Ikko warriors to harass Hideyoshi's enemy Shibata Katsuie, and in 1587 he sent messengers to Kyushu, asking Ikko leaders there to act as guides for Hideyoshi's army in Satsuma Province. In 1589, Hideyoshi granted Kōsa his wish for a new Hongan-ji. The site was the shrine to the patriarch Shinran, in Kyoto; it was moved in 1591, and is now known as the Nishi Hongan-ji.\n\nIn fiction, Kōsa usually appears with the name Honganji Kennyo. Kennyo appears as a non-playable character in Koei's video games \"Samurai Warriors\", \"Kessen III\" and \"Mōri Motonari: Chikai no Sanshi\", and as a playable character in Capcom's \"Sengoku Basara 2\", where he is depicted as an obese, greedy leader of a religious sect. \n\nKennyo is also a character in Ikémen Sengoku, a dating simulator otome game released by Cybird in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849162", "title": "Lois Gibbs", "text": "Lois Gibbs\n\nLois Marie Gibbs (born June 25, 1951) is an American environmental activist. A primary organizer of the Love Canal Homeowners Association, Lois Gibbs brought public attention to the environmental crisis in Love Canal. Her actions resulted in the evacuation of over 800 families. She founded the non-profit, Clearinghouse for Hazardous Waste in 1981, to help train and support local activists with their environmental work. She continues to work with the organization, renamed the Center for Health, Environment, and Justice (CHEJ).\n\nGibbs's involvement in environmental causes began in 1978 when she discovered that her 5-year-old son's elementary school in Niagara Falls, New York was built on a toxic waste dump. The complete story was reported on and discovered by Niagara Gazette reporter Michael H. Brown as well as Calspan, a private research group who discovered the chemical leak at Love Canal. Subsequent investigation revealed that her entire neighborhood, Love Canal, had been built on top of this dump. With no prior experience in community activism, Gibbs organized her neighbors and formed the Love Canal Homeowners Association. Gibbs created a petition and reached out to the residents of her neighborhood by going door-to-door to gather support. Gibbs' efforts centered her role as a mother fighting to protect her children's health. She led her community in a battle against the local, state, and federal governments by presenting the signatures to the New York State Department of Health. After years of struggle, 833 families were eventually evacuated, and cleanup of Love Canal began. National press coverage made Lois Gibbs a household name. In addition, president Jimmy Carter mentioned Gibbs as the key grassroots leader in the Love Canal movement during 1980. \nHer efforts also led to the creation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or Superfund, which is used to locate and clean up toxic waste sites throughout the United States.\n\nIn 1980, Gibbs formed the Citizens' Clearinghouse for Hazardous Waste, later renamed the Center for Health, Environment and Justice (CHEJ) in 1998, where she currently serves as Executive Director. CHEJ is a grassroots environmental crisis center that provides information, resources, technical assistance and training to community groups around the nation. CHEJ seeks to form strong local organizations in order to protect neighborhoods from exposure to hazardous wastes.\n\nGibbs has authored several books about the Love Canal story and the effects of toxic waste. The earlier and most quoted is Love Canal. My story, written with Murray Levine and published in 1982. Her story was dramatized in the 1982 made-for-TV movie \"Lois Gibbs: the Love Canal Story\", in which she was played by Marsha Mason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849179", "title": "List of horse racing venues", "text": "List of horse racing venues\n\nThis is a list of currently active horse racing venues (Thoroughbred racing and harness racing), sorted by country. In most English-speaking countries they are called \"racecourses\"; the United States and some parts of Canada use \"racetracks\" (some parts of Canada also use \"raceway\"). In many non-English speaking countries the term used is \"hippodrome\".\n\n\n\nThere are over 360 registered racecourses in Australia where Thoroughbred racing takes place during about 3,050 race meetings. There are also a number of separate harness racing tracks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther racetracks exist in Recife (PE), Pelotas (RS), Goiânia, (GO), Sao Vicente (SP), and Campos dos Goytacazes (RJ).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHalf of European horse racing venues are in France (with more than 250 current operating hippodromes).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe United Kingdom does not have a country-wide organising body for horseracing. The remit of the British Horseracing Authority does not extend to the island of Ireland; as a result, the two tracks in Northern Ireland are under the jurisdiction of Horse Racing Ireland.\n\nYork Harness Raceway\n\n\nCorbiewood, Bannockburn\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHorse racing in Ireland is organised on an All-Ireland basis by Horse Racing Ireland.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland:\n\nIn Northern Ireland:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849180", "title": "Stanisław Lubomirski (d. 1585)", "text": "Stanisław Lubomirski (d. 1585)\n\nStanisław Lubomirski (died 1585) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic) and owner of the Sławkowice and Zabłocie estates.\n\nHe had two consorts, Laura de Effremis and Barbara Hruszowska. He had three children with Hruszowska: Sebastian Lubomirski, Katarzyna Lubomirska, Anna Lubomirska.\n"}
{"id": "1849181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849181", "title": "Rabbit's foot", "text": "Rabbit's foot\n\nIn some cultures, the foot of a rabbit is carried as an amulet believed to bring good luck. This belief is held by individuals in a great number of places around the world, including Europe, China, Africa, and North and South America. In variations of this superstition, the donor rabbit must possess certain attributes, such as having been killed in a particular place, using a particular method, or by a person possessing particular attributes (e.g., by a cross-eyed man).\n\nIt has been suggested by Benjamin Radford that the rabbit’s foot could be connected to a European good luck charm called the Hand of Glory, a hand cut from a hanged man and then pickled. \n\nHumorist R. E. Shay is credited with the witticism, \"Depend on the rabbit's foot if you will, but remember it didn't work for the rabbit.\"\n\nThe belief in North American folklore may originate in the system of folk magic known as \"hoodoo\". A number of strictures attached to the charm are now observed mostly in the breach, namely that it must be the left hind foot of a rabbit which was shot or otherwise captured in a cemetery. Some sources tell that the rabbit must be taken by the full moon, and others specifying the new moon. Some say instead that the rabbit must be taken on a Friday, or a rainy Friday, or Friday the 13th. Some sources say that the rabbit should be shot with a silver bullet, while others say that the foot must be cut off while the rabbit is still alive.\n\nThe various rituals suggested by the sources, though they differ widely one from another, share a common element of the uncanny, and the reverse of what is considered good-omened and auspicious. A rabbit is an animal into which shapeshifting witches such as Isobel Gowdie claimed to be able to transform themselves. Witches were said to be active at the times of the full and new moons.\nThese widely varying circumstances may share a common thread of suggestion that the true lucky rabbit's foot is actually cut from a shapeshifted witch. The suggestion that the rabbit's foot is a substitute for a part from a witch's body is corroborated by other folklore from hoodoo. Willie Dixon's song \"Hoochie Coochie Man\" mentions a \"black cat bone\" along with his mojo and his John the Conqueror: all are artifacts in hoodoo magic. Given the traditional association between black cats and witchcraft, a black cat bone is also potentially a substitute for a human bone from a witch. Hoodoo lore also uses graveyard dust, soil from a cemetery, for various magical purposes. Dust from a good person's grave keeps away evil; dust from a sinner's grave is used for more nefarious magic. The use of graveyard dust may also be a symbolic appropriation of the parts of a corpse as a relic, and a form of sympathetic magic.\n\nRabbit's feet were also considered lucky because of their association with the dead body of a criminal. According to Newbell Niles Puckett, a 20th century folklorist, “the more wicked the person who is dead, the more effective the charm associated with his remains.\" Puckett observed that during the 1884 election campaign of Grover Cleveland, he was said to have received the foot of a rabbit that had been killed on the grave of Jesse James, the American outlaw.\n\nIn any case, the rabbit's foot is dried out and preserved, and carried around by gamblers and other people who believe it will bring them luck. Rabbit's feet, either authentic or imitation, are frequently sold by curio shops and vending machines. Often, these rabbit's feet have been dyed various colors, and they are often turned into keychains. Few of these rabbit's feet carry any warranty concerning their provenance, or any evidence that the preparers have made any effort to comply with the rituals required by the original tradition. Some may be confected from fake fur and latex \"bones\". President Theodore Roosevelt wrote in his autobiography that he had been given a gold-mounted rabbit's foot by John L. Sullivan, as well as a penholder made by Bob Fitzsimmons out of a horseshoe. A 1905 anecdote also tells that Booker T. Washington and Baron Ladislaus Hengelmuller, the ambassador from Austria, got their overcoats confused when they were both in the White House to speak with President Roosevelt; the ambassador noticed that the coat he had taken was not his when he went to the pockets searching for his gloves, and instead found \"the left hind foot of a graveyard rabbit, killed in the dark of the moon.\" Other newspaper stories reported the incident, but omitted the detail about the rabbit's foot.\n\nIn addition to being mentioned in blues lyrics, the rabbit's foot is mentioned in the American folk song \"There'll Be a Hot Time in the Old Town Tonight\", once popular in minstrel shows; one line goes: \"And you've got a rabbit's foot To keep away de hoo-doo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1849183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849183", "title": "Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities", "text": "Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities\n\nThe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities (FCNM) is a multilateral treaty of the Council of Europe aimed at protecting the rights of minorities. It came into effect in 1998 and by 2009 it had been ratified by 39 member states.\n\nThe Council of Europe first discussed according specific protection for national minorities in 1949, but it was not until 1990 that the Council of Europe made a firm commitment to protect these minority groups. Recommendation 1134 (1990) contained a list of principles which the Assembly considered necessary for this purpose. The Parliamentary Assembly did in the beginning call for adoption of a protocol to the ECHR. The Framework was signed on February 1995 by 22 member States of the Council of Europe and became active in 1998. By mid-2005, 43 member states had signed and 39 ratified it.\n\nThe broad aims of the convention are to ensure that the signatory states respect the rights of national minorities, undertaking to combat discrimination, promote equality, preserve and develop the culture and identity of national minorities, guarantee certain freedoms in relation to access to the media, minority languages and education and encourage the participation of national minorities in public life. Article 25 of the Framework Convention binds the member states to submit a report to the Council of Europe containing \"full information on the legislative and other measures taken to give effect to the principles set out in this framework Convention\" (Council of Europe, 1994, 7).\n\nThe convention has come under some criticism. First of all, not all member states of the Council of Europe have signed and ratified it. France and Turkey have done neither. Iceland, Belgium, Luxembourg and Greece have signed and have yet to ratify. Also, the provisions offer little new on already existing international treaties. Furthermore, they are hedged around with many phrases including 'as far as possible' (Art 10.2). The convention does not define \"national minority\" and several countries set their own definition of the term when they ratified the treaty. For example, the United Kingdom ratified the convention on the understanding that it would be applied with reference to \"racial groups\" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of the Race Relations Act 1976. Since this excluded the Cornish people, this resulted in pressure, including from Cornwall Council, for the UK Government to recognise the Cornish as a national minority. In April 2014, it was announced by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Danny Alexander, that the UK Government would recognise the Cornish as a national minority under the FCNM.\n\nOverall however, Phillips (2002) has argued that because the FCNM is flexible it has allowed such a great number of states to ratify it so quickly. Therefore, it should not be considered a failure, but a start. Many authors agree with this arguing that it needs to be implemented in 'good faith' with the political will to support commitment to minority rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849184", "title": "Mike Caldwell (baseball)", "text": "Mike Caldwell (baseball)\n\nRalph Michael \"Mike\" Caldwell (born January 22, 1949) is an American former professional baseball left-handed pitcher. \n\nCaldwell was drafted in the 12th round of the 1971 amateur draft by the San Diego Padres after graduating from North Carolina State University, where he played college baseball for the Wolfpack. He made his major league debut on September 4, 1971 against the Atlanta Braves. In October 1973, the Padres traded Caldwell to the San Francisco Giants for Willie McCovey and Bernie Williams. Caldwell was traded again in 1976, this time to the St. Louis Cardinals with John D'Acquisto and Dave Rader for Willie Crawford, Vic Harris and John Curtis. Before the start of the 1977 season, Caldwell was traded for the third time, going to the Cincinnati Reds for Pat Darcy. After just 14 games, the Reds traded him to the Milwaukee Brewers for minor leaguers Dick O'Keefe and Garry Pyka.\n\nCaldwell had his best season in 1978 when he went 22–9 with a 2.36 ERA and led the AL in complete games with 23. Caldwell was named the AL Comeback Player of the Year by \"The Sporting News\" and finished second in the Cy Young Award balloting to Ron Guidry. Caldwell finished in double figures in victories for six consecutive seasons for the Brewers (1978–1983) and won two games in the 1982 World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals in a losing effort. Caldwell was given his unconditional release by the Brewers organization in 1985. Caldwell, as of 2019, is still the Brewers' all-time leader in wins by a left-handed pitcher, with 102.\n\nIn 1978, he was one of the three left-handed pitchers named \"Mike\" (the others being Mike Flanagan and Mike Willis) to hand the New York Yankees' Ron Guidry a loss in his 25–3 season. He and the Brewers shut out the New York Yankees and Guidry 6–0 on July 7, . During his prime years in Milwaukee, Caldwell was known as a \"Yankee killer\", and proved to be very successful against them. From 1977 to 1982, Caldwell was 12-5 with a 2.66 ERA against the Yankees.\n"}
{"id": "1849186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849186", "title": "Heroes of Might and Magic III: Armageddon's Blade", "text": "Heroes of Might and Magic III: Armageddon's Blade\n\nHeroes of Might and Magic III: Armageddon's Blade is the first of two expansion packs for the turn-based strategy game \"Heroes of Might and Magic III\". It was developed by New World Computing for Microsoft Windows and released by the 3DO Company in 1999.\n\nThe most significant change in \"Armageddon's Blade\" is the addition of the Conflux, bringing the total number of alignments in \"Heroes of Might and Magic III\" to nine. The town is themed around classical elements, and includes other creatures to round out the selection. Six new campaigns were included, one acting as a continuation of the base game's storyline, with the other five revolving around adventures taking place in the same fictional world. Over 35 single scenarios were also added.\n\nReturning as non-aligned units, several creature types from previous \"Heroes\" games make an appearance. These include Peasants, Boars, and Halflings. The expansion also introduced some new non-aligned creature types, such as the powerful Azure Dragon. Eleven new campaign heroes and two new artifacts – Armageddon's Blade and the Vial of Dragonblood – were introduced as well. Several new map objects, including special quest towers that only allow passage if the hero meets certain criteria defined by the author of the map, also appear here for the first time.\n\nA random map generator included with the expansion allows players to create random maps using a variety of customizable parameters. Finally, a standalone campaign editor packaged with the game allows for the composition of new campaigns from individual scenario maps.\n\nOnly one of the six new campaigns available in \"Armageddon's Blade\" directly concerns the main storyline. The events of \"Armageddon's Blade\" immediately follow the events of \"\". As the kingdom of Erathia struggles to rebuild following the Restoration Wars, the Kreegans of Eeofol launch a surprise invasion. Already war-weary, the forces of Queen Catherine are no match for the formidable Kreegan army.\n\nFollowing the death of the Kreegans' king, Xenofex, a usurper named Lucifer Kreegan takes control of Eeofol and, driven by a vision, begins to seek a means to fashion an ancient weapon known as Armageddon's Blade, capable of setting the world on fire. His general Xeron is tasked with locating the components for the Blade. To stop him, the armies of Erathia and AvLee launch an attack on Eeofol, receiving assistance from the very elements as they manifest in Conflux towns. Queen Catherine and the recently liberated King Roland are assisted by the mysterious elven warrior Gelu in the ensuing war. Xeron obtains the Blade, but is defeated by Gelu on his return to Eeofol. Gelu claims the Blade, and, at the behest of Queen Catherine, uses it to slay Lucifer Kreegan. Following this event, the Ironfists return to Enroth and the Blade is passed on to Gelu. The story is continued in \"Heroes Chronicles: The Sword of Frost\", eventually leading to a cataclysm that sets the stage for \"Heroes of Might and Magic IV\".\n\nIn the \"Armageddon's Blade\" campaign, the player takes command of Queen Catherine Ironfist, the main character of \"Heroes of Might and Magic III: The Restoration of Erathia\", as well as King Roland Ironfist, the protagonist of \"Heroes of Might and Magic II\". New characters introduced include Gelu, a half-elven archer, and Xeron, leader of the Kreegan armies. The five standalone campaigns feature a multitude of previously-unseen characters. \"Dragon Slayer\" features the Bracadan wizard, Dracon, while \"Festival of Life\" introduces the barbarian Kilgor who has a prominent role at the outset of \"Heroes of Might and Magic IV\". \"Dragon's Blood\" stars Mutare, a dungeon overlord who returns in \"Heroes Chronicles: Clash of the Dragons\" along with Adrienne, the protagonist of \"Playing with Fire\". Finally, the unlockable \"Foolhardy Waywardness\" campaign features the Knight, Sir Christian, who also returns in \"Heroes of Might and Magic IV\". As an aside, the epilogue of the \"Foolhardy Waywardness\" campaign explains the reason for Sir Christian's appearance as the player's starting hero in \"The Restoration of Erathia\"'s first campaign, \"Long Live the Queen\".\n\nWork on the \"Armageddon's Blade\" expansion began in early 1999. The developers originally intended to focus the storyline around a new, futuristic faction, the \"Forge\" alignment, allowing the game to act as a continuation to the \"evil\" ending of \"Might and Magic VII\" while showcasing the science fantasy aspect of the core \"Might and Magic\" series, which had never been evident in the \"Heroes of Might and Magic\" games. Although the Forge faction was almost completed and functional, some fans reacted negatively to its inclusion, believing that the inclusion of science-fiction destroyed the \"Heroes\" series' fantasy-based atmosphere.\n\nMidway through the expansion's development, New World Computing decided to scrap the Forge faction and removed all references to its existence from the game's storyline, instead building upon \"Might and Magic VII\"'s \"good\" ending. To replace the Forge, they invented an elemental-based faction Conflux. Due to the scrapping of the Forge halfway through the project, the developers and design artists suffered from a lack of time when completing the Conflux faction, and were forced to implement elemental creatures from the base game. This is evident if one takes a good look at the dwellings of the original four elementals within the Conflux town: they all use the same graphics as on the world map.\n\n\"Armageddon's Blade\" was hailed with strongly positive reviews upon release, from critics and users alike. IGN's Rich Rouse noted improvements made to the map editor and praised the amount of new content, while GameSpot's Andrew Seyoon Park focused on the addition of the Conflux alignment and subtle tweaks to the gameplay. Game Revolution's reviewer was mildly disappointed with the Conflux town and its use of neutral creatures already included in the base game, but praised the campaign storyline and gameplay along with the addition of new features. Some reviews were critical of the lack of drastic changes to the base game, while pointing out that the core mechanics were in no need of major improvements.\n\n\"Armageddon's Blade\" won \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\"s 1999 \"Add-on of the Year\" award. The editors wrote, \"\"Armageddon's Blade\" serves as a template for add-ons. It takes one of the better games of the year and makes it even better.\"\n"}
{"id": "1849187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849187", "title": "Wireless Festival", "text": "Wireless Festival\n\nThe Wireless Festival is a music festival that takes place every year in London, England. It is owned and managed by Live Nation. While it started as primarily a rock and pop festival, in recent years it has focused on hip-hop and other urban music. Headline acts since 2010 have included Jay-Z, Kanye West, Justin Timberlake, Rihanna, Bruno Mars, and Stormzy.\n\nFrom its inception in 2005 until 2008, the festival was sponsored by telecommunications company O, and was called the O Wireless Festival. From 2009 to 2012, the main sponsor was Barclaycard and the festival renamed to Barclaycard Wireless Festival. For 2013, the sponsor changed to Yahoo!, and was renamed to Yahoo! Wireless. Since 2015, the sponsor has been the fashion retailer New Look.\n\nAdjacent festivals were held in Leeds in 2006 and 2007, and Birmingham in 2014. In 2017, Live Nation also established Wireless Germany, in Frankfurt.\n\nThe first festival took place in June 2005 and was in Hyde Park only. Tickets were £35 a day. Some of the acts on the line-up were (headline acts in bold):\n\n\nIn 2006, the festival played in both Hyde Park and Harewood House. Tickets were £37.51 per day.\n\nThe Hyde Park festival ran from 21–25 June and on the bill were:\n\nThe Harewood House festival ran from 24–25 June and tickets were £32.50 for the first day and £37.50 for the second. It featured:\n\nTickets for both venues went on sale on 16 March 2007 and the festival took place between 14–17 June in Hyde Park, and 15–17 June at Harewood House. Tickets were £40 for one day, £75 for two, £105 for three or £135 for four days.\n\nThe acts for both Hyde Park and Harewood House were:\nThe acts which performed the extra date in Hyde Park were:\n\nFor the first time, the Leeds festival offered camping facilities at the festival. Campers were allowed to stay on Lord Harewood's land for £25 for as many festival days as they wished. There were 3 stages this year, and the O Blueroom where only O customers were allowed to enter.\n\nThe 2008 O Wireless Festival spanned 4 days in Hyde Park, and was the last to carry the O sponsorship. An attempt to hold a parallel festival in Leeds similar to the Reading and Leeds Festivals arrangement was unsuccessful, and instead a variety of club nights featuring billed artists were held. Tickets were £45 per day.\nThe line-up was as follows:\n\n\nThe 2009 festival was sponsored by Barclaycard and was cut from four to two days in Hyde Park. Tickets were £45 for one day or £80 for both. The line-up was as follows:\n\n\nThe 2010 Wireless Festival was increased to three days and took place from 2 July to 4 July 2010. Tickets were £47.50 for one day, £85 for two and £110 for three days. The line-up was as follows:\n\n\nThe Sunday date sold out in record time, three weeks before the festival.\n\nThe 2011 Wireless Festival was held from Friday 1 July to Sunday 3 July 2011. Tickets were £48.50 (Saturday/Sunday) or £49.50 (Friday) for one day, £92 for two and £130 for three days. The Black Eyed Peas headlined the Friday, The Chemical Brothers on the Saturday, and Pulp reformed after ten years to play the Sunday and other festivals in 2011. The Black Eyed Peas date had sold out by the end of June, while tickets for the other two days remained on sale until the festival.\n\nThe 2012 Wireless Festival was held from Friday 6 July to Sunday 8 July. Tickets went on general sale on 18 November 2011, priced at £49.50 (Friday/Saturday) and £52.50 (Sunday), plus booking fee. All tickets for the Rihanna day sold out by the end of March, a new record for the festival.\n\nThe acts which played were:\n\nThe 2013 event was moved to the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in Stratford after Live Nation pulled out of the tender for Hyde Park due to curfew issues. The festival was held from Friday 12 July to Sunday 14 July 2013, and tickets were priced at £57.50 for day tickets and £110 for two days, plus booking fees. The event was being sponsored by Yahoo!.\n\nThe line-up for the festival was:\n\nIn February 2014 it was confirmed that Wireless Festival 2014 would be held at Finsbury Park, London and Perry Park, Birmingham. The event was held over the weekend of 4–6 July 2014, on three stages. London day tickets were priced at £71.50 while Birmingham day tickets were priced at £68.75. Weekend tickets for London went on sale at £210 while Birmingham weekend tickets were set at £172. On 3 July, the day before the first day of the festival, it was widely reported that Drake had pulled out due to illness, (making it the second time he had pulled out of a Wireless Festival). This was confirmed on the festival's social media sites and organisers announced that Kanye West would play instead of Drake in London, and Rudimental (who had been the support for Drake) would headline the Saturday in Birmingham with a special extended set featuring very special guests. The organisers also offered those attending on Saturday in Birmingham £20 of \"Wireless Credit\" which was redeemable against any concessions, merchandise stands and funfair attractions at the event.\n\nLondon\nBirmingham\nOn 31 January 2015 it was confirmed that the festival would be held in Finsbury Park between 3 and 5 July. The lineup was confirmed via the festival's Twitter page, with confirmation that Drake would return to the festival following his cancellation in 2014. It was also revealed that David Guetta and Nicki Minaj would perform as co-headliners on the Sunday, and that Avicii and Kendrick Lamar would be co-headlining on Saturday. As it's the festival's tenth birthday, there will be a special 'birthday' event on Sunday 28 June.\nSince the lineup was announced, several artists have had to cancel their appearance. In early June, Big Sean removed the Wireless appearance from his tour's website and he no longer appeared on the Wireless website's lineup. Around the same time, Boy Better Know were added to the Wireless 10 event. On 14 June, Stromae had to cancel his Wireless appearance amongst other summer dates, after suffering a reaction to anti-malaria drugs whilst on his tour of Sub-Saharan Africa. Someome tweeted a day later to say she would also be cancelling a number of summer dates, including Wireless, due to having to undergo vocal chord surgery.\nThe Friday sold out by the end of April, whilst the other three dates remained on sale until the festival.\nWireless Festival 2016 was held on the weekend of 8–10 July at Finsbury Park. The lineup was announced on 9 March, with conformation that Calvin Harris would be Headlining Friday, Chase & Status & J. Cole co-headling Saturday and Kygo & Boy Better Know co-headlining Sunday. Tickets were on sale 2 Days Later. On 16 March, Dua Lipa was announced for Friday. 3 days later Lady Leshurr was announced for Saturday. On 11 May, Wizkid and 99 Souls were announced for Friday, Natalie La Rose, Angel, Shakka, Rude Kid, KStewart, The Manor, Jorja Smith, and A2 were announced for Saturday, Fergie, Big Sean, Metro Boomin, Jay Sean, Ghetts, Thomas Jack, Fekky, Elf Kid, Sonny Digital and Father were announced for Sunday. On the same day, Lady Leshurr was moved to Friday. On 21 May Kyla was announced for Saturday. Wizkid had pulled out due to Visa Problems.\n\nWireless Festival 2017 was held on the weekend of 7–9 July at Finsbury Park. The lineup was announced on 23 February, with conformation that Chance The Rapper would be headlining Friday, Skepta would be headlining Saturday and The Weeknd would be headlining Sunday. Tickets were on sale on the same day. On 28 March, Fetty Wap and Geko were announced for Friday, Travis Scott was announced for Saturday, Bugzy Malone and Kojo Funds were announced for Sunday. On the same day, Cadet was moved from Sunday to Saturday. On 30 June, AJ Tracey was announced for Friday. Lil Uzi Vert was also part of the lineup, but had pulled out, due to continued exhaustion. He has been replaced by Pusha T. Wiley was also part of the lineup, but had also pulled out, due to delays with his travel plan. He\nhas been replaced by Lethal Bizzle.\n\nWireless festival was held on 6–8 July at Finsbury Park. The line up was announced 22 January with confirmation that J. Cole will be headlining the Friday, Stormzy the Saturday and DJ Khaled with others the Sunday, The Festival was fully sold out within a day. On 9 April Cardi B announced her pregnancy, therefore at the same time, she pulled out. 3 days later Raye, Russ, Suspect, Big Shaq, Sneakbo, Davido, Ms Banks, Majid Jordan and Last Night In Paris were added to the line up. On 14 May, AJ x Deno, EO, M Huncho, Just Banco, Big Heath, Romzy and Yung Fume were added to the line up. On 3 July, J Hus pulled out, due to legal issues. Fredo also pulled out due to unforeseen circumstances. On the same day, Krept & Konan, Chip, Avelino, D-Block Europe and Ambush were added to the line up. On 5 July, MoStack got moved from Saturday to Friday. On the same day Trippie Redd had pulled out, due to unforeseen circumstances. On the day that DJ Khaled was meant to be headlining, It was announced he had pulled out due to travel issues. He was replaced by a surprise guest, who turned out to be Drake.\n\nThe Wireless Festival was held on 5–7 July at Finsbury Park. The Line Up was announced on 28 January with conformation that Cardi B and Migos will be co-headlining Friday, Travis Scott headlining Saturday, and ASAP Rocky headlining Sunday. On 9 February, Cadet, who was meant to be performing on Saturday, died. Wireless kept his performance set, in order to remember him. On 13 March, One Acen, Lotto Boyzz, THEY., Tiwa Savage, Lady Sanity and Lil Yachty were added to the line up. In April, Loski had pulled out due to legal issues. On the 8 May, Yungen was added to the line up. On the 14 June Megan Thee Stallion was added to the line up. On 20 June, it was announced that a number of acts will be streamed globally, live in virtual reality, by using a platform provided by MelodyVR. Streamed content would also be available via Wireless' Facebook page and MelodyVR's Android and iOS VR/360 apps. On 1 July, Polo G was added to the line up. Two days later Headie One and Lil Uzi Vert and were pulled out for unknown reasons. Jay1 replaced One and a surprise guest that that replaced Vert was Skepta. Also, ASAP Rocky was pulled out, due to legal issues. On The day before he was meant to headline, J Hus was added to the line up and it was also announced that Rae Sremmurd will be headlining Sunday. At the same time, Polo G has also cancelled his performance, due to the birth of his child, being replaced by Aitch.\n\nThe sixtheenth edition of Wireless Festival is set to take place on 3–5 July 2020 at Finsbury Park, London. The lineup was announced on 30 January.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849190", "title": "Eugen Weber", "text": "Eugen Weber\n\nEugen Joseph Weber (April 24, 1925 – May 17, 2007) was a Romanian-born American historian with a special focus on Western civilization.\n\nWeber became a historian because of his interest in politics, an interest dating back to at least the age of 12. He described his political awakening as a realization of social injustices: \"It was my vague dissatisfaction with social hierarchy, the subjection of servants and peasants, the diffuse violence of everyday life in relatively peaceful country amongst apparently gentle folk\".\n\nWeber's books and articles have been translated into several languages. He earned many accolades for his scholarship, including membership in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Guggenheim Foundation, the American Council of Learned Societies and the Fulbright Program. His 1,300-page \"Modern History of Europe: Men, Cultures, and Societies from the Renaissance to the Present\" (1971) was described \"a phenomenal job of synthesis and interpretation that reflects Eugen's wide and deep learning,\" by his UCLA history colleague Hans Rogger. In addition to his distinguished American Awards and honors, he was awarded the Ordre des Palmes Académiques in 1977 for his contribution to French culture.\n\nHe was born in Bucharest, Romania, the son of Sonia and Emmanuel Weber, a well-to-do industrialist. When he was ten, his parents hired a private tutor. But the tutor did not stay long. From the age of 10 Weber was already reading The Three Musketeers by Alexander Dumas, adventure novels by Karl May, poetry by Victor Hugo and Homer. He was also reading George Sand, Jules Verne and \"every cheap paperback I could afford\". At age 12, he was sent to boarding school in Herne Bay, in south-eastern England, and later to Ashville College, Harrogate.\n\nDuring World War II, he served with the British Army in Belgium, Germany and India between 1943 and 1947 rising to the rank of captain. Afterward, Weber studied history at the Sorbonne and \"Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris\" (Sciences Po) in Paris.\n\nIn 1950, Weber married Jacqueline Brument-Roth. He graduated with a BA in 1950 and an MA from the University of Cambridge in 1954. He then taught at Emmanuel College, Cambridge (1953–1954) and the University of Alberta (1954–1955) before settling in the United States, where he taught first at the University of Iowa (1955–1956) and then, until 1993 on his retirement, at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).\n\nAt Cambridge University, Eugen Weber studied with the historian David Thomson. He studied for his PhD but the dissertation was refused because the outside examiner, Alfred Cobban, of the University of London, gave a negative review of his dissertation, saying it lacked sufficient archival sources.\n\nEugen Weber wrote a column titled \"LA Confidential\" for the \"Los Angeles Times\". He also wrote for several French popular newspapers and, in 1989, presented an American public television series, \"The Western Tradition\", which consisted of fifty-two lectures of 30 minutes each. He died in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, aged 82.\n\nWeber took a pragmatic approach to history. He once observed: \n\nNothing is more concrete than history, nothing less interested in theories or in abstract ideas. The great historians have fewer ideas about history than amateurs do; they merely have a way of ordering their facts to tell their story. It isn’t theories they look for, but information, documents, and ideas about how to find and handle them.\n\nWeber is associated with several important academic arguments. His book: \"Peasants into Frenchmen: The Modernization of Rural France 1870–1914\" is a classic presentation of modernization theory. Although other historians such as Henri Mendras had put forward similar theories about the modernization of the French countryside, Weber's book was amongst the first to focus on changes in the period between 1870 and 1914. Weber emphasizes that well into the 19th century few French citizens regularly spoke French, but rather regional languages or dialects such as Breton, Gascon, Basque, Catalan, Flemish, Alsatian, and Corsican. Even in French-speaking areas provincial loyalties often transcended the putative bond of the nation. Between 1870 and 1914, Weber argued, a number of new forces penetrated the previously isolated countryside. These included the judicial and school systems, the army, the church, railways, roads, and a market economy. The result was the wholesale transformation of the population from \"peasants,\" basically ignorant of the wider nation, to Frenchmen.\n\nHis book \"Apocalypses: Prophecies, Cults, and Millennial Beliefs through the Ages\" chronicles \"apocalyptic visions and prophecies from Zarathustra to yesterday ... . beginning with the ancients of the West and the Orient and, especially ... the Jews and earliest Christians,\" finding that \"an absolute belief in the end of time, when good would do final battle with evil, was omnipresent,\" inspiring \"Crusades, scientific discoveries, works of art, voyages such as those of Columbus, rebellions\" and reforms including American abolitionism.\n\nWeber proclaimed in \"The Western Tradition\" lectures of 1989:\n\n\"...here we are at the end of the 20th century with a lot of people lonely in a Godless world—and now they are denied not only God but the solid substance of judgment and perception\". \"The world has always been disgracefully managed but now you no longer know to whom to complain.\" \nAfter he traversed the whole spectrum of western thought, tradition, civilization, and progress in The Western Tradition, Weber pointed at some of the profound ancient lessons from the Bible and laments the fact that many people today do not read it themselves. As an agnostic, Weber viewed the Bible primarily as an important piece of historical literature, calling it: \"the epitome of wisdom, violence, high aspiration, and the hurtful achievements of mankind\". He concluded his final lecture in the Western Tradition series by praising Western man as Promethean and then with Wordsworth's poetic phrase, \"we feel that we are greater than we know.\"\n\nA 2010 biography by Stanford Franklin, \"Eugen Weber The Greatest Historian of our Times: Lessons of Greatness to the Future\", presents Weber's life and works in grandiose terms as the greatest modern historian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849193", "title": "Lynn Parsons", "text": "Lynn Parsons\n\nLynn Margaret Parsons (born 1964) is a British disc jockey.\n\nHaving graduated from college with an OND in electronic principles, Parsons started her career working in the television industry, where she was a sound engineer and later a vision mixer. She was a DJ on the pirate soul station JFM before moving to a Saturday night pop music programme at County Sound in Guildford. In radio, she joined London's Capital London in 1987 as a weeknight presenter, before moving to BBC Radio 1 in 1991. Initially she was an overnight presenter, but later hosted other shows, and during her time with the network she became the last person to interview the comedian Peter Cook. After leaving Radio 1, she joined Virgin Radio in 1996, spending two years as a presenter there.\n\nIn 1998, Parsons joined BBC Radio 2, taking over the Friday and Saturday overnight slot, where she remained as a full-time presenter until 2003. She was also briefly a presenter of the weekday late show during 1999 whilst fellow DJ Richard Allinson covered the drivetime slot. In 2001, Parsons' show received two hours of phone calls after rival Virgin Radio DJ Jon Holmes requested that his listeners call Parsons to request John Denver's Annie's Song be played. From 2003 she was a stand-in presenter on the network. She had her own early Sunday morning show on Radio 2 from January to April 2010, and later that year stood in for Sarah Kennedy after Kennedy was absent from her \"Dawn Patrol\" programme. It was announced on 3 September that Kennedy would not be returning to the network and that Parsons would continue to present the show until a shake up of the Radio 2 schedule in October. In January 2012 it was confirmed she would provide cover for the 68 am Saturday breakfast slot after Zoe Ball announced her decision to leave the show, and until another regular presenter was appointed.\n\nShe joined 102.2 Smooth Radio in London following its launch in March 2007, later becoming a presenter on its successor, Smooth Radio. In January 2008 she took over the station's afternoon slot following the death of fellow DJ Kevin Greening. From October 2010 she was the breakfast show presenter on the new national Smooth Radio, a role which was taken over by Simon Bates when Bates joined the network in January 2011. Parsons then returned to the weekend mid-morning show. In October 2012 Parsons was confirmed as the new host of the weekday mid morning show on Smooth, replacing Mark Goodier from December. She would be succeeded as weekend presenter by David Prever, who was previously a stand-in presenter at the network. Parsons left Smooth Radio on 28 February 2014.\n\nOn 11 September 2014, the \"Radio Today\" website reported that Parsons would join Jazz FM to present the station's breakfast show, \"The Jazz Breakfast\". She joined Jazz FM from 15 September as part of an overhaul of their schedule. She left Jazz FM on Friday 2 October 2015.\n\nHer hobbies and interests include Feng Shui, science, the paranormal, English literature, antiques and swimming. She is a regular participant in the 26 mile moonlight walkathon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849202", "title": "Chobe National Park", "text": "Chobe National Park\n\nChobe National Park is Botswana's first national park, and also the most biologically diverse. Located in the north of the country, it is Botswana's third largest park, after Central Kalahari Game Reserve and Gemsbok National Park, and has one of the greatest concentrations of game in all of Africa.\n\nThe park is noted for having a population of lions which prey on African elephants, mostly calves or juveniles, but even subadults\n\nThe original inhabitants of this area were the San bushmen (also known as the Basarwa people in Botswana). They were nomadic hunter-gatherers who were constantly moving from place to place to find food sources, namely fruits, water and wild animals. Nowadays one can find San paintings inside rocky hills of the park.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the region that would become Botswana was divided into different land tenure systems. At that time, a major part of the park's area was classified as crown land. The idea of a national park to protect the varied wildlife found here as well as promote tourism first appeared in 1931. The following year, around Chobe district were officially declared non-hunting area; this area was expanded to two years later.\n\nIn 1943, heavy tsetse infestations occurred throughout the region, delaying the creation of the national park. By 1953, the project received governmental attention again: were suggested to become a game reserve. Chobe Game Reserve was officially created in 1960, though smaller than initially desired. In 1967, the reserve was declared a national park.\n\nAt that time there were several industrial settlements in the region, especially at Serondela, where the timber industry proliferated. These settlements were gradually moved out of the park, and it was not until 1975 that the whole protected area was exempt from human activity. Nowadays traces of the prior timber industry are still visible at Serondela. Minor expansions of the park took place in 1980 and 1987.\n\nThe park can be divided up to 4 areas, each corresponding to one distinct ecosystem:\n\nThe park is widely known for its large elephant population, estimated to be around 50,000. Elephants living here are Kalahari elephants, the largest in size of all known elephant populations. They are characterized by rather brittle ivory and short tusks, perhaps due to calcium deficiency in the soils. Damage caused by the high numbers of elephants is rife in some areas. In fact, concentration is so high throughout Chobe that culls have been considered, but are too controversial and have thus far been rejected. At dry season, these elephants sojourn in Chobe River and the Linyanti River areas. In the rainy season, they make a 200-kilometre migration to the south-eastern stretch of the park. Their distribution zone however outreaches the park and spreads to north-western Zimbabwe.\n\nRoad conditions in Chobe National Park depend greatly on the season and rainfall and one would need a 4x4 vehicle to travel in the Park. Thick sand becomes a problem in the Chobe River Front during the dry months, particularly as the temperature rises and during the wet season the roads near the river become muddy.\n\nSavuti roads, mainly the western Sandridge Road from Mababe Gate and the roads both north and south of the Savuti channel are typically thick sand and tricky to drive. When rain has fallen, driving along the marsh roads, as the wet black cotton soil becomes unnavigable, carries the risk of getting stuck.\n\nNogatsaa roads are waterlogged during the wet months and very little of the road network can be driven at this time. During the dry months, game drives from one pan to the next are on roads with small, thick sandy patches. Once leaving the tar road from Kasane, people would have to drive through thick sand for the first , before reaching a sand road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849207", "title": "Mantua, Philadelphia", "text": "Mantua, Philadelphia\n\nMantua is a neighborhood in the West Philadelphia section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is located north of Spring Garden Street, east of 40th Street, south of Mantua Avenue, and west of 31st Street. The neighborhood's northern and western reaches are predominantly working-class and African American, although its southern border with Powelton Village has seen recent gentrification and an influx of Drexel University and University of Pennsylvania student renters.\n\nPart of this neighborhood was purchased from the Lenni Lenape Indians in 1677 by William Warner. In 1692, a young Welsh carpenter, William Powel, opened a ferry over the Schuylkill River at the foot of the present Spring Garden Bridge. Lancaster Pike and Haverford Road were the first routes providing access from the west.\n\nMantua was named in 1809 by Judge Richard Peters, who designed a grid of lots with 36th St. and Haverford Ave. as the center. He named the area for a city in Italy.\n\nPowelton Village, the neighborhood just south of Mantua, was named for the family of William Powell, whose son purchased additional land. By the mid-1880s, Powelton Village was a fashionable area, becoming part of Philadelphia after the Consolidation Act of 1854.\n\nPrior to the 1940s, Mantua was a predominantly white, Lutheran neighborhood. However, these decades mark the time when black families began moving into the area’s boundaries. The 1950s are what is seen as the peak of the neighborhood, which boasted a stunning commercial district on Haverford Avenue.\n\nBeginning in the early- to mid-1960s, the 19,000 neighborhood residents started seeing the beginnings of gang warfare. Despite the prevalence of crime and violence on the streets, community activists like Herman Wrice and Andrew Jenkins came together to form the Young Great Society and the Mantua Community Planners.\n\nThese committees held community functions almost daily. Functions included arts and crafts, vocal groups, day trips, and tutoring sessions. As Police Commissioner, Frank Rizzo gave Mantua community leaders access to local police stations. If a local kid was arrested due to gang-related activities, community leaders would post bail and safely escort these residents home. In return, these activists would work with police to help deter kids from future participation in street life. Although these committees were ultimately trying to keep young residents off the streets, Mantua was one of the most crime-laden neighborhoods in Philadelphia.\n\nOver the course of the decade, six major gangs called the 10.5 block area of Mantua their home. Between 1960 and 1969, Mantua recorded about 10% of total city gang killings. Mantua became one of the worst areas of the 16th precinct, and the Philadelphia Police Department often assigned patrols in Mantua to officers as punishment.\n\nAndrew Jenkins and the Mantua Community Planners began working with the city to build a recreation center in Mantua. However, gang violence continuously delayed these efforts. The neighborhood’s first recreation center finally opened on what is now 34th Street and Haverford Avenue. In addition to the playgrounds, ball courts, and offices featured at most recreation centers, this one also housed a free library, and holding a library card was a requirement for entrance to the play centers.\n\nDespite the crime, Wrice's Young Great Society and Jenkins' Mantua Community Planners fought to incorporate urban renewal programs, such as the planting of trees and building of housing units. Mt. Vernon Manor, a collection of apartment buildings, was once such development project.\n\nDesigned as part of the multipurpose Mantua Community Center, the Mantua library branch opened July 9, 1979. The building also includes a Department of Recreation gymnasium, a community office, and a meeting room.\n\nLike many industrialized cities, the 1980s saw a rise of drug-related gang warfare. The use of crack cocaine, combined with the existing heroin market, caused many residents to flee.\n\nAndrew Jenkins began an eight-year stint as Deputy Mayor, and in 1988 Herman Wrice formed Mantua Against Drugs (MAD). Wrice led community marches against drugs and put up wanted posters of the drug dealers that operated freely on the corners.\n\nDespite Wrice’s efforts, infighting between community leaders prevented a lot of potential progress. According to Jenkins, “The lowest point of the neighborhood was in the late 80s. The biggest failure of the Mantua Community was the jealousy of the leaders who were not successful; they attacked the leaders that were. They put rumors and stigmas on active leaders – that’s what destroyed the neighborhood.”\n\nAlthough the drug trade began winding down in the 1990s, the community was feeling its lasting effects. The number of residents in the community fluttered around 6,000 most of the decade, and several hundred vacant lots dotted the streets. The movie theaters, retail outlets, and galleries that resided in Mantua during the 1950s were replaced by small delis and grab-and-go beer stores.\n\nIn the late-1990s, many of the abandoned lots and buildings were bought, renovated, and put on the market for rent. The neighborhood saw an influx of college students from Drexel University, among other institutions, move into the area in search of affordable housing.\n\nThe Mantua library branch was renamed the Charles L. Durham Free Library in 1995. Born in Mantua, Durham served on City Council from 1967 to 1974, when he was appointed to the Common Pleas Court. He was a strong advocate for the community, and was deeply involved in the struggle for civil rights and was part of the first black caucus on Council. The library was renovated in 1999 as part of the Free Library of Philadelphia \"Changing Lives\" campaign, which refurbished branches and ensured Internet access.\n\nIt is estimated that between 500 and 1000 college-aged students are living in Mantua. This growing number of students has brought renewed interest to the Mantua community from the expanding university system to the south, consisting mainly of Drexel University and the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2005 the formation of Mantua Cares by community residents including the family of the former community activist Herman Wrice was launched to address the youth perspective on developing the community. Since its inception Mantua Cares has been able to launch youth programs rooted in entrepreneurship, place students in internships and provide jobs after school to Mantua's youth with the sole intent of engaging them in the community. Their unique approach with the inclusion of youth involvement to develop and maintain programs has been successful. Under the direction of E. Darnell Ryans III, the organization has won several local and city awards for their commitment to this community.\n\nOn September 11th, 2008, Miles Mack was shot and killed at the McAlpin Playground on the corner of 36th and Aspen streets. Miles Mack was a well-respected man of the community for his creation of the X-Tra Miles Basketball League that he started himself for young African-American males to stay out of trouble. His death was a major loss for the community and in memory of his legacy, the McAlpin Playground was renamed the Miles Mack Playground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849209", "title": "Syringe driver", "text": "Syringe driver\n\nA syringe driver or syringe pump is a small infusion pump (some include infuse and withdraw capability), used to gradually administer small amounts of fluid (with or without medication) to a patient or for use in chemical and biomedical research.\n\nApplications include electrospinning, electrospraying, microdialysis, microfluidics, dispensing/dilution, organ/tissue perfusion and fluid circulation.\n\nAnother use of syringe drivers is in palliative care, to continuously administer analgesics (painkillers), antiemetics (medication to suppress nausea and vomiting) and other drugs. This prevents periods during which medication levels in the blood are too high or too low, and avoids the use of multiple tablets (especially in people who have difficulty swallowing). As the medication is administered subcutaneously, the area for administration is practically limitless, although edema may interfere with the action of some drugs.\n\nSyringe drivers are also useful for delivering IV medications over several minutes. In the case of a medication which should be slowly pushed in over the course of several minutes, this device saves staff time and reduces errors.\n\nSyringe pumps are also useful in microfluidic applications, such as microreactor design and testing, and also in chemistry for slow incorporation of a fixed volume of fluid into a solution. In enzyme kinetics syringe drivers can be used to observe rapid kinetics as part of a stopped flow apparatus. They are also sometimes used as laboratory media dispensers.\n"}
{"id": "1849210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849210", "title": "Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago", "text": "Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago\n\nThe Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago ( ) is a group of 15 small islets and rocks in the central equatorial Atlantic Ocean. It lies in the Intertropical Convergence Zone, a region of the Atlantic characterized by low average winds punctuated with local thunderstorms. It lies approximately from the nearest point of mainland South America (the northeastern Brazilian coastal town of Touros); northeast of the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha; from the city of Natal; and from the west coast of Africa. Administratively, the archipelago belongs to Brazil and is part of the special \"state district\" () of Fernando de Noronha, in the state of Pernambuco, in spite of the very large distance between the two island groups and the even larger distance to the state mainland.\n\nThe islets expose serpentinized abyssal mantle peridotite and kaersutite-bearing ultramafic mylonite atop the world's highest and yet only second largest megamullion (after the Parece Vela megamullion under Okinotorishima in the Pacific Ocean). This grouping is the sole location in the Atlantic Ocean where the abyssal mantle is exposed above sea level.\n\nIn 1986, the archipelago was designated an environmentally protected area. \nThis is now part of the Fernando de Noronha Environmental Protection Area.\nSince 1998, the Brazilian Navy has maintained a permanently manned research facility on the islands. \nThe main economic activity around the islets is tuna fishing.\n\nOn April 20, 1511, a Portuguese Navy fleet composed of six caravels under the command of Captain Garcia de Noronha discovered the islets by accident while on their journey to India. While navigating in the open sea late at night, the \"Saint Peter\" caravel, under the command of Captain Manuel de Castro Alcoforado, crashed against the islets. The crew was rescued by the \"Saint Paul\" caravel, forming the name given to the islets.\n\nOn the morning of February 16, 1832, the rocks were visited by Charles Darwin on the first leg of his voyage on HMS \"Beagle\" around the world. Darwin listed all the fauna he could find, noting that not a single plant or even a lichen could be found on the island. Darwin found two birds, a booby and a noddy, a large crab that stole the fish intended for baby birds, a fly that lived on the booby and a parasitic tick. He found a moth that lived on feathers, a beetle, a woodlouse that lived on dung, and numerous spiders that he thought lived on scavengers of the waterfowl. Darwin felt that these rocks represented how life first took hold on a newly formed outcrop. Darwin was correct in noting that, unusually, these small islands were not volcanic, but were instead formed by a geologic uplift. Darwin's account formed the basis of a fictionalized episode in Patrick O'Brian's historical novel \"HMS Surprise\", when the naturalist Stephen Maturin is briefly marooned and survives by drinking fouled rainwater and the blood of boobies.\n\nThe then called “St. Paul's Rocks” were visited by James Clark Ross on 29 November 1839. He was in charge of an expedition to the Antarctic regions with two vessels, HMS \"Erebus\" and HMS \"Terror\". Robert McCormick gave some geological and biological remarks on St. Paul's Rocks in the report on the expedition.\n\nAnother famous person to visit the rocks was Ernest Shackleton, on his last expedition to Antarctica (1921–1922).\n\nIn 1942, during World War II, the islets were declared to be part of the Federal Territory of Fernando de Noronha (which also included the Rocas Atoll).\n\nIn early 1960, the rocks served as the starting-point and terminus for the first submerged circumnavigation of the world by the American nuclear-powered submarine .\n\nOn June 25, 1998, the Brazilian Navy inaugurated the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago Scientific Station (; ECASPSP). The station is manned with four researchers, who are rotated in and out every 15 days. By maintaining permanent occupation of the archipelago, the Brazilian Navy extends Brazil's Exclusive Economic Zone, territorial waters and airspace into the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\nOn June 5–6, 2006, an earthquake with a magnitude of above six on the Richter magnitude scale rocked the archipelago. The strong tidal surge following the earthquake caused the battery compartment to crash against the station's outer wall, allowing sea water to flood the station. The four researchers who were on the archipelago took shelter in the lighthouse, while maintaining constant contact with the Brazilian Navy. A fishing vessel located nearby rescued the researchers, who were then transferred to a Brazilian Navy patrol boat. The incident caused considerable damage to the station and equipment. The station was repaired on September 9–11, 2006, and became operational shortly after.\n\nIn 2007, the Brazilian Navy started to build a new scientific station on the archipelago. Construction began on July 24, 2007, and was completed on June 25, 2008. The new station was built with seismic isolation, and is considerably larger and better equipped than the previous one. The station is composed of a main building – equipped with reverse osmosis salt water desalination system, photovoltaics system and satellite communications system; deposits and a mooring dock.\n\nThe Brazilian Navy also maintains a lighthouse on the archipelago, (ARLHS: SPP-001), built in 1995 to replace a previous one from 1930.\n\nOn June 1, 2009, Air France Flight 447, an Airbus A330-200 jetliner \"en route\" from Rio de Janeiro to Paris with 228 persons on board, crashed on the Atlantic Ocean relatively close to the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago, killing all its occupants. Bodies and fragments from the aircraft were found just to the northwest of the archipelago.\n\nThe Saint Peter and Saint Paul Rocks are situated in the Atlantic Ocean, north of the Equator and are the only group of Brazilian oceanic islets in the Northern Hemisphere. The nearest point in the Brazilian coast, is Cabo do Calcanhar, Rio Grande do Norte, approximately from the archipelago. The total emerged area is about and the maximum land elevation is , on Nordeste Island. The archipelago is composed of several rocks, five small rocky islets and four larger islets:\n\n\nTheir base is over below sea level.\n\nNone of the islets has a permanent fresh water supply available.\n\nOnly the largest of the islets, Belmonte, is vegetated with mosses and grasses. The other rocks are mostly barren, except for some sea algae and fungi that can tolerate the salt spray. The rocks are inhabited by seabirds, including the brown booby (\"Sula leucogaster\"), brown noddy (\"Anous stolidus\"), and black noddy (\"Anous minutus\"), as well as crabs (\"Grapsus grapsus\"), insects and spiders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849211", "title": "List of tallest structures by country", "text": "List of tallest structures by country\n\nThis is an incomplete list of the tallest buildings and structures by country. The list includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country, and, where appropriate, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also:\" Tallest structures in Canada, List of tallest buildings in Canada\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also\": List of tallest buildings in the United States, List of tallest structures in the United States\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSources:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also\": List of tallest structures in Bulgaria\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTallest Buildings:\n\nTallest building:\nWooden structure:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Lists of tallest structures by country| ]]"}
{"id": "1849214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849214", "title": "Achieved status", "text": "Achieved status\n\nAchieved status is a concept developed by the anthropologist Ralph Linton denoting a social position that a person can acquire on the basis of merit; it is a position that is earned or chosen. It is the opposite of Ascribed status. It reflects personal skills, abilities, and efforts. Examples of achieved status are being an Olympic athlete, being a criminal, or being a college professor.\n\nStatus is important sociologically because it comes with a set of rights, obligations, behaviours, and duties that people occupying a certain position are expected or encouraged to perform. These expectations are referred to as roles. For instance, the role of a \"professor\" includes teaching students, answering their questions, being impartial, appropriately.\n\nAscribed status is a position assigned to individuals or groups based on traits beyond their control, such as sex, race, or parental social status. This is usually associated with \"closed\" societies. Achieved status is distinguished from ascribed status by virtue of being earned.\n\nMany positions are a mixture of achievement and ascription; for instance, a person who has achieved the status of being a physician is more likely to have the ascribed status of being born into a wealthy family. This is usually associated with \"open\" societies or \"social\" class societies.\n\nSocial mobility refers to one's ability to move their status either up or down within the social stratification system, as compared with their family’s status in early life. Some people with achieved status have improved their position within the social system via their own merit and achievements.\n\nSomeone may also have achieved status that decreases their position within the social system, such as by becoming a notorious criminal. In a society that one's position in that society can change due to their actions, either increase or decrease, that society can be referred to as an Open System. A Closed System society would not allow Social mobility as easily as an Open System.\n\nCultural capital is a concept, developed by sociologist Pierre Bourdieu, that can refer to both achieved and ascribed characteristics. They are desirable qualities (either material or symbolic) that contribute to one's social status; any advantages a person has which give him/her a higher status in society. It may include high expectations, forms of knowledge, skill, and education, among other things.\n\nParents provide children with cultural capital, the attitudes and knowledge that make the educational system a comfortable familiar place in which they can succeed easily. There are other types of capital as well; Social capital refers to one's membership in groups, relationships, and networks. It too can have a significant impact on achievement level.\n\nIndustrialization has led to a vast increase in the possible standard of living for the average person but also made this increase necessary. For the productivity of the average worker to rise, he or she had to receive far more education and training. This successively made the average worker much less replaceable and therefore more powerful. Hence, it became necessary to satisfy workers’ demands for a larger share.\n\nAccording to sociologist Rodney Stark, few Americans believe coming from a wealthy family or having political connections is necessary to get ahead. In contrast, many people in other industrialized nations think these factors are necessary for advancement. Americans are more likely than the people in these nations to rate “hard work” as very important for getting ahead. While most nations value hard work, the Italians, for example, are hardly more likely to rate it as very important than they are to think one needs political connections.\n\nPeople with a lower income will generally be a better example of moving up in the social stratification and achieving status. This holds to be evident in most cases because those who accrue a lower income usually have the motivation to achieve a greater status through their own ambitions and hard work. Those of higher income are typically the result of achieving status. In other cases, the people of higher income may have unjustly acquired that position, or were ascribed the status and income they hold (such as monarchs, family-run businesses, etc.).\n\nThose without the privilege of ascribing their status will generally have the greater motivation of achieving their own status. The general economic well being of the society the person lives in also tends to be another factor in their status and to what extent they are able to achieve their status.\n\nFor example, Americans are less likely than people in other industrialized nations to object to current income variances. According to Rodney Stark, in 1992, only twenty-seven percent of Americans strongly agreed that income disparities in their country were too large. In contrast, more than half of Russians, Italians, and Bulgarians agreed with this statement.\n\nIn all societies a person's social status is the result of both ascribed and achieved characteristics. Societies differ markedly on several dimensions in this process: what attributes are used to assign status, the relative importance of ascribed versus achieved attributes, the overall potential for social mobility, the rates of mobility that actually occurred, and the barriers for particular sub-groups to enjoy upward mobility in that society.\n\nOne's status in medieval Europe was primarily based on ascription. People born into the noble class were likely to keep a high position and people born of peasants were likely to stay in a low position. This political system is known as feudalism and does not allow for much social mobility.\n\nBolivia has had past newspaper advertisements that claimed to have land, animals and peasants for sale. The peasants weren't necessarily slaves but placed in their social class and obligated to work due to their bind to the land they lived and farmed. This sort of social interaction is based mainly on the people's strong belief of tradition and to uphold the actions of the past. In 1971 Ernesto Laclau addressed the argument of whether Latin America was either under a social system of feudalism or capitalism. He determined that the social system was extremely different from the capitalistic system in Europe and in the United States, so, therefore, Latin America would be more closely related to having a Feudalism approach to social interaction.\n\nThe formation of hierarchy differs somewhere between the polarities of given and achieved status. In caste systems, ascription is the overpowering basis for status. Traditional society in South Asia and other parts of the world such as Egypt, India, Japan, and others were composed of castes. Each group was limited to certain occupations. Low paying occupations such as collecting garbage, were reserved for one caste, whose members were excluded from holding any other occupation. Correspondingly, highly skilled occupations, such as being a priest, goldsmith, were reserved for another caste. However, some people managed through talent and luck to rise above their given caste. For example, great aptitude as a soldier was often a way to reach a higher status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849217", "title": "Archaic smile", "text": "Archaic smile\n\nThe archaic smile was used by sculptors in Archaic Greece, especially in the second quarter of the 6th century BCE, possibly to suggest that their subject was alive, and infused with a sense of well-being. One of the most famous examples of the Archaic Smile is the Kroisos Kouros; the Peplos Kore is another. \n\nThe dying warrior from the west pediment of the Temple of Aphaia, Aegina, Greece is an interesting context as the warrior is near death.\n\nIn the Archaic Period of ancient Greece (roughly 600 BCE to 480 BCE), the art that proliferated contained images of people who had the archaic smile.\n\nDuring those two centuries before the mid-5th century BCE, the archaic smile was widely sculpted, as evidenced by statues found in excavations all across the Greek mainland, Asia Minor, and on islands in the Aegean Sea. It has been theorized that in this period, artists felt it either represents that they were blessed by the gods in their actions, thus the smile, or that it is similar to pre-planned smiles in modern photos..\n\nThe significance of the convention is not known, although it is often assumed that for the Greeks this kind of smile reflected a state of ideal health and well-being. It is best anthropological practice to assume expertise in execution of craft and to look for formal/stylistic reasons why cultural artifacts appear as they do.\n\nIt has also been suggested that it is simply the result of a technical difficulty in fitting the curved shape of the mouth to the somewhat blocklike head typical of Archaic sculpture. Richard Neer theorizes that the Archaic Smile may actually be a marker of status since aristocrats of multiple cities throughout Greece were referred to as the \"Geleontes\" or \"smiling ones\".\n\nThere are alternative views to the archaic smile being \"flat and quite unnatural looking\". This is how John Fowles describes the archaic smile in his novel \"The Magus\" (Chapter 23): \"...full of the purest metaphysical good humour [...] timelessly intelligent and timelessly amused. [...] Because a star explodes and a thousand worlds like ours die, we know this world is. That is the smile: that what might not be, is [...] When I die, I shall have this by my bedside. It is the last human face I want to see.\" To viewers habituated to realism, it could be seen as a movement towards naturalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849222", "title": "Erna Flegel", "text": "Erna Flegel\n\nErna Flegel (11 July 1911 – 16 February 2006) was a German nurse. In late April 1945 she worked at the emergency casualty station at the Reich Chancellery in Berlin. She was captured in the Reich Chancellery by the Red Army on 2 May 1945.\n\nFrom January 1943 until the end of World War II, as well as during the Battle of Berlin, Flegel served as a nurse for Hitler's entourage. She worked alongside one of Hitler's physicians, Dr. Werner Haase, as a nurse at Humboldt University Hospital and was transferred to the Reich Chancellery in late April 1945. She worked in an emergency casualty station located in the large Reich Chancellery cellar, above the \"Vorbunker\" and \"Führerbunker\". \n\nDuring her time in the \"Führerbunker\" she befriended Magda Goebbels and sometimes acted as a nanny to the Goebbels children until their murders by their parents. She met Hitler once when he wanted to thank her, Dr. Haase and Dr. Ernst-Günther Schenck for their emergency medical services for wounded German soldiers and civilians.\n\nThereafter, Flegel returned to work at the emergency casualty station. She remained there along with Dr. Haase, Helmut Kunz and a fellow nurse, Liselotte Chervinska until they were all taken prisoner by the Soviet Red Army on 2 May. Flegel was quickly released and stated that the Soviet troops treated her well. She stayed in the bunker complex another six to ten days before leaving. Later she was interrogated by the Americans in November 1945 and then lived in anonymity until 1977, when documents including her interrogation were declassified. The media later tracked her down to her residence, a nursing home in Germany. She died in Mölln in 2006, aged 94. She was portrayed in the 2004 German film \"Der Untergang\" (\"Downfall\") by Liza Boyarskaya.\n"}
{"id": "1849232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849232", "title": "USS King (DDG-41)", "text": "USS King (DDG-41)\n\nUSS \"King\" (DL-10/DLG-10/DDG-41) was a guided missile destroyer in the United States Navy. She was named for Fleet Admiral Ernest Joseph King (1878–1956),\n\n\"King\" was laid down by the Puget Sound Navy Yard at Bremerton in Washington on 1 March 1957, launched on 6 December 1958 and commissioned on 17 November 1960.\n\n\"King\" was reclassified as a guided missile destroyer leader on 14 November 1956 and designated DLG-10. \"King\" was again reclassified as a guided missile destroyer on 30 June 1975 and designated DDG-41.\n\nAfter shakedown along the coast, and in Hawaiian waters, \"King\" continued training out of San Diego for the remainder of 1961. Following extensive preparations the guided-missile frigate sailed on her first WestPac cruise, 7 June 1962, strengthening the 7th Fleet with her Terrier missile arsenal. Operating with this peacekeeping force, \"King\" helped to check Communist aggression in Southeast Asia.\n\nUpon returning San Diego on 31 December, she resumed tactical exercises off the West Coast until 1 August 1963 when she departed on her second WestPac cruise. Once again her operations with the 7th Fleet helped maintain stability in the Far East. \"King\" returned San Diego 10 March 1964 and conducted operations along the coast, for the rest of the year constantly perfecting her fighting skills and increasing the peacekeeping ability of the Navy.\n\n\"King\" headed back for the Far East 5 April 1965 escorting the aircraft carrier . She operated from the South China Sea during May screening carriers and participating in air-sea rescue work. She continued to serve off Vietnam until returning to San Diego on 2 November.\n\nThe guided missile destroyer operated off the West Coast until heading back for the Western Pacific 26 May 1966. On this cruise she carried a helicopter for search and rescue missions to save American pilots during strikes against North Vietnam. She arrived at Da Nang, South Vietnam, on 27 June. During July she saved five downed aviators, including one who was rescued from deep within North Vietnam by the ship's helicopter crew. In August the ship was stationed in a positive identification and radar advisory zone (PIRAZ) in the Gulf of Tonkin to help protect American ships from enemy aircraft. Before she was relieved, she had checked over 15,000 aircraft. During this duty she also rescued seven pilots whose planes had gone down during strikes against enemy targets. She continued this duty, except for brief runs to Hong Kong and Subic Bay, until relieved by on 29 November.\n\nIn February 1980, three crew members were lost at sea in the Atlantic northeast of Cape Hatteras during a snowstorm. A fourth crew member was also washed overboard, but was rescued.\n\nShe won the 1982 Marjorie Sterrett Battleship Fund Award for the Atlantic Fleet.\n\n\"King\" was sold on 15 April 1994, and broken up for scrap by J&L Metals, Wilmington, North Carolina during 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849243", "title": "The Abominable Snowmen", "text": "The Abominable Snowmen\n\nThe Abominable Snowmen is the mostly missing second serial of the fifth season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which originally aired in six weekly parts from 30 September to 4 November 1967. The story is notable for the introduction of recurring foes the Yeti. Only one of the six episodes is held in the BBC archives; five remain missing.\n\nProfessor Edward Travers, an anthropologist and explorer, is awoken from his sleep when he hears the screams of his companion. He is horrified to see a lumbering, hairy creature standing over his friend's lifeless body.\n\nThe TARDIS lands in Tibet in the Himalayas. The Second Doctor talks about a monastery's bell he has from a previous journey and then goes to explore by himself. He sees a large footprint and, while he is examining it, a hairy creature passes behind him unnoticed. The Doctor goes back to the TARDIS to take the bell and advises Jamie and Victoria to stay in the TARDIS.\n\nThe Doctor finds the two empty sleeping bags, the twisted remains of a rifle and a dead man. The Doctor arrives at Detsen Monastery, which seems to be deserted. A group of men comes in and the Doctor is accused of having killed Travers' companion, based on the fact that the Doctor is carrying their sack. While the Doctor is locked in a cell, Travers tells him about his mission: finding the Yeti. It appears there have been some deaths recently, but the Professor says the Yeti cannot be the culprit because of its shy nature.\n\nMeanwhile, Jamie and Victoria decide to step outside. They find the big footprints all around the TARDIS. Jamie would like to obey the Doctor and go back to the TARDIS, but Victoria insists and they find a cave, in which they are soon trapped. The two try to find another exit and accidentally discover a chamber containing a pyramid of metal spheres. Suddenly a Yeti moves the boulder that blocked the cave. Jamie tries to fight it with a scimitar, but the Yeti is too strong. Jamie causes some rocks to fall on it and he and Victoria are able to escape with one of the strange illuminated spheres. They head toward the monastery, where the Doctor is still being detained on Khrisong's orders. He has, nevertheless, been able to pass on the Ghanta to the friendly monk Thonmi. Thonmi takes it to Abbot Songsten, who is in communion with the master of the monastery, Padmasambhava. Padmasambhava knows the Doctor from his previous visit, and though he knows of the Doctor's wisdom, he fears he will intervene in The Great Plan. Thonmi is told to depart, his memory wiped of what he has heard, though given the instruction that the Doctor should be released unharmed.\n\nThe Doctor has meanwhile been placed on trial and, as a test of whether he controls the Yeti, is tied to the doors of the monastery to lure the Yeti out. Travers has by now met Jamie and Victoria, who convince him the Doctor is no threat. The trio return to the monastery to see the Doctor freed on the Abbot's instructions. Shortly afterward, the Yeti advance in an abortive attack on the monastery, during which one of them is overpowered and rendered dormant. The Doctor deduces it is a robot, controlled by a missing spherical unit from its chest cavity. \n\nThe awakened Yeti battles its way out of Detsen, killing warrior monks and leaving Khrisong angry that Thonmi opened the door to allow it to flee – albeit to avoid further bloodshed. Victoria and Thonmi are imprisoned for supposedly reviving the creature. The Abbot reports to Padmasambhava that their plan is working, and the old master replies that the Great Intelligence is taking on corporeal form. To make way for the next phase, Padmasambhava orders all monks to leave the monastery.\n\nWhen the Doctor and Jamie reach the TARDIS, they find it guarded by another Yeti, but it is inactive and the Doctor takes out its control sphere, which then returns to life. Jamie prevents it from re-entering the dormant Yeti by lodging a rock in the open chest cavity. They head back to the monastery, where the Doctor forges an alliance with Khrisong based on the need to enable the monks to stay at the monastery. Realising the monks will not leave peacefully, Songsten opens the gates of the monastery to more Yeti.\n\nVictoria has escaped and ventured alone to the Inner Sanctum of the monastery, where she finds Padmasambhava. Victoria realises he is commanding the robots. He wipes her mind of their meeting and summons more Yeti to attack. The Doctor helps Victoria recover from her trance-like state and listens to Travers, who is recovering his senses and explains about the cave and the pyramid. The Doctor pieces together the nature of the threat while Travers recalls that Songsten was in the cave too. It is clear Songsten is the link between the Yeti and the monastery.\n\nIn the Inner Sanctum, Songsten has bowed to the will of the Great Intelligence and slays Khrisong. The Doctor and his friends arrive and overpower Songsten, realising he has been entranced. Songsten is bound and returned to the other monks, and the violence of his manner persuades them that he is the threat to Detsen. The Doctor tells the monks to flee so that he can defeat the Intelligence. With Jamie, Victoria, and Thonmi, he plans to destroy the equipment the Intelligence is using through Padmasambhava to control the robotic Yeti. They venture to the Inner Sanctum, where the Doctor distracts the being while Thonmi and Jamie destroy the equipment used to relay instructions to the Yeti. Destroying a further pyramid of spheres expels the Intelligence and, left in peace, Padmasambhava dies. With the danger over, the travelers depart. Travers accompanies them up the mountain and his belief in the real Yeti is renewed when he spots one. He charges off to investigate as the TARDIS departs.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nAll episodes except for episode 2 are missing.\n\nThe North Wales mountain pass at Nant Ffrancon doubled as Tibet for the filming of this serial. Filming was done there from 4 to 9 September 1967. According to Jack Watling one of the actors playing the Yeti fell hundreds of feet during filming and was feared dead, but was merely inebriated and fortunately cushioned by the foam rubber inside the costume.\n\nThe character of Professor Travers is played by Jack Watling, the father of actress Deborah Watling, who plays Victoria. Norman Jones later played Major Baker in \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" (1970) and Hieronymous in \"The Masque of Mandragora\" (1976). Ralpachan is played by David Baron, often said to be the playwright Harold Pinter under a stage name. Pinter has since denied this rumour. David Baron was indeed Pinter's name for the purposes of Equity, the British actors' union, but he had relinquished it by the time this serial was produced.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in November 1974. At Barry Letts' request several Buddhist terms used in the screenplay as names were modified for the novelisation. There have been French, Portuguese and Turkish editions. When Target Books began numbering its releases in 1983, it chose to do so alphabetically rather than based upon publication or broadcast order. As a result, the novelisation of \"The Abominable Snowmen\" was identified as book number 1. An un-abridged reading of the Target novel was released by BBC audio on CD in February 2009. It is read by David Troughton, the son of Patrick Troughton who played the Doctor in this story.\n\nAll known copies of Episode 2, including audio recordings made by fans during the original broadcast in 1967, contain a brief audio dropout late in the episode. The Doctor is examining a captured Yeti and is supposed to say, \"You were right about one thing Victoria — this creature certainly doesn't seem to be flesh and blood!\" In what appears to have been a fault with the master videotape recording, the sound cuts in with \"...toria...\"\n\nThe original VHS release of the episode saw the soundtrack manipulated to cover the dropout, whilst maintaining the running time of the episode. The DVD release contains a \"patchwork repair\" of the fault, performed by Mark Ayres of the Doctor Who Restoration Team, using the appropriate words spoken by Troughton with the correct vocal inflections, taken from other Second Doctor episodes.\n\nThe audio soundtrack, along with additional linking narration by Frazer Hines, has been released on MP3 CD, along with \"The Web of Fear\". A collection box entitled \"Yeti Attack\" contains both Yeti adventures on normal CD.\n\nIn 1991, Episode 2 was released on VHS as part of \"The Troughton Years\". In 2004, that episode, along with a handful of clips gathered from other sources, were digitally restored and released on the \"Lost in Time\" DVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849245", "title": "Patrick Fyffe", "text": "Patrick Fyffe\n\nPatrick Fyffe (23 January 1942–11 May 2002) was an English female impersonator, best known for playing the character of Dame Hilda Bracket, alongside George Logan as Dr Evadne Hinge as the duo \"Hinge and Bracket\". Fyffe's original accompanist was Jim Hardwick, a men's hairdresser, also from Stafford.\n\nFyffe was born Patrick John Nathaniel Fyffe in 1942 in Acton Trussell, Staffordshire. Many of his immediate family had been active in musical theatre, but he initially trained as a hairdresser, and ran his own salon in Stafford before making a career on the stage. He was a regular star of local amateur productions, but a desire to turn professional took him to London. His early professional appearances included a 1964 production of the musical \"Robert and Elizabeth\", at the Lyric Theatre, (in which his sister played the lead for a period, and he played one of Elizabeth's brothers), and a 1971 production of the same show at the Alhambra Theatre, Glasgow.\n\nWith some experience of repertory and a couple of provincial tours behind him, Fyffe invented the character of glamorous soprano \"Perri St Claire\". Played on stage as a sophisticated young lady with singing talent, the \"Perri\" character was sufficiently eye-catching to earn him some television slots, and Fyffe was asked to appear in character in a number of television series of the late 1960s, notably \"Z-Cars\" and an episode of \"Doctor in the House\" in 1969, when he appeared as a cabaret singer. Fyffe also appeared in the film spin-off \"Steptoe and Son\" (1972), as a drag artist who becomes the mistaken object of Steptoe Senior's lust.\n\nFyffe died in 2002 in Wellington, Somerset from spinal cancer. He was outlived by his sister, the actor Jane Fyffe. He was unmarried. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849248", "title": "George Logan", "text": "George Logan\n\nGeorge Logan (September 9, 1753April 9, 1821) was an American physician, farmer, legislator and politician from Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania. He served in the Pennsylvania state legislature and represented Pennsylvania in the United States Senate.\n\nGeorge Logan was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on September 9, 1753. He was the grandson of William Penn's secretary James Logan. As a child, he was sent to England for schooling, and later his Loyalist family again sent him overseas when the American Revolution broke out, this time to get medical training. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh Medical School in 1779. He returned to the United States in 1780, and in 1781 he married Deborah Norris, who went on to become a noted historian and diarist. Two years later they moved into Stenton, a mansion built in the Germantown area of Philadelphia by James Logan that is now open to the public. Partly due to the demands of restoring and maintaining Stenton, Logan gave up his career as a physician and became a gentleman farmer and politician. The Logans had three sons, Albanus (1783–1854), Gustavus George (1786–1800), and Algernon Sydney (1791–1835). At Stenton, the couple entertained a wide circle of politicians, artists, writers, and businesspeople, counting among their friends Thomas Jefferson and the painter Charles Willson Peale.\n\nDespite his Loyalist background, Logan was able to take part in the political life of the new United States. In 1785 he was elected to the Pennsylvania legislature, serving for four years; and he was elected for another term in the late 1790s.\n\nIn 1790, he was disowned by the Society of Friends (Quakers) for having joined a militia, an activity wholly antithetical to the Quakers' pacifist views. A Jeffersonian Republican, in 1793 he helped to found the Democratic-Republican Societies. An accomplished farmer, he was also a founder of the Pennsylvania Society for the Promotion of Agriculture. In 1798, he went to Paris to negotiate peace with the French to settle the Quasi-War. On his return, he found he had been denounced by the anti-Jeffersonian Federalists, who had passed a statute informally known as the \"Logan Act\", which made it a crime for an individual citizen to interfere in a dispute between the United States and a foreign country. In 1800, the year Jefferson was elected president, Logan was elected to the U.S. Senate for a six-year term.\n\nLogan's reputation was decidedly mixed. With reference to his political activities, he was called at various times a \"busybody\" and a \"great fool\", but Jefferson considered him “the best farmer in Pennsylvania, both in theory and practice.”\n\nLogan died in 1821, and not long afterwards Deborah Logan wrote an account of his life under the title \"Memoir of Dr. George Logan of Stenton\", including excerpts from letters. It was published in 1899.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849249", "title": "Hayford (crater)", "text": "Hayford (crater)\n\nHayford is a lunar impact crater on the Moon's far side. It is a relatively isolated feature with the nearest named crater being Krasovskiy, some 300 km due south. Hayford has a well-defined edge that is not significantly eroded. The inner walls slope directly down to the floor, with little slumping or terrace formation. The interior floor is relatively featureless.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Hayford.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849258", "title": "House of Wax (2005 film)", "text": "House of Wax (2005 film)\n\nHouse of Wax is a 2005 slasher film directed by Jaume Collet-Serra and written by Charles Belden, Chad Hayes and Carey Hayes, based on a story by Belden. The film stars Elisha Cuthbert, Chad Michael Murray, Brian Van Holt, Paris Hilton, Jared Padalecki, Jon Abrahams and Robert Ri'chard. It is a loose remake of the 1953 film of the same name, itself a remake of the 1933 film \"Mystery of the Wax Museum\".\n\n\"House of Wax\" premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival and was released in United States theaters on May 6, 2005, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film grossed over $70 million worldwide and received generally negative reviews from critics, who criticized its lack of originality, screenplay and characters, but praised the performances and atmosphere.\n\nCarly, her boyfriend Wade, her brother Nick, her best friend Paige, Paige's boyfriend Blake, and Nick's friend Dalton are on their way to a football game in Louisiana. The night before the game they camp in a field. A stranger in a pickup truck arrives, then leaves when Nick smashes one of his headlights. The next morning, Wade discovers that his car's fan belt is broken and Carly falls into a pit of rotting animal carcasses. After rescuing her, the group meet Lester, who drives Carly and Wade to the nearby town of Ambrose for a new fan belt while the rest head to the football game.\n\nCarly and Wade arrive in Ambrose, which is virtually a ghost town. At the church they find a funeral in progress and meet Bo, a mechanic, who offers to sell them a fan belt after the funeral. While they wait, they visit \"Trudy's House of Wax\", a wax museum which itself is made of wax and is the central feature of the town.\n\nThey follow Bo to his house to get the right size fan belt, where Wade is knocked unconscious by Bo's twin brother Vincent. Vincent wears a wax mask to cover his face, disfigured from where the twins were once conjoined. Outside, Carly notices a broken headlight on Bo's truck and realizes he is the man who visited the campsite. Bo captures Carly and restrains her in the cellar of the gas station, gluing her lips shut. Meanwhile, Vincent strips Wade naked and straps him to a chair, where his body is covered in molten wax.\n\nNick, Dalton, Paige and Blake realize they will not arrive at the game in time. Paige and Blake return to the campsite while Nick and Dalton arrive in town looking for Carly and Wade. Nick asks Bo about Carly's whereabouts. When she tries to gain Nick's attention, Bo cuts off the tip of Carly's finger, but she manages to tear her lips apart and screams for help. Nick fends off Bo and frees Carly while Dalton finds Wade, who is unable to move in his wax coating. Dalton attempts to peel off the wax from Wade's face, but inadvertently removes his skin in the process. Dalton is then ambushed by Vincent, who corners and decapitates him with a pair of hedge trimmers. Nick and Carly realize that the wax figures are actually the wax-coated corpses of Bo and Vincent's victims and that they have been luring people in and using their likenesses to make the figures realistic.\n\nBack at the campsite, Vincent arrives and kills Blake, then chases Paige to an abandoned sugar mill, where he throws a metal pipe through her forehead. Bo and Vincent return to chase Carly and Nick into the House of Wax. Nick unintentionally sets the house on fire and the figures start to melt, as does the entire museum. Carly beats Bo to death with a baseball bat. Vincent chases Carly to the top floor where she stabs him. His body falls through the floor, landing on top of his brother's corpse. Carly and Nick escape from the house as it melts to the ground.\n\nThe next day, the police arrive and report that Ambrose has been abandoned for ten years since the local sugar mill was shut down. As Nick and Carly are taken to a hospital, the Sheriff learns that Bo and Vincent had a third brother. From inside the ambulance, Carly spots Lester with his dog, waving them goodbye as they are driven out of town.\n\n\nIn January 2006, Village Roadshow Studios owners Village Theme Park Management and Warner Brothers Movie World Australia announced they were suing special effects expert David Fletcher and Wax Productions because of a fire on the set during production.\n\nThe $7 million lawsuit alleges that Mr. Fletcher and Wax Productions were grossly negligent over the fire, which destroyed part of the Gold Coast's Warner Bros. Movie World studios. The alleged grounds of negligence included not having firefighters on stand-by and using timber props near a naked flame. The set where the fire broke out has now been demolished and is a field kept for Movie World for future projects.\n\nOpening in 3,111 theaters, the film grossed $12 million in its opening weekend. \"House of Wax\" earned $70 million worldwide, $32 million of which came from North American receipts. \"House of Wax\" also earned $42 million in VHS/DVD rentals.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 26% based on 157 reviews, and the average rating is 4.29/10. The site's consensus reads, \"Bearing little resemblance to the 1953 original, \"House of Wax\" is a formulaic but better-than-average teen slasher flick.\" On Metacritic, which uses an average of critics' reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 41 out of 100 based on 36 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"C+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\"Chicago Sun-Times\" film critic Roger Ebert gave the film two out of four stars and wrote, \"\"House of Wax\" is not a good movie, but it is an efficient one and will deliver most of what anyone attending \"House of Wax\" could reasonably expect...assuming it would be unreasonable to expect very much.\" He said of Hilton's performance that \"she is no better or worse than the typical Dead Post-Teenager and does exactly what she is required to do in a movie like this, with all the skill—admittedly finite—that is required.\" Film critic Stephen Hunter of \"The Washington Post\", gave the film four out of five stars, calling it a \"guilty pleasure\" and wrote that it gives horror fans exactly what they want. Mick LaSalle of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" rated it 4/5 stars and wrote, \"After a month, no one will talk about this movie again. Still, with a picture like this, there is really only one question: Is it fun? Yes. Lots. Definitely.\" Bruce Westbrook of the \"Houston Chronicle\" called it boring and poorly-acted, though he complimented Cuthbert and Murray. A. O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"The set design is fairly elaborate by the standards of the genre, and the victims don't die in precisely the order you might expect, but everything else goes pretty much according to formula\".\n\nHouse of Wax: Music from the Motion Picture is the title of a publicly released soundtrack used for \"House of Wax\", consisting of commercially recorded songs. A second album, simply titled \"House of Wax\", was released containing the film score, composed by John Ottman.\n\nThere is a song appearing in the film which is not integrated in the soundtrack. It is \"Roland\" by Interpol, and appears in the scene when the group decides to camp over the night at the beginning of the film. The song that plays during the end credits is \"Helena\" by My Chemical Romance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849260", "title": "WPLJ", "text": "WPLJ\n\nWPLJ (95.5 FM) is a non-commercial Contemporary Christian music radio station licensed to serve New York City. The station is owned by the Educational Media Foundation (EMF) and services the New York metropolitan area as the New York City network affiliate for K-Love. WPLJ's transmitter is located at the Empire State Building, and broadcasts over four HD Radio subchannels in addition to its analog transmission. It is one of a handful of non-commercial radio stations in the United States that operate outside of the recommended frequency range for FM radio stations of its type (88.1 MHz-91.9 MHz).\n\nHistorically, WPLJ is perhaps best known as the former flagship FM station for the original ABC Radio Network. The station featured a streamlined album-oriented rock format—among the earliest iterations of the format—from 1971 to 1983, then switched to contemporary hit radio from 1983 to 1992, part of that time under the WWPR call sign. From 1992 to 2019, WPLJ carried an hot adult contemporary format, with the first 22 years of this era as the radio home of Scott Shannon. The WPLJ call sign was a last-minute replacement due to a clerical error at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and was derived from the song \"W-P-L-J\" by the Four Deuces.\n\nThe station went on the air on May 4, 1948 under the call sign WJZ-FM. In March 1953, the station's call letters were changed to WABC-FM following the merger of the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) with United Paramount Theatres. As most FM stations did during the medium's formative years, 95.5 FM simulcast the programming of its AM sister station, WJZ/WABC (770 AM).\n\nIn the early 1960s, however, WABC-FM began to program itself separately from WABC (AM). During the 1962–63 New York City newspaper strike, the station programmed news for 17 hours daily. Two-and-a-half years before WINS launched its own around-the-clock, all-news format in April 1965, it was the first such attempt in the New York market. This was followed by stints with Broadway show tunes and general freeform programming, including broadcasts of New York Mets baseball games. WABC's AM personalities, notably Dan Ingram, Chuck Leonard and Bob Lewis, hosted programs on the FM side which were the total opposites of the top 40-powered sound for which they were better known on AM. WABC-FM continued to simulcast its AM sister station during Herb Oscar Anderson's morning drive program.\n\nAt the start of 1968, ABC split its radio network into four distinct components, one of which was dedicated to FM radio. The following year, WABC-FM and its sister stations — KABC-FM in Los Angeles; WLS-FM in Chicago; KGO-FM in San Francisco; WXYZ-FM in Detroit; KQV-FM in Pittsburgh; and newly acquired KXYZ-FM in Houston — began carrying an automated, youth-oriented, progressive rock format known as \"Love\".\n\nIn late 1970, Allen Shaw, the then-president of ABC's FM station group, announced two big changes to take place in early 1971: ABC dropped \"Love\" and installed completely live-and-local, freeform rock formats. The network also applied for call letter changes for the seven stations. The New York outlet was slated to be renamed WRIF, but a clerical error on the part of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) resulted in those calls being awarded to the former WXYZ-FM in Detroit — whose own request for WDAI (\"Detroit Auto Industry\") was itself given mistakenly to WLS-FM in Chicago — leaving WABC-FM to start from scratch for its own rebranding. On February 14, 1971, the station's call letters changed to WPLJ, chosen after Allen Shaw noticed the letter combination as the name of a song on the 1970 Mothers of Invention record, \"Burnt Weeny Sandwich\". The song, \"W-P-L-J\", was originally performed by the Four Deuces in 1955 and stood for \"White Port and Lemon Juice\". On the air, the station hired John Zacherle, Alex Bennett, Vin Scelsa, Jimmy Fink, and Michael Cuscuna (from WMMR and WXPN in Philadelphia) as personalities. All seven ABC-owned FM stations also adopted a shared logo styling with the callsign and frequency within a multi-colored oval; WRIF and KLOS (the former KABC-FM) continue to use a form of this logo to the present day.\n\nIn September 1971, Allen Shaw and ABC programming executive Bob Henaberry designed and pioneered the very first album-oriented rock (AOR) format on WPLJ, playing only the best cuts from the best-selling rock albums with a minimum of disc jockey talk. Using the slogan \"Rock 'N Stereo\", the station played artists such as Led Zeppelin, The Beatles, Aerosmith, Jimi Hendrix, Cream, The Doobie Brothers, Steely Dan, Elton John, Deep Purple, Billy Joel, Rod Stewart, David Bowie, and The Allman Brothers. The station also played pop songs from artists such as James Taylor, Stevie Wonder, and Carly Simon, distinguishing itself from top 40 stations (such as co-owned WABC) by playing more tracks from their albums. The station's Arbitron ratings shot up dramatically, and WPLJ became New York's most listened-to FM rock station for most of the 1970s.\n\nIn 1973, ABC transferred Willard Lochridge, the general manager of WRIF in Detroit, to New York to manage WPLJ. The following year, Lochridge brought his Detroit program director, Larry Berger to WPLJ, and adopted a new slogan: \"New York's Best Rock\". Some of the personalities on the station during this period included Jim Kerr, Pat St. John, Jimmy Fink, Carol Miller, Tony Pigg, John Zacherle, Alex Bennett, Bob Marrone, and Dave Charity. Berger himself hosted a Sunday night call-in show, in which he discussed seemingly any topic with listeners — except the specifics of the playlist. During these call-in segments, some callers suggested that the station sped up (or \"pitched up\") the music so that they could fit in more commercials while still being able to claim that they played a large number of songs per hour. Berger repeatedly denied that this practice was in use at WPLJ. In the September 20, 1999 episode of \"Crap from the Past\", host Ron \"Boogiemonster\" Gerber suggested that music was sped up on WPLJ to make the same music sound less dynamic on other stations.\n\nAnother Sunday night show begun in 1973, then-Father Bill Ayres' long-running show, at first called \"On This Rock\" and later (after Ayres left the priesthood in the 1980s) titled The Bill Ayres Show. Known on-air as Father Bill Ayres, the show mixed spirituality and social consciousness together with the music of Harry Chapin, Bob Seger and others. The show also aired on its sister station WABC on Sunday mornings within the last years of its top 40 music format. Ayres continued to host the show until the transfer of control of WPLJ to Educational Media Foundation in May 2019.\n\nBy the late 1970s, WPLJ tended to emphasize harder rock artists such as Led Zeppelin (there was a nightly \"Get the Led Out\" segment), Kansas, Boston, and Queen, which all happened to get less airplay than on competing station WNEW-FM. At this point, the station reduced its play of softer pop songs, and their ratings remained competitive. Berger hired Marc Coppola in 1981, a rock-oriented disc jockey from suburban rival WBAB on Long Island, to do the 10 p.m.-2 a.m. shift Monday through Saturday.\n\nDuring its AOR phase, the station was noted for its promotional montages consisting of snippets of classic rock songs spliced together by St. John, emphasizing a subject or theme, such as gasoline (during the gas shortages of the 1970s). From the time of Berger's arrival, WPLJ beat main rock rival WNEW-FM in virtually every Arbitron ratings period.\n\nIn 1982, WPLJ received a direct competitor in WAPP, which adopted a near-identical AOR format to WPLJ (WAPP launched its rock format commercial-free and remained so for the summer of 1982). WAPP beat WPLJ in the ratings in the fall of 1982, and WPLJ reacted by adding more new wave such as A Flock of Seagulls, Dexy's Midnight Runners, The Go-Go's, Elvis Costello, Men at Work, and Soft Cell, mixed in with the usual AOR fare. WPLJ's ratings ended up besting those of WAPP after the latter started playing commercials in the fall of 1982. In early 1983, the station added \"Billie Jean\" by Michael Jackson, playing it several times a day (many AOR stations, including WNEW-FM, added that song and it charted on the rock tracks chart). In March 1983, WPLJ added Jackson's other hit \"Beat It\", which received very positive reaction. While Jackson was not a typical AOR artist, that cut was played by many AOR stations due to Eddie Van Halen's role in the song. The station also dropped most 1960s songs by May, and was cutting back on AOR artists while playing more contemporary rockers.\n\nIn early 1983, the station began a transition from AOR to top 40/CHR. With word that a top 40 format was coming to WVNJ-FM (100.3 FM), WPLJ moved further in a CHR direction. Though the station began playing artists like Lionel Richie and Michael Jackson, Larry Berger stated that he did not make the decision to move to a CHR format until the last week of June; WPLJ adopted a rock-leaning CHR format on June 30, 1983. At that point, the station played predominantly AOR and new wave rock cuts, and mixed in two or three rhythmic pop cuts like \"Flashdance... What a Feeling\" by Irene Cara, \"Time (Clock of the Heart)\" by Culture Club, \"She Works Hard for the Money\" by Donna Summer, and others. The station maintained its \"New York's Best Rock\" slogan, even though the station moved away from playing predominantly rock songs. Berger discussed the changes on his call-in show in July 1983, to the disapproving reaction from the rock audience. (Competitor WNBC had been a de facto AM top-40 station while WYNY had been the de facto FM hits station throughout the early 1980s, playing many current songs as part of its hot adult contemporary format). WPLJ's airstaff, which stayed on during the early transition months, gradually changed, as WNEW-FM picked up some of the station's best-known disc jockeys such as Carol Miller and Pat St. John. (Jim Kerr and sidekick Shelli Sonstein remained with the station through the end of the decade.) Jimmy Fink, Tony Pigg, and Marc Coppola eventually moved to Infinity Broadcasting's WXRK when it debuted a couple of years later.\n\nIn August 1983, at the same time WVNJ had been re-christened as WHTZ (Z100), WPLJ became known as \"The Home of the Hits\" and in October, added top 40-style jingles. In a way, it was \"New York's Hit Music Station\" just before WHTZ went on the air. The following spring, WPLJ identified itself very briefly as \"The New Musicradio PLJ\" before segueing to \"Hitradio 95\" just a short time later. In early 1985, the station became known on-air as \"Power 95\". Ratings went up after switching to CHR, though they were still just behind Z100 most of the time.\n\nOn December 17, 1987, the station changed its call letters to WWPR (to complement its \"Power 95\" slogan). (Rival Z100 joked that the \"PR\" in the calls stood for \"Puerto Rican\" and that the station planned to flip to a Spanish-language format). The WPLJ call-sign returned the following year, on December 21, 1988, when research indicated that listeners still identified the station as WPLJ. Berger departed in 1988, replaced immediately by his music director Jessica Ettinger who was named acting program director. Eventually in 1989, general manager Dana Horner hired Gary Bryan from KUBE in Seattle as program director. Bryan also served as morning show host beginning that July, ousting 15-year WPLJ morning host veteran Jim Kerr, and creating an audience outcry.\n\nWPLJ continued to be successful until 1990, when ratings started to decline. With significant pop competition — WQHT (Hot 97) playing dance and urban pop songs and WHTZ playing mainstream pop music — WPLJ dropped the \"Power\" slogan and used just its call letters, while musically, the station began leaning toward more pop-rock hits. In May, Bryan left the station to host rival WHTZ's morning zoo program beginning that August. ABC brass then replaced Horner with Mitch Dolan as general manager and president of programming, while Tom Cuddy was named vice president of programming, and Rocky Allen was named as the station's new morning host in August.\n\nWPLJ began to regain some momentum, however, in early 1991, when Cuddy and Dolan hired Scott Shannon, who had just left his rock hits project, KQLZ (Pirate Radio) in Los Angeles. Shannon, who was responsible for WHTZ's early success and served as Z100's first morning zoo host, took over as WPLJ's program director and morning show host (replacing Rocky Allen) in April 1991. The station then immediately rebranded as \"Mojo Radio\" on April 2 (Shannon's first show was on April 11) and the station began playing mainstream pop music, with ratings improving slightly. After Shannon had a series of morning show co-hosts over the summer, Todd Pettengill joined as his permanent co-host on August 19, 1991, forming \"Scott & Todd in the Morning\". Also, WPLJ began dayparting its programming by leaning towards adult top 40 with more gold and recurrents being played during the daytime hours, while still playing some rhythmic-leaning material during the evening hours.\n\nBy February 1992, the station shifted to what was becoming a popular format: hot adult contemporary (hot AC); at about the same time a slightly different version was being pioneered in Houston at KHMX. In an attempt to differentiate itself from its competitors, WPLJ adopted the slogan \"No Rap, No Hard Stuff, No Sleepy Elevator Music, Just the Best Songs on the Radio\". In addition, the \"Mojo Radio\" moniker was dropped and the station began using the moniker \"95-5 PLJ\" (with the \"W\" typically omitted except for legal station identification).\n\nThe station playlist featured many songs familiar only to New Yorkers and obscure oldies that would not have been typical for the format in other markets. (In a bit of irony, WPLJ may have helped pioneer many of the concepts made popular by the diverse-playlist, music-intensive adult hits format of 2005.) Initially, WPLJ leaned towards 1970s hits as well as mixing in liberal doses of disco and did regular theme weekends featuring one-hit wonders and number-one songs, among others. Eventually, it also dedicated Monday-Saturday nights to playing nothing but 1970s music, hosted by former WKTU disc jockey Al Bandiero, a practice that continued for the next few years.\n\nIn January 1993, Rocky Allen returned to WPLJ, this time to do afternoon drive for several years, until moving to WABC for the morning drive slot in January 1999. (Allen returned again to WPLJ in late 2005.) In 1995, WPLJ signed an agreement with Usen Group of Tokyo, a 500-channel audio cable system, to carry the station live in real time throughout Japan. Also, from August 7 to 13 of that year, WPLJ was simulcast on Heart 106.2 in London as part of testing transmissions before it signed on September 5 with a hot AC format. In mid-1996, WPLJ began syndicating \"Scott & Todd\" to WMTX in Tampa, Florida (where Scott had launched the \"morning zoo\" concept into nationwide success) and WKLI-FM in Albany, New York (Todd's hometown), with a nationwide syndication deal launching in May 1997. The syndication attempt ended October 16, 1998 as management desired to refocus the show to a local audience.\n\nOn February 5, 1999, WPLJ abruptly moved to a modern adult contemporary format, a variation of the hot AC format. The station eliminated all 1970s music from the playlist and changed its slogan to \"New York's Hit Music Station Without the Rap\" in an attempt to distance themselves from competitors that played rap music. In addition, many on-air personalities exited, including Kristie McIntyre, Danny & Onions, and WPLJ veteran Fast Jimi Roberts. However, modern AC had peaked in 1997-98, and the station transitioned back to a hot AC format, with its playlist consisting of songs from the 1980s, 1990s, and the present.\n\nIn 2005, with ratings in decline, WPLJ once again started to play more music from the 1970s and 1980s. Given its heritage as both a rock station in the 1970s and a pioneering hot AC in the early and mid-1990s, many people in the radio business saw this move as a precursor to the station switching to an adult hits format. However, they were beaten by WCBS-FM, which abruptly switched from oldies to the Jack FM format on June 3, 2005. WPLJ returned to playing music of the late 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s.\n\nWhile not an overall ratings success, WPLJ has for years been among the more financially successful stations in the New York City market, billing in excess of $40 million per year. WPLJ does extremely well with adult women in the lucrative nine northern New Jersey counties adjacent to New York City.\n\nDuring its top 40 years, WPLJ used jingles from JAM Creative Productions, some of which were packages previously used on sister station WABC during its top 40 days, but since becoming a hot AC station, WPLJ has used jingles from TM Studios.\n\nWPLJ and WABC were included in the sale of ABC Radio and the ABC Radio Networks by The Walt Disney Company to Citadel, announced in February 2006 and finalized on June 12, 2007.\n\nIn late February 2008, the \"Rocky Allen Showgram\" featuring Rocky Allen and Blain Ensley was dropped as part of a company-wide series of staff cutbacks at Citadel. On February 16, 2009, WPLJ started airing the syndicated program \"The Billy Bush Show\" in the evenings. He was later replaced by local host Ralphie Aversa.\n\nIn April 2009, WPLJ adopted a new slogan, \"Scott and Todd in the Morning and Today's Best Music\". A new logo was introduced that July.\n\nOn July 25, 2011, Scott and Todd, with the new addition of Cooper Lawrence, were part of a six-week summer test of 20th Television's nightly entertainment news magazine \"Dish Nation\". In January 2012, 20th announced the return of Dish Nation for a full 52-week season with Scott and Todd as members of its four-city roundtable.\n\nCitadel merged with Cumulus Media on September 16, 2011. By October 2011, Nielsen BDS moved rival WWFS (owned by CBS Radio) from the AC panel to the hot AC panel, although Mediabase moved WPLJ to the hot AC panel later that month. This gave New York City two hot adult contemporary stations for the first time since 1998, when WBIX dropped it for a rhythmic oldies format.\n\nOn February 7, 2014, Scott Shannon announced his retirement from WPLJ after 22 years. Co-host Todd Pettengill immediately took control of the morning show, which re-branded as \"The Todd Show\" on February 24.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, \"The Todd Show\" was re-branded to \"Todd & Jayde in the Morning\", with Jayde Donovan joining Pettengill as a co-host. With the change, co-hosts Cooper Lawrence, Fitz, and Meatballs (Richard Deaver Jr.) were all released. Monk (Joe Pardavila), Annie (Anne Marie Leamy), and Johnny on the Street (John Mingione, formerly 'John Online' of WBLI on Long Island) were the other cast members of \"Todd & Jayde in the Morning\". WPLJ re-added 1980s and 1990s songs to its playlist due to increased competition. However, since most hot AC stations no longer play 1980s music (which is primarily heard nowadays on adult contemporary and classic hits stations), Mediabase moved the station to its AC panel, despite the station following more of a standard hot AC playlist. The station has also added more rhythmic material. By November 2015, the station removed most of the 1980s music from its playlist, thus having Mediabase move the station back to the hot AC panel.\n\nOn February 13, 2019, WPLJ and five other Cumulus Media stations were sold to the Rocklin, California-based nonprofit broadcaster, Educational Media Foundation (EMF) for $103.5 million. This transaction would allow Cumulus to generate \"substantial cash for debt repayment and investment in other business opportunities\", according to its President and CEO Mary Berner. After the sale received final approval by the FCC, EMF announced that WPLJ and the other Cumulus stations acquired would all begin broadcasting its primary programming service, K-Love, on June 1 at midnight local time; this was later moved up to May 31 at 7:00 p.m., five hours earlier than originally planned.\n\nCurrent and surviving former WPLJ air personalities and staffers gathered together for a farewell celebration, held at The Cutting Room on May 23. It was the first event in what would be a week-long celebration of the station's 48-year run, which continued through the Memorial Day weekend with the station \"clearing out the library\" by playing songs from each year between 1971 and the present, along with vintage jingles and sweepers. The penultimate broadcast day on May 30 was filled with guest appearances from WPLJ alumni, including an on-air reunion of Todd Pettengill and his former morning co-host, Scott Shannon. The current airstaff began their goodbyes as well and that continued into May 31, with the final air shift handled by afternoon personality Race Taylor.\n\nThe last songs heard on WPLJ were \"Imagine\" by John Lennon–the final song played by WABC before their format switch from Top 40 to talk in May 1982–followed by a cover version of \"W-P-L-J\" by Hall & Oates, recorded live during a visit by the group to the station several years earlier. Taylor then played the closing lyrics of \"The End\" by the Beatles, before offering WPLJ a final toast, completing the closedown at 7 p.m. Following just over a minute of silence, EMF began operating WPLJ as the new New York City outlet of K-Love; K-Love programming had previously been heard in the New York area since May 2011 over Port Chester, New York-licensed WKLV-FM (96.7 FM). EMF changed WKLV-FM's call letters to WARW and its format to secondary service Air1 on July 19, 2019.\n\nIn addition to converting the 95.5 FM license to noncommercial educational status, EMF also acquired the WPLJ call letters from Cumulus.\n\nWPLJ signed on digital operations in late 2005. WPLJ-HD1 carries a digital simulcast of the analog signal. The WPLJ-HD2 subchannel originally broadcast all-70s hits, and then programming from Scott Shannon's True Oldies Channel that was distributed by ABC Radio. On July 4, 2014, WPLJ-HD2 flipped to an adult contemporary format known as \"FAS\" (referring to former sister station WFAS-FM, which flipped from AC to Urban AC), due to the discontinuation of The True Oldies Channel's distribution. (The \"FAS\" programming was also relayed on translator W232AL (94.3 FM), located in White Plains, New York). The FAS programming moved to WPLJ-HD3 (which had previously aired a simulcast of WABC) in autumn 2017, with the Russian-language \"Russkaya Reklama\" programming moving from WNEW-FM-HD4 to WPLJ-HD2. On May 1, 2019, the FAS programming on WPLJ-HD3 and W232AL ceased operations.\n\nAfter EMF acquired the station on May 31, 2019, WPLJ-HD2 adopted a simulcast of the Christian-formatted \"Bridge Radio\" fed by WRDR in Freehold Township, New Jersey (this would later be moved to WPLJ-HD4, with the K-Love Classics service being installed on the HD2). Also in 2019, WPLJ-HD3 adopted a simulcast of the Christian-formatted \"Air1\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849290", "title": "East Lancashire Railway (1844–1859)", "text": "East Lancashire Railway (1844–1859)\n\nThe East Lancashire Railway operated from 1844 to 1859 in the historic county of Lancashire, England. It began as a railway from Clifton via Bury to Rawtenstall, and during its short life grew into a complex network of lines connecting towns and cities including Liverpool, Manchester, Preston and Blackburn.\n\nDuring a period of rapid growth the company acquired several of its competitors, including the Blackburn and Preston Railway, which it purchased to gain access to Preston. It faced competition from companies such as the North Union Railway, and was involved in a notable stand-off in 1849 with the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway. Following several years of discussions, the East Lancashire Railway was in 1859 amalgamated with the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway. Parts of the network remain in use today, and a section of the original line between Bury and Rawtenstall is now operated as a heritage railway.\n\nIn 1830, the Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal Company began to promote the construction of a railway along the line of their canal from Salford, to Bolton and Bury. Following an act of parliament to enable them to become a railway company, they built their line from Manchester to Bolton, although on a slightly different alignment than was first planned. This was mainly to preserve the canal for the use of mine traffic, which would not have been provided for if the canal had been infilled and replaced by a railway. A new Act had been required for the new alignment, but due mainly to the objections of the company's engineer, the connection to Bury was never built, as it would have required a tunnel on a gradient of 1 in 100, at the time a difficult and expensive proposition. The new railway therefore became known as the Manchester and Bolton Railway.\n\nOn 14 September 1843, a group of local businessmen including John Grundy, Thomas Wrigley and John Robinson Kay met at a public house in Bury to discuss the creation of a railway connection for the Bury and the Rossendale districts. Their proposed railway offered better facilities than those also proposed by the Manchester and Leeds Railway (M&LR), whose planned connection at Bury would be made with their Heywood branch line from Castleton. The Manchester, Bury and Rossendale Railway Company (MB&RR) was thus created, its purpose to build a railway from Bury to Clifton, where it would connect to the Manchester and Bolton Railway. The company also promoted the idea of extending the line northwards to Rawtenstall. On 4 July 1844 their private bill was granted Royal Assent. The Act authorised the company to raise £300,000, and also to borrow £100,000 (£ and £ respectively in ).\n\nThe land between Clifton and Bury, partly owned by the Earl of Derby, John Robinson Kay, William Grant and others, was mostly \"waste, woodland, pasture or reservoirs, except at Brookbottoms where arable land was avoided by the tunnel\". Strong financial support was offered to the MB&RR by local businesses, who were unhappy with the idea of the M&LR building their own railway. The Manchester and Leeds District Board of Trade produced a report in 1845 which gave their backing to the M&LR and the line was sanctioned in 1846, however the MB&RR project was unaffected by this connection.\nManchester contractors Pauling & Henfry, who tendered £167,529 (£ in ), were in May 1844 awarded two contracts to build the Clifton to Bury and Bury to Rawtenstall sections of the new railway. The work was sub-let to smaller contractors and began quickly; in July 1844 the \"Manchester Guardian\" wrote a favourable report on the works. However, a shortage of workers in 1845 (reflecting the amount of railway construction underway at that time) meant that some men were asked to work on Sundays, resulting in some being charged with breaking the Sabbath. Further difficulties prompted the dismissal of the original contractors, their place being taken by John Waring.\n\nThe railway ran north from Clifton through a cutting at Outwood. This required the removal of about of earth. It then passed north-east through Radcliffe Bridge and Withins station, and from there into Bury Bolton street station. From Bury, it ran through Summerseat, Ramsbottom, Stubbins and finally to Rawtenstall. The railway climbed a constant gradient, across a mixture of viaducts, tunnels, cuttings and embankments, one of which, the mile–long section from Ramsbottom to Stubbins, was substantial. The extant Clifton Viaduct was built to cross the River Irwell, which flowed below, and also the Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal. Its largest span is wide.\n\nBy 1844, the Blackburn and Preston Railway (B&PR), who shared a viaduct across the River Ribble with the North Union Railway (NUR), were planning a railway from Blackburn to Farington. Following an 1845 act the B&PR was absorbed by the MB&RR on 3 August 1846. The B&PR's Act of Parliament also allowed for a connection with the proposed Blackburn, Burnley, Accrington and Colne Extension Railway (BBA&CER), which would run from Stubbins Junction to Accrington, providing a direct link between Blackburn and Colne. A second BBA&CER act allowed it to lease or sell itself to the MB&RR, and so in 1845 the two companies joined. The MB&RR later that year changed its name to the East Lancashire Railway (ELR).\n\nThe following year, the ELR acquired the Liverpool, Ormskirk and Preston Railway (LO&PR), which gave it direct access to Liverpool Docks. The LO&PR's line would run from a junction with the Liverpool and Bury Railway at Walton-on-the-Hill to a junction with the B&PR. The enabling act also allowed the LO&PR to build further branch lines, and the ELR obtained further acts including one which allowed it to build a connection to Preston. Following the acquisition on 3 August 1846, a disagreement ensued over traffic priorities and arrangements for the ELR at the NUR's station in Preston. The ELR proposed a new station and a separate line with a new crossing of the Ribble, but this proved controversial; Preston Corporation petitioned against the proposed line, producing a series of witnesses who attested to the damage they presumed would be caused by the embankment necessary for the scheme to proceed. Several members of the corporation were also shareholders of the rival Fleetwood, Preston and West Riding Junction Railway, and the petition's proposer was brother-in-law to a director of the rival Manchester and Leeds Railway. In the end the ELR won its bid, but had to landscape its embankment (which later became the dividing line between Avenham and Miller Parks), make an ornamental arch for carriages and pedestrians crossing under the railway, and build a footbridge on the river viaduct.\n\nMeanwhile, the former MB&RR line from Clifton to Rawtenstall was inaugurated on Friday 25 September 1846. Surveyed two days earlier by the Inspector-General of railways, Charles Pasley, who was reportedly satisfied with the project, upwards of 1,000 invitations were delivered to local people, shareholders and other interested parties. They gathered at the new Hunts Bank station in Manchester. Leaving Manchester, the train stopped near Philips Park to collect chairman John Hodges, before continuing to Radcliffe Bridge to collect more passengers. Large crowds were gathered along the course of the railway. In Bury, the train was extended to about 30 carriages and three engines, and more passengers were collected before the train finished its journey in Rawtenstall. Passengers were provided with a large meal in a closed-off section of a power-loom shed owned by John Robinson Kay. They listened to several celebratory speeches, before re-embarking the train to head home. The railway was opened to the general public on the following Monday.\n\nIn November 1846 the company submitted proposals for a new line from Buckley Wells (south of Bury) through Whitefield and Prestwich, to a new terminus at Victoria Station. The plan did not progress any further than the initial planning stages; Whitefield and Prestwich eventually got their own railway stations in 1879.\n\nIn two years the ELR grew from a company authorised to build of railway into one with the authority to build of railway. In February 1848 with of track open, the company reported for the week ending 5 February 1848 an annual income of £553 18s 8d (£ in ) for passengers and parcels, and £498 10s 4d for freight (£ in ) – almost double the previous year's income. By March 1848 the line between Rawtenstall and Newchurch was complete, followed in June by the Blackburn to Accrington connection (), and, in August, the Stubbins junction to Accrington section. The line was extended east to Burnley () by September 1848, and, in February 1849, from Burnley to Colne, where it made an end-on junction with the Leeds and Bradford Extension Railway, providing the ELR with a connection to Bradford and Leeds.\n\nThe LO&PR line to Lostock Hall () was completed on 2 April 1849, and the () extension into Preston station opened on 2 September 1850. The line ran into new platforms built on the east side of the NUR's station, which were managed and staffed by the ELR, and which had their own booking hall and entrance. The new platforms were effectively a separate station.\n\nMore lines followed with a connection between Newchurch and Bacup by October 1852, and the Ormskirk to Rainford Skelmersdale Branch in March 1858. A three-mile long line to Tottington opened in 1882 from a junction with the original MB&BR line. It was electrified in 1913 before reverting to steam in 1951. It closed to passengers in 1952 and goods in 1963 and has since been reclaimed as a walkway.\n\nIn 1846, the Manchester and Bolton Railway (whose line the ELR used to gain access to Manchester) was taken over by the Manchester and Leeds Railway, which, the following year, became part of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (L&YR). The ELR's expansion and the opening of new routes—including an alternative route between Manchester and Leeds—had caused a degree of consternation at the L&YR, but the two companies initially managed to work together successfully.\n\nAfter about three years a dispute flared up over the collection of tolls for the ELR's use of the line. The ELR had become accustomed to running their trains on to the L&YR line and then later declaring of the number of passengers liable for a toll but, in March 1849, the L&YR insisted that ELR trains stop at Clifton so that passenger numbers and tickets could be checked by their own employees. The ELR accused the L&YR of trying to impede their traffic, particularly as they had recently gained a connection to Bradford, in competition with the L&YR. They stated that the L&YR had access to their accounts, and to the returns made by their staff.\n\nOn the morning of 12 March 1849, despite the presence of police from Bury and Pendleton, the L&YR placed a large baulk of timber across the ELR's line at Clifton Junction, effectively blocking it. Employees from both companies arrived at the scene, and a large crowd gathered to watch events unfold. The L&YR also pulled a train past the junction, blocking the up line to the city. Its engine was pointed south-east toward Manchester, available to any ELR passengers who wished to continue their journey. An ELR train arrived from Bury, and stopped. L&YR employees attempted to take tickets from the ELR's passengers, but were refused, as the ELR had already taken tickets at their Ringley Road station. ELR employees then removed the baulk of timber, and in an effort to push the L&YR train out of the way, drove their train forward. The L&YR had anticipated this, and moved another engine (taken from a L&YR train from Manchester) to the front of their Manchester-bound train. The ELR then blocked the L&YR down line with another of their trains, laden with stone, moving it to a position directly abreast of the L&YR train. The line remained completely blocked until about mid-day, with a queue of trains from both companies, and from the Blackburn and Darwen Railway, building up on each side of the blockage. The situation was eventually defused when the L&YR withdrew their train.\n\nThe General Manager of the ELR, Richard Hacking, wrote to \"The Times\" newspaper expressing his annoyance at the L&YR's tactics. He claimed to have received a letter from the company sent on 9 March 1849 informing him of proposed changes to operational procedures resulting from a near-collision at Clifton Junction. The first change was that ELR trains would at all times give way to L&YR trains on the Manchester and Bolton line; a stop signal was to be placed along the ELR line from the junction, to be activated whenever a L&YR train was in sight. The second change was that \"for the safety of the public\" all ELR trains would be required to stop before the points at the junction, where all passenger tickets to Manchester would be collected by L&YR employees. A daily return would be required of all passengers and other freight booked from Salford \"for the purpose of keeping regularly and balancing punctually the accounts of the two companies\". Hacking claimed to have replied stating that the near-collision had occurred because the L&YR's engine driver had ignored a signal at Clifton Junction, and that the ELR would not accept the changes requested by the L&YR. The ELR refused to supply tickets at any point, although they considered it reasonable to supply more information on their traffic using the L&YR line.\nHacking stated that he had received a letter from the L&YR porter at Clifton requesting that all ELR trains stop at Clifton Junction so that tickets could be collected by L&YR staff, and that all ELR goods trains would have to supply invoices at the junction. In his letter he concluded that the purpose of the L&YR's demands was to impede the flow of ELR traffic to Manchester and onwards to Yorkshire.\n\nHacking's account of the events of 12 March is similar to that reported by \"The Times\". He claims to have travelled to Clifton to witness an L&YR clerk being prevented from collecting tickets, and to have then continued on another train to Manchester. On his arrival there, he saw L&YR employees ready to pull up the rails to the ELR platform, although the rails were left intact. He then mentions returning to Clifton after hearing that L&YR employees had recently left for the station. He blamed the Managing Director of the L&YR, Captain Law, and Mr Blackmore, superintendent of the Bolton line, for ordering theline to be blocked with the baulk of timber. Hacking also mentions an approaching up-train from Bolton, which on encountering the blockage apparently moved across to the down line to bypass it – in the face of oncoming traffic. Expressing his shock, he claims to have ordered the ELR's stone train onto the down line, changing the signals accordingly. Hacking's account ends by claiming that Blackmore ordered the L&YR train to move, effectively resolving the dispute.\nThe matter was so serious that it was raised in the House of Commons. It was eventually settled in court, with the ELR thereon making a pro rata payment according to the distance travelled on each railway. The court also found in favour of the L&YR who had argued that the original agreement to share the line did not extend to a vastly extended ELR network. The amount of compensation to the L&YR was left at the discretion of both companies.\n\nRelations between the two companies were, therefore, not entirely amicable. In 1853 the ELR made further proposals for a new line from Clifton to Salford, roughly parallel to the L&YR line, however in 1854 an agreement between the two companies meant that the Clifton Junction to Salford line was vested jointly in both companies. Amalgamation had been discussed since the early 1850s and in 1859, by an act of parliament, the ELR was absorbed by the L&YR.\n\nFollowing the Beeching Axe parts of the ELR's network were closed. The original MB&RR line between Clifton Junction and Bury closed in 1966 (although Radcliffe Bridge station was closed in 1958), but the line between Bury and Rawtenstall continued to serve passengers until 1972 and freight until 1980. This section is now used by the East Lancashire Railway, a modern heritage railway opened in 1987. The trackbed between Clifton and Radcliffe now forms a part of the Irwell Sculpture Trail. The connection from Stubbins to Accrington was closed in 1966. The ELR line across the Ribble between Preston and Bamber Bridge was closed to passengers in 1968, and to goods four years later. The East Lancashire platforms 10–13 were demolished along with Butler Street Goods Yard. The line between Preston and Colne survives as the East Lancashire Line, operated by Northern. The Skelmersdale Branch was closed to passengers in 1956 and to all traffic seven years later, however a proposal exists to reopen the line as far as Skelmersdale. Services between Liverpool and Ormskirk are now operated by Merseyrail.\n\nThe ELR used a range of locomotives. One of its earliest orders was for twelve Long Boiler 2-2-2s from Fenton, Craven and Company (at least one of these was used on the inauguration of the railway), but dissatisfied with the locomotives they accepted only four. Four were diverted to the Leeds, Dewsbury and Manchester Railway, and two to the Eastern Counties Railway. In 1848, the ELR's four 2-2-2s were rebuilt as 2-4-0s by R and W Hawthorn. In about 1858, they were again rebuilt as 0-6-0s by Sylvester Lees. Richard Walker, a director of the ELR between 1838 and 1854, was the supplier of about twenty locomotives to the company, including, in the 1850s, four 2-4-0s and several 0-6-0s.\n\nWalker, Richard & Brother supplied four 2-2-2 locomotives, Medusa, Hecate, Diomed and Lynx. All were later rebuilt as a 2-4-0 tank engine. In 1847, two 0-4-2s were supplied by R and W Hawthorn, rebuilt in 1868 as 2-4-0s. In 1845 the MB&RR ordered four 0-6-0s from the Haigh Foundry, and a fifth engine from Fenton, Craven and Company. Another engine was built by Haigh in 1848.\n\nThe largest ELR class was a series of outside-frame 2-4-0s with cylinders and driving wheels. Some may have originated as 2-2-2s, and some were later rebuilt as 2-4-0 tank engines. One was rebuilt as a 2-4-0 saddle tank engine. These were among the last locomotives to be built in Bury. Other manufacturers to supply the ELR were Sharp, Roberts and Company, Stothert, Slaughter and Company, and Beyer, Peacock and Company. The ELR livery for passenger locomotives was dark green with red brown frames, and polished domes and safety valves.\n\nStation buildings generally followed one of three designs. The principal stations at Bury and Accrington were based on the same design by a Manchester-based firm of architects. Most of the other stations were designed by the company's resident engineer. They were stone-built and consisted of a station master's room, adjoining a seated waiting area, a ladies waiting room and the booking office. The third and cheapest design followed the standard design but utilised brick and timber as materials. The platform was normally roofed.\n\nTrack signals were based on two designs—station signals on posts, each post with two moveable arms—and portable signals; flags were used by day, and coloured lanterns at night. The signals on posts were patented semaphore designs from J Stevens & Son. Each post had two arms—linked by chain to a foot control at the base—which were used to alert drivers on both the up and down lines. Each foot control was held in place by a hook on the post. An arm set at an angle would indicate that the train should approach slowly, before stopping at the station. The same arm set vertically (and out of sight) would indicate that the train could pass through without stopping. The posts were also illuminated to allow use at night. Signals at Accrington station were more complex, linked to the station building with wires, and by default set at 'stop' when released. The coloured lanterns used as portable signals were painted red on one side (stop), green on another (go slowly), and clear on the third (proceed).\n\nThe line was standard gauge and most sections used rails in lengths, each weighing 75 lb/yard (31.1 kg/m), fixed to wooden sleepers long and apart.\n\nIn the early history of the railways accidents were not uncommon, and the ELR was no exception. Several incidents were reported in \"The Times\". During Whitsuntide 1849, a passenger train was in a rear-end collision with an excursion train near Burnley, Lancashire. Despite efforts to protect the rear of the passenger train, another excursion train was in a rear-end collision with it. In January 1850, three people died when a luggage train ran into a passenger train at Maghull railway station. A serious accident occurred at Clifton Junction on 19 October 1851 when a passenger train derailed passing the points on the junction, injuring several passengers, some seriously. In September 1866 a man died after jumping from the train from Blackburn. A non-fatal collision occurred at Lostock Hall railway station in November 1876.\n\nInclement weather was also a problem; in January 1867 trains were delayed for several hours at due to snow on the line, and on 30 January 1877 a heavy storm blew the roof completely away from Preston railway station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849293", "title": "Healy (crater)", "text": "Healy (crater)\n\nHealy is a lunar impact crater that lies past the northwestern limb of the Moon, on the far side relative to the Earth. It is located to the southeast of the walled plain Landau, and west of Lorentz, another walled plain. The rim of Healy is only slightly worn, but a small crater lies across the northeastern side. The inner walls and interior floor are relatively featureless, with no impacts of note.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Healy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849295", "title": "Roman navy", "text": "Roman navy\n\nThe Roman navy () comprised the naval forces of the ancient Roman state. The navy was instrumental in the Roman conquest of the Mediterranean Basin, but it never enjoyed the prestige of the Roman legions. Throughout their history, the Romans remained a primarily land-based people and relied partially on their more nautically inclined subjects, such as the Greeks and the Egyptians, to build their ships. Because of that, the navy was never completely embraced by the Roman state, and deemed somewhat \"un-Roman\".\n\nIn antiquity, navies and trading fleets did not have the logistical autonomy that modern ships and fleets possess, and unlike modern naval forces, the Roman navy even at its height never existed as an autonomous service but operated as an adjunct to the Roman army.\n\nDuring the course of the First Punic War, the Roman navy was massively expanded and played a vital role in the Roman victory and the Roman Republic's eventual ascension to hegemony in the Mediterranean Sea. In the course of the first half of the 2nd century BC, Rome went on to destroy Carthage and subdue the Hellenistic kingdoms of the eastern Mediterranean, achieving complete mastery of the inland sea, which they called \"Mare Nostrum\". The Roman fleets were again prominent in the 1st century BC in the wars against the pirates, and in the civil wars that brought down the Republic, whose campaigns ranged across the Mediterranean. In 31 BC, the great naval Battle of Actium ended the civil wars culminating in the final victory of Augustus and the establishment of the Roman Empire.\n\nDuring the Imperial period, the Mediterranean became largely a peaceful \"Roman lake\". In the absence of a maritime enemy, the navy was reduced mostly to patrol, anti-piracy and transport duties. By far, the navy's most vital task was to ensure Roman grain imports were shipped and delivered to the capital unimpeded across the Mediterranean. The navy also manned and maintained craft on major frontier rivers such as the Rhine and the Danube for supplying the army.\n\nOn the fringes of the Empire, in new conquests or, increasingly, in defense against barbarian invasions, the Roman fleets were still engaged in open warfare. The decline of the Empire in the 3rd century took a heavy toll on the navy, which was reduced to a shadow of its former self, both in size and in combat ability. As successive waves of the \"Völkerwanderung\" crashed on the land frontiers of the battered Empire, the navy could only play a secondary role. In the early 5th century, the Roman frontiers were breached, and barbarian kingdoms appeared on the shores of the western Mediterranean. One of them, the Vandal Kingdom, raised a navy of its own and raided the shores of the Mediterranean, even sacking Rome, while the diminished Roman fleets were incapable of offering any resistance. The Western Roman Empire collapsed in the late 5th century. The navy of the surviving eastern Roman Empire is known as the Byzantine navy.\n\nThe exact origins of the Roman fleet are obscure. A traditionally agricultural and land-based society, the Romans rarely ventured out to sea, unlike their Etruscan neighbours. There is evidence of Roman warships in the early 4th century BC, such as mention of a warship that carried an embassy to Delphi in 394 BC, but at any rate, the Roman fleet, if it existed, was negligible. The traditional birth date of the Roman navy is set at ca. 311 BC, when, after the conquest of Campania, two new officials, the \"duumviri navales classis ornandae reficiendaeque causa\", were tasked with the maintenance of a fleet. As a result, the Republic acquired its first fleet, consisting of 20 ships, most likely triremes, with each \"duumvir\" commanding a squadron of 10 ships. However, the Republic continued to rely mostly on her legions for expansion in Italy; the navy was most likely geared towards combating piracy and lacked experience in naval warfare, being easily defeated in 282 BC by the Tarentines.\n\nThis situation continued until the First Punic War: the main task of the Roman fleet was patrolling along the Italian coast and rivers, protecting seaborne trade from piracy. Whenever larger tasks had to be undertaken, such as the naval blockade of a besieged city, the Romans called on the allied Greek cities of southern Italy, the \"socii navales\", to provide ships and crews. It is possible that the supervision of these maritime allies was one of the duties of the four new \"praetores classici\", who were established in 267 BC.\n\nThe first Roman expedition outside mainland Italy was against the island of Sicily in 265 BC. This led to the outbreak of hostilities with Carthage, which would last until 241 BC. At the time, the Punic city was the unchallenged master of the western Mediterranean, possessing a long maritime and naval experience and a large fleet. Although Rome had relied on her legions for the conquest of Italy, operations in Sicily had to be supported by a fleet, and the ships available by Rome's allies were insufficient. Thus in 261 BC, the Roman Senate set out to construct a fleet of 100 quinqueremes and 20 triremes. According to Polybius, the Romans seized a shipwrecked Carthaginian quinquereme, and used it as a blueprint for their own ships. The new fleets were commanded by the annually elected Roman magistrates, but naval expertise was provided by the lower officers, who continued to be provided by the \"socii\", mostly Greeks. This practice was continued until well into the Empire, something also attested by the direct adoption of numerous Greek naval terms.\nDespite the massive buildup, the Roman crews remained inferior in naval experience to the Carthaginians, and could not hope to match them in naval tactics, which required great maneuverability and experience. They, therefore, employed a novel weapon that transformed sea warfare to their advantage. They equipped their ships with the \"corvus\", possibly developed earlier by the Syracusans against the Athenians. This was a long plank with a spike for hooking onto enemy ships. Using it as a boarding bridge, marines were able to board an enemy ship, transforming sea combat into a version of land combat, where the Roman legionaries had the upper hand. However, it is believed that the \"Corvus\"' weight made the ships unstable, and could capsize a ship in rough seas.\n\nAlthough the first sea engagement of the war, the Battle of the Lipari Islands in 260 BC, was a defeat for Rome, the forces involved were relatively small. Through the use of the \"Corvus\", the fledgling Roman navy under Gaius Duilius won its first major engagement later that year at the Battle of Mylae. During the course of the war, Rome continued to be victorious at sea: victories at Sulci (258 BC) and Tyndaris (257 BC) were followed by the massive Battle of Cape Ecnomus, where the Roman fleet under the consuls Marcus Atilius Regulus and Lucius Manlius inflicted a severe defeat on the Carthaginians. This string of successes allowed Rome to push the war further across the sea to Africa and Carthage itself. Continued Roman success also meant that their navy gained significant experience, although it also suffered a number of catastrophic losses due to storms, while conversely, the Carthaginian navy suffered from attrition.\n\nThe Battle of Drepana in 249 BC resulted in the only major Carthaginian sea victory, forcing the Romans to equip a new fleet from donations by private citizens. In the last battle of the war, at Aegates Islands in 241 BC, the Romans under Gaius Lutatius Catulus displayed superior seamanship to the Carthaginians, notably using their rams rather than the now-abandoned \"Corvus\" to achieve victory.\n\nAfter the Roman victory, the balance of naval power in the Western Mediterranean had shifted from Carthage to Rome. This ensured Carthaginian acquiescence to the conquest of Sardinia and Corsica, and also enabled Rome to deal decisively with the threat posed by the Illyrian pirates in the Adriatic. The Illyrian Wars marked Rome's first involvement with the affairs of the Balkan peninsula. Initially, in 229 BC, a fleet of 200 warships was sent against Queen Teuta, and swiftly expelled the Illyrian garrisons from the Greek coastal cities of modern-day Albania. Ten years later, the Romans sent another expedition in the area against Demetrius of Pharos, who had rebuilt the Illyrian navy and engaged in piracy up into the Aegean. Demetrius was supported by Philip V of Macedon, who had grown anxious at the expansion of Roman power in Illyria. The Romans were again quickly victorious and expanded their Illyrian protectorate, but the beginning of the Second Punic War (218–201 BC) forced them to divert their resources westwards for the next decades.\n\nDue to Rome's command of the seas, Hannibal, Carthage's great general, was forced to eschew a sea-borne invasion, instead choosing to bring the war over land to the Italian peninsula. Unlike the first war, the navy played little role on either side in this war. The only naval encounters occurred in the first years of the war, at Lilybaeum (218 BC) and the Ebro River (217 BC), both resulting Roman victories. Despite an overall numerical parity, for the remainder of the war the Carthaginians did not seriously challenge Roman supremacy. The Roman fleet was hence engaged primarily with raiding the shores of Africa and guarding Italy, a task which included the interception of Carthaginian convoys of supplies and reinforcements for Hannibal's army, as well as keeping an eye on a potential intervention by Carthage's ally, Philip V. The only major action in which the Roman fleet was involved was the siege of Syracuse in 214–212 BC with 130 ships under Marcus Claudius Marcellus. The siege is remembered for the ingenious inventions of Archimedes, such as mirrors that burned ships or the so-called \"Claw of Archimedes\", which kept the besieging army at bay for two years. A fleet of 160 vessels was assembled to support Scipio Africanus' army in Africa in 202 BC, and, should his expedition fail, evacuate his men. In the event, Scipio achieved a decisive victory at Zama, and the subsequent peace stripped Carthage of its fleet.\n\nRome was now the undisputed master of the Western Mediterranean, and turned her gaze from defeated Carthage to the Hellenistic world. Small Roman forces had already been engaged in the First Macedonian War, when, in 214 BC, a fleet under Marcus Valerius Laevinus had successfully thwarted Philip V from invading Illyria with his newly built fleet. The rest of the war was carried out mostly by Rome's allies, the Aetolian League and later the Kingdom of Pergamon, but a combined Roman–Pergamene fleet of ca. 60 ships patrolled the Aegean until the war's end in 205 BC. In this conflict, Rome, still embroiled in the Punic War, was not interested in expanding her possessions, but rather in thwarting the growth of Philip's power in Greece. The war ended in an effective stalemate, and was renewed in 201 BC, when Philip V invaded Asia Minor. A naval battle off Chios ended in a costly victory for the Pergamene–Rhodian alliance, but the Macedonian fleet lost many warships, including its flagship, a \"deceres\". Soon after, Pergamon and Rhodes appealed to Rome for help, and the Republic was drawn into the Second Macedonian War. In view of the massive Roman naval superiority, the war was fought on land, with the Macedonian fleet, already weakened at Chios, not daring to venture out of its anchorage at Demetrias. After the crushing Roman victory at Cynoscephalae, the terms imposed on Macedon were harsh, and included the complete disbandment of her navy.\n\nAlmost immediately following the defeat of Macedon, Rome became embroiled in a war with the Seleucid Empire. This war too was decided mainly on land, although the combined Roman–Rhodian navy also achieved victories over the Seleucids at Myonessus and Eurymedon. These victories, which were invariably concluded with the imposition of peace treaties that prohibited the maintenance of anything but token naval forces, spelled the disappearance of the Hellenistic royal navies, leaving Rome and her allies unchallenged at sea. Coupled with the final destruction of Carthage, and the end of Macedon's independence, by the latter half of the 2nd century BC, Roman control over all of what was later to be dubbed \"mare nostrum\" (\"our sea\") had been established. Subsequently, the Roman navy was drastically reduced, depending on its Socii navales.\n\nIn the absence of a strong naval presence however, piracy flourished throughout the Mediterranean, especially in Cilicia, but also in Crete and other places, further reinforced by money and warships supplied by King Mithridates VI of Pontus, who hoped to enlist their aid in his wars against Rome. In the First Mithridatic War (89–85 BC), Sulla had to requisition ships wherever he could find them to counter Mithridates' fleet. Despite the makeshift nature of the Roman fleet however, in 86 BC Lucullus defeated the Pontic navy at Tenedos.\n\nImmediately after the end of the war, a permanent force of ca. 100 vessels was established in the Aegean from the contributions of Rome's allied maritime states. Although sufficient to guard against Mithridates, this force was totally inadequate against the pirates, whose power grew rapidly. Over the next decade, the pirates defeated several Roman commanders, and raided unhindered even to the shores of Italy, reaching Rome's harbor, Ostia. According to the account of Plutarch, \"the ships of the pirates numbered more than a thousand, and the cities captured by them four hundred.\" Their activity posed a growing threat for the Roman economy, and a challenge to Roman power: several prominent Romans, including two praetors with their retinue and the young Julius Caesar, were captured and held for ransom. Perhaps most important of all, the pirates disrupted Rome's vital lifeline, namely the massive shipments of grain and other produce from Africa and Egypt that were needed to sustain the city's population.\n\nThe resulting grain shortages were a major political issue, and popular discontent threatened to become explosive. In 74 BC, with the outbreak of the Third Mithridatic War, Marcus Antonius (the father of Mark Antony) was appointed \"praetor\" with extraordinary \"imperium\" against the pirate threat, but signally failed in his task: he was defeated off Crete in 72 BC, and died shortly after. Finally, in 67 BC the \"Lex Gabinia\" was passed in the Plebeian Council, vesting Pompey with unprecedented powers and authorizing him to move against them. In a massive and concerted campaign, Pompey cleared the seas of the pirates in only three months. Afterwards, the fleet was reduced again to policing duties against intermittent piracy.\n\nIn 56 BC, for the first time a Roman fleet engaged in battle outside the Mediterranean. This occurred during Julius Caesar's Gallic Wars, when the maritime tribe of the Veneti rebelled against Rome. Against the Veneti, the Romans were at a disadvantage, since they did not know the coast, and were inexperienced in fighting in the open sea with its tides and currents. Furthermore, the Veneti ships were superior to the light Roman galleys. They were built of oak and had no oars, being thus more resistant to ramming. In addition, their greater height gave them an advantage in both missile exchanges and boarding actions. In the event, when the two fleets encountered each other in Quiberon Bay, Caesar's navy, under the command of D. Brutus, resorted to the use of hooks on long poles, which cut the halyards supporting the Veneti sails. Immobile, the Veneti ships were easy prey for the legionaries who boarded them, and fleeing Veneti ships were taken when they became becalmed by a sudden lack of winds. Having thus established his control of the English Channel, in the next years Caesar used this newly built fleet to carry out two invasions of Britain.\nThe last major campaigns of the Roman navy in the Mediterranean until the late 3rd century AD would be in the civil wars that ended the Republic. In the East, the Republican faction quickly established its control, and Rhodes, the last independent maritime power in the Aegean, was subdued by Gaius Cassius Longinus in 43 BC, after its fleet was defeated off Kos. In the West, against the triumvirs stood Sextus Pompeius, who had been given command of the Italian fleet by the Senate in 43 BC. He took control of Sicily and made it his base, blockading Italy and stopping the politically crucial supply of grain from Africa to Rome. After suffering a defeat from Sextus in 42 BC, Octavian initiated massive naval armaments, aided by his closest associate, Marcus Agrippa: ships were built at Ravenna and Ostia, the new artificial harbor of Portus Julius built at Cumae, and soldiers and rowers levied, including over 20,000 manumitted slaves. Finally, Octavian and Agrippa defeated Sextus in the Battle of Naulochus in 36 BC, putting an end to all Pompeian resistance.\nOctavian's power was further enhanced after his victory against the combined fleets of Mark Antony and Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, in the Battle of Actium in 31 BC, where Antony had assembled 500 ships against Octavian's 400 ships. This last naval battle of the Roman Republic definitively established Octavian as the sole ruler over Rome and the Mediterranean world. In the aftermath of his victory, he formalized the Fleet's structure, establishing several key harbors in the Mediterranean (see below). The now fully professional navy had its main duties consist of protecting against piracy, escorting troops and patrolling the river frontiers of Europe. It remained however engaged in active warfare in the periphery of the Empire.\n\nUnder Augustus and after the conquest of Egypt there were increasing demands from the Roman economy to extend the trade lanes to India. The Arabian control of all sea routes to India was an obstacle. One of the first naval operations under \"princeps\" Augustus was therefore the preparation for a campaign on the Arabian Peninsula. Aelius Gallus, the prefect of Egypt ordered the construction of 130 transports and subsequently carried 10,000 soldiers to Arabia. But the following march through the desert towards Yemen failed and the plans for control of the Arabian peninsula had to be abandoned.\n\nAt the other end of the Empire, in Germania, the navy played an important role in the supply and transport of the legions. In 15 BC an independent fleet was installed at the Lake Constance. Later, the generals Drusus and Tiberius used the Navy extensively, when they tried to extend the Roman frontier to the Elbe. In 12 BC Drusus ordered the construction of a fleet of 1,000 ships and sailed them along the Rhine into the North Sea. The Frisii and Chauci had nothing to oppose the superior numbers, tactics and technology of the Romans. When these entered the river mouths of Weser and Ems, the local tribes had to surrender.\n\nIn 5 BC the Roman knowledge concerning the North and Baltic Sea was fairly extended during a campaign by Tiberius, reaching as far as the Elbe: Plinius describes how Roman naval formations came past Heligoland and set sail to the north-eastern coast of Denmark, and Augustus himself boasts in his \"Res Gestae\": \"My fleet sailed from the mouth of the Rhine eastward as far as the lands of the Cimbri to which, up to that time, no Roman had ever penetrated either by land or by sea...\". The multiple naval operations north of Germania had to be abandoned after the battle of the Teutoburg Forest in the year 9 AD.\n\nIn the years 15 and 16, Germanicus carried out several fleet operations along the rivers Rhine and Ems, without permanent results due to grim Germanic resistance and a disastrous storm. By 28, the Romans lost further control of the Rhine mouth in a succession of Frisian insurgencies. From 43 to 85, the Roman navy played an important role in the Roman conquest of Britain. The \"classis Germanica\" rendered outstanding services in multitudinous landing operations. In 46, a naval expedition made a push deep into the Black Sea region and even travelled on the Tanais. In 47 a revolt by the Chauci, who took to piratical activities along the Gallic coast, was subdued by Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo. By 57 an expeditionary corps reached Chersonesos (see Charax, Crimea).\n\nIt seems that under Nero, the navy obtained strategically important positions for trading with India; but there was no known fleet in the Red Sea. Possibly, parts of the Alexandrian fleet were operating as escorts for the Indian trade. In the Jewish revolt, from 66 to 70, the Romans were forced to fight Jewish ships, operating from a harbour in the area of modern Tel Aviv, on Israel's Mediterranean coast. In the meantime several flotilla engagements on the Sea of Galilee took place.\n\nIn 68, as his reign became increasingly insecure, Nero raised \"legio\" I \"Adiutrix\" from sailors of the praetorian fleets. After Nero's overthrow, in 69, the \"Year of the four emperors\", the praetorian fleets supported Emperor Otho against the usurper Vitellius, and after his eventual victory, Vespasian formed another legion, \"legio\" II \"Adiutrix\", from their ranks. Only in the Pontus did Anicetus, the commander of the \"Classis Pontica\", support Vitellius. He burned the fleet, and sought refuge with the Iberian tribes, engaging in piracy. After a new fleet was built, this revolt was subdued.\n\nDuring the Batavian rebellion of Gaius Julius Civilis (69–70), the rebels got hold of a squadron of the Rhine fleet by treachery, and the conflict featured frequent use of the Roman Rhine flotilla. In the last phase of the war, the British fleet and \"legio\" XIV were brought in from Britain to attack the Batavian coast, but the Cananefates, allies of the Batavians, were able to destroy or capture a large part of the fleet. In the meantime, the new Roman commander, Quintus Petillius Cerialis, advanced north and constructed a new fleet. Civilis attempted only a short encounter with his own fleet, but could not hinder the superior Roman force from landing and ravaging the island of the Batavians, leading to the negotiation of a peace soon after.\n\nIn the years 82 to 85, the Romans under Gnaeus Julius Agricola launched a campaign against the Caledonians in modern Scotland. In this context the Roman navy significantly escalated activities on the eastern Scottish coast. Simultaneously multiple expeditions and reconnaissance trips were launched. During these the Romans would capture the Orkney Islands (\"Orcades\") for a short period of time and obtained information about the Shetland Islands. There is some speculation about a Roman landing in Ireland, based on Tacitus reports about Agricola contemplating the island's conquest, but no conclusive evidence to support this theory has been found.\n\nUnder the Five Good Emperors the navy operated mainly on the rivers; so it played an important role during Trajan's conquest of Dacia and temporarily an independent fleet for the Euphrates and Tigris rivers was founded. Also during the wars against the Marcomanni confederation under Marcus Aurelius several combats took place on the Danube and the Tisza.\n\nUnder the aegis of the Severan dynasty, the only known military operations of the navy were carried out under Septimius Severus, using naval assistance on his campaigns along the Euphrates and Tigris, as well as in Scotland. Thereby Roman ships reached \"inter alia\" the Persian Gulf and the top of the British Isles.\n\nAs the 3rd century dawned, the Roman Empire was at its peak. In the Mediterranean, peace had reigned for over two centuries, as piracy had been wiped out and no outside naval threats occurred. As a result, complacency had set in: naval tactics and technology were neglected, and the Roman naval system had become moribund. After 230 however and for fifty years, the situation changed dramatically. The so-called \"Crisis of the Third Century\" ushered a period of internal turmoil, and the same period saw a renewed series of seaborne assaults, which the imperial fleets proved unable to stem. In the West, Picts and Irish ships raided Britain, while the Saxons raided the North Sea, forcing the Romans to abandon Frisia. In the East, the Goths and other tribes from modern Ukraine raided in great numbers over the Black Sea. These invasions began during the rule of Trebonianus Gallus, when for the first time Germanic tribes built up their own powerful fleet in the Black Sea. Via two surprise attacks (256) on Roman naval bases in the Caucasus and near the Danube, numerous ships fell into the hands of the Germans, whereupon the raids were extended as far as the Aegean Sea; Byzantium, Athens, Sparta and other towns were plundered and the responsible provincial fleets were heavily debilitated. It was not until the attackers made a tactical error, that their onrush could be stopped.\n\nIn 267–270 another, much fiercer series of attacks took place. A fleet composed of Heruli and other tribes raided the coasts of Thrace and the Pontus. Defeated off Byzantium by general Venerianus, the barbarians fled into the Aegean, and ravaged many islands and coastal cities, including Athens and Corinth. As they retreated northwards over land, they were defeated by Emperor Gallienus at Nestos. However, this was merely the prelude to an even larger invasion that was launched in 268/269: several tribes banded together (the \"Historia Augusta\" mentions Scythians, Greuthungi, Tervingi, Gepids, Peucini, Celts and Heruli) and allegedly 2,000 ships and 325,000 men strong, raided the Thracian shore, attacked Byzantium and continued raiding the Aegean as far as Crete, while the main force approached Thessalonica. Emperor Claudius II however was able to defeat them at the Battle of Naissus, ending the Gothic threat for the time being.\n\nBarbarian raids also increased along the Rhine frontier and in the North Sea. Eutropius mentions that during the 280s, the sea along the coasts of the provinces of Belgica and Armorica was \"infested with Franks and Saxons\". To counter them, Maximian appointed Carausius as commander of the British Fleet. However, Carausius rose up in late 286 and seceded from the Empire with Britannia and parts of the northern Gallic coast. With a single blow Roman control of the channel and the North Sea was lost, and emperor Maximinus was forced to create a completely new Northern Fleet, but in lack of training it was almost immediately destroyed in a storm. Only in 293, under \"Caesar\" Constantius Chlorus did Rome regain the Gallic coast. A new fleet was constructed in order to cross the Channel, and in 296, with a concentric attack on Londinium the insurgent province was retaken.\n\nBy the end of the 3rd century, the Roman navy had declined dramatically. Although Emperor Diocletian is held to have strengthened the navy, and increased its manpower from 46,000 to 64,000 men, the old standing fleets had all but vanished, and in the civil wars that ended the Tetrarchy, the opposing sides had to mobilize the resources and commandeered the ships of the Eastern Mediterranean port cities. These conflicts thus brought about a renewal of naval activity, culminating in the Battle of the Hellespont in 324 between the forces of Constantine I under Caesar Crispus and the fleet of Licinius, which was the only major naval confrontation of the 4th century. Vegetius, writing at the end of the 4th century, testifies to the disappearance of the old praetorian fleets in Italy, but comments on the continued activity of the Danube fleet. In the 5th century, only the eastern half of the Empire could field an effective fleet, as it could draw upon the maritime resources of Greece and the Levant. Although the \"Notitia Dignitatum\" still mentions several naval units for the Western Empire, these were apparently too depleted to be able to carry out much more than patrol duties. At any rate, the rise of the naval power of the Vandal Kingdom under Geiseric in North Africa, and its raids in the Western Mediterranean, were practically uncontested. Although there is some evidence of West Roman naval activity in the first half of the 5th century, this is mostly confined to troop transports and minor landing operations. The historian Priscus and Sidonius Apollinaris affirm in their writings that by the mid-5th century, the Western Empire essentially lacked a war navy. Matters became even worse after the disastrous failure of the fleets mobilized against the Vandals in 460 and 468, under the emperors Majorian and Anthemius.\n\nFor the West, there would be no recovery, as the last Western Emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was deposed in 476. In the East however, the classical naval tradition survived, and in the 6th century, a standing navy was reformed. The East Roman (Byzantine) navy would remain a formidable force in the Mediterranean until the 11th century.\n\nThe bulk of a galley's crew was formed by the rowers, the \"remiges\" (sing. \"remex\") or \"eretai\" (sing. \"eretēs\") in Greek. Despite popular perceptions, the Roman fleet, and ancient fleets in general, relied throughout their existence on rowers of free status, and not on galley slaves. Slaves were employed only in times of pressing manpower demands or extreme emergency, and even then, they were freed first. In Imperial times, non-citizen freeborn provincials (\"peregrini\"), chiefly from nations with a maritime background such as Greeks, Phoenicians, Syrians and Egyptians, formed the bulk of the fleets' crews.\n\nDuring the early Principate, a ship's crew, regardless of its size, was organized as a \"centuria\". Crewmen could sign on as marines (Called Marinus), rowers/seamen, craftsmen and various other jobs, though all personnel serving in the imperial fleet were classed as \"milites\" (\"soldiers\"), regardless of their function; only when differentiation with the army was required, were the adjectives \"classiarius\" or \"classicus\" added. Along with several other instances of prevalence of army terminology, this testifies to the lower social status of naval personnel, considered inferior to the auxiliaries and the legionaries. Emperor Claudius first gave legal privileges to the navy's crewmen, enabling them to receive Roman citizenship after their period of service. This period was initially set at a minimum of 26 years (one year more than the legions), and was later expanded to 28. Upon honorable discharge (\"honesta missio\"), the sailors received a sizable cash payment as well.\n\nAs in the army, the ship's \"centuria\" was headed by a centurion with an \"optio\" as his deputy, while a \"beneficiarius\" supervised a small administrative staff. Among the crew were also a number of \"principales\" (junior officers) and \"immunes\" (specialists exempt from certain duties). Some of these positions, mostly administrative, were identical to those of the army auxiliaries, while some (mostly of Greek provenance) were peculiar to the fleet. An inscription from the island of Cos, dated to the First Mithridatic War, provides us with a list of a ship's officers, the \"nautae\": the \"gubernator\" (\"kybernētēs\" in Greek) was the helmsman or pilot, the \"celeusta\" (\"keleustēs\" in Greek) supervised the rowers, a \"proreta\" (\"prōreus\" in Greek) was the look-out stationed at the bow, a \"pentacontarchos\" was apparently a junior officer, and an \"iatros\" (Lat. \"medicus\"), the ship's doctor.\n\nEach ship was commanded by a \"trierarchus\", whose exact relationship with the ship's centurion is unclear. Squadrons, most likely of ten ships each, were put under a \"nauarchus\", who often appears to have risen from the ranks of the \"trierarchi\". The post of \"nauarchus archigubernes\" or \"nauarchus princeps\" appeared later in the Imperial period, and functioned either as a commander of several squadrons or as an executive officer under a civilian admiral, equivalent to the legionary \"primus pilus\". All these were professional officers, usually \"peregrini\", who had a status equal to an auxiliary centurion (and were thus increasingly called \"centuriones [classiarii]\" after ca. 70 AD). Until the reign of Antoninus Pius, their careers were restricted to the fleet. Only in the 3rd century were these officers equated to the legionary centurions in status and pay, and could henceforth be transferred to a similar position in the legions.\n\nMerchant vessels were commanded by the \"magister navis\". If privately owned, the owner was called \"exercitor navis\". The modern term of \"master\" to designate a captain of a merchant vessel derives from the \"magister navis\".\n\nDuring the Republic, command of a fleet was given to a serving magistrate or promagistrate, usually of consular or praetorian rank. In the Punic Wars for instance, one consul would usually command the fleet, and another the army. In the subsequent wars in the Eastern Mediterranean, praetors would assume the command of the fleet. However, since these men were political appointees, the actual handling of the fleets and of separate squadrons was entrusted to their more experienced legates and subordinates. It was therefore during the Punic Wars that the separate position of \"praefectus classis\" (\"fleet prefect\") first appeared.\n\nInitially subordinate to the magistrate in command, after the fleet's reorganization by Augustus, the \"praefectus classis\" became a procuratorial position in charge of each of the permanent fleets. These posts were initially filled either from among the equestrian class, or, especially under Claudius, from the Emperor's freedmen, thus securing imperial control over the fleets. From the period of the Flavian emperors, the status of the \"praefectura\" was raised, and only equestrians with military experience who had gone through the \"militia equestri\" were appointed. Nevertheless, the prefects remained largely political appointees, and despite their military experience, usually in command of army auxiliary units, their knowledge of naval matters was minimal, forcing them to rely on their professional subordinates. The difference in importance of the fleets they commanded was also reflected by the rank and the corresponding pay of the commanders. The prefects of the two praetorian fleets were ranked \"procuratores ducenarii\", meaning they earned 200,000 sesterces annually, the prefects of the \"Classis Germanica\", the \"Classis Britannica\" and later the \"Classis Pontica\" were \"centenarii\" (i.e. earning 100,000 sesterces), while the other fleet prefects were \"sexagenarii\" (i.e. they received 60,000 sesterces).\n\nThe generic Roman term for an oar-driven galley warship was \"long ship\" (Latin: \"navis longa\", Greek: \"naus makra\"), as opposed to the sail-driven \"navis oneraria\" (from \"onus, oneris: burden\"), a merchant vessel, or the minor craft (\"navigia minora\") like the \"scapha\".\n\nThe navy consisted of a wide variety of different classes of warships, from heavy polyremes to light raiding and scouting vessels. Unlike the rich Hellenistic Successor kingdoms in the East however, the Romans did not rely on heavy warships, with quinqueremes (Gk. \"pentērēs\"), and to a lesser extent quadriremes (Gk. \"tetrērēs\") and triremes (Gk. \"triērēs\") providing the mainstay of the Roman fleets from the Punic Wars to the end of the Civil Wars. The heaviest vessel mentioned in Roman fleets during this period was the hexareme, of which a few were used as flagships. Lighter vessels such as the liburnians and the hemiolia, both swift types invented by pirates, were also adopted as scouts and light transport vessels.\n\nDuring the final confrontation between Octavian and Mark Antony, Octavian's fleet was composed of quinqueremes, together with some \"sixes\" and many triremes and liburnians, while Antony, who had the resources of Ptolemaic Egypt to draw upon, fielded a fleet also mostly composed of quinqueremes, but with a sizeable complement of heavier warships, ranging from \"sixes\" to \"tens\" (Gk. \"dekērēs\"). Later historical tradition made much of the prevalence of lighter and swifter vessels in Octavian's fleet, with Vegetius even explicitly ascribing Octavian's victory to the liburnians.\n\nThis prominence of lighter craft in the historical narrative is perhaps best explained in light of subsequent developments. After Actium, the operational landscape had changed: for the remainder of the Principate, no opponent existed to challenge Roman naval hegemony, and no massed naval confrontation was likely. The tasks at hand for the Roman navy were now the policing of the Mediterranean waterways and the border rivers, suppression of piracy, and escort duties for the grain shipments to Rome and for imperial army expeditions. Lighter ships were far better suited to these tasks, and after the reorganization of the fleet following Actium, the largest ship kept in service was a hexareme, the flagship of the \"Classis Misenensis\". The bulk of the fleets was composed of the lighter triremes and liburnians (Latin: \"liburna\", Greek: \"libyrnis\"), with the latter apparently providing the majority of the provincial fleets. In time, the term \"liburnian\" came to mean \"warship\" in a generic sense.\n\nIn addition, there were smaller oared vessels, such as the \"navis actuaria\", with 30 oars (15 on each bank), a ship primarily used for transport in coastal and fluvial operations, for which its shallow draught and flat keel were ideal. In late antiquity, it was succeeded in this role by the \"navis lusoria\" (\"playful ship\"), which was extensively used for patrols and raids by the legionary flotillas in the Rhine and Danube frontiers.\n\nRoman ships were commonly named after gods (\"Mars\", \"Iuppiter\", \"Minerva\", \"Isis\"), mythological heroes (\"Hercules\"), geographical maritime features such as \"Rhenus\" or \"Oceanus\", concepts such as Harmony, Peace, Loyalty, Victory (\"Concordia\", \"Pax\", \"Fides\", \"Victoria\") or after important events (\"Dacicus\" for the Trajan's Dacian Wars or \"Salamina\" for the Battle of Salamis). They were distinguished by their figurehead (\"insigne\" or \"parasemum\"), and, during the Civil Wars at least, by the paint schemes on their turrets, which varied according to each fleet.\n\nIn classical antiquity, a ship's main weapon was the ram (\"rostra\", hence the name \"navis rostrata\" for a warship), which was used to sink or immobilize an enemy ship by holing its hull. Its use, however, required a skilled and experienced crew and a fast and agile ship like a trireme or quinquereme. In the Hellenistic period, the larger navies came instead to rely on greater vessels. This had several advantages: the heavier and sturdier construction lessened the effects of ramming, and the greater space and stability of the vessels allowed the transport not only of more marines, but also the placement of deck-mounted ballistae and catapults.\n\nAlthough the ram continued to be a standard feature of all warships and ramming the standard mode of attack, these developments transformed the role of a warship: from the old \"manned missile\", designed to sink enemy ships, they became mobile artillery platforms, which engaged in missile exchange and boarding actions. The Romans in particular, being initially inexperienced at sea combat, relied upon boarding actions through the use of the \"Corvus\". Although it brought them some decisive victories, it was discontinued because it tended to unbalance the quinqueremes in high seas; two Roman fleets are recorded to have been lost during storms in the First Punic War.\n\nDuring the Civil Wars, a number of technical innovations, which are attributed to Agrippa, took place: the \"harpax\", a catapult-fired grappling hook, which was used to clamp onto an enemy ship, reel it in and board it, in a much more efficient way than with the old \"corvus\", and the use of collapsible fighting towers placed one apiece bow and stern, which were used to provide the boarders with supporting fire.\n\nAfter the end of the civil wars, Augustus reduced and reorganized the Roman armed forces, including the navy. A large part of the fleet of Mark Antony was burned, and the rest was withdrawn to a new base at Forum Iulii (modern Fréjus), which remained operative until the reign of Claudius. However, the bulk of the fleet was soon subdivided into two praetorian fleets at Misenum and Ravenna, supplemented by a growing number of minor ones in the provinces, which were often created on an \"ad hoc\" basis for specific campaigns. This organizational structure was maintained almost unchanged until the 4th century.\n\nThe two major fleets were stationed in Italy and acted as a central naval reserve, directly available to the Emperor (hence the designation \"praetorian\"). In the absence of any naval threat, their duties mostly involved patrolling and transport duties. These were not confined to the waters around Italy, but throughout the Mediterranean. There is epigraphic evidence for the presence of sailors of the two praetorian fleets at Piraeus and Syria. These two fleets were:\n\nThe various provincial fleets were smaller than the praetorian fleets and composed mostly of lighter vessels. Nevertheless, it was these fleets that saw action, in full campaigns or raids on the periphery of the Empire.\n\nIn addition, there is significant archaeological evidence for naval activity by certain legions, which in all likelihood operated their own squadrons: \"legio\" XXII \"Primigenia\" in the Upper Rhine and Main rivers, \"legio\" X \"Fretensis\" in the Jordan River and the Sea of Galilee, and several legionary squadrons in the Danube frontier.\n\nOur main source for the structure of the late Roman military is the \"Notitia Dignitatum\", which corresponds to the situation of the 390s for the Eastern Empire and the 420s for the Western Empire. Notable in the \"Notitia\" is the large number of smaller squadrons that have been created, most of these fluvial and of a local operational role.\n\nThe \"Classis Pannonica\" and the \"Classis Moesica\" were broken up into several smaller squadrons, collectively termed \"Classis Histrica\", authority of the frontier commanders (\"duces\"). with bases at Mursa in Pannonia II, Florentia in Pannonia Valeria, Arruntum in Pannonia I, Viminacium in Moesia I and Aegetae in Dacia ripensis. Smaller fleets are also attested on the tributaries of the Danube: the \"Classis Arlapensis et Maginensis\" (based at Arelape and Comagena) and the \"Classis Lauriacensis\" (based at Lauriacum) in Pannonia I, the \"Classis Stradensis et Germensis\", based at Margo in Moesia I, and the \"Classis Ratianensis\", in Dacia ripensis. The naval units were complemented by port garrisons and marine units, drawn from the army. In the Danube frontier these were:\n\nIn the West, and in particular in Gaul, several fluvial fleets had been established. These came under the command of the \"magister peditum\" of the West, and were:\nIt is notable that, with the exception of the praetorian fleets (whose retention in the list does not necessarily signify an active status), the old fleets of the Principate are missing. The \"Classis Britannica\" vanishes under that name after the mid-3rd century; its remnants were later subsumed in the Saxon Shore system.\n\nBy the time of the \"Notitia Dignitatum\", the \"Classis Germanica\" has ceased to exist (it is last mentioned under Julian in 359), most probably due to the collapse of the Rhine frontier after the Crossing of the Rhine by the barbarians in winter 405–406, and the Mauretanian and African fleets had been disbanded or taken over by the Vandals.\n\nAs far as the East is concerned, we know from legal sources that the \"Classis Alexandrina\" and the \"Classis Seleucena\" continued to operate, and that in ca. 400 a \"Classis Carpathia\" was detached from the Syrian fleet and based at the Aegean island of Karpathos. A fleet is known to have been stationed at Constantinople itself, but no further details are known about it.\n\nMajor Roman ports were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849303", "title": "1st Marine Regiment", "text": "1st Marine Regiment\n\nThe 1st Marine Regiment is an infantry regiment of the United States Marine Corps based at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California. The regiment, sometimes known as \"Inchon\" or Regimental Combat Team 1, falls under the command of the 1st Marine Division and the I Marine Expeditionary Force.\n\nThe regiment comprises four infantry battalions and one headquarters company:\n\n\nThe 1st Marines were activated in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 27 November 1913. At this time, it bore the designation of 2nd Advanced Base Regiment. During the early years of its existence, the regiment was primarily employed as a combat force in the so-called Banana Wars, in the Caribbean area. The first of these engagements occurred in April 1914, when the regiment landed and seized the Mexican port of Vera Cruz.\n\nThey next participated in the Haitian campaign (1915–1916) and the Dominican Republic campaign (1916). On 1 July 1916, this organization was re-designated as the 1st Regiment of Marines. In December 1918, the 1st Regiment returned to the Caribbean and was deployed to Cuba for approximately six months.\n\nFollowing its second Dominican tour of duty, it was deactivated; but it was subsequently reactivated at Quantico, Virginia on 15 March 1925. The Regiment received its present designation of 1st Marines on 10 July 1930. The 1930s was a period of inactivity in the 1st Marines' history, as the unit was in a deactivated status during most of this time. World War II was the occasion for the next reactivation of the Regiment on 1 February 1941 at Culebra, Puerto Rico as part of the 1st Marine Division.\n\nThe 1st Marines stood at a low state of readiness at the beginning of the war, having just been reconstituted from cadre status; however, the regiment did possess very strong leadership at the higher levels. In June 1942, the 1st Marines set sail from San Francisco on board a mix of eight ships headed for the South Pacific. The 1st Marines landed on the island of Guadalcanal, part of the Solomon Islands, on 7 August 1942 and would fight in the Guadalcanal Campaign until relieved on 22 December 1942.\n\nSome of the heaviest action the regiment would see on Guadalcanal took place on 21 August 1942 during the Battle of the Tenaru, which was the first Japanese counter-attack of the campaign. Following their first campaign, the regiment was sent to Melbourne, Australia to rest and refit. During their stay, there they were billeted in the Melbourne Cricket Ground until leaving in September 1943.\n\nThe 1st Marines would next see action during Operation Cartwheel, which was the codename for the campaigns in Eastern New Guinea and New Britain. The regiment would be the first ashore at the Battle of Cape Gloucester on 26 December 1943; and continued fighting on the island, at such places as \"Suicide Creek\" and \"Ajar Ridge\", until February 1944.\n\nThe next battle for the 1st Marines would be the bloodiest yet - the Battle of Peleliu. The regiment landed on 15 September 1944 as part of the 1st Marine Division's assault on the island. The division's commanding general, Major General William H. Rupertus had predicted the fighting would be, \"\"...tough but short. It'll be over in three of four days – a fight like Tarawa. Rough but fast. Then we can go back to a rest area.\"\".\n\nThe 1st Marines fought on Peleliu for 10 days before being pulled off the lines after suffering 58% casualties and no longer being combat effective. The regiment was decimated by heavy artillery and accurate small arms fire in the vicinity of \"Bloody Nose Ridge\". Repeated frontal assaults with fixed bayonets failed to unseat the Japanese defenders from the 14th Division (Imperial Japanese Army). Ten days of fighting on Peleliu cost the 1st Marine Regiment 1,749 casualties.\n\nThe last World War II engagement for the regiment was the Battle of Okinawa under the command of Colonel Arthur T. Mason.\n\nIn September 1945, the 1st Marines deployed to North China to take part in the garrisoning of the area and in the repatriation of former enemy personnel. It remained in China until February 1949. It is also likely that they were stationed in North China to bolster the Chinese Nationalists defense against the Chinese Communists. The presence of the 1st Marines was used as leverage by George C. Marshall in 1945–46 to attempt to moderate a settlement to the impending Chinese Civil War. They returned to Camp Pendleton and were deactivated on 1 October 1949.\n\nThe Korean War resuscitated the buildup of the Marine Corps. As a result, the regiment was brought back into existence on 4 August 1950. On 15 September, the 1st Marine Division, including the 1st Marines, assaulted the beaches of Inchon.\n\nThe regiment then went on to take part in the liberation of Seoul and later in the Chosin Reservoir Campaign. For the next two and one-half years, the 1st Marines continued to engage the North Koreans and Chinese Communists. Following the termination of hostilities in July 1953, the Regiment remained in Korea and acted as a defensive force against possible Communist attempts to rekindle the war. The 1st Marines returned to Camp Pendleton in April 1955. There it stayed for the following ten years, except for a brief deployment to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and the Caribbean during the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis.\n\nWith the intensification of the American involvement in the war in Vietnam in 1965, the regiment was ordered to the Far East that summer. By January 1966, the entire regiment had completed its move to Vietnam. The first major operation in the war for a battalion of the 1st Marines was Operation Harvest Moon in December 1965.\n\nBy fall of 1967, the 1st Marines were operating permanently in the northern sector of the I Corps tactical zone. The following winter the communists launched their all-out Tet Offensive. The enemy overran Hue, the old imperial capital. Between 31 January and 2 March 1968, elements of the 1st Marines, commanded by Col. Stanley Hughes, along with other U.S. Marine and South Vietnamese units, fought to regain control of the city. Bitter street fighting and hand-to-hand combat characterized the battle. Hue was finally recaptured after the enemy suffered nearly 1,900 killed. The regiment remained deployed in South Vietnam for the next two and a half years, participating in numerous operations, both large and small. On 28 June 1971, the last members of the regiment departed Da Nang to return to the United States at MCB Camp Pendleton. The 1st Marines were the last marine infantry unit to depart Vietnam.\n\nIn the spring of 1975, the 1st Marines provided primary support to the Marine Corps Base at Camp Pendleton for preparation of a camp to house Vietnamese refugees during Operation New Arrivals. In 1983, 1st Marines were assigned responsibility to provide the Ground Combat Element for the WESTPAC MAU. Since the inception of the special operations capable (SOC) marine expeditionary units (MEUs) in support of contingency operations in the Western Pacific, the 1st Marine Regiment has been the SOC regiment of the 1st Marine Division.\n\nIn August 1990, Iraq invaded Kuwait and 1st Marines deployed in support of Operation Desert Shield. On 30 December 1990, 1st Marines was designated as Task Force Papa Bear. The task force attacked into Kuwait on 23 February and continued its march to the vicinity of Kuwait International Airport, where hostilities ceased on 27 February.\n\nFrom 1 to 11 May 1992, elements of the regiment deployed to perform riot control operations as part of the Joint Special Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force Los Angeles. They assumed a prominent role in quelling the urban unrest in South Central Los Angeles.\n\nIn January 2003, 1st Marines deployed for Operation Iraqi Freedom. Organized as a 5,000-man combined arms task force, known as Regimental Combat Team One (RCT-1), the regiment fought its way from Kuwait to Baghdad, with significant actions at An Nasariyah, Al Kut, and Baghdad. On 5 April, commanding officer Colonel Joe D. Dowdy was relieved by Major General James Mattis and replaced by Colonel John Toolan, a highly unusual act. Subsequent to the collapse of the regime, the RCT conducted security and stability operations in Baghdad and Al Hillah until returning home throughout the summer of 2003.\n\nIn February 2004, 1st Marines deployed to the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Upon arrival in theater, 1st Marines formed into RCT-1 and conducted a relief-in-place with 3d Brigade of the 82d Airborne Division. RCT-1 consisted of several major subordinate commands from 1st Marine Division and various smaller attachments from throughout the Marine Corps.\n\nThe RCT's area of operation consisted of numerous cities, most important of which was Al Fallujah. On 31 March 2004, four U.S. citizens working for Blackwater USA were attacked, mutilated and hung on a bridge in the city. On 7 April 2004, Operation Vigilant Resolve commenced in response to these deaths. After intense urban fighting, a political resolution was mandated and the regiment was ordered out of the city.\n\nThroughout September and October 2004, insurgent presence increased in Fallujah.\nLed by the 1st Marine Division, Operation Phantom Fury began with an assault north of the city, with four infantry battalions in the attack. Designated the division main effort, RCT-1 (3rd Battalion, 1st Marines) crossed the line of departure on 7 November 2004. After twelve days of intense urban combat, 1st Marine Division had defeated the insurgents and successfully fought its way to the southern end of the city capturing the western half of Fallujah. First Marines returned to Camp Pendleton, California, in April 2005.\n\nThe 1st Marines has received 12 Presidential Unit Citations (3 for World War II, 3 for the Korean War, 5 for the Vietnam War, 1 for the Iraq War), 2 Navy Unit Commendations and 1 Meritorious Unit Commendation.\n\nNineteen Marines from the 1st Marines have been awarded the Medal of Honor: 7 during World War II, 10 during the Korean War, and two during the Vietnam War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849304", "title": "Michael McGovern (footballer)", "text": "Michael McGovern (footballer)\n\nMichael McGovern (born 12 July 1984) is a Northern Irish professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for club Norwich City and the Northern Ireland national team.\n\nBorn in Enniskillen, McGovern started his career with Scottish Premier League club Celtic in 2001. He spent time on loan with Scottish Second Division side Stranraer in 2005 and with Scottish First Division side St Johnstone in 2006. He left Celtic in 2008, having never made a first-team appearance for the club. After leaving Celtic, he joined fellow Scottish Premier League side Dundee United, but left after one season having not made a first-team appearance. In 2009, he went back to the First Division with Ross County, where he enjoyed a successful two-year spell. In 2011, he moved on a free transfer to fellow First Division side Falkirk. McGovern then moved to Hamilton Academical in 2014. After spending 15 years playing in Scotland, he moved to English club Norwich City in July 2016.\n\nMcGovern represented Northern Ireland at under-19 and under-21 levels, before making his senior debut in May 2010. He represented Northern Ireland at UEFA Euro 2016.\n\nMcGovern joined Celtic in July 2001 from hometown junior club Enniskillen Town United. His first involvement with the first-team squad was as a substitute at the Camp Nou during Celtic's UEFA Cup match against Barcelona in March 2004. In January 2005, McGovern joined Stranraer on loan. He joined St Johnstone on a one-month emergency loan in December 2006. While at Celtic, he managed to pick up a Scottish Cup winners medal in 2004 and 2007, both times as an unused substitute.\n\nOn 17 June 2008, McGovern agreed a pre-contract move to Dundee United, signing a one-year deal. He failed to make a first-team appearance for United and manager Craig Levein confirmed McGovern's departure in May 2009.\n\nMcGovern moved to Ross County in late June 2009 and enjoyed a successful first season. This included playing in the 2010 Scottish Cup Final, which Ross County lost 3–0 to McGovern's former club Dundee United, and making his full international debut.\n\nIn his second season at the club, McGovern saved two penalties in a 4–3 penalty shoot-out win against Partick Thistle in the Scottish Challenge Cup semi-final on 10 October 2010. He played in the final on 10 April 2011, as Ross County lifted the trophy after a 2–0 win against Queen of the South at McDiarmid Park. McGovern left Ross County at the end of the 2010–11 Scottish First Division season.\n\nAfter leaving Ross County, McGovern joined up with St Johnstone for pre-season training before he signed for Falkirk on 20 July 2011. He quickly established himself as first choice goalkeeper and on 21 September 2011, played in Falkirk's 3–2 Scottish League Cup win over holders Rangers. On 1 April 2012, he played for Falkirk in their 1–0 win over Hamilton in the 2012 Scottish Challenge Cup Final. At the end of the season he won the Falkirk Players' Player of the Year award and Falkirk Supporters Club Player of the Year award. He was among four players nominated for the PFA Scotland First Division Player of the Year award and he was named in the PFA Scotland 2012–13 First Division Team of the Year. On 17 May 2012, he signed a new one-year contract.\n\nMcGovern was named Falkirk Players' Player of the Year for the second year in succession at the end of the 2012–13 season. He signed a new one-year deal at Falkirk on 24 June 2013 and was appointed club captain upon the departure of Darren Dods. On 18 April 2014, McGovern was named in the PFA Scotland 2013–14 Championship Team of the Year.\n\nOn 9 June 2014, McGovern signed for Scottish Premiership club Hamilton Academical on a one-year contract. He made his debut on 2 August 2014, in a 2–1 win against Arbroath in the Scottish League Cup. On 5 October 2014, he played in Hamilton Academical's 1–0 victory over Celtic, which was their first victory at Celtic Park in 76 years. During September and October 2014, McGovern set a club record of 437 minutes without conceding a goal in the Scottish top flight. On 28 November 2014, he extended his contract at Hamilton Academical by a further year, until 2016. In January 2015, McGovern became club captain after the incumbent Martin Canning was promoted to manager following Alex Neil's departure to Norwich City.\n\nOn 19 July 2016, it was revealed that McGovern had signed for Championship club Norwich City on a three-year deal. He made his debut on 13 August 2016, replacing John Ruddy at half-time in Norwich City's 0–0 draw with Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nIn March 2008, McGovern received his first call-up to the Northern Ireland squad. McGovern made his full debut for Northern Ireland on 31 May 2010, in a 1–0 loss to Chile. He came on at half-time for Alan Blayney and made a \"stunning\" save from a long-range effort by Marco Estrada.\n\nMcGovern had to wait until 2015 for his second cap, after which he quickly became the number one goalkeeper for Northern Ireland, helping them qualify for Euro 2016 as qualifying group winners. He received plaudits for a series of \"heroic saves\" that restricted Germany to a 1–0 win during the group stages of the Euro 2016 finals on 21 June 2016, keeping Northern Ireland's goal difference down and helping them qualify for the knockout round of 16.\n\nCeltic\n\nRoss County\n\nFalkirk\n\n"}
{"id": "1849310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849310", "title": "Maroni (river)", "text": "Maroni (river)\n\nThe Maroni or Marowijne (, , Sranan Tongo: \"Marwina-Liba\") is a river in South America that forms the border between French Guiana and Suriname.\n\nThe Maroni runs through the Guianan moist forests ecoregion.\nIt originates in the Tumuk Humak Mountains and forms the (disputed) border between France (region of French Guiana) and Suriname. In its upper reaches, it is also known as the Lawa River, and close to its source it is known as the Marouini River.\n\nThere are two nature preserves located in the estuary region on the Surinamese side of the river, near the village of Galibi. They provide protection for the birds and the Leatherback Sea Turtles that hatch there.\n\nIn 1860, the question was posed from the French side, which of the two tributary rivers was the headwater, and thus the border. A joint French-Dutch commission was appointed to review the issue. The Dutch side of the commission consisted of J.H. Baron van Heerdt tot Eversberg, J.F.A. Cateau van Rosevelt and August Kappler. Luits Vidal, Ronmy, Boudet and Dr. Rech composed the French side. In 1861 measurements were taken, which produced the following result: the Lawa had a discharge of 35,960 m/minute at a width of 436 m; the Tapanahony had a discharge of 20,291 m/minute at a width of 285  m. Thus, the Lawa River was the headwater of the Maroni River.\n\nThere were no problems with this decision until 1885. However, the discovery of gold in the area between the Lawa and the Tapanahony created a new border conflict. On 29 November 1888, France and the Netherlands reached an agreement that the conflict should be subject to arbitration. Czar Alexander III of Russia, acting as the arbitrator, decided that the Lawa was the headwater of the Maroni, and thus should be considered the border.\n\nHowever, this decision created another issue as to which river is the source of the Lawa. The Netherlands considered the Marowini (the eastern tributary river) to be the source of the Lawa; the French considered the Litani, located further to the west, to be the source of the Lawa. This issue has still not been resolved.\n\nThe \"Litani\" originates in the Tumuk Humak Mountains at approximately 2½° N 55° W; along its path it is fed by \"Koele Koelebreek\", the \"Lokereek\", the \"Mapaonikreek\" and the \"Oelemari River\".\n\nThe \"Marowini\" also has its source in the Tumuk Humak Mountains, at approximately 2° N, 54° W; it also absorbs the \"Koelebreek\", among others.\n\nThe Maroni basin is 68,700 km²; above the island \"Langatabbetje\" (110 km away from the mouth of the river) this area is 63,700 km². Between 1952 and 1973, the average discharge near \"Langatabbetje\" was about 1,700 m³/second. The minimum was 95 m³/second, the maximum 6,550 m³/second. The estuary is approximately 90 km long; the average tidal range in the estuary is 2 m; in the dry season, the salt reaches about 40 km upstream to the town of Albina.\n\nThe estimated potential hydro power for Suriname is between 1150 and 1250 megawatts.\n\nThe Maroni is the most extensively studied of all the rivers in Suriname. In the 16th century, there were already ships exploring the estuary, by Lawrence Keymis, Thomas Masham, Antonio de Berrio and Adriaen Cabeliau and in the 17th century, by Harcourt, Fisher and De Vries. In the 18th century more extensive excursions took place, by Mentell, Patris, Le Blond and Heneman and in the 19th century by Zegelaar, Jules Crevaux, Coudreau, Ten Kate, Joost and others.\n\nOf importance in the 20th century were the Gonini and Tapanahony expeditions, and the Tumuk Humak and Southern Border Expeditions. From these arose the research of the \"Geologisch Mijnbouwkundige Dienst\" (GMD) and the \"Centraal Bureau voor Luchtkartering\" (CBL).\n\n"}
{"id": "1849313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849313", "title": "Red Red Wine", "text": "Red Red Wine\n\n\"Red Red Wine\" is a song originally written, performed, and recorded by American singer Neil Diamond in 1967. It is included on Diamond's second studio album, \"Just for You\". The lyrics are sung from the perspective of a person who finds that drinking red wine is the only way to forget his woes.\n\nWhen Diamond left the Bang Records label in 1968, the label continued to release Diamond's singles, often adding newly recorded instruments and background vocals to album tracks from Bang's two Diamond albums. For the \"Red Red Wine\" single, Bang added a background choir without Diamond's involvement or permission. Diamond's version reached #62 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in 1968. A live version was released on Diamond's \"The Greatest Hits (1966–92)\", but the 1968 single version has never been issued on a vinyl album or CD.\n\nThe song was covered by several artists shortly after Diamond's recording was released. In 1968, Dutch singer Peter Tetteroo (from the band Tee-Set) had a hit with a cover of the song in the Netherlands. Tony Tribe covered a reggae version of the song in 1969. In 1983, UB40 recorded the best-known version of the song, in a lighter reggae style. The UB40 version topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart. Diamond later performed a UB40-inspired version of the song while on tour.\n\nUB40 recorded their version of \"Red Red Wine\" for their album of cover versions, \"Labour of Love\". According to UB40 member Astro, the group's former vocalist and trumpet player, the band were only familiar with Tony Tribe's version and did not realise that the writer was in fact Neil Diamond. Astro told the \"Financial Times\", \"Even when we saw the writing credit which said 'N Diamond,' we thought it was a Jamaican artist called Negus Diamond.\"\n\nUB40's version features a lighter, reggae-style flavor compared to that of Diamond's somber, acoustic ballad. The UB40 version adds a toasted verse by Astro, opening: \"Red Red Wine, you make me feel so fine/You keep me rocking all of the time,\" which was edited from the single that reached #1 on the UK Singles Chart in August 1983 and #34 in the United States in March 1984.\n\nIn 1988, UB40 performed the song at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Concert. Soon after In June 1988, Guy Zapoleon, program director of KZZP in the Phoenix, Arizona market, believed that the song should be given a second chance and put the full version, including Astro's \"rap\", on the station's playlist and it soon became the station's most popular song. With UB40 ready to release \"Labor Of Love II\", Virgin Records promotion man Charlie Minor asked UB40 to hold off on releasing the album so that the label could reissue and promote \"Red Red Wine\". On the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart of October 15, 1988 the song hit #1 in the U.S. In September 2014, the Official Charts Company announced that sales in the UK had reached one million.\n\nThe song reached No. 1 on the South African Springbok charts in February 1984, remaining in that position for a total of 12 weeks. It also ended in the No. 1 position on that country's year end charts.\n\nNeil Diamond has stated that UB40's \"Red Red Wine\" is among his favorite covers of his songs. He frequently performs the song live using the UB40 reggae arrangement rather than that of the original version.\n\nJimmy James and the Vagabonds released a cover version the same year as Diamond's version (1968) for the UK market. It charted at #36.\n\nIn 1968, singer Peter Tetteroo of Dutch beat group Tee Set released a version that reached #6 on the Dutch Top 40 chart.\n\nTony Tribe, a Jamaican singer, recorded a reggae-influenced version in 1969 that reached #46 on the UK Singles Chart. It became Trojan Records' first chart hit and has been included in numerous reggae compilations since. Also in 1969, the song was covered by singer Charles Mann and by a Jamaican rocksteady group named the Painted Garden.\n\nIn 1970, a remake by Vic Dana became a minor \"Billboard\" Hot 100 hit, peaking at #72, and reached #30 on the Adult Contemporary chart.\n\nIn early 1972, singer Roy Drusky reached #17 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart and #16 on the \"RPM\" Country Tracks chart.\n\nThe Hobos included the song on their 2004 double studio album \"Radio Jah Jah\".\n"}
{"id": "1849314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849314", "title": "Hippocrates (lunar crater)", "text": "Hippocrates (lunar crater)\n\nHippocrates is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It is located in the northern region of the lunar surface, to the north of the crater Stebbins. To the southwest of Hippocrates are Kirkwood and the large Sommerfeld.\n\nThis is a relatively old formation that has become worn and eroded due to subsequent impacts. The general outline of the outer rim is still visible, but it is overlaid along the eastern edge by a smaller crater. There is also a small craterlet along the western edge. The inner wall is marked by a number of tiny craterlets, and is slightly wider at the southern edge with a ridge-like projection. The interior floor is level and almost featureless, with only a few tiny craterlets to mark the surface.\n\nThis crater was named after Hippocrates, the ancient Greek physician.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Hippocrates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849318", "title": "Liang Jing (cyclist)", "text": "Liang Jing (cyclist)\n\nLiang Jing is a Chinese track cyclist. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, she competed in the Women's team pursuit for the national team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849322", "title": "Jan Kazimierz Chodkiewicz", "text": "Jan Kazimierz Chodkiewicz\n\nJan Kazimierz Chodkiewicz (1616–1660) () was a Polonized Lithuanian nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nJan Kazimierz was Master of the Stables of Lithuania since July 20, 1633 and castellan of Vilnius since April 13, 1646. He married Zofia Pac on August 31, 1636, in Vilnius.\n\nHe died in 1660 and was buried in Brzostownica Wielka, Lithuania.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849344", "title": "Shippingport Atomic Power Station", "text": "Shippingport Atomic Power Station\n\nThe Shippingport Atomic Power Station was (according to the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission) the world's first full-scale atomic electric power plant devoted exclusively to peacetime uses.\nIt was located near the present-day Beaver Valley Nuclear Generating Station on the Ohio River in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, United States, about 25 miles (40 km) from Pittsburgh.\n\nThe reactor reached criticality on December 2, 1957, and aside from stoppages for three core changes, it remained in operation until October 1982. The first electrical power was produced on December 18, 1957 as engineers synchronized the plant with the distribution grid of Duquesne Light Company.\n\nThe first core used at Shippingport originated from a cancelled nuclear-powered aircraft carrier and used highly enriched uranium (93% U-235) as \"seed\" fuel surrounded by a \"blanket\" of natural U-238, in a so-called seed-and-blanket design; in the first reactor about half the power came from the seed.\nThe first Shippingport core reactor turned out to be capable of an output of 60 MWe one month after its launch.\nThe second core was similarly designed but more powerful, having a larger seed. The highly energetic seed required more refueling cycles than the blanket in these first two cores.\n\nThe third and final core used at Shippingport was an experimental, light water moderated, thermal breeder reactor. It kept the same seed-and-blanket design, but the seed was now uranium-233 and the blanket was made of thorium.\nBeing a breeder reactor, it had the ability to transmute relatively inexpensive thorium to uranium-233 as part of its fuel cycle.\nThe breeding ratio attained by Shippingport's third core was 1.01. Over its 25-year life, the Shippingport power plant operated for about 80,324 hours, producing about 7.4 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity.\n\nOwing to these peculiarities, some non-governmental sources label Shippingport a \"demonstration PWR reactor\" and consider that the \"first fully commercial PWR\" in the US was Yankee Rowe.\nCriticism centers on the fact that the Shippingport plant had not been built to commercial specifications. Consequently, the construction cost per kilowatt at Shippingport was about ten times those for a conventional power plant.\n\nIn 1953, US President Dwight D. Eisenhower gave his Atoms for Peace speech to the United Nations. Commercial nuclear power generation was cornerstone of his plan. A proposal by Duquesne Light Company was accepted by Admiral Rickover and the plans for the Shippingport Atomic Power Station started.\n\nGround was broken on Labor Day, September 9, 1954. President Eisenhower remotely initiated the first scoop of dirt at the ceremony.\nThe reactor achieved first criticality at 4:30 AM on December 2, 1957. Sixteen days later, on December 18, the first electrical power was generated and full power was achieved on December 23, 1957, although the station remained in test mode. Eisenhower opened the Shippingport Atomic Power Station on May 26, 1958. The plant was built in 32 months at a cost of $72.5 million.\n\nThe type of reactor used at Shippingport was a matter of expediency. The Atomic Energy Commission urged the construction of a reactor integrated into the utility grid. The only suitable reactor available at the time was the one that was intended for the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier desired by the Navy, but which Eisenhower had just vetoed.\n\nKenneth Nichols of the AEC said it \"became obvious\" that the Rickover-Westinghouse pressurised-water reactor intended for an aircraft carrier was \"the best choice for a reactor to demonstrate the production of electricity\" with Rickover \"having a going organization and a reactor project under way that now had no specific use to justify it\". This was accepted by Lewis Strauss and the Commission in January 1954. The acceptance of Duquesne Light as the utility partner was announced on 11 March. The ground-breaking ceremony in August was initiated by Eisenhower from Denver where he was giving a talk on atomic energy on Labor Day; Rickover ensured that the unmanned bulldozer pushing dirt did not dig in and stall by having the dozer blade riding along two railroad rails buried under six inches of dirt. \nThe origin of the project explains why the Shippingport reactor used 93%-enriched uranium, unlike later commercial power reactors that do not exceed 5% enrichment.\nOther significant differences from commercial reactors include the use of hafnium for its control rods, although these were necessary and used only in the reactor's seed. Shippingport was created and operated under the auspices of Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, whose authority included a substantial role within the United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC).\n\nThe Shippingport reactor was designed to accommodate different cores during its lifetime; three were used.\n\nThe first, installed in 1957, held 14.2 tons of natural uranium (the \"blanket\") and 165 pounds of high-enriched (93% U-235) uranium (the \"seed\"); despite this disparity in mass, about half the power was generated in the seed. The seed was depleted quicker than the blanket, and it was replenished three times during the lifetime of the first core. Seven years later (when running on its fourth seed) the first core was retired, after having produced 1.8 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity.\n\nThe second core had increased generating capacity (more than five times) and instrumentation to measure performance, but otherwise used the same seed-and-blanket design. For the second core, the seed volume was 21% of the total core volume. The second core thus required only one seed refueling. It began operating in 1965 and over the next nine years generated almost 3.5 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity. In 1974 the turbine-generator suffered mechanical failure, causing the plant to be shut down.\n\nThe third and final core was a light water breeder, which began operating in August 1977 and after testing was brought to full power by the end of that year. It used pellets made of thorium dioxide and uranium-233 oxide; initially the U233 content of the pellets was 5-6% in the seed region, 1.5-3% in the blanket region and none in the reflector region. It operated at 236 MWt, generating 60 MWe and ultimately produced over 2.1 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity. After five years (29,000 effective full power hours) the core was removed and found to contain nearly 1.4% more fissile material than when it was installed, demonstrating that breeding had occurred.\n\nOn October 1, 1982, the reactor ceased operations after 25 years. Dismantlement of the facility began in September 1985.\nIn December 1988, the 956-ton (870-T) reactor pressure vessel/neutron shield tank assembly was lifted out of the containment building and loaded onto land transportation equipment in preparation for removal from the site and shipment to a burial facility in Washington State.\nThe site has been cleaned up and released for unrestricted use. While the Shippingport Reactor has been decommissioned, Beaver Valley Nuclear Generating Station Units 1 and 2 are still licensed and in operation at the site.\n\nThe $98 million (1985 estimate) cleanup of Shippingport has been used as an example of a successful reactor decommissioning by proponents of nuclear power; however, critics point out that Shippingport was smaller than most commercial nuclear power plants, most reactors in the United States are about 1,000 MWe, while Shippingport was only 60 MWe. Others argue that it was an excellent test case to prove a reactor site could be safely decommissioned and a site released for unrestricted use. Shippingport, while somewhat smaller than a large commercial reactor today, was representative, with four steam generators, pressurizer and reactor. The reactor alone, when packaged for shipment, weighed in excess of 1000 tons (921 tons weight of the vessel plus the weight of a structural steel shipping skid) and was successfully shipped by waterway for burial at the Hanford Reservation.\nThe reactor vessel from Trojan Nuclear Power Plant (located in Oregon), was also successfully shipped by waterway to the Hanford site; a much shorter trip than the Shippingport reactor.\n\nSubsequent to Shippingport's decommissioning, three other large commercial reactors have been entirely leveled: Yankee Rowe Nuclear Power Station having been entirely decommissioned in 2007 with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) notifying Yankee that August that the former plant site had been fully decommissioned in accordance with NRC procedures and regulations; Maine Yankee Nuclear Power Plant completely decommissioned in 2005;\nand Connecticut Yankee Nuclear Power Plant.\nAll three prior commercial reactor sites have been returned to greenfield conditions and are open to visitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849347", "title": "The Truth About Jane and Sam", "text": "The Truth About Jane and Sam\n\nThe Truth About Perky Jane and Sammy the slayer (Chinese: 真心話; Simplified Chinese: 真心话) is a 1999 Hong Kong film co-produced by Hong Kong's Film Unlimited and Singapore's Raintree Pictures. Directed by Hong Kong director Derek Yee, the movie stars Singapore actress Fann Wong and Taiwanese male singer Peter Ho.\n\nThe main character, Sam, decided to work in Hong Kong after graduating from school in Singapore, as a way to gain a wider exposure in life It was in Hong Kong when he encountered Jane at a movie theater, by chance. Following the encounter, Sam's fascination for Jane led him to discover a lifestyle that is, until now, unknown to him.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849350", "title": "Hume (crater)", "text": "Hume (crater)\n\nHume is a small lunar impact crater that lies along the eastern limb of the Moon, along the southeast edge of Mare Smythii. It is located just on the far side of the Moon, but it is often brought into sight from Earth due to libration. Hume lies just to the west-northwest of the much larger Hirayama, and to the northeast of the flooded crater Swasey.\n\nHume has been flooded by flows of basaltic lava, leaving only a slender rim projecting above the surface. Its interior floor is level and has the same low albedo as the lunar mare to the northwest. The rim has a wide gap at the northern end, and the floor lies open to the exterior. This feature is not marked by any overlying impacts of note.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Hume.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849356", "title": "Billiken", "text": "Billiken\n\nThe Billiken is a charm doll created by an American art teacher and illustrator, Florence Pretz of Kansas City, Missouri, who is said to have seen the mysterious figure in a dream. It is believed that Pretz found the name Billiken in Bliss Carman's 1896 poem \"Mr. Moon: A Song Of The Little People\". In 1908, she obtained a design patent on the ornamental design of the Billiken, which she sold to the Billiken Company of Chicago. The Billiken was monkey-like with pointed ears, a mischievous smile and a tuft of hair on his pointed head. His arms were short and he was generally sitting with his legs stretched out in front of him. Billiken is known as \"The God of Things as They Ought to Be\".\n\nTo buy a Billiken was said to give the purchaser luck, but to receive one as a gift would be better luck. The image was copyrighted and a trademark was put on the name. After a few years of popularity, the Billiken faded into obscurity. Although they are similar, the Billiken and the baby-like kewpie figures that debuted in the December 1909 \"Ladies' Home Journal\" are not the same.\n\nToday, the Billiken is the official mascot of Saint Louis University and St. Louis University High School, both Jesuit institutions located in St. Louis. The Billiken is also the official mascot of the Royal Order of Jesters, an invitation only Shriner group, affiliated with Freemasonry. The Billiken also became the namesake of Billiken Shokai, the Japanese toy & model manufacturing company (established 1976).\n\nThe Billiken sprang from the height of the \"Mind-Cure\" craze in the United States at the start of the twentieth century. It represented the \"no worry\" ideal, and was a huge hit. Variations appeared, such as the \"Teddy-Billiken Doll\" and the Billycan/Billycant pair (to drive petty problems away). The Billiken helped touch off the doll craze of the era.\n\nAt least two Billiken-themed songs were recorded, including \"Billiken Rag\" and the \"Billiken Man Song.\" The latter was recorded by Blanche Ring.\n\nThe Billiken, as a good luck charm, appears multiple times in the Vivien Leigh and Robert Taylor movie \"Waterloo Bridge\". It is employed as a device that both prompts recollections of the male lead, Robert Taylor, and that links several scenes within the movie as the plot unfolds. \"Wizard of Oz\" author L. Frank Baum kept a Billiken doll on his piano.\n\nThe Billiken made its Japanese debut in 1908. A statue was installed in the uppermost level of the original Tsutenkaku Tower as it was opened to the public in 1912. When the nearby Luna Park was closed in 1925, the tower's Billiken statue disappeared. In 1980, a replacement statue made its appearance in a new Tsutenkaku Tower that was built in 1956.\n\nIn its heyday, the Billiken enjoyed worldwide celebrity. In America he became the athletic mascot of Saint Louis University, because the figure was said to resemble coach John R. Bender. The school's athletic teams remain the \"Billikens\" to this day. A bronze statue of the Billiken stands in front of the Chaifetz Arena on the Saint Louis University Campus. A junior version of the Billiken became the mascot of nearby St. Louis University High School; a stainless steel statue of the Junior Billiken stands adjacent to the Danis Fieldhouse, on the St. Louis University High School Campus. Bud Billiken was a youth-club mascot for \"The Chicago Defender\", and was created in 1923, and is known more contemporarily as the inspiration for the yearly parade of the same name held shortly before the start of the school year.\n\nThe Billiken was the team nickname for several minor league professional baseball teams, including the Fort Wayne Billikens of the 1908–1910 Central League, the Montgomery Billikens of the 1910 Southern Association (a Class A league that ran from 1902–1935), the Bay City Billikens of the 1911 and 1912 Southern Michigan League (a league that dwelled in several classifications between 1906 and 1912), and the McLeansboro Billikens of the 1910 Kentucky–Illinois–Tennessee League (\"KITTY League\"), a Class D professional baseball league that ran from 1903 until 1955. McLeansboro is located in southern Illinois, 116 miles from St. Louis.\n\nIn 1909, the Billiken began its appearance in souvenir shops of Alaska. In Nome, Alaska, an Eskimo carver by the name Angokwazhuk copied a Billiken figurine in ivory brought to him by a merchant. Since that first appearance in Alaska, some Eskimo carvers began to include the billiken in the collection of figurines they created. By the 1960s the Billiken was ubiquitous in larger Alaskan cities like Anchorage, and heavily touristed areas. Billikens were often carved from Alaskan ivory and were used in jewelry and knick-knacks. Often these souvenirs were accompanied by printed, romanticized Billiken lore. In Anchorage, the name was also adopted by merchants, as in the Billiken Drive-In movie theater.\n\nThroughout Japan representations of the Billiken were enshrined. Pre-World War II statues of the Billiken could be found in Kobe city's Chinju Inari and Matsuo Inari shrines. Both of these statues were removed from display for many years at the onset of the war when foreign deities fell out of favor.\n\nThe most famous representation of the Billiken was in an amusement park, Luna Park, in the Shinsekai district of Osaka, Japan. In 1912, he was enshrined in the park as a symbol of Americana and there was revered as \"The God of Things As They Ought to Be\". Popular Billiken souvenirs in the park included dolls and manjū. When the park closed in 1923, the wooden statue of the Billiken went missing.\n\nA replica of the statue was placed in the second-generation Tsūtenkaku Tower in 1980. The Billiken was a star in Sakamoto Junji's 1996 comedy \"Billiken\" in which the statue is restored to the Tsutenkaku in an effort to revive the popularity of the tower and save Shinsekai.\n\nThe statue was a permanent fixture in the tower until September 2005 when it made its first departure and was taken, as an ambassador of sorts, to Shibuya's Tokyu Hands department store in Tokyo as a part of a fair to promote Naniwa (traditional Osaka) culture. As a part of the cultural exchange, a replica of the statue of Shibuya's most famous dog, Hachikō, was sent to Osaka.\n\nIn October 2008, the Billiken of Tsutenkaku took a journey all the way from Japan to its \"home\" city of St. Louis, Missouri where it was visited by students of St. Louis University, whose mascot is also the Billiken.\n\nDue to wear (particularly to the soles of the feet), the dark, worn statue replica from 1980 was replaced in May 2012 with a new one. Presently he resides on the fifth floor observation deck and has become closely associated with the tower. Each year thousands of visitors place a coin in his donation box and rub the soles of his well-worn feet to make their wishes come true.\n\nThe Billiken also became the namesake of Billiken Shokai, the Japanese toy & model manufacturing company established in 1976.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849362", "title": "Language game (philosophy)", "text": "Language game (philosophy)\n\nA language-game () is a philosophical concept developed by Ludwig Wittgenstein, referring to simple examples of language use and the actions into which the language is woven. Wittgenstein argued that a word or even a sentence has meaning only as a result of the “rule” of the “game” being played. Depending on the context, for example, the utterance “Water!” could be an order, the answer to a question, or some other form of communication.\n\nIn his work \"Philosophical Investigations\" (1953), Ludwig Wittgenstein regularly referred to the concept of language-games. Wittgenstein rejected the idea that language is somehow separate and corresponding to reality, and he argued that concepts do not need clarity for meaning. Wittgenstein used the term \"language-game\" to designate forms of language simpler than the entirety of a language itself, \"consisting of language and the actions into which it is woven\" (PI 7) and connected by family resemblance (\"Familienähnlichkeit\"). The concept was intended \"to bring into prominence the fact that the speaking of language is part of an activity, or a form of life,\" (PI 23) which gives language its meaning.\n\nWittgenstein develops this discussion of games into the key notion of a \"language-game\". Wittgenstein introduces the term using simple examples, but intends it to be used for the many ways in which we use language. The central component of language games is that they are uses of language, and language is used in multifarious ways. For example, in one language-game, a word might be used to stand for (or refer to) an object, but in another the same word might be used for giving orders, or for asking questions, and so on. The famous example is the meaning of the word \"game\". We speak of various kinds of games: board games, betting games, sports, \"war games\". These are all different uses of the word \"games\". Wittgenstein also gives the example of \"Water!\", which can be used as an exclamation, an order, a request, or an answer to a question. The meaning of the word depends on the language-game within which it is being used. Another way Wittgenstein puts the point is that the word \"water\" has no meaning apart from its use within a language-game. One might use the word as an order to have someone else bring you a glass of water. But it can also be used to warn someone that the water has been poisoned. One might even use the word as code by members of a secret society.\n\nWittgenstein does not limit the application of his concept of language games to word-meaning. He also applies it to sentence-meaning. For example, the sentence \"Moses did not exist\" (§79) can mean various things. Wittgenstein argues that independently of use the sentence does not yet 'say' anything. It is 'meaningless' in the sense of not being significant for a particular purpose. It only acquires significance if we fix it within some context of use. Thus, it fails to say anything because the sentence as such does not yet determine some particular use. The sentence is only meaningful when it is used to say something. For instance, it can be used so as to say that no person or historical figure fits the set of descriptions attributed to the person that goes by the name of \"Moses\". But it can also mean that the leader of the Israelites was not called Moses. Or that there cannot have been anyone who accomplished all that the Bible relates of Moses, etc. What the sentence means thus depends on its context of use.\n\nThe term ‘language-game’ is used to refer to:\n\nThese meanings are not separated from each other by sharp boundaries, but blend into one another (as suggested by the idea of family resemblance). The concept is based on the following analogy: The rules of language are analogous to the rules of games; thus saying something in a language is analogous to making a move in a game. The analogy between a language and a game demonstrates that words have meaning depending on the uses made of them in the various and multiform activities of human life. (The concept is not meant to suggest that there is anything trivial about language, or that language is \"just a game\".)\n\nThe classic example of a language-game is the so-called \"builder's language\" introduced in §2 of the \"Philosophical Investigations\":\nLater \"this\" and \"there\" are added (with functions analogous to the function these words have in natural language), and \"a, b, c, d\" as numerals. An example of its use: builder A says \"d — slab — there\" and points, and builder B counts four slabs, \"a, b, c, d...\" and moves them to the place pointed to by A. The builder's language is an activity into which is woven something we would recognize as language, but in a simpler form. This language-game resembles the simple forms of language taught to children, and Wittgenstein asks that we conceive of it as \"a complete primitive language\" for a tribe of builders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849363", "title": "Carlo Bo", "text": "Carlo Bo\n\nCarlo Bo (25 January 1911 – 21 July 2001) was a poet, literary critic, a professor and Life senator of Italy (from 1984).\n\nBefore the Second World War, in the year 1936, he published an essay on the literary magazine \"Il Frontespizio\" which gathered together the most relevant poets like Mario Luzi, and contemporary artists from Ottone Rosai to Giorgio Morandi and Quinto Martini. His essay was titled \"Letteratura come vita (Literature as a way of life)\", containing the theoretical-methodological fundamentals of hermetic poetry. This was to become a strong poetical movement comprising important poets, such as Salvatore Quasimodo and Eugenio Montale, both of whom would go on to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature (1959, 1975). Carlo Bo himself, however, never did and, at the age of 86, was rendered incapable of understanding Dario Fo's 1997 receipt of the Nobel Prize in Literature, saying \"I must be too old to understand. What does this mean? That everything changes, even literature has changed.\"\n\nBo was the president of University of Urbino from 1947, for more than 50 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849364", "title": "When I Fall in Love... with Both", "text": "When I Fall in Love... with Both\n\nWhen I Fall in Love... with Both () is a 2000 Hong Kong anthology film consisting of three separate stories. Directed by Samson Chiu, the film stars Hong Kong actresses Michelle Reis and Theresa Lee together with Singaporean actress Fann Wong.\n\nThis feminist Hong Kong film comprises three separate stories telling of the predicament of modern women when they have more than one choice of a partner. In Singapore, Fann Wong is a reporter who falls for a shy baker (Peter Ho Yun-Tung) while she's seeing her suave co-worker (James Lye). Meanwhile, in Hong Kong, Theresa Lee is about to marry, but falls for her fiancé's twin brother (the two are played by twins James Chan and Sean Chan). And finally, in Macau, Michelle Reis is stuck between Alex Fong and David Wu, though not in the same way the other two women are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849366", "title": "IEC 60870", "text": "IEC 60870\n\nIn electrical engineering and power system automation, the International Electrotechnical Commission 60870 standards define systems used for telecontrol (supervisory control and data acquisition). Such systems are used for controlling electric power transmission grids and other geographically widespread control systems. By use of standardized protocols, equipment from many different suppliers can be made to interoperate. IEC standard 60870 has six parts, defining general information related to the standard, operating conditions, electrical interfaces, performance requirements, and data transmission protocols. The 60870 standards are developed by IEC Technical Committee 57 (Working Group 03).\n\n\nIEC 60870 part 5, known as Transmission protocols, provides a communication profile for sending basic telecontrol messages between two systems, which uses permanent directly connected data circuits between the systems. The IEC TC 57 WG3 have developed a protocol standard for telecontrol, teleprotection, and associated telecommunications for electric power systems. The result of this work is IEC 60870-5. Five documents specify the base IEC 60870-5:\n\nThe IEC TC 57 has also generated companion standards:\n\nIEC 60870-5-101/102/103/104 are companion standards generated for basic telecontrol tasks, transmission of integrated totals, data exchange from protection equipment & network access of IEC101 respectively.\n\nIEC TC 57 WG3 also generated standards for telecontrol protocols compatible with ISO standards and ITU-T recommendations. These standards include:\n"}
{"id": "1849375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849375", "title": "Greenwood, Western Australia", "text": "Greenwood, Western Australia\n\nGreenwood is a suburb of Perth, Western Australia, located in the City of Joondalup. The suburb is located 18 km from Perth's central business district. It is bordered by the Mitchell Freeway, Hepburn ave, Wanneroo road and Warwick road\n\nThe Gold Land Development Corporation used the name \"Greenwood Forest\" as the promotional name of the estate which commenced development in the area in 1969. The reserve between the suburbs of Duncraig and Greenwood was used for the construction of the Mitchell Freeway in 1985-1986.\n\nGreenwood is home to a senior high school and three primary schools:\n\nThe original Greenwood Primary School closed in 1997 and the land was sub-divided and sold as residential lots.\nDuring June 2007, the government announced that Allenswood Primary School and East Greenwood Primary schools would amalgamate, temporarily at the East Greenwood site, and a new school would be built on the Allenswood site.\nAllenswood primary closed at the end of the 2007 school year and was demolished, making way for the construction of the new school, expected to be completed in late 2009.\nIn 2008, East Greenwood Primary School was renamed Greenwood Primary School, later relocating, at the commencement of Term 4 2010 to the newly constructed, ex Allenswood Primary Site. East Greenwood Primary was then also demolished.\n\nGreenwood Senior High School became independent in 2011-2012 and changed its name to Greenwood College.\n\nThe north-eastern corner contains a small commercial/industrial area centred on Canham Way. This precinct hosts a variety of businesses including a butcher, tyre store, landscaping supplies, martial arts, reticulation, hardware, thrift shop and others. A small commercial centre is located on Wanneroo Road, south of Canham Way.\n\nThe main shopping centre in the suburb is Greenwood Village Shopping Centre, on Calectasia Street. The centre includes a Coles supermarket and a range of other retailers, including a butcher, bakery,24 Hour gym, greengrocer, pharmacy, pizza shop, newsagent, barber, Post Office and others. In the general vicinity of the shopping centre is a BP Service Station, a commercial centre and a popular pub called The Greenwood Hotel. 'The Greenwood' is the official support pub for boxer Danny Green.\n\nLocated toward the north-western corner of Greenwood is the smaller Coolibah Plaza Shopping Centre which trades 7 days a week. There are 10 businesses in the centre including a Farmer Jacks supermarket, newsagent, bakery, a fish and chip shop and both a Malaysian and Thai restaurant.\n\nThe suburb is served by Transperth bus routes 445, 446, 447 running in both directions between the Warwick and Whitfords rail interchange stations. The suburb is also served by the Greenwood railway station. Greenwood is bordered on the south by Warwick Road and on the north by Hepburn Avenue. Both of these roads have northbound and southbound entrances and exits to the Mitchell Freeway, which forms the western boundary for the suburb.\n\nThere are 4 churches in Greenwood:\n\nPenistone Reserve is a large reserve that caters for cricket, lacrosse, football and soccer. It is adjacent to the Greenwood Primary School.\nThe Greenwood Cricket Club play at the reserve and 2007/2008 will be the club's 30th season.\n\nBlackall Reserve, adjacent to the former Greenwood Primary School site, is also a popular sporting area. Cricket is played on the concrete and astroturf pitch. Other sports and leisure activities are carried out on the oval.\n\nWarrigal Park, near Greenwood College just next to the schools soccer oval is a popular sporting area where Australian Rules Football is played.\n\nGreenwood Park, just next to Greenwood Train Station off Wahroonga way is a large park that has a BMX track and a basketball hoop.\n\nOleaster Reserve, next to Blackall Drive has a good playground and a basketball hoop.\n\nThe Rob Hancock Memorial Golf Course is the only free Disc Golf course in Western Australia. It is located on Mulligan Drive. It has nine holes, and hold tournaments throughout the year.\n"}
{"id": "1849379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849379", "title": "Wojciech Trąmpczyński", "text": "Wojciech Trąmpczyński\n\nWojciech Stefan Trąmpczyński (8 February 1860 – 2 March 1953) was a Polish lawyer and National Democratic politician. Voivode of the Poznań Voivodeship in 1919. He served as marshal of the Sejm of Poland from 1919–1922 and Senate of Poland from 1922 to 1928.\n\nTrąmpczyński was born in Dębłowo in the Prussian Province of Posen (present-day Poland). He graduated from the law faculty of the University of Wrocław. He died in 1953 in Poznań.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849381", "title": "House of Harmony", "text": "House of Harmony\n\nHouse of Harmony () is a S$7 million German-Singaporean telemovie. Jointly produced by 4 parties - Germany's FFP Media and ZDF Pictures, together with Singapore's Oak 3 Films and Media Development Authority (MDA), the telemovie was shot in four languages - Spanish, English, German, and Mandarin.\n\nIt is based on the novel \"Perfect Harmony\" by Barbara Wood.\n\nSingapore in the 1920s sets the stage for the dramatic romance between a young Asian woman (Fann Wong) and a married American industrialist (Philippe Brenninkmeyer). It is a love doomed by laws and tradition, but which yields a child, Harmony (Maggie Q).\n\nAfter finishing her studies, she goes to America and becomes a successful maker and distributor of herbal medicines. She also falls in love with her father's adopted son (Daniel Morgenroth), but is reviled by the young man's racially and socially bigoted mother. The story revolves around whether the two lovers could overcome all barriers and be together.\n\n\n\"House of Harmony\" has been telecast in Germany, Austria, France and Belgium to a combined prime-time viewership of over 80 million.\n\n\"House of Harmony\" won a Silver Award in the 2005 Queensland Awards for Cinematography, by the Australian Cinematographers Society.\n"}
{"id": "1849391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849391", "title": "Payette River", "text": "Payette River\n\nThe Payette River is an river in southwestern Idaho and is a major tributary of the Snake River.\n\nIts headwaters originate in the Sawtooth and Salmon River Mountains at elevations over . Drainage in the watershed flows primarily from east to west, with the cumulative stream length to the head of the North Fork Payette River being , while to the head of the South Fork the cumulative length is nearly . The combined Payette River flows into an agricultural valley and empties into the Snake River near the city of Payette at an elevation of . The Payette River's drainage basin comprises about . It is a physiographic section of the Columbia Plateau province, which in turn is part of the larger Intermontane Plateaus physiographic division. The South Fork of the Payette has its headwaters in the Sawtooth Wilderness, which is part of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area.\n\nThe principal tributaries of the Payette River are the North and South forks. The North Fork drains about , beginning north of McCall and flowing into Payette Lake. The North Fork exits at the southwest end of Payette Lake at and flows south in the \"Long Valley\" of Valley County toward Cascade. It then flows into the Cascade Reservoir, then continues south, accompanied by Highway 55.\n\nThe South Fork Payette River drains about , originating on the west side of the Sawtooth Wilderness beneath the Mount Payette. It flows past Grandjean and down to Lowman, along Highway 21. The shorter Middle Fork Payette River parallels the lower North Fork to the east, flowing south and joining the South Fork just southwest of Crouch. Further east, the Deadwood River parallels the Middle Fork and empties into the South Fork just west of Lowman. The main stem of the Payette River is shown on USGS topographic maps as beginning at the confluence of the South and Middle forks.\n\nThe North Fork joins the Payette at the village of Banks, at an elevation of . The main stem flows south from Banks for to Horseshoe Bend, then west into Black Canyon Reservoir. Below the reservoir's dam, the river flows past Emmett and Payette, then empties into the Snake River at the Oregon border. The Payette River has an average annual discharge into the Snake River of of water.\n\nThe river's watershed was originally settled by the Shoshone, Nez Perce, Paiute and Bannock Native American groups. Before contact with Europeans, many of the indigenous peoples had no permanent villages or settlements. During the fall and winter, they camped in the semi-arid lower valley of the main stem Payette River. In spring and summer, they temporarily moved to the lush area of lakes and wetlands along the North Fork now known as Long Valley, where they hunted and gathered in preparation for the coming winter. Camas bulbs, widespread in this area, was a staple of their diet. In order to maintain the naturally occurring fields of camas, they would set controlled burns whenever they moved to the next camp. The seasonal burning also cleared unwanted vegetation and protected their campsites from overgrowth.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Europeans began exploring western Idaho. Francois Payette, for whom the river is named, was a French-Canadian fur trapper who worked for the North West Company and was one of the first people of European descent to explore the Payette River basin. Payette ventured east from Fort Astoria in 1818. From 1835 to 1844, he headed the Hudson's Bay Company's Fort Boise trading post near Parma, on the Snake River some distance south of the Payette River. In 1844, Payette retired to Montreal, still over twenty years before settlers began to arrive in great numbers from the eastern United States. One of the first pioneer settlements was on Clear Creek, a tributary of the South Fork Payette River. Many of the Native Americans were unhappy with the new settlers for taking and causing damage to their lands, especially due to mining, logging, and grazing. Armed conflicts resulted, including the Nez Perce War of 1877, when the US Army was dispatched to western Idaho.\n\nDue to the abundant timber in the Payette River basin, one of the first new industries in the 19th century was logging, but did not reach large scale until the early 20th century. Demand for wooden railroad ties for the Oregon Short Line (OSL) in the 1880s increased logging operations in the area. One of the main centers of logging was in the southern part of Long Valley downstream from what is now the town of Cascade. A splash dam was built in 1902 by the Minnesota-based Payette Lumber and Manufacturing Company on the North Fork in order to help the transportation of logs downstream. Settlers began to move into the upper Payette basin, and in 1911, the Idaho Northern Railroad was constructed between Emmett along the Payette River, through Black Canyon and the North Fork, and ending just below Long Valley at Smith's Ferry on the river, named for a settler who bought the operation in 1891. The railroad transported timber, livestock and crops between Long Valley and the Treasure Valley.\n\nStarting around 1874, there was heavy agricultural development in the valley of the lower Payette River. Irrigation systems were necessary due to the semi-arid climate of this area. The Last Chance Canal and Nobel Canal were among the first private ditches constructed to divert water from the Payette River. The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) constructed Black Canyon Diversion Dam in 1924 to direct water from the Payette River into the Emmett and Black Canyon Canals, which run at higher elevations than the older ditches and vastly increased the potential for irrigation. In order to store water for irrigation in the dry season, the USBR constructed Deadwood Dam in 1929 on the Deadwood River tributary of the South Fork. Cascade Dam was constructed in 1948, flooding a large area of Long Valley. It provides more than four times the storage capacity of Deadwood.\n\nDue to the wide range in elevation, the Payette River has a variety of fish and fish habitats. Salmon and steelhead were eliminated in the drainage by the Black Canyon Diversion Dam, which was first completed in 1924. From its mouth upstream to Black Canyon Dam, the river supports a mixed fishery for coldwater and warmwater species. Mountain whitefish make up the bulk of game fish in this section of river, with smallmouth bass, largemouth bass, channel catfish, black crappie, rainbow trout, and brown trout making significant contributions. Upstream from Black Canyon Dam, the gradient of the river increases with coldwater species increasing in abundance. The South Fork of the Payette River supports excellent populations of wild rainbow trout. The North Fork of the Payette River has been severely altered by railroad and highway construction and provides only a marginal fishery for salmonids. However, in unaltered sections such as the Cabarton reach, the North Fork is very productive for salmonids.\n\nThere are five major impoundments in the Payette basin: Black Canyon, Sage Hen, Paddock, Cascade, and Deadwood reservoirs. There are also several small impoundments and natural lakes with increased storage, such as the three Payette Lakes. Black Canyon, on the mainstem, provides only marginal fish habitat. Sand from upstream land disturbances has covered most of the habitat. Paddock Reservoir, on Big Willow Creek, has one of the better populations of black crappie in the state and a good fishery for largemouth bass. Cascade Reservoir on the North Fork is one of the most heavily fished waters in the state. Cascade has an abundance of yellow perch, coho salmon, and rainbow trout. Deadwood Reservoir, completed in 1931, contains kokanee and cutthroat trout.\n\nAlpine lakes within the Payette River drainage are stocked with rainbow trout, cutthroat trout, cutbow (rainbow-cutthroat hybrids), golden trout, and Arctic grayling. Brook trout are also present in a number of lakes.\n\nThe Payette River is famous for its whitewater. Experts call the North Fork Class V run one of the most challenging river reaches in North America, if not the world. Kayaking on the lower North Fork from Smith's Ferry to Banks is world-class, easily viewed from state highway #55, which closely hugs its bank, primarily on the west side. The lower North Fork narrows and drops 1700 feet (518 m) in the 16 miles (26 km) above Banks, providing nearly endless Class V rapids (see International Scale of River Difficulty). The average gradient is per mile (21 m/km) with a maximum gradient of 200 ft/mile (38 m/km). The North Fork's flow rate is controlled through the Cascade Dam, completed in 1948, providing relatively warm water from the shallow Cascade Reservoir.\n\nTo the east of Banks, the South Fork's Canyon, west of Lowman, is a challenging Class IV run for rafting. Along this trip is a Class VI waterfall (Big Falls), which is portaged. The North Fork and South Fork merge at Banks to form the Payette River (main), providing a float trip with numerous Class III rapids. The highway on this lower stretch of the river is on the east bank and a scenic railroad, the Thunder Mountain Line, runs above the west side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849394", "title": "Hutton (lunar crater)", "text": "Hutton (lunar crater)\n\nHutton is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It lies to the northwest of the larger crater Shayn, and to the north of Nušl.\n\nHutton is a worn, circular crater with a largely symmetrical appearance. Its features include a small craterlet across the western rim, some slight disruption to the northern rim, and an eroded, ledge-like form along the southern inner wall. The interior floor has an elongated central ridge at the midpoint, and a smaller ridge offset to the east, but it is otherwise marked only by tiny craterlets and a few small hills.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Hutton.\n"}
{"id": "1849403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849403", "title": "Krzysztof Chodkiewicz", "text": "Krzysztof Chodkiewicz\n\nKrzysztof Chodkiewicz or Katkevičius (died 1652) was a Polish–Lithuanian nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nChodkiewicz held the title of Great Standard Bearer of Lithuania (). In 1610, he was named Master of the Horse of Lithuania. In 1623, Castellan of Trakai, and in 1633, Castellan of Vilnius, in 1636, Voivode of Vilnius Voivodeship. Finally in 1642, he became Starost (Grodzki) of Babruysk, Kreva and held the deeds to Biala and Wiszniewo.\n\nDuring the Polish–Swedish War, he participated in the siege of Pärnu, which started on February 28, 1601, under the command of his cousin, Jan Karol Chodkiewicz.\n\nHe also took part in the Polish–Muscovite War, as a pułkownik (colonel) of the Lisowczyk regiment until March 28, 1617. In 1616, a regiment under his command captured and burned Kursk and several smaller cities. He was also a participant in the Battle of Bołchow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849404", "title": "Sorrento, Western Australia", "text": "Sorrento, Western Australia\n\nSorrento is a northern coastal suburb of Perth, the capital city of Western Australia in the local government area of the City of Joondalup. At its northwestern corner is the Hillarys Boat Harbour, built in the late 1980s.\n\nA private subdivision of freehold land known as \"Sorrento\" was surveyed here in 1929. It is assumed that the name was taken from the Italian seaside town of Sorrento which is located south of Naples opposite the Isle of Capri.\nPrior to white settlement, the Whadjuk Aboriginal people, who called the area Mooro, gathered abalone and other shellfish in large numbers off the nearby reefs.\n\nThe first European to settle in the area was Patrick Marmion, master whaler, who operated a whaling station in the area in 1849. There are still some remains of the old whaling station at the present-day Surf Lifesaving Club site, and a monument to Marmion can be found in Geneff Park in Padbury Circle.\n\nThe area was popular with fishermen in the 1930s, and numerous boatsheds and shacks were built there. Residential settlement commenced in the early 1950s and until 1981, it was part of the suburb of Marmion.\nIn 1958, the Sisters of Our Lady of the Missions bought land in Sorrento at what was then the end of the West Coast Highway, and in 1967, the Sisters and boarding students moved from Highgate to the new site, Sacred Heart College Sorrento. The college became coeducational in 1977, and in 1989, the Catholic Education Commission took over management of the school.\n\nIn preparation for Australia's defence of the 1987 America's Cup at Fremantle, the State Government commissioned the building of Hillarys Boat Harbour, the first major marina in the north metropolitan area. The retail complex on the site, called Sorrento Quay, commenced trading in December 1987 and was officially opened in January 1988. Also, in May 1987, the Government declared Marmion Marine Park over a region from Burns Beach to Trigg, to which the new marina complex provided a gateway.\n\nSorrento is bounded by Hepburn Avenue to the north, Marmion Avenue to the east, Marine Terrace to the south and West Coast Drive and the Indian Ocean to the west.\n\nAt the 2001 Australian census, Sorrento had a population of 7,321 people living in 2,796 dwellings. Sorrento's oceanside location and to Hillarys Boat Harbour has seen the suburb become affluent since the 1980s, and the ABS identified many managers and professionals living within the suburb. However, many tradespeople and service employees also live in the area.\n\nSorrento is a residential suburb, relying on the Seacrest Village shopping centre for basic commercial services, and Whitford City and Centro Warwick for other services. Several parks of various sizes are situated in the suburb.\n\nThe Sorrento Quay retail development within the Hillarys Boat Harbour sits on the northwestern boundary of the suburb. Off the coast is the Marmion Marine Park, which provides a home for many species of marine animals.\n\nSorrento Beach has a Beach Enclosure that allows swimmers to enter the water with reduced risk of encountering a shark. Sorrento Beach also has a Surf Life Saving Club, providing patrols, education training and sporting facilities.\n\nSorrento contains a Catholic private school, Sacred Heart College, and a state primary school Sorrento Primary School (founded 1970). The suburb falls within Duncraig Senior High School's catchment area.\n\nSorrento is served by the 423 and 441 buses from Warwick railway station and Whitfords Train Station, operated by Swan Transit.\n\nSorrento is a reasonably affluent suburb with many \"mortgage belt\" families. The beachside part of Sorrento, together with Hillarys to its north, is the strongest base in the northern suburban region for the Liberal Party at both federal and state elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849423", "title": "Joe Jeanette", "text": "Joe Jeanette\n\nJeremiah \"Joe\" Jeannette (also Jennette) (August 26, 1879 – July 2, 1958) is considered one of the best heavyweight boxers of the early 20th century. Because he was African-American, he was not given a shot at the world heavyweight title, though he did win the World Colored Heavyweight Championship.\n\nJeannette was born on August 26, 1879, in West Hoboken, New Jersey, which is now part of Union City, to Mena and Benjamin F. Jeanette, who worked for a local blacksmith. He began work as his father's apprentice, and then as a coal truck driver for Jaels and Bellis. In 1904, at the age of 25, he began his boxing career on a dare, fighting against Arthur Dickinson in Jersey City. At and weighing , Jeanette was relatively short and stocky, with his initial knowledge of fighting stemming from youthful street brawls.\n\nWithin two years, Jeanette was considered one of the best black heavyweights in the United States. Jeanette mimicked the style of Sam Langford, whom he fought 15 times (some sources say 14), developing defensive techniques that were elusive and effective. Opponents considered Jeanette, whose style reflected the \"inside punching\" style of the times, a dangerous inside boxer whom few wished to fight. Because of the racial barrier, black boxers only had a small number of prospective opponents from which to choose, and often ended up matched against the same fighters over and over.\n\nJeanette fought the future heavyweight champion Jack Johnson seven times in his first two years as a pro, and a total of ten times. According to the Ken Burns documentary \"Unforgivable Blackness\", Jeanette lost twice, won one fight on a foul after two rounds, had two draws, and five \"No Decisions\" in his fights against Johnson. Johnson called Jeannette \"the toughest man I ever fought.\"\n\nAfter Johnson became the first African-American Heavyweight Champion of the World on December 26, 1908, he never again fought Jeanette, despite numerous challenges. Johnson's refusal to fight African-Americans offended the African-American community. Jeanette criticized Johnson, saying, \"Jack forgot about his old friends after he became champion and drew the color line against his own people.\"\n\nJeanette was never allowed to fight for the heavyweight championship during his 15-year career, despite having a stellar record against opponents of all races.\n\nJoe's most memorable fight occurred on April 17, 1909 in a return bout with Sam McVey in Paris, France that lasted three-and-a-half-hours, and 49 rounds, the longest boxing match of the 20th century, and one of the greatest marathons in boxing history. Although McVey began the fight strong and looked like a sure winner, knocking down the usually sturdy Jeannette 27 times, and almost knocking him out in the 16th round with a right uppercut to Jeanette's jaw, he weakened greatly by the 19th round. Jeanette took control, knocking down McVey, a boxer (who had only been stopped once in his career, by Johnson), 19 times. After the 49th round, McVey could not rise from his stool at the call of time and Jeannette was declared winner on a technical knockout. This won him the \"World Colored Heavyweight Championship,\" as Jack Johnson had defeated Tommy Burns for his heavyweight title the previous December.\n\nJeanette retired in 1919 at the age of 40. Of his 166 documented pro fights (he believed it was closer to 400), in a career spanning 1904-1922, Jeanette had 106 wins, 68 of which were by knockout, with 20 losses. Only two of his losses were by knockout, once early in his career and once late in his career. He is rated alongside the very best boxers of his era, including Johnson, Langford, and McVey.\n\nJeanette met his wife, Adelaide, at a dance in Hoboken. They had two children, a son, Joe Jr., and a daughter, Agnes.\n\nUnlike many boxers, Jeanette was not a spendthrift and invested his money and time wisely. He spent most of his career fighting in and around the Eastern Seaboard, with only brief tours of Europe. After his career, he became a referee and a trainer of young boxers. He owned a boxing gym on 27th Street and Summit Avenue in Union City, New Jersey, where he was a fixture on the boxing scene for many years, training hundreds of boxers, including Heavyweight Champion James J. Braddock.\n\nJeanette, who was fond of automobiles, eventually converted his boxing gym into a garage, out of which he operated a fleet of rental limousines, and then a taxi company named Adelaide, after his wife, which was located at 522 Clinton Avenue, now New York Avenue.\n\nJeanette died in 1958. He is buried in Fairview, New Jersey.\n\nHe was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nA historical marker was dedicated at the corner of Summit Avenue and 27th Street in Union City April 17, 2009, where Jeanette's former residence and gym once stood. It is Union City's first historical marker.\n"}
{"id": "1849433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849433", "title": "Battle of Pasir Panjang", "text": "Battle of Pasir Panjang\n\nThe Battle of Pasir Panjang, which took place between 12 and 15 February 1942, was part of the final stage of the Empire of Japan's invasion of Singapore during World War II. The battle was initiated upon the advancement of elite Imperial Japanese Army forces towards Pasir Panjang Ridge on 13 February.\n\n13,000 Japanese troops had made an amphibious landing in northwestern Singapore near Sarimbun (see Battle of Sarimbun Beach) and had started to advance south towards Pasir Panjang. They had already captured Tengah Airfield en route. The 13,000 soldiers constituted a significant part of the total strength of 36,000 Japanese troops deployed in the invasion of Singapore.\n\nThe 1st Malaya Infantry Brigade, comprising the British 2nd Loyal Regiment under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Mordaunt Elrington, together with the 1st Malaya Regiment commanded by Lieutenant Colonel J.R.G. Andre, consisted of less than three sections of the Mortar Platoon, Anti-Aircraft Platoon along with the Bren Gun Carrier Platoon under Captain R.R.C. Carter, all of which were held in reserve. These units were tasked with defending the approach to Pasir Panjang Ridge, also known as \"The Gap\". The 44th Indian Brigade were positioned on their right flank.\n\nA Malay platoon, consisting of 42 soldiers and their officers, commanded by Second Lieutenant Adnan Saidi, was holding a critical part of the British defences at Bukit Chandu. Adnan and his men would take the brunt of the Japanese assault shortly after.\n\nThe first battle between the Malay Regiment and Japanese soldiers occurred on 13 February at around 1400 hours. The Japanese 18th Division started to attack the southwestern coast along Pasir Panjang Ridge and astride Ayer Rajah Road. The Japanese 56th Infantry Regiment under Colonel Yoshio Nasu, supported by a considerable force of artillery, attacked the ridge during the morning.\n\nOne of the units defending the line was B Company of the Malay Regiment. Under heavy fire from the Japanese, who had artillery and tank support, B Company was forced to retreat to the rear. However, before the retreat could be completed, the Japanese succeeded in breaking through B Company's position. In the battle, the troops fought hand-to-hand combat using bayonets against the Japanese. A few from B Company managed to save themselves while others were captured as prisoners-of-war. This penetration led to the withdrawal after dark, of both the 44th Indian and 1st Malay Brigade, to the general line at Mount Echo (junction of Ayer Rajah and Depot Road, around present-day Buona Vista).\nOn 14 February, the eve of Chinese New Year, the Japanese again launched a large-scale attack at 0830 hours with heavy support by intense mortar bombardment and artillery gunfire, on the battlefront held by the 1st Malay Brigade. The defenders managed to beat this off and a number of other attacks despite suffering considerable casualties. The fighting also included bitter hand-to-hand combat and losses on the Japanese side were as heavy as their Malay foes. At 1600 hours, another attack, this time also supported by tanks, eventually succeeded in penetrating the left flank and the defenders on this side were forced back to a line running from the junction of Ayer Rajah Road to Depot Road through to Alexandra Brickworks and along the canal leading to Bukit Chermin further southeast. Owing to the failure of units on both of its flanks to hold their ground, the 1st Malay Brigade had to withdraw at 1430 hours the following day. It was at this point that C Company of the Malay Regiment received instructions to move to a new defence position sited at Bukit Chandu.\n\nBukit Chandu (meaning \"Opium Hill\" in Malay) was so named after an opium-processing factory located at the foot of the hill. This was also where C Company of the Malay Regiment made their final stand against the imminent Japanese attack. Bukit Chandu was a key strategic defence position for two important reasons. Firstly, it was situated on high ground overlooking the island to the northwest and secondly, if the Japanese gained control of the ridge, it gave them direct passage to the Alexandra area just behind. The British military in Singapore had its main ammunition bases and supply depots, one of their military hospitals (Alexandra Hospital) and other key installations (such as the Normanton Oil Depot) located right next to Alexandra.\n\nC Company's position was separated from D Company by a big canal. Oil was burning in the canal, which flowed from the bombed-out and severely-destroyed Normanton Oil Depot. The burning oil in the canal prevented C Company's soldiers from retreating further back. The company was under the command of Second Lieutenant Adnan Bin Saidi. He encouraged his men to defend Bukit Chandu down to the last soldier and was killed together with many of his fellow soldiers in the last desperate defensive battle at Pasir Panjang.\n\nThe Japanese military pressed on their attack on Bukit Chandu in the afternoon, but this time they did so under the guise of a deception attempt. They sent a group of their soldiers, dressed in captured British Indian troops' uniforms (with their faces and skin smeared with dirt and soot and the wearing of turbans to pass off as Punjabis), to present themselves as allied Indian soldiers in the British Indian Army. C Company saw through this trick as they knew that soldiers of the British Army typically marched in a line of three columns while the supposed Punjabi soldiers in front of their lines were moving in a line of four columns. When they reached the Malay Regiment's defensive line, C Company's troops opened fire, killing many disguised Japanese soldiers. Those who survived escaped downhill back to friendly lines.\n\nTwo hours later, the Japanese forces launched an all-out banzai charge in great numbers in an attempt to wipe out the Malay troops ahead through sheer numbers and over-arching strength. The attack, conducted again with artillery shelling and tank support, overwhelmed the Malay Regiment and the defence line eventually broke. Despite being greatly outnumbered and short of ammunition (with only a few grenades at hand and not many rounds for their machine guns and rifles left) and much-needed combat supplies (including medication and bandages), the Malay Regiment continued to resist the Japanese. Both sides engaged in fierce hand-to-hand combat as well as using bayonets. Adnan was seriously wounded but refused to retreat or surrender and instead encouraged his men to fight to the end.\n\nSoon after, with the whole area of Pasir Panjang falling under Japanese control, Adnan, who was badly wounded and unable to fight, was captured. Instead of taking him prisoner, the Japanese continuously kicked, punched and beat him before tying him to a tree and stabbing him to death with their bayonets (some sources claim that Adnan was brutally beaten up before being thrown into a tied-up gunny sack, which was then stabbed repeatedly by his Japanese captors, while others indicate that they stabbed him to death before hanging him upside down from a tree).\n\nDuring the entire Malayan Campaign, but mostly from 12 to 15 February 1942 in Singapore, the Malay Regiment suffered a total of 159 killed. Six of them were British officers, seven Malay officers, 146 other ranks and a large but unspecified number wounded. About 600 surviving Malay Regiment soldiers reassembled in the Keppel Golf Link area. Here, they were separated from their British officers. They later joined prisoners-of-war from the British Indian Army battalions at the Farrer Park concentration area. It remains unclear as to how many casualties the Japanese suffered.\n\nThe battle of Pasir Panjang had little strategic significance. From a purely military operational perspective, the Battle of Pasir Panjang could not change the outcome of the fate of Singapore and it was a matter of time before the British would surrender to the Japanese 25th Army. The Allied units stationed there were simply tasked with defending the approach to the ridge, but instead had to resist the main invasion force. Bukit Chandu itself is situated on high ground overlooking the island to the north, and it controlled the direct passage to the Alexandra area where the British army had its main ammunition and supply depots, military hospital and other key installations. The fall of Bukit Chandu allowed Japan access to the Alexandra area, indirectly contributing to the Alexandra Hospital massacre.\n\nAdnan Saidi is described by many Singaporeans and Malaysians today as a hero for his actions on Bukit Chandu – he encouraged his men not to surrender and instead fight to the death. In Singaporean and Malaysian school textbooks, he is also credited as the soldier who noticed the error in the marching style of the Japanese soldiers disguised as Indian troops.\n\nFighting continued after his death and the subsequent British signing of surrender of Singapore to the Empire of Japan at 1810 hours on 15 February 1942 in the area around Alexandra Hospital, Tanjong Pagar and Pulau Belakang Mati (Sentosa) where some of the Malay Regiments regrouped.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849438", "title": "Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri", "text": "Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri\n\nMuhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri (‎; born 19 February 1951) is a Pakistani-Canadian Islamic scholar and former politician who founded Pakistan Awami Tehreek. \n\nHe was also a professor of international constitutional law at the University of the Punjab. Qadri is also the founding chairman of Minhaj-ul-Quran International and also of Minhaj Institute of Qira'at and Tafizul Quran. Qadri has delivered more than 8000 lectures on various topics including radicalism. \n\nMuhammad Tahir ul Qadri was born on 19 February 1951 in the Jhang district of Pakistan.\n\nHe received both an Islamic and secular education from his father and other scholars in Pakistan and abroad. He also received a First Class degree, an MA in Islamic Studies and a PhD in Islamic Law from the University of Punjab where he worked as a lecturer and then as Professor of Law.\n\nOn 29 November 2004, Qadri announced his resignation as a Member of the National Assembly protesting the counter terrorism policies of the then President Pervez Musharraf. In 2005 he moved to Canada.\n\nIn December 2012, after living for seven years in Toronto, Canada, Qadri returned to Pakistan and initiated a political campaign. Qadri called for a \"million-men\" march in Islamabad to protest against the government's corruption. On 14 January 2013, a crowd marched down the city's main avenue. Thousands of people pledged to sit-in until their demands were met. When he started the long march from Lahore about 50,000 people were with him. He told the rally in front of parliament: \"There is no Parliament; there is a group of looters, thieves and dacoits [bandits] ... Our lawmakers are the lawbreakers.\" After four days of sit-in, the Government and Qadri signed an agreement called the Islamabad Long March Declaration, which promised electoral reforms and increased political transparency. Although Qadri called for a \"million-men\" march, the estimated total present for the sit-in in Islamabad was more than 500,000 .\n\nCritics have charged that the protests were a ploy by the Pakistan Armed Forces to delay elections and weaken the influence of the civilian government, citing Qadri's close ties to the military, dual nationality and suspect foreign and Pakistani sources of funding. Lawyers for the Supreme Court of Pakistan claimed that Qadri's demands are unfeasible because they conflict with the Constitution of Pakistan. \"The Tribune\" reported on 17 February 2013, that Qadri seemed to have capitulated on most of his demands in the Islamabad Long March Declaration.\n\nOn 17 June 2014, a violent clash occurred between the Punjab Police and PAT activists resulting in the deaths of several protesters from police gunfire.\n\nAs of the end of September 2014, the Inqilab March began, with sit-in protests with allied partner Imran Khan, chairman and founder of Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) and organiser of 2014 Azadi March, in the capital of Pakistan, Islamabad.\n\nImran Khan and Tahir-ul-Qadri did not fully join their protest marches nor decline to support each other. On 10 August 2014, Qadri formally announced that his party's political march, the Inqilab March, would proceed parallel with PTI's Azadi march. Both marches were organised to take different routes, albeit closely mirroring each other. It is apparent that the two parties have similar objectives yet different aims and strategies. The announcement of two parallel marches by parties in opposition gave rise to speculation that a coalition between PTI and PAT was possible. The chiefs of the two parties never clearly stipulated a formal coalition; but an informal agreement to support each other was achieved\n\nOn 21 August 2014, Qadri said that the government had not been allowing his workers to supply food items and potable water to the participants of the sit-in.\n\nThe \"Daily Dawn\" of 31 August 2014 claimed that hundreds of people were injured in the federal capital as police battled throngs of protesters led by Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf and Pakistan Awami Tehreek.\n\nIt was reported that Tahir-ul-Qadri led the Eid prayer at Islamabad's D-Chowk. The congregation was attended by Imran Khan and other political leaders, including Raja Nasir Abbas Jafary of MWM. Animal sacrifies were also offered in the name of Allah following the Sunnah of Prophet Ibrahim and his son Prophet Ismail.\n\nThe organisation promotes religious moderation, effective and sound education, inter-faith dialogue and harmony, and a moderate interpretation of Islam supposedly employing methods of Sufism. During its March 2011 session, the United Nations Economic and Social Council granted special consultative status to Minhaj-ul-Quran International,\n\nOn 7 April 2019, Qadri addressed scholars at the OIC meeting in Riyadh and presented Minhaj-ul-Quran's Counter Terrorism Syllabus.\n\nIn August 2010, Qadri held an anti-terrorism camp for Muslim youth at the University of Warwick with the aim of tackling extremism in the UK. He organised the camp under the auspices of Minhaj-ul-Quran UK.\n\nSeven days after the Faisalabad Gathering, Qadri made a public gathering in Lahore on 19 October 2014.\n\nThe 2014 Lahore clash, more commonly known as the Model Town tragedy or the Lahore massacre (), or simply the Lahore incident, was a violent clash that ensued between the Punjab Police and Pakistan Awami Tehreek activists on 17 June 2014 resulting in several protesters being killed by the police gunfire. Five police officers remain under arrest. The standoff lasted for almost 11 hours when the police's anti-encroachment squad launched an operation to remove the barriers from the road leading to the offices of Minhaj-ul-Quran and the residence of PAT founder Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri in Model Town, Lahore. Although, Police officials were given a court order by PAT leaders, stating \"due to terrorism issue place security barriers in front of Minhaj-ul-Quran and the residence of PAT founder Qadri. But police still attacked.\n\nThe incident was broadcast live on various local news channels and there were conflicting accounts of how the standoff began. Police claimed that they were attacked by people inside the PAT secretariat, a claim that is denied by party chief Qadri. In the live footage broadcast on television, the policemen were shown firing assault rifles and lobbing tear gas canisters at the protesting masses while the protesters threw stones at the police for defence.\nQadri strongly condemned the attack and called it the worst form of state terrorism. Qadri vowed to avenge the deaths of his political workers by bringing about a revolution that would hasten the end of the rule of prime minister Nawaz Sharif and his brother Shahbaz Sharif.\n\nQadri and his party observed Youm-e-Shuhada (Day of Martyrs) at 9 August 2014 in Tehreek-e-Minhaj ul Quran secretariat in Model Town. A Country-Wide clash occurred between Police and the Workers of PAT. After the gathering of People, He assured his supporters and the government that the rally on 10 August would be peaceful while requesting his followers to bring their prayer mats for recitation of the Quran.\n\nHe has been invited to deliver his lectures by several organisations.\n\nIn July 2011, he gave a lecture on the issues of terrorism and integration at the Parliament of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia where he was invited by the member of the NSW Legislative Council, Shaoquett Moselmane MLC. Qadri also made appearances on Australian media, where he discussed Islam, terrorism and possible troop withdrawals from Afghanistan. On 24 September 2011, Minhaj-ul-Quran convened the \"Peace for Humanity Conference\" at Wembley Arena in London where Tahir-ul-Qadri and the assembled speakers issued a declaration of peace on behalf of religious representatives of several faiths, scholars, politicians, and 12,000 participants present from various countries. This conference was endorsed by, or received supportive messages from, the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar University, Ban Ki-Moon (Secretary General of the United Nations), Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu (Secretary General of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation), David Cameron (British Prime Minister), Nick Clegg (British Deputy Prime Minister), Rowan Williams (Archbishop of Canterbury) and others. On 30 November 2011, Qadri delivered a lecture at the \"Peaceful Future of Afghanistan\" conference in Istanbul, Turkey which was organised by the Center for World Religions, Diplomacy and Conflict Resolution of George Mason University together with Marmara University and was attended by more than 120 Afghan leaders.\n\nOn 22 February 2012, Qadri visited Delhi for a four-week tour of India. Qadri delivered a message of peace and said: \"Terrorism has no place in Islam\", while addressing the fatwa book launch in Delhi. People gathered to listen to Qadri along with government officials in Gujarat.\nOn 4 January 2015, he declared terrorism as biggest problem of the world.\nThe \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\" is a 600-page (Urdu version), 512-page (English version) is an Islamic decree by Qadri which demonstrates from the Quran and Sunnah that terrorism and suicide bombings are unjust and evil, and thus un-Islamic. It was published in London as a book. This fatwa is a direct refutation of the ideology of al-Qaeda and the Taliban. It is one of the most extensive Islamic anti-terrorism rulings, an \"absolute\" condemnation of terrorism without \"any excuses or pretexts\" which goes further than ever and declares that terrorism is kufr under Islamic law. The launch was organised by Minhaj-ul-Quran UK. Qadri said during the launch that \"Terrorism is terrorism, violence is violence and it has no place in Islamic teaching and no justification can be provided for it, or any kind of excuses or ifs or buts.\"\n\nThe fatwa received widespread media attention and was positively covered by the international press.\n\nAccording to CNN, experts see the fatwa as a significant blow to terrorist recruiting. CNN's Amanpour show added the fatwa summary to its website and declared it to be fatwa for peace, while the US State Department declares the fatwa to be significant step in taking Islam back from terrorists.\n\nBefore it had been released, Douglas Murray described the Fatwa on Terrorism, in an article in the \"Evening Standard\", as \"potentially important\", although he said \"A single-fatwa will not change the level of denial and self criticism inherent in so much of modern Islam\".\n\nITV news channel questioned the credibility of the fatwa and asks if it was not by the British government because senior counter-terrorism officials from Scotland Yard and MI5 were present at the launch.\n\nThe 512-page English book version of the fatwa, \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\", (London: Minhaj-ul-Quran, 2011. ) has a foreword by John Esposito and an introduction by Joel Hayward, both of whom share Qadri's scholarly assessment that, regardless of any intention, the evil of terrorism remains evil and must be exposed, opposed and condemned.\n\nThe \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\" has been officially endorsed by Al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt. In January 2011, the fatwa was discussed at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2011. In June 2011, Pope Benedict XVI received a copy of the fatwa from representatives of Minhaj Interfaith Relations. The Pope reportedly appreciated that it promoted peace, harmony and interfaith dialogue.\n\nThe \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\" was reviewed positively by Kemal Argon who published a review in the \"Journal of Rotterdam Islamic and Social Sciences\", Vol. 2, No. 1, 2011, pp. 149–160. Islamic University of Rotterdam, Netherlands.\n\nAccording to one newspaper pundit, the legal-theological opinion by Qadri in his fatwa on terrorism creates an impression that there is a consensus in Islam on the Khawarij.\n\nHe has published 550 books, including an \"eight-volume, 7,000-page Qur’anic Encyclopaedia in English covering all 6,000-plus verses of the Koran.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1849441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849441", "title": "Budapest, Missouri", "text": "Budapest, Missouri\n\nBudapest is an unincorporated community in Ripley County, in the U.S. state of Missouri.\n\nA post office called Budapest was established in 1912, and remained in operation until 1922. The community most likely was named after Budapest, in Hungary, the native land of a share of the early settlers.\n"}
{"id": "1849442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849442", "title": "Googly eyes", "text": "Googly eyes\n\nGoogly eyes, or jiggly eyes, are small plastic craft supplies used to imitate eyeballs. Googly eyes traditionally are composed of a white plastic or card backing covered by a clear, hard-plastic shell, encapsulating a black plastic disk. The combination of a black circle over a white disk mimics the appearance of the sclera and pupil of the eye to humorous effect. The inner black disk is allowed to move freely within the larger clear plastic shell, which makes the eyes appear to move when the googly eyes are tilted or shaken.\n\nThe plastic shells come in a variety of sizes ranging from to over diameter. The inner disks come in a variety of colors including pink, blue, yellow, red and green. Googly eyes are used for a variety of arts and crafts projects including pipe cleaner farm animals, silly sock puppets, mischievous pranks, and other creations. Googly eyes may also be attached to inanimate objects in order to give the objects a \"silly\" or \"cute\" appearance. This use often personifies the objects for a humorous effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849445", "title": "Render safe procedure", "text": "Render safe procedure\n\nThe render safe procedure (RSP) is the portion of the explosive ordnance disposal procedures involving the application of special explosive ordnance disposal procedures, methods and tools to provide the interruption of functions or separation of essential components of unexploded ordnance (including improvised explosive devices) to prevent an unacceptable detonation. Ordnance detonations may be broadly categorized as a high order detonation or a low order detonation. A high order detonation is generally an ordnance detonation that results in an explosive ordnance producing a designed/intended explosive yield. A low order detonation is generally a controlled ordnance detonation or a malfunctioned ordnance detonation that results in a significantly lower yield than designed.\n\nRender safe procedures and techniques apply to conventional ordnance such as nuclear, chemical, biological and conventional battlefield weapons/ordnance and unconventional ordnance such as improvised explosive devices (IED) and improvised nuclear devices (IND). RSPs can also apply to explosive components of military equipment such as may be found in military vehicles and aircraft – ejection seats, explosive bolts, etc.\n\nIn civilian circles, RSPs can apply to items that can be dangerous if not handled properly, i.e. air bags and seat belt pretensioners. These are often detonated in a safe environment after replacement to comply with local legislation surrounding transport of dangerous goods.\n"}
{"id": "1849446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849446", "title": "Lactarius", "text": "Lactarius\n\nLactarius is a genus of mushroom-producing, ectomycorrhizal fungi, containing several edible species. The species of the genus, commonly known as milk-caps, are characterized by the milky fluid (\"latex\") they exude when cut or damaged. Like the closely related genus \"Russula\", their flesh has a distinctive brittle consistency. It is a large genus with roughly 450 known species, mainly distributed in the Northern hemisphere. Recently, the genus \"Lactifluus\" has been separated from \"Lactarius\" based on molecular phylogenetic evidence.\n\nThe genus \"Lactarius\" was described by Christian Hendrik Persoon in 1797 with \"L. piperatus\" as the original type species. In 2011, \"L. torminosus\" was accepted as the new type of the genus after the splitting-off of \"Lactifluus\" as separate genus.\n\nThe name \"\"Lactarius\"\" is derived from the Latin \"lac\", \"milk\".\n\nMolecular phylogenetics uncovered that, while macromorphologically well-defined, milk-caps were in fact a paraphyletic genus; as a consequence, the genera \"Lactifluus\" was split from \"Lactarius\", and the species \"L. furcatus\" was moved to the new genus \"Multifurca\", together with some former \"Russula\" species. \"Multifurca\" also represents the likely sister group of \"Lactarius\" (see phylogeny, right). In the course of these taxonomical rearrangements, the name \"Lactarius\" was conserved for the genus with the new type species \"Lactarius torminosus\"; this way, the name \"Lactarius\" could be retained for the bigger genus with many well-known temperate species, while the name \"Lactifluus\" has to be applied only to a smaller number of species, containing mainly tropical, but also some temperate milk-caps such as \"Lactifluus volemus\" and \"Lf. vellereus\".\n\nPhylogenetic analyses have also revealed that \"Lactarius\", in the strict sense, contains some species with closed (angiocarpous) fruitbodies, e.g. \"L. angiocarpus\" described from Zambia. The angiocarpous genera \"Arcangeliella\" and \"Zelleromyces\" are phylogenetically part of \"Lactarius\".\n\nSystematics within \"Lactarius\" is a subject of ongoing research. Three subgenera are currently accepted and supported by molecular phylogenetics:\nSome more species, all tropical, do not seem to fall into these subgenera and occupy more basal positions within \"Lactarius\". This includes for example \"L. chromospermus\" from tropical Africa with an odd brown spore color.\n\nCurrently, around 600 Lactarius species are described, but roughly one fourth or 150 of these are believed to belong to \"Lactifluus\", while the angiocarpous genera \"Arcangeliella\" and \"Zelleromyces\" have not yet been synonymized with \"Lactarius\". It is estimated that a significant number of \"Lactarius\" species remain to be described.\n\nThe eponymous \"milk\" and the brittle consistency of the flesh are the most prominent field characters of milk-cap fruitbodies. The milk or latex emerging from bruised flesh is often white or cream, but more vividly coloured in some species; it can change upon exposition or remain unchanged. Fruitbodies are small to very large, gilled, rather fleshy, without veil, often depressed or even funnel-shaped with decurrent gills. Cap surface can be glabrous, velvety or pilose, dry, sticky or viscose and is often zonate. Several species have pits (scrobicules) on the cap or pileus surface. Dull colors prevail, but some more colorful species exist, e.g. the blue \"Lactarius indigo\" or the orange species of section \"Deliciosi\". Spore print color is white to ocher or, in some cases, pinkish. Some species have angiocarpous, i.e., closed fruitbodies.\n\nMicroscopically, \"Lactarius\" species have elliptical, rarely globoid spores with amyloid ornamentation in the form of more or less prominent warts or spines, connected by ridges, like other members of the family Russulaceae. The trama (flesh) contains spherical cells that cause the brittle structure. Unlike \"Russula\", \"Lactarius\" also have lactiferous, i.e. latex-carrying hyphae in their trama.\n\nDistinguishing \"Lactarius\" from \"Lactifluus\" based on morphology alone is difficult; there are no synapomorphic characters known so far that define both genera unequivocally but tendencies exist: zonate and viscose to glutinose caps are only found in \"Lactarius\", as well as closed (angiocarpous) and sequestrate fruitbodies. All known annulate and pleurotoid (i.e., laterally stiped) milk-caps, on the contrary, belong to \"Lactifluus\".\n\nCharacters important for identification of milk-caps (\"Lactarius\" and \"Lactifluus\") are: initial colour of the latex and color change, texture of cap surface, taste (mild, peppery, or bitter) of latex and flesh, odor, and microscopical features of the spores and the cap curticle (pileipellis). The habitat and especially the type of host tree can also be critical. While there are some easily recognizable species, other species can be quite hard to determine without microscopical examination.\n\n\"Lactarius\" is one of the most prominent genera of mushroom-forming fungi in the Northern hemisphere. It also occurs natively in Northern Africa, tropical Africa, tropical Asia, Central America, and Australia. Its possible native distribution in South America and different parts of Australasia is unclear, as many species in those regions, poorly known, might in fact belong to \"Lactifluus\", which has a more tropical distribution than \"Lactarius\". Several species have also been introduced with their host trees outside their native range, e.g. in South America, Southern Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\n\"Lactarius\" belongs to a lineage of ectomycorrhiza obligate symbionts. As such, they are dependent on the occurrence of possible host plants. Confirmed habitats apart from temperate forests include arctic tundra and boreal forest, mediterranean maquis, tropical African shrubland, tropical Asian rainforest, mesoamerican tropical oak forests, and Australian \"Eucalyptus\" forests.\n\nWhile most species display a preference towards either broadleaf or coniferous hosts, some are more strictly associated with certain genera or species of plant hosts. A well-studied example is that of alders, which have several specialized \"Lactarius\" symbionts (e.g. \"L. alpinus\", \"L. brunneohepaticus\", \"L. lilacinus\"), some of which even evolved specificity to one of the \"Alnus\" subgenera. Other examples of specialized associations of \"Lactarius\" are with \"Cistus\" shrubs (\"L. cistophilus\" and \"L. tesquorum\"), beech (e.g. \"L. blennius\"), birches (e.g. \"L. pubescens\"), hazel (e.g. \"L. pyrogalus\"), oak (e.g. \"L. quietus\"), pines (e.g. \"L. deliciosus\"), or fir (e.g. \"L. deterrimus\"). For most tropical species, host plant range is poorly known, but species in tropical Africa seem to be rather generalist.\n\n\"Lactarius\" species are considered late-stage colonizers, that means, they are generally not present in early-colonizing vegetation, but establish in later phases of succession. However, species symbiotic with early colonizing trees, such as \"L. pubescens\" with birch, will rather occur in early stages. Several species have preferences regarding soil pH and humidity, which will determine the habitats in which they occur.\n\nSeveral \"Lactarius\" species are edible. \"L. deliciosus\" notably ranks among the most highly valued mushrooms in the Northern hemisphere, while opinions vary on the taste of other species, such as \"L. indigo\" or \"L. deterrimus\". Several species are reported to be regularly collected for food in Russia, Tanzania and Hunan, China. Some \"Lactarius\" are considered toxic, for example \"L. turpis\", which contains a mutagenic compound, or \"L. helvus\". There are, however, no deadly poisonous mushrooms in the genus. Bitter or peppery species, for example \"L. torminosus\", are generally not considered edible, at least raw, but are nevertheless consumed in some regions, e.g. in Finland. Some small, fragrant species, such as the \"candy caps\", are sometimes used as flavoring.\n\n\"L. deliciosus\" is one of the few ectomycorrhizal mushrooms that has been successfully cultivated.\n\nDifferent bioactive compounds have been isolated from \"Lactarius\" species, such as sesquiterpenoids, aromatic volatiles, and mutagenic substances. Pigments have been isolated from colored \"Lactarius\" species, such as \"L. deliciosus\" or \"L. indigo\".\n\nAn extract of \"Lactarius badiosanguineus\" exhibits inhibitory activity on thrombin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849461", "title": "Graham Arthur Barden", "text": "Graham Arthur Barden\n\nGraham Arthur Barden (September 25, 1896 – January 29, 1967) was a US Representative from North Carolina between 1935 and 1961 for the Democratic Party.\n\nBorn in Sampson County, North Carolina in 1896, he moved to Burgaw, North Carolina at the age of 12, where he attended public schools. During World War I, Barden was a seaman in the United States Navy.\n\nAfter leaving the Navy in 1919, Barden attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1920. After briefly practicing law and teaching high school that same year, he became a judge in the Craven County courts, a post he held until 1924.\n\nIn 1932, Barden was elected to the North Carolina House of Representatives; two years later, he won the first of thirteen consecutive terms in the United States House. During the 78th and 79th Congresses, he chaired the House Education Committee; after that committee merged to become the Education and Labor Committee, he again became chairman in the 81st, 82nd, 84th, 85th, and 86th sessions.\n\nHe was a signatory to the 1956 Southern Manifesto that opposed the desegregation of public schools ordered by the Supreme Court in \"Brown v. Board of Education\".\n\nHe chose not to stand for re-election in 1960 and died in New Bern, North Carolina in 1967. He is buried in Cedar Grove Cemetery.\n\nIn 1979, Campbell University Press published a biography by Elmer L. Puryear.\n\nGraham A. Barden Elementary School, in Havelock, North Carolina is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849465", "title": "Budapest, Georgia", "text": "Budapest, Georgia\n\nBudapest is a small unincorporated community in Haralson County in the U.S. state of Georgia. It is located at an elevation of . Budapest is located] on U.S. Route 78, about five miles (8 km) southeast of Tallapoosa.\n\nBudapest is named after the capital city of Hungary.\n\nIn 1882, real-estate developer Ralph L. Spencer of Essex, Connecticut, invited 200 Hungarian wine-making families then employed in the mining industry in Pennsylvania to settle on of land at this site. Many accepted this offer and were led by a Catholic priest, Father Frances Janisek. They named their larger community Budapest in honor of the capital of Hungary.\n\nA nearby village was named Tokaj in honor of a wine-producing region in Hungary. Tokaj was founded to satisfy the desire of brothers Jacob and Paul Estavanko for lots larger than .\n\nA smaller, third village, named Nitra, was also founded and populated by Hungarian settlers who participated in the local wine industry.\n\nVarious groups from Ohio and other parts of the United States were attracted to the area and the new industry. The colony quickly flourished into a town with sixty buildings, including a Catholic church, stores and a post office. Soon the sloping hills were garlanded with grape vines. Storage vats were prepared and wineries were planned. It looked as though a new industry had succeeded in the South, but with passage of the Georgia Prohibition Act of 1907, the wine industry fell into ruins. One by one the families were forced to go elsewhere for their livelihood until today there are only one or two of the original families remaining. The wine produced in and around Tallapoosa was sold in the North.\n\nThe last of the descendants of the Budapest settlers still living there died in 1964. Besides a cemetery located at the original site, all that today remains of the Hungarian colony is the original 6000 sq/ft mansion built by Father Janisek and the immigrants. It is currently referred by its owners to as Key's Castle, for the man, William Key (a relative of Francis Scott Key), who purchased the house and several vineyard plots from the Hungarians in 1906. The home is still owned by descendants of the Key family. The Estavanko family remained in Haralson County after the demise of the wine industry, and a local road is named after them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849474", "title": "Green laver", "text": "Green laver\n\nGreen laver, known as aonori (; ) in Japan and parae () in Korean, is a type of edible green seaweed, including species from the genera \"Monostroma\" and \"Ulva\" (\"Ulva prolifera\", \"Ulva pertusa\", \"Ulva intestinalis\"). It is commercially cultivated in some bay areas in Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, such as Ise Bay. It is rich in minerals such as calcium, magnesium, lithium, vitamins, and amino acids such as methionine. It is also called \"aosa\" (アオサ, \"Ulva pertusa\") in some places in Japan.\n\nIt is used in its dried form for Japanese soups, \"tempura\", and material for manufacturing dried \"nori\" and \"tsukudani\" and rice. It is also used in a powdered form, often blended with \"Ulva\" species of \"Ulvaceae\" as its production is limited.\n\nIt is used commonly for flavouring of some Japanese foods, usually by sprinkling the powder on the hot food, for its aroma:\n\nIn Korea, \"parae\" is eaten as a namul vegetable. It is also used to make \"gim\" (dried laver sheets).\n\n"}
