{"id": "1823255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823255", "title": "Bohemian Quartet", "text": "Bohemian Quartet\n\nThe Bohemian Quartet (; known as the Czech Quartet after 1918) was a Czech string quartet of international repute that was founded in 1891 and disbanded in 1934.\n\nThe Quartet was founded in Prague by three pupils of Antonín Bennewitz (Karel Hoffmann, Josef Suk and Oskar Nedbal) and a pupil of Hanuš Wihan (Otakar Berger); Bennewitz and Wihan were both teachers at the Prague Conservatory. Wihan had himself studied at Prague, and was cellist of the chamber quartet of Ludwig II in Munich, becoming Professor at Prague in 1888. He replaced his student Otakar Berger as cellist in the quartet when Berger died prematurely. Wihan then directed the Quartet until 1913 when the strain of touring obliged him to retire from it and resume his teaching. His place was then taken by Ladislav Zelenka (b. 1881), who since 1911 had been playing with the Ševčík-Lhotský Quartet. In 1906, the violist Nedbal had run off with Hoffmann's wife; during the tour in England, his place was at short notice taken by Lionel Tertis and afterwards formally by Jeří Herold. The group made repeated tours in Europe, especially with the quartets of Dvořák and Smetana, and were noted for their warm tone and fiery rhythms. In 1922 the four members were appointed professors at the Prague Conservatory.\n\nMany key contemporary works were written for and/or first performed by the Bohemian Quartet. Most notably, this included works by Antonín Dvořák and Leoš Janáček, such as Janáček's second string quartet, subtitled \"\"Intimate Letters\"\".\n\n1st violin\n2nd violin\n\nviola\n\nvioloncello\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823264", "title": "Mírzá ʻAbbás Núrí", "text": "Mírzá ʻAbbás Núrí\n\nMírzá ʻAbbás-i-Núrí (, d. 1839) more commonly known as Mírzá Buzurg was the father of Baháʼu'lláh, the founder of the Baháʼí Faith. Mírzá Buzurg was a nobleman from the Persian province of Núr, and worked for a time in the service of Fatḥ-ʻAlí S͟háh.\n\nMírzá Buzurg was the son of Mírzá Riḍá-Qulí Big, son of Mírzá ʻAbbás, son of Ḥájí Muḥammad-Riḍá Big, son of Áqá Muhammad-ʻAli, son of Áqá Fak͟hr, son of S͟hahríyár-Ḥasan. He had four wives and three concubines, and at least 15 children.\n\nHe served as vizier (Minister) to Imám-Virdi Mírzá, the twelfth son of the Persian Qajar King, Fath Ali Shah, who was the \"Ilkhani\"' (tribal chief of the clans) of the Qajar tribe. Mírzá Burzurg was later appointed governor of Borujerd and Lorestan.\n\nMírzá Buzurg's first marriage was arranged by his father, Riḍa-Quli Big, to a relative of the family, named K͟han-Nanih, before Mírzá Buzurg left the district of Núr in Mazandaran to make his fortune in Tehran. Two sons, Mírzá Áqá, the elder, and Mírzá Muḥammad-Ḥasan, were born of this first wife.\n\nMírzá Buzurg's second wife was K͟hadíjih K͟hánum, who had been married once before and was widowed. She had one son and two daughters by her first marriage, namely, Mírzá Muḥammad-ʻAli, Sakinih K͟hánum and Sug͟hra K͟hánum. Mírzá Buzurg took K͟hadíjih K͟hánum as his wife and wedded her daughter, Sakinih K͟hánum, to his younger brother, Mírzá Muḥammad. The first-born of that marriage was a daughter, Sarih K͟hánum (generally referred to as 'Uk͟ht', Arabic for sister, in Baháʼu'lláh's writings). The next was a son, Mírzá Mihdi, who died in his father's lifetime; and Mírzá Ḥusayn-ʻAlí (Baháʼu'lláh) was the third-born. The fourth was another son, Mírzá Músá, entitled Áqáy-i-Kalím later years, and the fifth was another daughter, Nisá' K͟hánum, who was married eventually to Mírzá Majid-i-Ahi, a secretary of the Russian Legation.\n\nThe third wife of Mírzá Buzurg was Kult͟húm K͟hánum-i-Núrí, by whom he had five children. The first was a daughter, S͟háh-Sultán K͟hánum (also called ʻIzziyih K͟hánum), who became a firm supporter of Mírzá Yahyá. Next came three sons: Mírzá Taqi, a poet with the sobriquet Parishan, who became a Shaykhí much opposed to Baháʼu'lláh; Mírzá Riḍa-Quli, who earned the designation 'Ḥájí' by his pilgrimage to Mecca, and who kept apart from Baháʼu'lláh, even trying to conceal the fact of their relationship, although his wife, Maryam, was greatly devoted to him; and the third son, Mírzá Ibráhím, who also died in his father's lifetime. The fifth child of that marriage of Mírzá Buzurg was another daughter, Fatimih-Sulṭán K͟hánum, who also chose to follow Mírzá Yahyá.\n\nThe next three wives of Mírzá Buzurg were concubines. The first was Kuc͟hik K͟hánum of Kirmanshah, the mother of Mírzá Yahyá. The second was a Georgian lady, Nabat K͟hánum, and by her Mírzá Buzurg had another daughter, Husniyyih K͟hánum, of whom not much is known. The last concubine, Turkamaniyyih, was the mother of Mírzá Muḥammad-Quli who was greatly devoted to Baháʼu'lláh.\n\nLastly came Mírzá Buzurg's marriage to a daughter of Fatḥ-ʻAlí S͟háh. This lady, who was entitled Diya'u's-Saltanih was a calligraphy student of Mírzá Buzurg. Their marriage was to bring him nothing but misfortune and, in the end, to prove his undoing.\n\nMírzá Buzurg prospered in the service of the State, until the death of Fath Ali Shah, and the rise of Muhammad Sháh (reigned 1834–48). He encountered the ill will of that monarch's grand vizier, Haji Mirza Aqasi, and lost his position and much of his considerable wealth.\n\nHajji Mirza Aqasi, the Prime Minister, was antagonistic to Mírzá Buzurg. One reason which prompted his enmity was Mírzá Buzurg's particular friendship with the Qá'im-Maqam, Mirza Abu'l-Qasim of Farahan. In June 1835 the Qá'im-Maqam was put to death by Muhammad Shah. The very manner of his fall from power and his execution, which was followed by the rise to high office of Haji Mirza Aqasi. Mírzá Buzurg wrote letters condemnatory of Hajji Mirza Aqasi, which the Prime Minister eventually encountered, and retaliated with force. He had Mírzá Buzurg dismissed from the governorship of Burujird and Luristan. This post had been given to him by his friend, the Qá'im-Maqam. A document exists in the handwriting of Muhammad Shah himself, commending and praising the services rendered by Mírzá Buzurg in this capacity. Next, Haji Mirza Aqasi stopped Mírzá Buzurg's annual allowance. Then, he began to disturb the relationship between Mírzá Buzurg and his last wife, Ziya us-Saltana, the daughter of Fath Alí Shah. Through her nephew, Firaydun Mirza, he induced Ziya us-Saltanih to seek and obtain divorce from her husband.\n\nMírzá Buzurg had a large household to support, and could no longer afford to keep up his estates. He was forced to sell a part of his properties and mortgage others, including the complex of houses in Tehran in which he and his family resided. The marriage settlement was of such proportions that the Mírzá Buzurg could not pay it immediately, and Ziya us-Saltanih then had Mirza Buzurg imprisoned in his own house. In the end, Mírzá Buzurg was obliged to sell, once again, his complex of houses in Tehran, and part with the valuable carpets and other furnishings which they contained.\n\nAfter the storms subsided, Mírzá Buzurg made an effort to regain the houses which he had had to sell under duress 'for a negligible sum'. A document exists in the handwriting of Baháʼu'lláh, drawn up for the purpose of eliciting from those in the know their testimony to the fact that the sale of the houses had taken place under unlawful pressure. But it did not produce the desired effect and no restitution was made.\n\nMírzá Buzurg then decided to retire to Iraq, but first died in 1839. His body was taken to Iraq and buried at Najaf, where the tomb of ʻAli is located. He was survived by seven sons and five daughters.\n\nManuscripts exist in his superb and much-admired handwriting, in various collections both in and outside of Iran. There is one such scroll in the International Archives of the Baháʼí World Centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823265", "title": "Tom Bell (outlaw)", "text": "Tom Bell (outlaw)\n\nTom Bell (1825 – October 4, 1856) was a western outlaw and physician known as the \"Outlaw Doc\". He is the first outlaw to organize a stagecoach robbery in the United States.\n\nBorn Thomas J. Hodges in Rome, Tennessee, he saw action in the Mexican–American War as a surgeon. Following the war he traveled to California during the California Gold Rush but was unsuccessful as a prospector, later drifting around California as a gambler and as a doctor at times for several years. The outlaw \"Doc Hedges\" was arrested for stealing five mules. When he was arrested in 1855, wanting to confuse the peace officers, he gave the name Tom Bell, a small time cattle rustler. In 1855 he was serving time in Angel Island Prison for robbery when he met Bill Gristy and successfully escaped several weeks later. He escaped with the help of his profession as a doctor by faking a severe illness that fooled the prison doctor, which allowed him to escape. With Gristy, Bell formed an outlaw gang of five men and began robbing stages for several months.\n\nOn August 12, 1856, after their spy spotted the Camptonville-Maryville stage carrying $100,000 worth of gold bullion, the gang unsuccessfully attempted to rob it. In an exchange of gunfire a woman passenger was killed and two male passengers were wounded before the gang was driven off by the stagecoach guards. The woman passenger on board who was killed by the attempt, was a black woman by the name of Mrs. Tilghman, the wife of a popular barber from Maryville.\n\nThe robbery and death of the woman passenger angered citizens, and both a sheriff's posse and citizen vigilantes conducted a massive search for the gang. By late September Gristy was captured. Under threat of being turned over to the irate lynch mob outside the jail, he confessed the location of Bell. The Stockton Sheriff raced to arrest him. When he found Bell near Firebaugh's Ferry on October 4, 1856, an impromptu posse commanded by Judge George Gordon Belt, a Merced River rancher, had already hanged him.\n\nDespite the lack of success Bell had in his attempted stagecoach robbery, his example was soon followed by other outlaws with more success.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823266", "title": "Louisville Eccentric Observer", "text": "Louisville Eccentric Observer\n\nThe Louisville Eccentric Observer (also called LEO Weekly but widely known as just LEO) is a privately owned free urban alternative weekly newspaper, distributed every Wednesday in about 700 locations throughout the Louisville, Kentucky, metropolitan area, including areas of southern Indiana. The newspaper was founded in 1990 by John Yarmuth, Robert Schulman, Denny Crum (then the coach of the University of Louisville men's basketball team), and two other investors. According to The Media Audit (March–April 2012) the \"LEO\" has a weekly readership of 88,807 and an unduplicated monthly readership of 136,478.\n\nThe paper carries various nationally syndicated columns and features such as News of the Weird and \"The New York Times\" crossword puzzle. However, the reviews of music, restaurants, theatre, films, books, and local and sports news, are all written by local writers. In the past, it featured popular columns by national writers Molly Ivins and Dave Barry.\n\nThe paper was initially devoted to opinion and commentary, with columns by Crum, Schulman, Yarmuth, and former \"Louisville Courier-Journal\" writers Mary Cauldwell and Dudley Saunders. The first issue was distributed in July 1990, bi-weekly publication began on November 1 of that year, and weekly publication in April 1993. A free paper, it has always been wholly supported by advertising revenue. Following its conversion to a weekly format in 1993, the \"LEO\" began including a more diverse variety of news and reviews.\n\nSince 1992, the \"LEO\" has published an annual issue called the \"Literary LEO\", dedicated to locally produced literature, poetry and, more recently, photography.\n\nSince 1995, \"LEO\" has been a member of the Association of Alternative Newsweeklies.\n\nIn 2003, it was sold to a company owned by Times Publishing Co. of Pennsylvania, owner of the \"Erie Times-News\". Yarmuth remained on board as a columnist and consultant until January 2006, when he declared himself a Democratic candidate for the Kentucky 3rd congressional district race and his column was put on indefinite hold. Yarmuth won the primary and defeated incumbent Republican Rep. Anne Northup, an occasional target of his columns.\n\nIn 2008, SouthComm Communications of Nashville, Tennessee, bought the \"LEO\". Following this acquisition, the magazine underwent a style change, introducing a new logo and using coated stock magazine paper rather than newspaper.\n\nIn March 2013, the printing of \"LEO Weekly\" moved to Gannett Publishing Services in Louisville, and the publication moved back from a coated stock paper to newsprint.\n\nIn 2014, \"LEO\" was acquired by a group led by Aaron Yarmuth, the son of John Yarmuth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823267", "title": "Sister Benten Online", "text": "Sister Benten Online\n\nSister Benten Online is a record label based in Japan. It is predominantly female, and features Oi! music. The operator of the label is Audrey Kimura. Since 1994, The record label has produced over 30 releases and are still going strong.\n\n\nThe label sponsors the Wild Wacky Party punk rock concert series.\n\n\nBenten Label & Sister Records\n"}
{"id": "1823275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823275", "title": "Petty Booka", "text": "Petty Booka\n\nPetty Booka is a Japanese musical group that consists of two women, Petty and Booka, who sing and play ukulele. Most of the band's early output consisted of cover versions of Hawaiian ukulele classics. The two also do many covers of well-known rock songs. Petty Booka was part of Sister Benten Online, a record company run by Audrey \"Benten\" Kimura. The band is based in Japan, and has toured of Europe and North America.\n\nIn 1997, the original Petty left the duo, and a new Petty filled her spot. In November 2002, the original Booka also left to take care of her baby and was replaced by Candy Eyeslugger's Maiko. The current \"Petty\" and \"Booka\" hail from Chiba and Saitama, Japan. \n\nThe band has performed several times at the U.S. music festival SXSW as part of the Japan Nite event.\n\nAs of 2008, they are actively touring and recording. Petty Booka has previously toured with Bad Credit and The Aquabats. Their next release will reportedly be a Bluegrass album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823283", "title": "Rainbow Valley", "text": "Rainbow Valley\n\nRainbow Valley (1919) is the seventh book in the chronology of the \"Anne of Green Gables\" series by Lucy Maud Montgomery, although it was the fifth book published. While Anne Shirley was the main protagonist of the previous books, this novel focuses more on her six children and their interactions with the children of Anne's new neighbor, Presbyterian minister John Meredith. The work draws heavily on Montgomery's own life in the Leaskdale Manse, where she wrote a large number of books.\n\nThe book is dedicated: \"To the memory of Goldwin Lapp, Robert Brookes and Morley Shier who made the supreme sacrifice that the happy valleys of their home land might be kept sacred from the ravage of the invader.\" This refers to World War I, which is the main theme of the next and final book in the series, \"Rilla of Ingleside\".\n\nAnne Shirley has now been married to Gilbert Blythe for 15 years, and the couple have six children: Jem, Walter, Nan, Di, Shirley, and Rilla.\n\nAfter a trip to London, Anne returns to the news that a new minister has arrived in Glen St. Mary. John Meredith is a widower with four young children: Gerald (Jerry), Faith, Una, and Thomas Carlyle (Carl). The children have not been properly brought up since the death of their mother, with only their father (who is easily absorbed by matters of theology) to parent them. The children are considered wild and mischievous by many of the families in the village (who tend only to hear about the Meredith children when they have gotten into some kind of scrape), causing them to question Mr. Meredith's parenting skills and his suitability as a minister.\n\nFor most of the book, only the Blythes know of the Meredith children's loyalty and kindness. They rescue an orphaned girl, Mary Vance, from starvation, and Una finds a home for her with Mrs. Marshall Elliott. When the children get into trouble, Faith sometimes tries to explain their behavior to the townsfolk, which generally causes an even bigger scandal.\n\nThe Merediths, Blythes, and Mary Vance often play in a hollow called Rainbow Valley, which becomes a gathering place for the children in the book. Jem Blythe tries to help the Merediths behave better by forming the \"Good-Conduct Club,\" in which the Merediths punish themselves for misdeeds. Their self-imposed punishments lead to Carl becoming very ill with pneumonia after spending hours in a graveyard on a wet night, and to Una fainting in church after fasting all day. When this happens, John Meredith is wracked with guilt over his failings as a father.\n\nMr. Meredith realizes that he should marry again and give the children a mother, though he has always thought he will never love anyone again as he did his late wife. He is surprised to find that he has fallen in love with Rosemary West, a woman in her late thirties who lives with her sister Ellen, who is ten years older. John proposes marriage to Rosemary, but Ellen forbids Rosemary from accepting, as years earlier they had promised each other never to leave the other following the deaths of their parents. However, Ellen eventually reunites with her childhood beau, Norman Douglas, who asks Rosemary to release Ellen from her promise so she can marry Norman. Rosemary agrees, but now thinks that John Meredith hates her.\n\nUna overhears her father expressing feelings for Rosemary and goes to ask Rosemary to marry her father despite her misgivings about stepmothers, who Mary Vance has told her are always mean. Rosemary sets her mind at ease and agrees to speak to John Meredith again. They become engaged, and Rosemary and Ellen plan a double wedding in the fall.\n\nJames Matthew \"Jem\" Blythe: Jem is named for Captain Jim and Anne's foster parent Matthew Cuthbert, or as Anne puts it, \"The two finest gentlemen [she knows], not even saving Gilbert's presence.\" The only one of Anne's children born in the House of Dreams, Jem has curly red hair, frank hazel eyes, his mother's nose and his father's mouth. Jem is also the only one with ears nice enough to please Susan. He is sturdy and reliable, not a great talker but a good all-round student. Jem likes to investigate things through, and constantly experiments and observes. This leads him to know a lot about nature, people and the little world the children live in. He is a \"chieftain\" at school and brought about the 'Good-Conduct Club' with the Manse children. Towards the end of the book, Jem is studying for the entrance to Queen's and, being almost fifteen, does not have as much enthusiasm for playing in Rainbow Valley anymore. However, he likes to fraternize with Faith Meredith. Jem is Marilla's favourite of Anne's children and seems to be closest to Nan.\n\nWalter Cuthbert Blythe: Walter is named after Anne's birth father and adoptive family, Cuthbert, and is considered the most handsome of the children. He has straight black hair and finely modeled features. Walter is thought of by the Glen St. Mary boys as girly and milky-soppish, because he never fights and rarely plays sports, preferring to read books alone. The Meredith children like Walter well, but Mary Vance finds him odd. Walter has all his mother's vivid imagination and love for beauty, and dreams of becoming a poet someday, choosing Paul Irving, one of his mother's pupils, as a model. He shares many of his verses to his sister-chum, Di. The boys at school respect Walter because of his \"book talk\", and all the more when he fights Dan Reese after Dan insulted Walter, his mother and his friend Faith. At the close of the book he has a vision of 'The Piper' on the hill, piping away, making young men follow him from around the world. This vision is fulfilled in the following book as World War One breaks out.\n\nAnne \"Nan\" Blythe: One of the Ingleside twins, Nan is \"Blythe by name and blithe by nature\", being a dainty little maiden with velvety nut-brown eyes and silky nut-brown hair. Her complexion is almost flawless, and she is well aware of this. She has many friends, but is thought to be stuck up and proud by the Glen St. Mary ladies because she imitates her mother's tricks, graces and poses. Nan also inherited her mother's imagination, which makes life more interesting, and also gets her into numerous scrapes. \"Nan\" is named after her mother. She seems to have her eyes on Jerry Meredith, of the Manse. Nan looks like her Grandmother Blythe.\n\nDiana \"Di\" Blythe: Diana is the other Ingleside twin, named after Anne's childhood friend, Diana. She looks a lot like her mother, with red hair and gray-green eyes. She is special chums with Walter, who tells her his secrets and lets her read his poetry. Di is like her father, with similar qualities and personality, having his practical bent and common sense, as well as his twinkling sense of humour. Diana, like her mother before her, regrets her hair colour and wishes her hair was like Nan's. She is very chummy and likes to have a named best friend, which causes several unfortunate events, but she is also quite loyal to her brothers and sisters. Her nickname is pronounced \"Die\", not \"Dee\".\n\nShirley Blythe: Anne was very sick after giving birth to Shirley, so the Blythe housekeeper, Susan Baker, took care of him until Anne was well. Shirley calls Susan 'Mother Susan', and goes to her to have his bruises kissed and his cuts washed. Shirley is quiet and doesn't like to be forced to talk, liking to play on his own. He is known as the little brown boy, because he has brown eyes, hair and skin. He is also seen as taking after Gilbert's father, John, in personality. Shirley was named for Anne's maiden name.\n\nBertha Marilla \"Rilla\" Blythe: The youngest of the Ingleside children, Rilla is named after Anne's birth mother Bertha and her adoptive \"mother\" Marilla. She was born a roly-poly plump baby, and remained so until she was seven. She has red hair, like her mother, which later turns a ruddy-brown color, and hazel eyes like her father. Rilla is very proud, hates to be teased or to be classed with lower people. She has cherished a crush on Kenneth Ford since age six. Rilla has silly beliefs and ideas, and a fear of being unladylike. She has a lisp, which her mother believes she will grow out of. Later in her life, the lisp only comes back when Rilla is nervous. Rilla, in her teens, regrets being called by her silly childhood nicknames - Rilla or Spider - instead of her respectable and \"dignified\" first name, Bertha. Rilla seems the only of Mrs Doctor Blythe's flock that isn't ambitious, and her only intention is to have a good time. At the end of the last book of the series, however, Rilla matures into a good, accomplished young woman and loses her childish immature way of acting and thinking.\n\nGerald \"Jerry\" Meredith - Jerry is twelve in the beginning of the book and has his father's black hair and large black eyes, but in him they are flashing instead of dreamy. He has a great sense of self-judgment and is described as being very smart, 'the brightest of all the children in the Glen school'. He is good friends with Jem and Walter. He seems to have a crush on Nan. He is very close to Faith.\n\nFaith Meredith - She is eleven when the book begins. Faith is described as wearing her beauty like a rose, careless and glowing. She has golden-brown curls, crimson cheeks, and golden-brown eyes. She is optimistic, laughs a lot, and has a rather different way of thinking. Faith had a pet rooster named Adam, but he was killed by old aunt Martha and eaten at a special dinner with another minister that night. The bird was eventually replaced by a canary, given to her by Rosemary West. She seems to have a crush on Jem and is great friends with Nan. Faith is also very heedless, and when the Merediths start their 'Good-Conduct Club', Faith seems to be the one who has to be punished most frequently. The Good Conduct Club was a program the children made to punish themselves for any of their actions that could either hurt them, hurt others, or make their family look bad at church. The club eventually died out because the manse children began to punish themselves in unreasonable ways for actions that weren't very unreasonable (e.g. Carl was afraid of a \"ghost\" and he had to sit out in the rainy graveyard until 12:00 p.m.) She is known for previously wearing no stockings to church after having given her good pair to a poor girl, and refusing to wear her hideous red-and-blue striped ones as a punishment from the club. She is closest to Jerry.\nUna Meredith - Una is ten when the book begins. She is little and dreamy, like her father. She has straight pure black hair and almond-shaped dark blue eyes, with something sad about them. Her mouth sometimes falls open to reveal tiny square teeth and sometimes a shy smile creeps over her face. She is sensitive to public opinion, and is the only one who tries to keep the house clean and neat. Una is said to have an uneasy consciousness that there was something strange about her way of living, and longs to put it right, but doesn't know how. She misses her mother more than her siblings do and seems to have a little fancy for Walter. She is for sure the most thoughtful and caring of the Manse children. She is very frail and weak, and once fainted in church.\n\nThomas Carlyle \"Carl\" Meredith - Carl has the fearless, direct, clear blue eyes of his dead mother and brown hair with glints of gold. He is nine at the beginning of the book, and has a fancy for and curiosity towards bugs and animals. He often takes these to his bed or puts them in his pockets. Anne says she believes he will be an environmentalist. Carl has been known to be seriously ill many times, once on the brink of death.\n\nMary Vance - Mary is a cheeky girl, with tow-colored hair and light blue eyes which the Meredith children call 'white eyes'. Found by the Meredith children in a barn, they take her home and look after her. She is later adopted by Miss Cornelia. Mary is about twelve when she is introduced in the book. She had previously lived with a horrid Mrs. Wiley who whipped her until she ran away. The Manse and Blythe children don't have a terribly strong liking for her, but they 'can't help being nice to her'. They are very much in awe of her boasting and swearing frequently.\n\nMontgomery continued the story of Anne Shirley in a series of sequels. They are listed in the order of Anne's age in each novel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823285", "title": "Grande Bibliothèque du Québec", "text": "Grande Bibliothèque du Québec\n\nThe Grande Bibliothèque du Québec (GBQ) was a public corporation of the province of Quebec, Canada. It came into existence in 1998 and merged with Bibliothèque nationale du Québec in 2002. Its purpose was to plan the creation of the Grande Bibliothèque.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823292", "title": "Georgetown Loop Railroad", "text": "Georgetown Loop Railroad\n\nThe Georgetown Loop Railroad is a narrow gauge United States heritage railroad located in the Rocky Mountains in Clear Creek County, adjacent to Interstate 70 in Colorado.\n\nThis tourist train runs between the communities of Georgetown and Silver Plume, a distance of . The route is long and ascends an elevation of through mountainous terrain along with trestles, cuts, fills, and a grand loop.\n\nThe railroad is situated near I-70, with Silver Plume Depot sitting adjacent to the eastbound on-ramp. Just east of Silver Plume on I-70 there is a parking area named Georgetown Loop Overlook providing scenic views to motorists. The Clear Creek Greenway Trail access road connects Silver Plume Depot, Georgetown Loop Overlook, and the Devil's Gate Station near Georgetown. This trail is accessible to bicyclists and hikers.\n\nThe Georgetown Loop Railroad was one of Colorado's first visitor attractions. This spectacular stretch of narrow gauge railroad was completed in 1884 and considered an engineering marvel for its time. The thriving mining towns of Georgetown and Silver Plume lie apart in the steep, narrow canyon of Clear Creek in the Rocky Mountains west of Denver. Engineers designed a corkscrew route that traveled nearly twice that distance to connect them, slowly gaining more than in elevation. The route included horseshoe curves, grades of up to 4%, and four bridges across Clear Creek, including the massive Devil's Gate High Bridge.\n\nThe Georgetown, Breckenridge, and Leadville Railroad had been formed in 1881 under the Union Pacific Railroad. The Loop portion of the line was the crowning segment of the line, crossing the top of the gorge on a high trestle.\n\nOriginally part of the larger line of the Colorado Central Railroad constructed in the 1870s and 1880s, in the wake of the Colorado Gold Rush, this line was also used extensively during the silver boom of the 1880s to haul silver ore from the mines at Silver Plume. In 1893, the Colorado and Southern Railway took over the line and operated it for passengers and freight until 1938.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1918, the Georgetown Loop connected with the Argentine Central Railway in Silver Plume, by which tourists could continue onward to the summit of Mount McClellan. Prior to 1916, the Argentine Central also served several large silver mines on the east side of Argentine Pass.\n\nThe line was dismantled in 1939, but was restored in the 1980s to operate during summer months as a tourist railroad, carrying passengers using historic narrow gauge steam locomotives.\n\nIn 1959, the centennial year of the discovery of gold in Georgetown, the Georgetown Loop Historic Mining & Railroad Park was formed by the Colorado Historical Society. The Colorado Historical Society's chairman negotiated a donation of mining claims and mills, and nearly of land.\n\nInterest in restoration of the Loop segment as a tourist attraction in the 1970s led to reopening of the segment. Rail line construction began in 1973 with track and ties donated by the Union Pacific Railroad, and a new high bridge was built to the same specifications as the original. The restored segment, opened on March 10, 1984, is at the upper end of the historic Colorado Central main line up Clear Creek Canyon west of Golden. The Georgetown Loop Railroad climbs approximately between the two towns using 3 miles of track. Passengers can board the train at depots located in Silver Plume and Devils Gate 3/4 of a mile west of Georgetown.\n\nThe train ride includes an optional walking tour of the Lebanon Silver Mine, located at the halfway point on the railroad, where visitors can walk 500 feet (150 m) into a mine tunnel bored in the 1870s, with guides pointing out once-rich veins of silver and relating the history of the mine.\n\nThe Loop operated continuously without major issues for 30 years from its rebuilding date until 2004, when contract negotiations between the Colorado Historical Society and the Loop's operator - Georgetown Loop Railroad, Inc. - broke down. GLR rejected the new contract demands and the CHS began seeking out new bids, eventually rewarding Railstar, Inc. with a 10-year management contract. GLR owned all of the original equipment being used on the Loop and moved it all to the Colorado Railroad Museum for storage, leaving Railstar to purchase new equipment to use since they didn't own any narrow-gauge rolling stock at the time they accepted the new contract. The Loop became plagued with problems after the Railstar takeover, including a lack of steam locomotives, derailments that resulted in Federal Railroad Administration investigation, and unreliable equipment that would often break down and leave the railroad closed for days at a time during peak tourist season. At its lowest point, annual Loop ridership under Railstar fell from 130,000 riders per year to 51,000 riders per year. This left both local businesses and railroad enthusiasts very displeased with the state of the railroad.\n\nA particular incident that helped shape the unfavorable perception of the Railstar operation occurred in 2006, when an attempt was made to restore Colorado and Southern Railway steam locomotive #9 to operation on the Loop. The restoration was successful, but Railstar mismanaged the operation of the small locomotive when it came back to them, ultimately resulting in severe damage which sent #9 back to static display.\n\nIn 2009, the Colorado Historical Society decided to terminate the contract with Railstar and award the remaining time to a new operator, run by a local Georgetown businessman. He founded a new company to handle the operations called Historic Rail Adventures LLC, \nwhich still operates the Georgetown Loop today. Operations and public relations under HRA have improved greatly, including the return of three operational steam engines and increased reliability and ridership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823302", "title": "Don Juan (poem)", "text": "Don Juan (poem)\n\nDon Juan ( ; see below) is a satiric poem by Lord Byron, based on the legend of Don Juan, which Byron reverses, portraying Juan not as a womaniser but as someone easily seduced by women. It is a variation on the epic form. Byron himself called it an \"Epic Satire\" (Don Juan, c. xiv, st. 99). Byron completed 16 cantos, leaving an unfinished 17th canto before his death in 1824. Byron claimed that he had no ideas in his mind as to what would happen in subsequent cantos as he wrote his work.\n\nWhen the first two cantos were published anonymously in 1819, the poem was criticised for its \"immoral content\", but it was also immensely popular.\n\nLord Byron was a prolific writer, but \"Nevertheless, the composition of his great poem, \"Don Juan\", was coextensive with a major part of his poetical life. He began the first canto of \"Don Juan\" in late 1818, and he was still at work on a seventeenth canto in early 1823. [The poem] was issued in parts, with intervals of unequal duration ... . Interruptions in the composition and publication of \"Don Juan\" were due to the disapproval and discouragement of friends\" as well as the publisher's hesitation and procrastination.\n\nIt has been said that the character of Donna Inez (Don Juan's mother) was a thinly-veiled portrait of Byron's own wife, Annabella Milbanke (daughter of Sir Ralph Milbanke).\n\nThe story, told in seventeen cantos, begins with the birth of Don Juan. As a young man he is precocious sexually, and has an affair with a friend of his mother. The husband finds out, and Don Juan is sent away to Cádiz. On the way, he is shipwrecked, survives and meets the daughter of a pirate, whose men sell Don Juan as a slave. A young woman, who is a member of a sultan's harem, sees that this slave is purchased. She disguises him as a girl and sneaks him into her chambers. Don Juan escapes, joins the Russian army and rescues a Muslim girl named Leila. Don Juan meets Catherine the Great, who asks him to join her court. Don Juan becomes sick, is sent to England, where he finds someone to watch over Leila. Next, a few adventures involving the aristocracy of Britain ensue. The poem ends with Canto XVII.\n\nDon Juan lives in Seville with his father José and his mother Donna Inez. Donna Julia, 23 years old and married to Don Alfonso, begins to desire Don Juan when he is 16 years old. Despite her attempt to resist, Julia begins an affair with Juan. Julia falls in love with Juan. Don Alfonso, suspecting that his wife may be having an affair, bursts into their bedroom followed by a \"posse concomitant\" but they do not find anything suspicious upon first searching the room, for Juan was hiding in the bed. However, when Alfonso returns on his own, he comes across Juan's shoes and a fight ensues. Juan escapes, however. In order to avoid the rumors and bad reputation her son has brought upon himself, Inez sends him away to travel, in the hopes that he develops better morals, while Julia is sent to a nunnery.\n\nCanto II describes how Juan goes on a voyage from Cádiz with servants and his tutor Pedrillo. Juan is still in love with Julia, and after a period of seasickness, a storm sinks the ship. The crew climb into a long boat, but soon run out of food. The crew decide to draw lots in order to choose who will be eaten. Juan's tutor Pedrillo is chosen after Juan's dog has also been eaten. However, those that eat Pedrillo go mad and die. Juan is the sole survivor of the journey; he eventually makes it onto land at Cyclades in the Aegean. Haidée and her maid Zoe discover Juan and care for him in a cave by the beach. Haidée and Juan fall in love despite the fact that neither can understand each other's language. Haidée's father Lambro is a \"fisherman\" and pirate who makes money from capturing slaves.\n\nCanto III is essentially a long digression from the main story in which Byron, in the style of an epic catalogue, describes Haidée and Don Juan's celebrations. The islanders believe Haidée's father, Lambro, has died, but he returns and witnesses these revels. Towards the end of the canto, Byron insults his contemporaries William Wordsworth, Robert Southey and Samuel Taylor Coleridge. In this latter section is \"The Isles of Greece\", a section numbered differently from the rest of the canto with a different verse, which explores Byron's views on Greece's status as a \"slave\" to the Ottoman Empire.\n\nHaidée and Juan wake to discover that Haidée's father, Lambro, has returned. Lambro confronts Juan and attacks him with the aid of his pirate friends. Haidée despairs at losing her lover and eventually dies of a broken heart with her unborn child still in her womb.\n\nJuan is sent away on a ship and ends up at a slave market in Constantinople.\n\nJuan is in the slave market. He converses with an Englishman, telling of his lost love, whereas the more experienced John says he had to run away from his third wife. A black eunuch from the seraglio, Baba, buys Juan and John, and takes the infidels to the palace. He takes them to an inner chamber, where he insists that Don Juan dress as a woman and threatens him with castration if he resists. Finally, Juan is brought into an imperial hall to meet the sultana, Gulbeyaz, a 26-year-old beauty who is the sultan's fourth, last and favourite wife. Full of stubborn pride, he refuses to kiss her foot and finally compromises by kissing her hand. She had spotted Juan at the market and had asked Baba to secretly purchase him for her, despite the risk of discovery by the sultan. She wants Juan to \"love\" her, and throws herself on his breast. But he still has thoughts of Haidée and spurns her advances, saying \"The prisoned eagle will not pair, nor I/Serve a sultana's sensual phantasy.\" She is taken aback, enraged, and thinks of having him beheaded, but breaks out in tears instead. Before they can progress further in their relationship, Baba rushes in to announce that the Sultan is coming: \"The sun himself has sent me like a ray/To hint that he is coming up this way.\" The sultan arrives, preceded by a parade of damsels, eunuchs, etc.. Looking around, he takes note of the attractive Christian woman (Juan), expressing regret that a mere Christian should be so pretty (Juan is a giaour, or non-Muslim). Byron comments on the necessity to secure the chastity of the women in these unhappy climes — that \"wedlock and a padlock mean the same.\"\n\nThe sultan retires with Gulbeyaz. Juan, still dressed as a woman, is taken to the overcrowded seraglio. He is asked to share a couch with the young and lovely 17-year-old Dudù. When asked what his name is, Don Juan calls himself Juanna. She is a \"kind of sleepy Venus ... very fit to murder sleep... Her talents were of the more silent class... pensive...\" She gives Juanna a chaste kiss and undresses. The chamber of odalisques is asleep at 3 AM. Dudù suddenly screams, and awakens agitated, while Juanna still lies asleep and snoring. The women ask the cause of her scream, and she relates a suggestive dream of being in a wood like Dante, of dislodging a reluctant golden apple clinging tenaciously to its bough (which at last willingly falls), of almost biting into the forbidden fruit when a bee flies out from it and stings her to the heart. The matron of the seraglio decides to place Juanna with another odalisque, but Dudù begs to keep her in her own bed, hiding her face in Juanna's breast. The poet is at a loss to explain why she screamed.\n\nIn the morning, the sultana asks Baba to tell her how Don Juan passed the night. He tells of \"her\" stay in the seraglio, but carefully omits details about Dudù and her dream. But the sultana is suspicious nevertheless, becomes enraged, and instructs Baba to have Dudù and Juan killed in the usual manner (drowning). Baba pleads with her that killing Juan will not cure what ails her. The sultana summons Dudù and Juan. Just before the canto ends, the narrator explains that the \"Muse will take a little touch at warfare.\"\n\nJuan and John Johnson have escaped with two women from the seraglio, and arrive during the siege of Ismail (historically 1790), a Turkish fort at the mouth of the Danube on the Black Sea. Field Marshal Suvaroff, an officer in the Russian army, is preparing for an all-out final assault against the besieged fortress. The battle rages. He has been told to \"take Ismail at whatever price\" by Prince Potemkin, the commander-in-chief of the Russian army. The Christian empress Catherine II is the Russian head-of-state. John Johnson appears to Suvaroff (with whom he has previously served in battle at Widdin) and introduces his friend Juan—both are ready to join the fight against the \"pagan\" Turks. Suvaroff is unhappy with the women the two men brought, but they state that they are the wives of other men, and that the women aided their escape. Suvaroff consents to the women staying.\n\nJuan and John join fearlessly and bravely in the savage assault on Ismail. They scale the walls of the town and charge into battle. The conquest of Ismail causes the slaughter of 40,000 Turks, among them women (a few of whom are raped) and children. Juan nobly rescues a ten-year-old Muslim girl from two murderous Cossacks intent on killing her, and immediately resolves to adopt her as his own child. A noble Tartar khan valiantly fights to the death beside his five sons, just as instructed by Muhammed, presumably to be rewarded with houris in heaven.\n\nJuan is a hero and is sent to Saint Petersburg, accompanied by the Muslim girl, whom he makes a vow to protect. Her name, Leila, is only revealed in Canto X.\n\nDressed as a war hero in military uniform, Juan cuts a handsome figure in the court of Catherine II, who lusts after him. She is about 48 years old (historically, actually 61 or 62 years old) and \"just now in juicy vigour\". He becomes one of her favorites and is flattered by her interest as well as promoted for it. \"Love is vanity,/Selfish in its beginning as its end,/Except where 'tis a mere insanity\". Juan still lovingly cares for the Muslim girl he rescued.\n\nJuan falls ill because of the Russian cold and so is sent westward to more temperate England. His job ostensibly is that of a special envoy with the nebulous task of negotiating some treaty or other, but it is nothing more than a sinecure to justify the Empress Catherine in securing his health and loading him with money and expensive gifts.\n\nJuan lands in England and eventually makes his way to London where he is found musing on the greatness of Britain as a defender of freedoms — until he is interrupted by a Cockney mugger, demanding money with menace. Juan shoots the man and, being of strong conscience, then regrets his haste and attempts to care for the dying mugger. However, his efforts fail, and after muttering some last words the mugger dies on the street.\n\nLater, Don Juan is received into the English court with the usual wonder and admiration at his looks, dress and mien although not without the jealousy of some of the older peers.\n\nIn this Canto, Byron mentions John Keats, \"who was kill'd off by one critique\".\n\nDon Juan seeks out a suitable tutor and guardian for Leila, the orphan from the destroyed city of Ismail. He finds one in Lady Pinchbeck, a woman not unassailed by rumours on her chastity, but generally considered a good person and an admirable wit.\n\nLady Adeline Amundeville and her husband Lord Henry Amundeville host Juan and others. She is \"the fair most fatal Juan ever met\", the \"queen bee, the glass of all that's fair,/Whose charms made all men speak and women dumb\". Diplomatic relations often bring Juan (\"the envoy of a secret Russian mission\") and Lord Henry together, and he befriends Juan and makes him a frequent guest at their London mansion. The Amundevilles invite numerous distinguished guests for a party at their country estate. The landscape surrounding the estate, as well as the decor within their house is described. This is followed by a mock-catalogues of the ladies, the gentlemen and the activities that they participate in. Byron sees this whole party as English \"ennui\". The canto ends with all of them retiring for the evening.\n\nJuan acquits himself well on a fox hunt. He is attractive to the ladies, including the Duchess of Fitz-Fulke, who begins to flirt with him. Lady Adeline is jealous of the Duchess (who has had many amorous exploits), and resolves to protect the \"inexperienced\" Juan from her enticements. Juan and Adeline are both 21 years old. Lady Adeline has a vacant heart and has a cold but proper marriage. She is not in love with Juan, but the poet will only later divulge whether they have an affair (apparently not). The popular saying \"truth is stranger than fiction\" originates from this canto: \"'Tis strange — but true; for truth is always strange; Stranger than fiction.\"\n\nLady Adeline is at risk for losing her honour over Juan. Juan has a seductive manner because he never seems anxious to seduce. He neither brooks nor claims superiority. Adeline advises Juan to get married, but he acknowledges the women he is attracted to tend to be already married. Adeline tries to deduce a suitable match for Juan, but intentionally omits mention of the 16-year-old and enticing Aurora Raby, a Catholic. Juan is attracted to her — she is purer than the rest, and reminds him of his lost Haidée. An elaborate dinner is described in detail. Juan is seated between Adeline and Aurora. Aurora has little to say initially, and thaws only a little during the dinner.\n\nJuan is smitten with the beautiful Aurora, and thinks of her on retiring. At night, he walks into the hall, viewing the gallery of paintings. He hears footsteps, and sees a monk in cowl and beads. He wonders if it is a ghost, or just a dream. He does not see the monk's face, though he passes and repasses several times.\n\nThe next morning in reaction to how pale Juan looks, Adeline turns pale herself, the Duchess of Fitz-Fulke looks at Juan hard, and Aurora surveys him \"with a kind of calm surprise\". Adeline wonders if he is ill, and Lord Henry guesses that he might have seen the \"Black Friar\". He relates the story of the \"spirit of these walls\" who used to be seen often but had not been seen of late. Lord Henry, himself, had seen the Black Friar on his honeymoon. Adeline offers to sing the story of the ghost, accompanying it on her harp. Aurora remains silent, but Lady Fitz-Fulke appears mischievous after the song. The narrator suggests that Adeline had sung this to laugh Juan out of his dismay. Juan attempts to lift his spirits, as the house bustles in preparation for another feast. Before that, however, a pregnant country girl and other petitioners present themselves to Lord Henry in his capacity as Justice of the Peace.\n\nAt the banquet, Juan is preoccupied with his thoughts again. When he glances at Aurora, he catches a smile on her cheek, but is uncertain of its meaning, since Aurora sits pale and only a little flushed. Adeline goes about her duties as hostess, while the Duchess of Fitz-Fulke is very much at ease.\n\nThey retire for the evening. Juan thinks about Aurora, who has reawakened feelings in him which had lately been lost. After going back to his room, he hears the tiptoe of footsteps again, after sitting around in expectation of the ghost. His doors open, and again it is the sable Friar concealed in his solemn hood. He pursues the friar up against a wall, and then suddenly notices that the \"ghost\" has sweet breath, a straggling curl, red lips, pearls, and a glowing bust. As the hood falls down, the \"friar\" is revealed to be the voluptuous Duchess of Fitz-Fulke.\n\nA Canto that Byron failed to complete but added to in the run up to his death, it lacks any narrative and only barely mentions the protagonist. It is instead a response to his critics who object to his views on the grounds that \"If you are right, then everybody's wrong!\". In his defence, he lists many great people who have been considered outsiders and revolutionaries including Martin Luther and Galileo.\n\nThe Canto ends on the brink of resuming the storyline from Canto The Sixteenth where Don Juan was left in a \"tender moonlit situation\".\n\nThe poem is in ottava rima: each stanza consists of eight iambic pentameters with the rhyme scheme ab ab ab cc – often the last rhyming couplet is used for a humor comic line or humorous bathos. \n\nIn the below passage, \"Juan\" is rhymed with \"true one\", the word being read according to the rules of English orthography as . A pattern of pronouncing foreign words according to the rules of English orthography recurs throughout the work.\n\nByron's epic poem has a host of literary precedents. For example, John Hookham Frere's mock-heroic Arthurian tale \"Prospectus and Specimen of an intended National Work\" \n\nBut many readers have also detected echoes of eighteenth-century comic novels in \"Don Juan\", pinpointing the poem's rambling, desultory style, flamboyant and distractible narrator, and heavily ironic tone—qualities that Byron may have gleaned from novels like Fielding's \"Tom Jones\", as well as the writings of Tobias Smollett. Likewise, \"Don Juan\" belongs to the tradition of the \"picaresque\", a genre of fiction (originating in Spain) that followed the adventures of roguish young men of low birth who made their way in a corrupt society via their cunning and courage. (Fielding's and Smollett's novels also belong to this genre.) Finally, Byron was probably inspired by Cervantes's \"Don Quixote\" and Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\", two works which he greatly admired and borrowed from liberally.\n\nMany of Byron's remarks and reflections on the motive behind his poem are \"humorous paradoxes ... provoked by advice and opposition. [For instance,] writing to Thomas Moore, he says, 'I have finished the first canto ... of a poem in the style and manner of Beppo, encouraged by the good success of the same. It is ... meant to be a little quietly facetious upon every thing. But I doubt whether it is not—at least as far as it has gone—too free for these very modest days.' \"\n\nCritical opinion aligned itself with the opinion that the poem was \n\nConversely, it has been argued that \"Byron did not 'whistle' Don Juan 'for want of thought.' but instead he had found a thing to say, and he meant to make the world listen. He had read, albeit with angry disapproval, Coleridge's \"Critique on (Charles Maturin's) Bertram\",\" where Coleridge describes the legendary Don Juan as a figure not unlike Childe Harold, or for that matter, Byron himself: \n\nIt is therefore conceivable that Byron read these passages as either a suggestion or a challenge, or both.\n\nDuring the 17th and 18th centuries, Spain experienced a quick decline from power in Europe. This fall was accompanied by what many saw as relative cultural poverty when compared to France. By Byron's time, Spanish culture was often considered both archaic and exotic. This led to a Romantic valorisation of Spanish culture. Many scholars note this work as a prime example of Spanish exoticism.\n\nThe poem is dedicated, with some scorn, to Robert Southey, then Poet Laureate – \"You, Bob! are rather insolent, you know, / At being disappointed in your wish / To supersede all warblers here below, / And be the only Blackbird in the dish\". In its first publication, Byron cautions Murray: \"As the Poem is to be published anonymously, omit the Dedication. I won't attack the dog in the dark. Such things are for scoundrels and renegadoes like himself\". \"According to the editor of the 1833 \"Works of Lord Byron\" the existence of the Dedication 'became notorious' in consequence of Hobhouse's article in the \"Westminster Review\", 1824. He adds, for Southey's consolation and encouragement, that 'for several years the verses have been selling in the streets as a broadside,' and that 'it would serve no purpose to exclude them on the present occasion.' But Southey was not appeased. He tells Allan Cunningham that 'the new edition of Byron's works is ... one of the very worst symptoms of these bad times' .\n\nThe dedication also takes issue with the Lake Poets generally:\nand specifically:\nWordsworth: \"'Tis poetry—at least by his assertion,\" (IV.5)\nand Southey's predecessor as Laureate, Henry James Pye in the use of and pun on the old song \"Sing a Song of Sixpence\": \"four and twenty Blackbirds in a pye\" (I.8).\n\nWalter Scott maintained that its creator \"has embraced every topic of human life, and sounded every string of the divine harp, from its slightest to its most powerful and heart-astounding tones.\" Goethe described Don Juan as \"a work of boundless genius\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1823312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823312", "title": "Sanbo Kyodan", "text": "Sanbo Kyodan\n\nSanbō Kyōdan was founded by Hakuun Yasutani in 1954, when he \"finally gave up his membership in the Sōtō School and professed himself to be connected directly to Dōgen Zenji.\" It is also called the \"Harada-Yasutani School,\" in reference to Yasutani's teacher Harada Daiun Sogaku, a Sōtō priest who also studied with Rinzai priests. Both Harada Roshi and Yasutani Roshi were strong promoters of Zen practice for lay practitioners, and for people of other (non-Buddhist, non-Asian) faith communities and cultures. Their openness to lay practitioners was in line with the modernizing tendency of the Meiji Restoration, which began in 1868. Starting in this period, various Zen institutions began to give permission to lay followers to practice Zen.\n\nThe leaders of the Sanbo Kyodan were involved in the contemporary social and cultural developments in Japan, which followed the abandonment of the medieval feudal system and its opening up to foreign influences and modern western technology and culture. The association of some of them with the fierce militaristic nationalism of the mid-20th century Empire of Japan has become controversial. Among Yamada Koun's friends and associates were Soen Nakagawa, a strong supporter of Japanese imperialism, and Yasutani Roshi's own position has been the subject of arguments. Within Japanese Buddhism, there was a development of Buddhist modernism, but also a tendency to support the autocratic regime in the interest of survival.\n\nAlthough the membership of Sanbō Kyōdan is small (3,790 registered followers and 24 instructors in 1988), \"the Sanbō Kyōdan has had an inordinate influence on Zen in the West\".\n\nWesterners involved with Sanbō Kyōdan, including a number of Roman Catholics, promoted its teachings in North America and Europe in the latter half of the 20th century and early 21st century. One early American Zen member was Philip Kapleau, who published \"The Three Pillars of Zen\", a work of compilation which was largely constructed by Yamada Koun, with help from Kubota Jiun, who together provided rough translations that were later polished by Philip Kapleau, who also wrote some introductions to sections. The three men together edited the book, which appeared in 1965 under Kapleau's name. Kapleau studied under Harada Sōgaku in Obama and Yasutani Haku'un in greater Tokyo in the 1950s and 1960s, but never received formal dharma transmission, and started his own lineage. Other influential teachers who studied with Yasutani and started their own organizations included Taizan Maezumi and Robert Baker Aitken, although most of Aitken's training was under Koun Yamada. In Europe, the Sanbō Kyōdan was associated particularly with Roman Catholic practitioners such as Hugo Enomiya-Lassalle and others.\n\nYasutani's lineage has grown rapidly, constituting one of the largest Zen networks in the USA, although some of Yasutani's disciples, and disciples of his successor Yamada Koun, have left the Sanbo Kyodan and started their own organisations.\n\nThe Sanbō Kyōdan was also influential in introducing charismatic authority in Western Zen, by its dependency on the authority of Yasutani, while simultaneously standing outside the mainstream of Japanese Zen. It was transplanted into a culture that is unaware of the specific characteristics of Japanese culture regarding authority. The stress on kenshō as means of authority, coupled to the primacy of maintaining the correct dharma transmission, led to institutional problems when Yasutani's heir Yamada Koun died, in the view of some disaffected former members. Shortly before his death in 1989 Yamada Koun passed on the leadership of the Sanbo Kyodan directly to Kubota Jiun Roshi, who was its abbot until 2004, whereupon the abbacy passed to Yamada Ryoun Roshi. While a handful of Western teachers authorized by Sanbo-Zen left the organization, some 40 or so remain within it, and the institution itself has evolved and shows signs of growing strength and resilience. The direct lineage of the “Three Clouds” (Harada, Yasutani and Yamada) maintains a strong core and trunk in today's Sanbo-Zen. Seeing one's nature gives an autonomous confirmation of Zen's ultimate truth, which may conflict with the need to maintain institutions and traditions. On the other hand, it may foster a renewal and revitalization of the core of Zen teaching, and allow for styles of Zen practice to emerge that are more relevant to non-Japanese contexts.\n\nYasutani's support for the Pacific War was criticised after World War II. The publication of Brian Victoria's \"Zen at War\" led to a public apology by Kubota Jiun, the third Abbot of Sanbō Kyōdan. However, Brian Victoria has also been criticized for a lack of accuracy in his citation and translation of texts from the persons he accuses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823322", "title": "Oskar Nedbal", "text": "Oskar Nedbal\n\nOskar Nedbal (26 March 1874 – 24 December 1930) was a Czech violist, composer, and conductor of classical music.\n\nNedbal was born in Tábor, in southern Bohemia. He studied the violin at the Prague Conservatory under Antonín Bennewitz. \n\nHe was principal conductor with the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra from 1896 to 1906 and was a founder member of the Bohemian String Quartet.\n\nAlthough a great admirer of his teacher Antonín Dvořák, Nedbal paid homage to other composers. For example, in his 1910 composition, \"Romantic Piece, Op. 18\" for cello and piano, Nedbal cleverly inserts a theme usually associated with Mozart, \"Ah, vous dirai-je, Maman\".\n\nHis works include one (unsuccessful) opera, \"Jakob the Peasant\" (1919–1920), and the operettas \"Chaste Barbara\" (1910), \"Polish Blood\" (1913), \"The Vineyard Bride\" (1916), and \"Beautiful Saskia\" (1917).\n\nBecause of mounting personal debts, Nedbal committed suicide by jumping out of a window of the Zagreb Opera House on 24 December 1930.ON\n\nThe waltz from his ballet \"The Tale of Simple Johnny\" (\"Der Faule Hans\") is played on the piano at a key moment by one of the characters in Heimito von Doderer's great novel of the inter-war years in Vienna, \"The Demons\" (\"Die Dämonen\") (1956).\n\nIn recent years, Nedbal's haunting \"Valse Triste\" (featured in his ballet \"The Tale of Simple Johnny\") has been a favorite stand-alone encore piece of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.johann-strauss.org.uk/composers-n-z.php?id=184\n"}
{"id": "1823326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823326", "title": "James Madison Memorial High School", "text": "James Madison Memorial High School\n\nJames Madison Memorial High School is a public high school in Madison, Wisconsin, United States. It was established in 1966 and is part of the Madison Metropolitan School District.\n\nThe school is named after the city of Madison and the 4th president of the United States, James Madison. Casually, the school is referred to by local media or out-state simply as either Madison Memorial or Memorial, in reference to the city rather than James Madison.\n\nMemorial offers classes ranging from Algebra 1 to Astronomy. Chinese, German, French and Spanish are some of their language classes.\n\nThe school also hosts the Madison school district's planetarium and offers an Astronomy class.\n\nIn 2001, Memorial received a U.S. Department of Education Small Learning Communities federal grant to support a \"neighborhood\" reorganization. The four neighborhoods are Rock, Wolf, Fox, and Wisconsin .\n\nThe official school newspaper is \"The Sword and Shield\" and since 2009 has all issues on line located at https://memorialweb.madison.k12.wi.us/node/1652. Independent newspapers, \"The Spartacus\" and \"Aficionado\" existed at one time, but have all ceased distribution. \"The Independent\" was created after the 1990-91 school year by \"The Sword and Shield\" staff.\n\nMemorial offers interscholastic sports and extramural activities. The Spartans have won 64 state championships across all sports, ranking third in the state of Wisconsin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823327", "title": "Belarus men's national ice hockey team", "text": "Belarus men's national ice hockey team\n\nThe Belarusian national ice hockey team (; ) is ranked 11th in the world by the IIHF in their 2018 World Ranking. The team is controlled by the Belarus Ice Hockey Federation. Arguably, the greatest moment in Belarusian hockey history was the victory over Sweden in the quarter-finals of the 2002 Winter Olympics, where the team ultimately finished fourth. Belarus has 4,968 players in their national pool (0.05% of the total population). At the 2005 and 2006 World Championships their coach was Glen Hanlon, who brought the best-ever result in the IIHF World Championship – 6th place in 2006. He was succeeded by Curt Fraser, who led the team in 2007 and 2008. Hanlon returned to coach the team for the 2009 World Championships in Switzerland.\n\nRoster for the 2018 IIHF World Championship.\n\nHead coach: Dave Lewis was the acting head coach until 8 May 2018, after that Sergei Pushkov took over.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823328", "title": "Kemal Atatürk Memorial, Canberra", "text": "Kemal Atatürk Memorial, Canberra\n\nThe Kemal Atatürk Memorial is a memorial directly opposite the Australian War Memorial on Anzac Parade, the principal memorial and ceremonial parade in Canberra, the capital of Australia.\n\nIt is named after Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (1881–1938) who, as a Lieutenant Colonel, commanded the Ottoman 19th Infantry Division when it resisted the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) at Arı Burnu on the Gallipoli peninsula in 1915 during World War I. He went on to be the founder of the Republic of Turkey and its first president, and received the honorific \"Atatürk\" (\"Father of the Turks\") by the Turkish parliament. \n\nIn 1985, seventy years after the Gallipoli Campaign, the Turkish Government recognized the name \"Anzac Cove\" for the place on the peninsula where the Australian and New Zealand troops landed on 25 April 1915. \n\nIn return for this gesture, the Australian Government established the memorial garden, around the Kemal Atatürk Memorial, that honors the heroism and self-sacrifice of the Turkish and Anzac soldiers who took part in that bitterly fought campaign. This is the only memorial to an enemy commander on Anzac Parade.\n\nThe memorial consists of a crescent shaped wall on a circular paved area. The form of the wall reflects the crescent moon and five-pointed star of the Turkish flag. In the center of the memorial is a time capsule containing soil from the battlefields of Gallipoli. It was designed originally by architecture firm PDCM.\n\nCentrally located in the wall is a bronze likeness of Atatürk – a gift of the Turkish government by Turkish sculptor Hüseyin Gezer. The inscription, attributed to Atatürk, pays tribute to the Anzacs and reflects his understanding of the cost of war:\n\n\"Those heroes that shed their blood and lost their lives... you are now lying in the soil of a friendly country. Therefore rest in peace. There is no difference between the Johnnies and the Mehmets to us where they lie side by side here in this country of ours... You the mothers who sent their sons from far away countries wipe away your tears. Your sons are now lying in our bosom and are in peace. After having lost their lives on this land they have become our sons as well.\"\nSurrounding the memorial are pine trees \"Pinus halepensis\" grown from seed collected from the Gallipoli \"lone pine\".\n\nThe memorial was refurbished in 2007 and rededicated in time for Anzac Day (25 April). \nThe pavement was altered to incorporate a larger five pointed star motif as used in the flag of Turkey, to match the existing wall in the form of the crescent moon. At the points of the star five pink-granite columns matching the granite used for the central sculpture. The columns are lit at night. The flags were moved from the side to the front of the memorial.\nThe memorial was designed by PDCM Pty Ltd.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823330", "title": "Jackie Loughery", "text": "Jackie Loughery\n\nJacqueline Loughery (born April 18, 1930), sometimes credited as Evelyn Avery, is an American actress and beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss USA 1952, becoming the first-ever winner of the Miss USA competition. She had previously been crowned Miss New York USA 1952\n\nLoughery was born and raised in Flatbush, Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Loughery.\n\nIn 1952, Loughery won the Miss USA title after a second ballot broke a first-place tie. Loughery, a redhead, went on to represent the US at the first Miss Universe pageant, where she placed ninth.\n\nPart of her prize package as Miss USA included a contract with Universal Pictures, which led to a career in movies and television. She adopted the stage name Evelyn Avery, but is more often credited with her own name (the name she used when she won the Miss USA title).\n\nLoughery appeared in several films, including the 1956 comedy \"Pardners\" with Martin and Lewis and the 1957 drama \"The D.I.\", with Jack Webb, whom she would marry. She was featured in 1957's \"Eighteen and Anxious\" and top-billed in the following year's \"The Hot Angel\".\n\nIn 1951, Loughery appeared in the short-lived variety show \"Seven at Eleven\". In 1954, she was Johnny Carson's assistant in the short lived game show \"Earn Your Vacation\".\n\nIn 1956, Loughery co-starred with Edgar Buchanan and Jack Buetel in the syndicated western television series \"Judge Roy Bean\", having appeared as Bean's niece, Letty. Buetel, a star of the 1941 film \"The Outlaw\", was cast in the series as Bean's deputy, Jeff Taggert.\nLoughery also had non-recurring roles in numerous television programs through the 1950s and 1960s, including the syndicated western \"26 Men\" in the episode \"Runaway Stage\". In 1958, she appeared in an episode of \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\".\n\nIn 1957 and 1958 she made five guest appearances on \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\"; three as Joyce Collins and the other two as Vicki Donovan. In 1963 she appeared on \"Perry Mason\" as Nell Grimes, who murdered her husband, the title character, in \"The Case of the Bigamous Spouse.\" She appeared as Martha, sister of sheriff Sam Phelps in the May 18, 1961 episode of Bat Masterson, \"Farmer with a Badge\".\n\nShe was married to singer Guy Mitchell in October 1953. That marriage ended and she remarried, to actor Jack Webb, in July 1958. (A 1964 newspaper brief reported that Loughery and Webb were wed June 24, 1958 in Studio City.) She divorced Webb in March 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823340", "title": "Muhammad Ali Center", "text": "Muhammad Ali Center\n\nThe Muhammad Ali Center is a non-profit museum and cultural center in Louisville, Kentucky. Dedicated to boxer Muhammad Ali, a native of Louisville, it is located in the city's West Main District.\n\nThe six-story, . museum opened on November 19, 2005 at a cost of $80 million. It also includes a two-level amphitheater and a plaza.\n\nOn April 4, 2013, a new pedestrian bridge opened, helping residents and visitors connect from the Muhammad Ali Center's plaza to the Belvedere, the Waterfront, and other downtown attractions. The 170-foot-long walkway is nine feet wide, with exterior metal panels that complement the Ali Center plaza's design.\n\nIn 2020, the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville and the SEEK Museum in Russellville were added to the U.S. Civil Rights Trail.\n\nThe cultural center features exhibitions regarding Ali's six core principles of confidence, conviction, dedication, giving, respect, and spirituality. Throughout his life, Muhammad Ali strived to be guided by these core principles in his quest to inspire people around the world, dedicating himself to helping others, being the best athlete he could be and by standing up for what he believed in.\n\nAn orientation theater helps present Ali's life. A mock boxing ring is recreated based on his Deer Lake Training Camp. A two-level pavilion, housed within a large elliptical room, features Ali's boxing memorabilia and history. A large projector displays the film \"The Greatest\" onto a full-sized boxing ring. There are also booths where visitors can view clips of Ali's greatest fights on video-on-demand terminals, which also feature pre- and post-fight interviews.\n\nAnother exhibit offers visitors the chance to explore sense of self, others and purpose through an interactive terminal program. Visitors are encouraged to share what they are fighting for in the Generation Ali Story Booths \n\nTwo art galleries, the LeRoy Neiman Gallery and the Howard L. Bingham Gallery, feature rotating exhibits that are located on the third floor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823341", "title": "Van de Graaf", "text": "Van de Graaf\n\nVan de Graaf, also spelled van de Graaff, van der Graaf or van der Graaff, is a Dutch toponymic surname. Although \"graaf\" is a Dutch noble title similar to \"count\", here it refers to an old term for a canal with the same origin in the verb \"graven\" (\"to dig\") as gracht and grave. The small fortified city Grave, named for its canal, is the origin of at least one family \"Van de(r) Graaf(f)\". Notable people with this surname include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823342", "title": "Gates Brown", "text": "Gates Brown\n\nWilliam James \"Gates\" Brown (May 2, 1939 – September 27, 2013) was an American Major League Baseball left fielder who spent his entire career with the Detroit Tigers (1963–1975). He batted left-handed and threw right-handed.\n\nBorn in Crestline, Ohio, he served time at the Ohio State Reformatory for burglary from 1958 to 1959. He was encouraged by a prison guard who also coached the reformatory's baseball team to join the squad as a catcher. The coach contacted several major-league teams after being impressed by Brown's batting ability. Tigers scouts Frank Skaff and Pat Mullin convinced their ballclub to help Brown get paroled a year early and sign him for US $7,000. He chose to join the Tigers despite interest from other teams such as the Chicago White Sox and Cleveland Indians. He explained, \"The primary reasons I signed with Detroit is because they didn't have any black players and eventually I figured they would, plus, I had been told about the short right porch at Tiger Stadium.\"\n\nIn a 13-season career, Brown was a .257 hitter with 84 home runs and 322 runs batted in in 1,051 games played.\n\nOn June 19, 1963, coming off the bench, Brown became the 11th American League batter to hit a home run in his first at bat. A popular figure among Tigers fans, Brown may not have had the defensive skills to make the everyday lineup but he has been considered one of the premier pinch hitters in MLB history. Brown divided his major league career as an outfielder, first baseman, pinch hitter and designated hitter, all with the Detroit Tigers. He is best remembered for his contribution to the 1968 World Series championship. In his pinch hit at bats in the 1968 season, Brown hit for a .450 batting average, the eighth-highest single season batting average for a pinch hitter (minimum 30 at bats) in major league history.\n\nBrown holds the American League record for the most pinch-hit at bats in a career, with 414. In his career, Brown collected 107 pinch hits including 16 pinch homers - both are also American League career records - and also twice led the AL in pinch hits (1968 and 1974). His most productive season came in 1964, when he posted career-highs in home runs (15), RBIs (54), runs (65), hits (116), doubles (22), triples (6), stolen bases (11) and at bats (426) in 123 games.\nWhile 1968 was called the Year of the Pitcher, overall batting being only .230 for the year, the potent Tigers attack scored 671 runs. 1968 was the batting high-water mark for Gates Brown who, with remarkable regularity, came off the bench with clutch hits to spark dramatic ninth inning comeback victories. Brown's timely hitting was crucial in sealing the Tigers' trip to the World Series. Starting in only 17 games that season, Brown appeared in 49 more as a pinch hitter, achieving a torrid .370 batting average (34 for 92) with a .442 on-base percentage and a .685 slugging average.\n\nOn August 7, 1968, Brown wasn't in the starting lineup, and decided to grab two hot dogs from the clubhouse. He was ordered by manager Mayo Smith to pinch hit. He notoriously stuffed the hot dogs in his jersey to hide them from his manager. \"I always wanted to get a hit every time I went to the plate. But this was one time I didn't want to get a hit. I'll be damned if I didn't smack one in the gap and I had to slide into second—head first, no less. I was safe with a double. But when I stood up, I had mustard and ketchup and smashed hot dogs and buns all over me. The fielders took one look at me, turned their backs and damned near busted a gut laughing at me. My teammates in the dugout went crazy.\" After fining Brown $100, Smith said, \"What the hell were you doing eating on the bench in the first place?\" Brown replied, \"I decided to tell him the truth. I said, 'I was hungry. Besides, where else can you eat a hot dog and have the best seat in the house'\"\n\nFrom 1971 to 1973 Brown hit 33 home runs with 110 RBIs in 571 at-bats, including a .338 average in 1971 (66 for 195). He retired at the end of the 1975 season.\n\nIn 1978, Brown returned to the Tigers as their hitting coach, a position he would hold through the championship season of 1984, before giving way to Vada Pinson.\n\nBrown died of a heart attack on September 27, 2013 at a nursing home, aged 74. He had been in failing health for the last years of his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823345", "title": "Wanted poster", "text": "Wanted poster\n\nA wanted poster (or wanted sign) is a poster distributed to let the public know of an alleged criminal whom authorities wish to apprehend. They will generally include either a picture of the alleged criminal when a photograph is available or of a facial composite image produced by police.\n\nThe poster will usually include a description of the wanted person(s) and the crime(s) for which they are sought. There is typically a set monetary reward offered to whoever catches the wanted criminal that is advertised on the poster. Wanted posters are commonly produced by a police department or other public government bureaus intended for public display such as on a physical bulletin board or in the lobby of a post office. Today many wanted posters are displayed on the Internet. However, wanted posters have also been produced by vigilante groups, railway security, private agencies such as Pinkerton, or by express companies that have sustained a robbery. Wanted posters also might include rewards for providing aid in the capture of the wanted person, usually in the form of money. These types of posters were also referred to as reward posters.\n\nIn 2007, the FBI began posting wanted posters on electronic billboards starting with 23 cities, and have been working to expand this system in other states. This allows them to instantly post a wanted notice in public view across the US. In 2014, the FBI claimed that at least 53 cases had been solved as a direct result of digital billboard publicity, and many others had been solved through the Bureau's overall publicity efforts that included the billboards. The FBI now claims to have access to over 5,200 billboards nationwide.\n\nWanted posters for particularly notorious fugitives frequently offer a bounty for the capture of the person, or for a person who can provide information leading to such capture. Bounties provided an incentive for citizens to aid law enforcement, either by providing information, or by catching the criminal themselves. More modern wanted posters may also include images of the fugitive's fingerprints. People who, as a profession, chase wanted individuals with the intent to collect their bounties are referred to as bounty hunters.\n\nComposite images for use in wanted posters can be created with various methods, including:\n\nHistorically, some wanted posters offering a reward contained the phrase \"dead or alive\". Thus one would get a reward for either bringing the person or their body to the authorities. This could indicate that the person was an outlaw, and that it was permissible to kill them. Alternatively, it might mean that it was permissible to kill them if they resisted arrest. While most issuers of wanted posters instead preferred the target to be taken alive in order to stand trial, some private organizations were willing to go to these extreme measures to protect their interests.\n\nWanted posters have been used by media sources to cast prominent figures as wild west criminals. Popular examples of this include the September 4, 1939 Edition of the British newspaper the Daily Mirror, which cast Adolf Hitler as a ‘reckless criminal’ ‘wanted dead or alive’. This idea was also used by The New York Post in their global search for Osama Bin Laden in 2001, shortly after President George W. Bush made the reference, \"And there's an old poster out West, that I recall, that said, 'Wanted: Dead or Alive'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1823350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823350", "title": "St. James Court Art Show", "text": "St. James Court Art Show\n\nThe St. James Court Art Show, colloquially called the St. James Art Fair, or just St. James, is a popular free public outdoor annual arts and crafts show held since 1957 in the Old Louisville neighborhood of Louisville, Kentucky, in the St. James-Belgravia Historic District. Mostly situated to the south of Central Park, the show is normally held on the first weekend in October, and includes more than 700 artisans from various locations throughout the Americas. The show draws nearly 300,000 people, one-third from out of state, each year. The show is put together by a group of various neighborhood associations in Old Louisville.\n\nThe art and item selection at the show runs from the mundane to the sublime, and the inexpensive to the very expensive. Booths featuring such items as furniture, pottery, jewelry, glassworks, photography and paintings are lined up on streets and sidewalks with ample walk spaces between them to handle large crowds. Booths with the highest showcase quality are situated on St. James Court, Belgravia Court and Magnolia Avenue, while booths on Fourth and Third Streets tend to purvey more consumer-oriented artistic items. The 19th century mansion Conrad-Caldwell House, on St. James Court, is open for tours during the show.\n\nIn addition to the various items for sale, the show attracts various state and local politicians, charities, churches, radio stations and publishers who take the opportunity to promote themselves to the public.\n\nThe event is sponsored by various corporate donors. There are various awards given out for \"Best of Show,\" \"People's Choice,\" the poster contest and several scholarships. The show has been ranked #1 in the nation by Sunshine Artist Magazine.\n\nBeing held in the neighborhood Old Louisville has a particular significance because the St James Art show was founded in order to produce revenue and sustain the surrounding area. Old Louisville at the time the St James Art Show was created was in a financial decline; however, today it is known as one of the most popular areas of Louisville. Old Louisville became a historic district in 1975, and also has the United States largest collection of Victorian style homes. This unique atmosphere creates the perfect location for the St James Art Show, as the art show is almost exclusively outdoors, and people enjoy walking around the neighborhood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823351", "title": "Bola de Nieve", "text": "Bola de Nieve\n\nBola de Nieve (literally \"Snowball\") (11 September 1911 – 2 October 1971), born Ignacio Jacinto Villa Fernández, was a Cuban singer-pianist and songwriter. His name originates from his round, black face.\n\nVilla Fernández was born in Guanabacoa, and studied at the Mateu Conservatoire of Havana. He worked as a chauffeur and played piano for silent films until his friend Rita Montaner took him on as an accompanist in the early 1930s. After Montaner returned to Cuba, Villa Fernández remained in Mexico and developed an original performance style as a pianist and singer. He was an elite rather than a popular figure, a sophisticated cabaret stylist known for ironic patter, subtle musical interpretation, with a repertoire that included songs in French, English, Catalan, Portuguese and Italian. He toured widely in Europe and the Americas, and his friends included Andrés Segovia and Pablo Neruda. He identified as black and gay, and was self-confident in his personality, and accepted for what he was: a memorable talent.\n\nHe died in Mexico City during a musical visit.\n\nHe was the subject of a 2003 documentary which included interviews with fellow musicians, friends, relatives, and experts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823364", "title": "Marissa Jaret Winokur", "text": "Marissa Jaret Winokur\n\nMarissa Jaret Winokur (born February 2, 1973), sometimes credited as Marissa Winokur, is an American actress known for her Tony-winning performance as Tracy Turnblad in the Broadway musical \"Hairspray,\" an adaptation of John Waters's film, as well as her work on the Pamela Anderson sitcom \"Stacked.\" Some of her other TV credits include \"Curb Your Enthusiasm,\" \"Moesha,\" \"The Steve Harvey Show,\" \"Just Shoot Me!,\" \"Felicity,\" and \"Dharma & Greg.\" \n\nShe was a contestant on the popular reality competition series \"Dancing With the Stars\" and went on to host the similar \"Dance Your Ass Off.\" From 2010-2011 she served as a co-host on the daily daytime talk show \"The Talk,\" ultimately leaving to focus on her clothing line and a new cable TV show. The cable TV show in question, when it premiered, proved to be a late-night talk show titled \"All About Sex,\" whose co-hosting duties she shared with Margaret Cho, Heather McDonald, and Dr. Tiffanie Davis Henry, and which TLC transmitted at 11:00 PM Eastern time on Saturday nights. \n\nIn 2018, Winokur participated in the first U.S. season of \"Celebrity Big Brother,\" where she was crowned the winner.\n\nWinokur was born in New York City, the daughter of Maxine, a teacher, and Michael Winokur, an architect. She is Jewish. Winokur was a cheerleader and captain of her high school soccer team at Fox Lane High School. She graduated from The American Musical and Dramatic Academy in 1993.\nWinokur won the 2003 Tony Award for Best Leading Actress in a Musical, Drama Desk Award, Theatre World Award, and Outer Critics Circle Award for her performance in \"Hairspray\". She had previously appeared on Broadway as Jan in the 1994 revival of \"Grease.\"\n\nWinokur has also played roles in films such as \"American Beauty,\" \"Never Been Kissed,\" \"Teaching Mrs. Tingle,\" the send-up \"Scary Movie,\" \"Beautiful Girl\" (for ABC Family), \"Fever Pitch,\" and she provided one of the voices in \"Shrek the Halls.\"\n\nWinokur co-starred in the TV series \"Stacked,\" which starred Pamela Anderson. She also appeared on an episode of \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" where she lost a physical fight with Larry David over the first appointment at a doctor's office. She was called \"Marissa Winokur\" in the episode, but was credited simply as \"Woman In Elevator.\"\n\nShe was set to star in a new comedy pilot for CBS titled \"Fugly,\" from Greg Garcia, the creator of \"My Name Is Earl.\" The show was originally pitched to Fox as a vehicle for Pamela Anderson. It was later revamped into a television film in 2007. \n\nShe returned to \"Hairspray\" on December 9, 2008, and played Tracy until the show's closing on January 4, 2009.\n\nWinokur hosted the reality competition series \"Dance Your Ass Off\" on the Oxygen Network. In October 2010 she joined Julie Chen, Holly Robinson Peete, Sharon Osbourne, Leah Remini, and Sara Gilbert in a new talk show, \"The Talk,\" that was intended to focus on stories of parenting, everyday life and events in the headlines. The program began airing on CBS on October 18, 2010. On January 14, 2011, she announced via People Magazine that she would leave \"The Talk\" to focus on her clothing line and a new cable TV show she was developing.\n\nShe reprised the role of Tracy Turnblad in the Hollywood Bowl production of \"Hairspray,\" which ran from August 5–7, 2011.\n\nWinokur joined the cast of TV Land's original sitcom \"Retired at 35,\" beginning in the second season. She acted out the role of Amy, David’s sister, a sharp-tongued, quick-witted successful saleswoman for a pharmaceutical company with a bubbly personality. The character was originated by Casey Wilson in the show's pilot, but made no other Season 1 appearances.\n\nIn 2017, Winokur competed with her son Zev on \"Big Star Little Star\", a U.S. version of the British game show \"Big Star's Little Star\".\n\nIn 2018, Winokur was cast as one of the houseguests on the first American edition of \"Celebrity Big Brother\". She won \"Celebrity Big Brother\" over Ross Mathews on February 25, 2018, by a vote of 6-3. She also hosted \"Off the Block with Ross and Marissa\" on Facebook Watch.\n\nWinokur was working on recording a children's music album. Her rendition of the song \"Baby Face\" was featured on the soundtrack for the film \"Son of the Mask,\" and she performed \"The Wish Song\" on the 2006 charity album \"Unexpected Dreams – Songs From the Stars.\" In 2007, she joined Nikki Blonsky and Ricki Lake in singing \"Mama, I'm a Big Girl Now\" on the \"Hairspray\" soundtrack; in director John Waters's original film, Lake had originated the role that Winokur (on stage) and Blonsky (on screen, in the film version of the musical) had respectively reprised, that of Tracy Turnblad.\n\nWinokur has also lent her voice to several cartoon shows, including \"American Dad!\" and \"King of the Hill.\"\n\nWinokur was featured on Season 6 of \"Dancing With the Stars\" with professional dancer Tony Dovolani. Marissa scored an 18 for her Cha-Cha-Cha her first week and 21 for her Quickstep in week two giving her a combined total of 39 out of 60. In that week's elimination, Marissa was the last female contestant to be saved before Monica Seles was eliminated. In week three, Marissa scored 19 for her Jive to Avril Lavigne's \"Girlfriend,\" placing her last on the leader board, but was saved from elimination by the viewer's votes. In week four, Marissa performed a Paso Doble and was praised for her improvements, scoring 24 out of 30. She scored a second 24 out of 30 for her Samba in week five. In week six, Marissa earned a 26 for a Viennese Waltz, her highest score so far. The following week was another success learning two dances, scoring a 27 for her Tango in the Ballroom round and in the Latin round she received 25 for her Rumba. Marissa came third on the combined total leader board with a score of 52 out of 60, beating Shannon Elizabeth and Mario by one point and Cristian de la Fuente by 6 points. Despite being third, however, Marissa found herself in the bottom two alongside Shannon. The following week Marissa performed a Foxtrot and Mambo scoring 25 for both dances scoring a total of 50 out of 60, placing her last on the leader board, but was again saved by the viewer's votes. During her last week on the show, she earned a 26 for both her Rumba and Quickstep. Winokur was eliminated after the semifinal round.\n\nDuring the early development stages of \"Hairspray,\" Winokur was diagnosed with cervical cancer. She underwent treatment for the disease, without revealing her condition to anyone except her immediate family out of fear that she would be replaced in the musical. Ultimately she made a full recovery and remained in the show.\n\nOn October 7, 2006, Winokur married longtime boyfriend Judah Miller (brother to Murray Miller), who was a writer on \"Stacked.\" In March 2008, the couple announced that they were expecting their first child, a boy to be named Zev, via a surrogate mother and that the pregnancy was five months along. Zev Isaac Miller was born July 22, 2008, weighing in at 8 pounds 7 ounces and measured 21 inches long. Winokur and Miller helped deliver their son.\n\nShe is the great-niece of two famous American writers: S. J. Perelman and Nathanael West.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823366", "title": "Barry Smith (preacher)", "text": "Barry Smith (preacher)\n\nBarry Rumsey Smith (10 May 1933 – 27 June 2002) was a Christian preacher and author from New Zealand. Smith travelled extensively preaching throughout the Pacific, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and around the world. He wrote eight books with the theme of end times prophecy. His writings also appeared in his monthly newspaper \"Omega Times\".\n\nBarry Smith was a school teacher and had taught in New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. He left his employment to lecture on end time events and the lead up to the new world order. While in Western Samoa, he met May, a young Samoan woman who was to become his wife.\n\nSmith was highly concerned about the New World Order, One World Government and the Mark of the Beast, which he believed would be achieved through some form of modern technology such as barcode tattoos, or a subcutaneous chip used to replace money, such as those currently being sold by VeriChip. He stated that he was not a prophet (more precisely that he had no supernatural prescient knowledge of further events) but that his analysis of global situations coupled with his understanding of biblical end-times prophecy led him to make predictions concerning near-future global events.\n\nFor Barry Smith, a one world government would be satanic and evil, a belief taken from his study of biblical prophecy.\n\nHe was strongly Anti-Masonic. He talked about the detail of the \"great seal\" on the US $1 bill, linking the symbolism to Freemasony, and the layout of certain landmark buildings in Washington DC in which he claimed could be found the Masonic square and compass, and the inverted pentagram.\n\nSmith wrote several books (see details below) and gave regular public addresses, usually to audiences at churches both in major cities and small towns all around the world. His themes were principally Christian eschatology, conspiracy theory and a Christian evangelical message encouraging his audiences to accept Jesus Christ as their Saviour.\n\nMany bold claims were made by Smith, both in his books and at his public meetings which were controversial. He preached and lectured using many anecdotes, many of which were not easy to independently verify. Frequently it was not clear through how many intermediaries a story had passed before reaching him and his audience.\n\nSmith was a proponent of the 9/11 conspiracy theories, claiming that the 11 September attacks were orchestrated by the US federal government.\n\nHe stated that he was not a prophet and admitted that he made mistaken predictions, claiming that he was just \"a commentator\".\nSome of the concerns Barry Smith had in relation to the New World Order and its surrounding issues have also been addressed in a similar fashion by Dr Stan Monteith.\n\nBarry Smith had given numerous talks in both Australia and New Zealand. He had remarked that both countries were test cases in the new world order.\nIn one of his documentaries, \"Back Door To The New World Order\" he said that The Elite had chosen New Zealand was chosen to be the first test in their new world order plan, and what had begun in Europe with the secret societies had \"finally burst into bud\" in New Zealand.\n\nIn an interview published in Challenge Weekly, a New Zealand Christian newspaper, Smith commented on the collapse of the world economy and that the mark of the beast was already being advertised around the world. His belief was that it was a tiny electronic radio frequency chip that was placed under the skin. He said that animals were being chipped and that there were plans to put them on humans.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823390", "title": "Alan Bock", "text": "Alan Bock\n\nAlan W. Bock (December 3, 1943 – May 18, 2011) was an American libertarian author. He was a senior editorial writer and former editorial page editor for the \"Orange County Register\" for over 25 years. He wrote regular columns for WorldNetDaily, LewRockwell.com, and Antiwar.com and was a contributing editor at \"Liberty\" magazine. He had also been published in \"The American Conservative\".\n\nBock was also an active public speaker having experience in radio and television. He spoke at such forums as the Cato Institute, Reason Foundation, the Drug Policy Foundation, American Enterprise Institute, Freedom Summit, the Liberty Editors' Conference and the Festival of Freedom. In the 1970s, Bock spent eight years in Washington, D.C., where he worked for two different congressmen. He then formed a libertarian lobbying organization called Libertarian Advocate. He also spent some time working as a radio talk-show host where he appeared on CNN, Fox News, MSNBC, PBS, and countless others. He contributed to \"Reason\", \"Freeman\", \"National Review\", and \"Harvard Business Review\".\n\nBock attended the University of California, Los Angeles on a National Merit scholarship.\n\nBock had been critical of both parties for their support of an aggressive foreign policy. He had also been critical of imperialism and nation-building, and believed that \"the U.S. empire is in the process of winding down.\"\n\nBock died on May 18, 2011 after entering hospice due to cancer. He was 67 and was living in Lake Elsinore, California.\n\nHe was the author of four books:\n\n"}
{"id": "1823398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823398", "title": "Louisville Slugger Museum &amp; Factory", "text": "Louisville Slugger Museum &amp; Factory\n\nThe Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory, is a museum and factory tour attraction located in Louisville, Kentucky's \"Museum Row\", part of the West Main District of downtown. The museum showcases the story of Louisville Slugger baseball bats in baseball and in American history. The museum also creates temporary exhibits with more of a pop culture focus, including collaborations with the Norman Rockwell Museum, the Charles M. Schulz Museum and Research Center, Coca-Cola, LEGO artists Sean Kenney and Jason Burik, Topps Trading Cards, The Children's Museum of Indianapolis, and Ripley's Believe It or Not!.\n\nThe facility is the fourth location where Louisville Slugger bats have been made. The original shop was on South First Street in Louisville between Main and Market Streets. It was there that family legend suggests J. A. \"Bud\" Hillerich made a bat for Louisville Eclipse star Pete Browning after Browning broke his bat during a game in which Hillerich attended in July 1884. The next day, Browning got three hits with the bat and the legend was born. In 1901, the factory moved to the corner of South Preston and Finzer Streets, where they would stay until 1974. This site was vacant for many years after, but the land was donated to the city in 2015 to be developed into a community space. From 1974 to 1996, Louisville Sluggers were actually made in Jeffersonville, Indiana, just across the Ohio River at a facility called Slugger Park, while H&B maintained corporate offices on Broadway in Louisville.\n\nStarting in the early 1990s, H&B CEO John A. \"Jack\" Hillerich III began looking to move production back to Louisville. Hillerich wanted to bring the factory back together with the business offices while also providing a place for the public to connect with the Louisville Slugger brand. Eventually, a site at 8th and Main Streets was chosen, the site of a former tobacco warehouse. After extensive renovations, the Museum & Factory opened in July 1996 with a gala of Hall of Fame players, including Ted Williams, Stan Musial, Ernie Banks, Harmon Killebrew and Pee Wee Reese. The museum underwent extensive renovations in 2008, led by Formations, Inc of Portland, OR. In 2015, the Museum & Factory broke its own attendance record, drawing more than 300,000 visitors. The building also houses corporate offices for Hillerich & Bradsby and its two other divisions, Bionic Gloves and PowerBilt Golf Clubs. Wilson Sporting Goods also maintains much of its Louisville Slugger sales force in the building after purchasing the brand from Hillerich & Bradsby in 2015. The Hillerich family maintains ownership of the museum and bat factory.\n\nThe museum routinely travels around the country with a pop-up version of the experience called the Mobile Museum. These experiences often include old-time bat making demonstrations, a \"Hold a Piece of History\" exhibit and assorted team-specific exhibits, games and giveaways. Since 2013, the museum has visited U.S. Cellular Field, Miller Park, Busch Stadium, Progressive Field and Victory Field as well as Winter Warm-Ups for the Cincinnati Reds, Chicago Cubs, Chicago White Sox and Cleveland Indians. A Mobile Museum was also set up at the 2015 Major League Baseball All-Star Game Fan Fest in Cincinnati, and the 2017 ACC Baseball Tournament Fan Fest at Louisville Slugger Field.\n\n\n\nThe tour of the Louisville Slugger bat factory consists of six stops showing how the famous bats are made. Tours typically last around 20 minutes. Though full production may not be in place on evenings, weekends and holidays, bat making still occurs on every tour and all guests receive a complimentary mini-bat at the end.\n\nIn 2015, the Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory was named one of the most beautiful factories in the world.\n\nStarting in 2007, Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory has awarded a \"Living Legend\" Award. The Award coincides with an annual memorabilia auction from Philadelphia-based auction house Hunt Auctions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823421", "title": "Saint Raphael's Cathedral (Madison, Wisconsin)", "text": "Saint Raphael's Cathedral (Madison, Wisconsin)\n\nSaint Raphael's Cathedral parish is the Cathedral parish for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Madison and was located in downtown Madison, Wisconsin at 222 West Main Street. In March 2005, the Cathedral building located at 204 West Main Street was heavily damaged in a fire and was demolished. The parish community remains active, and intends to rebuild the cathedral. As of October 2015, no plans had been announced for the rebuilding. In late 2012, the diocese constructed a park on the site, called Cathedral Square or Cathedral Place featuring a Way of the Cross.\n\nIn the early 1840s, immigrants from Ireland settled in what would later become Madison. They were soon organized into a parish named after the Archangel Raphael. On August 15, 1842, Father Martin Kundig offered Mass for the first time. Governor James Duane Doty, a close friend of Father Samuel Mazzuchelli donated the land upon which the parish buildings and a later parking lot would be built.\n\nFrom 1842 until 1853, the parish did not have a church and often celebrated Mass in homes and in the state capitol. In 1853, Father Francis Etchmann began constructing the most recent church building. The cornerstone was laid on May 28, 1854 by Bishop John Henni of the Diocese of Milwaukee. He dedicated the new building because the parish was under his jurisdiction at the time. The spire and bells were added in 1885.\n\nOn January 9, 1946, Pope Pius XII created the Diocese of Madison for an 11-county area in the southwestern part of the state. Territory was taken from the Archdiocese of Milwaukee and the Diocese of La Crosse to form the new diocese. St. Raphael's was then chosen as the Cathedral Parish for the Madison diocese. At the time of the parish's elevation to a cathedral, Msgr. William Mahoney was the pastor.\n\nOn March 14, 2005, a fire caused extensive damage to St. Raphael's Cathedral, affecting not only those who attended the church, but the entire diocesan community.\n\nThe fire caused the roof to collapse into the building, although the walls and steeple remained standing. There was further damage from the water and fears that the refurbished steeple would collapse, although the steeple was found to be stable in the days following the fire. The mosaics sustained smoke and water damage, and the stained glass windows were damaged but still in place.\n\nThe cause of the fire was determined to be arson. Forty-one-year-old William J. \"Billy\" Connell was arrested for setting the fire and charged with burglary, arson, and bail jumping. Connell said that he had broken into the Cathedral using a crowbar, stole a bottle of wine, and then \"messed around with some stuff\". The fire started in an office/storeroom under the spire, and the crowbar was found in that room. Connell had a history of mental problems, and had previously been in trouble with the law. Connell was sentenced to 15 years in prison to be followed by 15 years of close supervision.\n\nOn June 10, 2007, Bishop Morlino announced his intention to have the structure demolished and replaced with a new and larger church capable of seating 1,000 people. The Diocese of Madison announced on March 13, 2008, that St. Raphael's would be demolished by June of that year and that some items from the old Cathedral would be saved, including the spire, the three bells from the steeple, three mosaics from the sanctuary, the marble sanctuary appointments, one large undamaged stained glass window, three smaller undamaged semicircular stained glass windows, some ornamental stonework from around the doorways, and some other stone from the building. The demolition plan sparked debate among some in the city who felt portions of the structure should be preserved or declared a landmark.\n\nWhen demolition of the structure began, Bishop Morlino stated that the diocese would wait at least one year after the demolition before it began fundraising or planning for a new sanctuary. On July 1, 2008, the parish of St. Raphael merged with the nearby parishes of St. Patrick and Holy Redeemer churches to form a new Cathedral Parish of St. Raphael. The parish will be housed in facilities of the two churches until the new cathedral is built.\n\nOn June 24, 2011, the parish purchased the structure it built in 1962 to house St. Raphael's School from 1963 until it closed in 1970. The parish demolished the building and in late 2012 created a park across the entire property featuring a Way of the Cross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823426", "title": "Royal Australian Navy Memorial", "text": "Royal Australian Navy Memorial\n\nThe Royal Australian Navy Memorial on Anzac Parade in Canberra, the national capital of Australia, honours the sailors who have served to protect the nation.\n\nOn 10 July 1911, the Commonwealth Naval Forces were renamed the Royal Australian Navy. The RAN has served, in all oceans, in conflict and peace, since then.\n\nThe memorial was unveiled by Queen Elizabeth II on 3 March 1986, on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the formation of the RAN.\n\nBronze figures feature in the memorial and show the daily activities of naval life; the geometric forms, such as the anchor chain, depict elements of a ship. The torrents of water complement the dynamic forms of the work. (The memorials along Anzac Parade were specifically exempted from water restrictions during the drought of 2005.)\n\nThe memorial is also known as \"Sailors and Ships - Interaction and Interdependence\", and was designed and executed by Ante Dabro in collaboration with Lester Firth and Associates, and Robert Woodward.\n"}
{"id": "1823433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823433", "title": "Coull Quartet", "text": "Coull Quartet\n\nThe Coull Quartet is an English string quartet that was founded at the Royal Academy of Music, London in 1974 under the guidance of renowned quartet leader, Sidney Griller. They were appointed Quartet-in-Residence by the University of Warwick in 1977. The Quartet, which includes two of its founder members, has performed and broadcast extensively throughout the UK, and has made tours of Western Europe, the Americas, Australia, China, India and the Far East.\n\nSince the mid-1980s the Coull Quartet has made over 30 recordings featuring a wide selection of the repertoire from the complete Mendelssohn and Schubert quartets to 20th century and contemporary British chamber music. Their CD of quartets by Maw and Britten on the Somm label was also described as the ‘Benchmark Recording’ by \"BBC Music Magazine\" in addition to being featured in ‘Editor’s Choice’ in \"The Gramophone\".\n\nTheir list of commissions includes works by Peter Seabourne, Sally Beamish, Edward Cowie, Joe Cutler, David Matthews, Nicholas Maw, and Robert Simpson. These include string quartets, quintets with piano or wind player, works with solo voice or choir, and even a piece for quartet and table tennis players!\n\nThe Quartet regularly plays in the Great Comp Music Festival in Kent during summer classical music festivals.\nThey played on 5, 12 and 18 September 2010 (after the death of Roderick Cameron, founder of Great Comp Garden).\n\n"}
{"id": "1823436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823436", "title": "Praful Bidwai", "text": "Praful Bidwai\n\nPraful Bidwai (12 June 1949 – 23 June 2015) was an Indian journalist, political analyst, and activist. He was known for his left-leaning analysis of India's politics and economics. In Bidwai's memory, his friends, including The Transnational Institute, created the Praful Bidwai Memorial Award intended to honour and highlight courageous and independent voices in journalism. \n\nPraful Bidwai was a political analyst and commentator, a social science researcher, and an activist on issues of peace, global justice, human rights and environmental protection. He died by choking on food on 23 June 2015 while attending a conference in Amsterdam.\n\nBidwai's journalistic career spanned four decades. His first notable work in journalism was as a columnist for the \"Economic and Political Weekly\", beginning in 1972. He then worked for magazines and newspapers including \"Business India\", \"Financial Express\" and \"The Times of India\" between 1981 and 1993, eventually becoming its senior editor. He was \"The Times group's\" most published journalist for 20 years, writing analytical and investigative articles on themes including politics and political economy; economic policy and industrialisation strategies; international relations; energy, the environment and sustainable development; religion, ethnicity and politics; social conflict, communalism and nationalism; science and technology; and nuclear weapons disarmament and peace.\n\nBidwai was a columnist whose articles were published regularly in the \"Hindustan Times\", \"Frontline\", Rediff.com, and other outlets. He had also been published in \"The Guardian\" (London), \"The Nation\" (New York), \"Le Monde Diplomatique\" (Paris), and \"Il Manifesto\" (Rome).\n\nPraful was a well known face of left intellectual tradition in Indian media. Analysis of gradual erosion of left in Indian politics was the subject of his deep study. He himself had taken part in various left-leaning regional movements in the past and was in long term association with them even after. The last book that he authored just a few months before his death was regarding the possibilities of the revival of Indian left politics. He was incredibly anti-communal and championed civil liberty and secularism. Bidwai had been a professorial fellow at the Centre for Social Development, New Delhi, and also a senior fellow at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. He had also served as a member of the Indian Council of Social Science Research, the Central Advisory Board on Education, and the National Book Trust.\n\nBidwai was also a veteran peace activist with anti-Imperialist moorings. He helped found the Movement in India for Nuclear Disarmament (MIND), based in New Delhi, was a member of the International Network of Engineers and Scientists against Proliferation, and was one of the leaders of the Coalition for Nuclear Disarmament and Peace, India. Along with Achin Vanaik, Bidwai was the author of \"New Nukes: India, Pakistan and Global Nuclear Disarmament\" (Interlink, 1999). In 2000, Bidwai and Vanaik were awarded the Sean McBride International Peace Prize by the International Peace Bureau in recognition of their work opposing nuclear weapons development in South Asia. Praful Bidwai was a fellow of the Transnational Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823440", "title": "Hub (bassist)", "text": "Hub (bassist)\n\nLeonard \"Hub\" Hubbard is a former band member of The Roots and played bass for the Philadelphia outfit from 1992 to 2007. He played on all of their records until his departure from the group, including 1999's \"Things Fall Apart\" and 2004's \"The Tipping Point\". He is known for always having a chew stick in his mouth, both on and off the stage. Hubbard studied at Settlement Music School during his youth in Philadelphia, then went on to study classical upright bass at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nHub played his last show with The Roots on August 31, 2007.\n\nHubbard was invited to the Roots Picnic concert that was held in Philadelphia on June 7, 2008. To his surprise, he was asked to play and borrowed a bass from The Dap-Kings. The Roots bassist at that time, Owen Biddle, stepped aside as Black Thought welcomed back Hubbard. The band played \"Mellow My Man\" with Hubbard before stepping back to watch him solo. Following the solo, Hubbard shook hands with everyone and watched from sidestage for the rest of the show.\n"}
{"id": "1823450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823450", "title": "House of D", "text": "House of D\n\nHouse of D is 2004 coming-of-age comedy-drama film directed by David Duchovny as his directorial debut in film. The film stars Duchovny, Anton Yelchin, Téa Leoni, Erykah Badu, Frank Langella, Zelda Williams, and Robin Williams. It was screened at the 2004 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nAn American artist living a bohemian existence in Paris, Tom Warshaw (David Duchovny) is trying to make sense of his troubled adult life by reflecting upon his extraordinary childhood. Prompted by his son's 13th birthday, Tom experiences a flashback to Greenwich Village in 1973, as 13-year-old Tommy (Anton Yelchin) is on the brink of becoming a man. While his bereaved single mother (Téa Leoni) mourns the death of his father, Tommy escapes grief by causing trouble at school and making afternoon deliveries with his best friend Pappas (Robin Williams), a mentally challenged janitor. Following the romantic advice offered by Lady (Erykah Badu) – incarcerated in the infamous New York Women's House of Detention for shadowy reasons – Tommy experiences his first taste of love. Yet when an unexpected tragedy radically alters his world, Tommy must take a life-defining choice – one that will compel the adult Tom, thirty years later, to confront his unfinished past.\n\n\n\"House of D\" was given a score of 10% on Rotten Tomatoes with a consensus calling it \"A sincere but inept coming of age story.\" Box Office Mojo gives the reviews a C+. Many critics attribute the poor reception to the fact that Duchovny wrote and directed the movie, which gave it a lack of creative direction and caused it to meander and to lose focus.\n\nThe film was released in theaters on April 15, 2005. It grossed $36,371 during its opening week. The next week it grossed $7,441. In the film's third week, it grossed $210,826, the most during its run. In the film's fourth and final week, it grossed $30,386, a total of $389,199 worldwide.\n\nThe DVD was released on October 4, 2005. The DVD contains special features, such as commentary with David Duchovny and the cast and a behind-the-scenes featurette called \"The Making of House of D\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1823451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823451", "title": "Malik B.", "text": "Malik B.\n\nMalik Abdul Basit is an American rapper and singer who was a founding member of The Roots. He has released one EP, entitled \"Psychological\", on emcee Haak Blast's publishing company \"Future Blast Publishing\". He appeared on the first four albums released by The Roots, before departing the group. He returned as a featured artist for some later albums.\n\nOn The Roots' album \"Phrenology\", Black Thought dedicated a song to Malik B entitled \"Water\". The song details how Thought and Malik B met one another and eventually became essential in the development of the Roots.\n\nOn The Roots' seventh studio album, \"Game Theory\", released in August 2006, Malik B returned to the group, appearing on three tracks, including the title \"Game Theory\" (track 3, listed as 116 on North American releases), \"In The Music\" (track 5, listed as 118 on North American releases), and \"Here I Come\" (track 8, listed as 121 on North American releases). The nature of his relationship with the group was indicated by the fact that his tracks were billed as \"featuring Malik B\". In the liner notes, The Roots thanked Malik B, adding the statement: \"Welcome Home\". Malik B is also featured on two of the tracks on The Roots' 2008 album \"Rising Down\", \"I Can't Help It\" and \"Lost Desire\".\n\nMalik B was featured on MC Solaar's 1994 album \"Prose Combat\" in a duet with the French/Senegalese rapper.\n\nMalik B's recent work includes a collaboration album with New York-based producer Mr. Green and being a featured member of the Philadelphia rap collective Beard Gang which includes fellow Philadelphia artist Freeway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823454", "title": "Decentralised system", "text": "Decentralised system\n\nA decentralised system in systems theory is a system in which lower level components operate on local information to accomplish global goals. The global pattern of behaviour is an emergent property of dynamical mechanisms that act upon local components, such as indirect communication, rather than the result of a central ordering influence of a centralised system.\n\nA centralised system is one in which a central controller exercises control over the lower-level components of the system directly or through the use of a power hierarchy (such as instructing a middle level component to instruct a lower level component). The complex behaviour exhibited by this system is thus the result of the central controller's \"control\" over lower level components in the system, including the active supervision of the lower level components.\n\nA decentralised system, on the other hand, is one in which complex behaviour emerges through the work of lower level components operating on local information, not the instructions of any commanding influence. This form of control is known as distributed control, or control in which each component of the system is equally responsible for contributing to the global, complex behaviour by acting on local information in the appropriate manner. The lower level components are implicitly aware of these appropriate responses through mechanisms that are based on the component's interaction with the environment, including other components in that environment.\n\nDecentralised systems are intricately linked to the idea of self-organisation—a phenomenon in which local interactions between components of a system establish order and coordination to achieve global goals without a central commanding influence. The rules specifying these interactions emerge from local information and in the case of biological (or biologically-inspired) agents, from the closely linked perception and action system of the agents. These interactions continually form and depend on spatio-temporal patterns, which are created through the positive and negative feedback that the interactions provide. For example, recruitment in the foraging behaviour of ants relies on the positive feedback of the ant finding food at the end of a pheromone trail while ants' task-switching behaviour relies on the negative feedback of making antennal contact with a certain number of ants (for example, a sufficiently low encounter rate with successful foragers can cause a midden worker to switch to foraging, although other factors like food availability can affect the threshold for switching).\n\nWhile decentralised systems can easily be found in nature, they are also evident in aspects of human society such as governmental and economic systems.\n\nOne of the most well known examples of a \"natural\" decentralized system is one used by certain insect colonies. In these insect colonies, control is distributed among the homogeneous biological agents who act upon local information and local interactions to collectively create complex, global behaviour. While individually exhibiting simple behaviours, these agents achieve global goals such as feeding the colony or raising the brood by using dynamical mechanisms like non-explicit communication and exploiting their closely coupled action and perception systems. Without any form of central control, these insect colonies achieve global goals by performing required tasks, responding to changing conditions in the colony environment in terms of task-activity, and subsequently adjusting the number of workers performing each task to ensure that all tasks are completed. For example, ant colonies guide their global behaviour (in terms of foraging, patrolling, brood care, and nest maintenance) using a pulsing, shifting web of spatio-temporal patterned interactions that rely on antennal contact rate and olfactory sensing. While these interactions consist of both interactions with the environment and each other, ants do not direct the behaviour of other ants and thus never have a \"central controller\" dictating what is to be done to achieve global goals.\n\nInstead, ants use a flexible task-allocation system that allows the colony to respond rapidly to changing needs for achieving these goals. This task-allocation system, similar to a division of labor is flexible in that all tasks rely on either the number of ant encounters (which take the form of antennal contact) and the sensing of chemical gradients (using olfactory sensing for pheromone trails) and can thus be applied to the entire ant population. While recent research has shown that certain tasks may have physiologically and age-based response thresholds, all tasks can be completed by \"any\" ant in the colony.\n\nFor example, in foraging behaviour, red harvester ants (\"Pogonomyrmex barbatus\") communicate to other ants where food is, how much food there is, and whether or not they should switch tasks to forage based on cuticular hydrocarbon scents and the rate of ant-interaction. By using the combined odors of forager cuticular hydrocarbons and of seeds and interaction rate using brief antennal contact, the colony captures precise information about the current availability of food and thus whether or not they should switch to foraging behaviour \"all without being directed by a central controller or even another ant\". The rate at which foragers return with seeds sets the rate at which outgoing foragers leave the nest on foraging trips; faster rates of return indicate more food availability and fewer interactions indicate a greater need for foragers. A combination of these two factors, which are solely based on local information from the environment, leads to decisions about switching to the foraging task and ultimately, to achieving the global goal of feeding the colony.\n\nIn short, the use of a combination of simple cues makes it possible for red harvester ant colonies to make an accurate and rapid adjustment of foraging activity that corresponds to the current availability of food while using positive feedback for regulation of the process: the faster outgoing foragers meet ants returning with seeds, the more ants go out to forage. Ants then continue to use these local cues in finding food, as they use their olfactory senses to pick up pheromone trails laid by other ants and follow the trail in a descending gradient to the food source. Instead of being directed by other ants or being told as to where the food is, ants rely on their closely coupled action and perception systems to collectively complete the global task.\n\nWhile red harvester ant colonies achieve their global goals using a decentralised system, not all insect colonies function this way. For example, the foraging behaviour of \"wasps\" is under the constant regulation and control of the queen.\n\nThe ant mill is an example of when a biological decentralized system fails, when the rules governing the individual agents are not sufficient to handle certain scenarios.\n\nA market economy is an economy in which decisions on investment and the allocation of producer goods are mainly made through markets and not by a plan of production (see planned economy). A market economy is a decentralised economic system because it does not function via a central, economic plan (which is usually headed by a governmental body) but instead, acts through the distributed, local interactions in the market (e.g. individual investments). While a \"market economy\" is a broad term and can differ greatly in terms of state or governmental control (and thus central control), the final \"behaviour\" of any market economy emerges from these local interactions and is not directly the result of a central body's set of instructions or regulation.\n\nWhile classic artificial intelligence (AI) in the 1970s was focused on knowledge-based systems or planning robots, Rodney Brooks' behaviour-based robots and their success in acting in the real, unpredictably changing world has led many AI researchers to shift from a planned, centralised symbolic architecture to studying intelligence as an emergent product of simple interactions. This thus reflects a general shift from applying a centralised system in robotics to applying a more decentralised system based on local interactions at various levels of abstraction.\n\nFor example, largely stemming from Newell and Simon's physical-symbol theory, researchers in the 1970s designed robots with a course of action that, when executed, would result in the achievement of some desired goal; thus the robots were seen as \"intelligent\" if they could follow the directions of their central controller (the program or the programmer) (for an example, see STRIPS). However, upon Rodney Brooks' introduction of subsumption architecture, which enabled robots to perform \"intelligent\" behaviour without using symbolic knowledge or explicit reasoning, increasingly more researchers have viewed intelligent behaviour as an emergent property that arises from an agent's interaction with the environment, including other agents in that environment.\n\nWhile certain researchers have begun to design their robots with closely coupled perception and action systems and attempted to embody and situate their agents a la Brooks, other researchers have attempted to simulate multi-agent behaviour and thus further dissect the phenomena of decentralised systems in achieving global goals. For example, in 1996, Minar, Burkhard, Lang-ton and Askenazi created a multi-agent software platform for the stimulation of interacting agents and their emergent collective behaviour called \"Swarm\". While the basic unit in Swarm is the \"swarm\", a collection of agents executing a schedule of actions, agents can be composed of swarms of other agents in nested structures. As the software also provides object-oriented libraries of reusable components for building models and analyzing, displaying and controlling experiments on those models, it ultimately attempts to not only simulate multi-agent behaviour but to serve as a basis for further exploration of how collective groups of agents can achieve global goals through careful, yet implicit, coordination.\n\n\nExamples of decentralized systems:\n\n\nExamples of \"decentralized system culture\": Small Is Beautiful\n\n"}
{"id": "1823455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823455", "title": "Petar Zrinski", "text": "Petar Zrinski\n\nPetar Zrinski () (6 June 1621 – 30 April 1671) was Ban of Croatia (Viceroy) from 1665 to 1670 and a writer. A member of the Zrinski noble family, he was noted for his role in the attempted Croatian-Hungarian Magnate conspiracy to overthrow the Habsburgs, which ultimately led to his execution for high treason.\n\nPetar Zrinski was born in Vrbovec, a small town near Zagreb, the son of Juraj V Zrinski and Magdalena Szechy. His father and great-grandfather (Nikola Šubić Zrinski) had been viceroys or \"Ban\" of Croatia, which was then a nominal Kingdom in personal union with the Hungarian Kingdom. His brother was the Croatian-Hungarian general and poet Miklós Zrínyi.\n\nHis family had possessed large estates throughout all of Croatia and had family ties with the second largest Croatian landowners, the Frankopan family. He married Anna Katarina, the half-sister of Fran Krsto Frankopan, and they lived in large castles of Ozalj (in Central Croatia) and Čakovec in Medjimurje, northernmost county of Croatia. Through his daughter, Ilona Zrínyi, he was the grandfather of famed Hungarian general Francis II Rákóczi.\n\nDuring the Austro–Turkish War (1663–1664) Petar Zrinski fought the Turks at the siege of Novi Zrin Castle along with his brother Nikola. After the unpopular Peace of Vasvár (1664) between Holy Roman Emperor Leopold I and the Ottoman Empire, he joined Croatian and Hungarian nobility who were disappointed by the failure to remove the Ottomans completely from Hungarian territory and embarked on a conspiracy to remove foreign influence, including Habsburg rule, from the Lands of the Crown of St. Stephen.\n\nPetar Zrinski was involved in the poorly organized rebellion together with his older brother Nikola Zrinski and his brother-in-law Fran Krsto Frankopan and Hungarian noblemen. In the preparations of the plot, plans were disrupted by the death of Nikola Zrinski in the woods near Čakovec by a wounded wild boar. Later rumours insisted that he had in fact perished not in this accident but at the hands of murderers loyal to Habsburg rule; nevertheless this claim remained unsubstantiated. Petar succeeded his brother as Ban of Croatia.\n\nThe conspirators, who hoped to gain foreign aid in their attempts, entered into secret negotiations with a number of nations: including France, Sweden, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and the Republic of Venice, even the Ottoman Empire. All such efforts proved unavailing – in fact, the High Porte informed Leopold of the conspiracy in 1666. It turned out, also, that there was at least one pro-Austrian informant among the rebels. As a consequence the plans for an uprising had made little headway before the conspirators were arrested.\n\nZrinski and Frankopan, unaware of their detection, nevertheless continued planning the plot. When they tried to trigger a revolt by taking command of the Croatian troops, they were quickly repulsed, and the revolt collapsed. Finding themselves in a desperate position, they finally went to Vienna to ask emperor Leopold I of the Habsburg dynasty for pardon. They were offered safe conduct but were arrested. A tribunal chaired by chancellor Johann Paul Hocher sentenced them to death for high treason on 23 and 25 April 1671.\n\nFor Petar Zrinski the verdict was read as follows:\nZrinski and Frankopan were executed by beheading on 30 April 1671 in Wiener Neustadt. Their estates were confiscated and their families relocated — Zrinski's wife, Katarina Zrinska, was interned in the Dominican convent in Graz where she fell mentally ill and remained until her death in 1673, two of his daughters died in a monastery, and his son Ivan Antun (John Anthony) died in madness, after twenty years of terrible imprisonment and torture, on 11 November 1703. The oldest daughter Jelena, already married in northeastern \"Upper Hungary\", survived and continued the resistance.\n\nSome 2,000 other nobles were arrested as part of a mass crackdown. Two more leading conspirators — Ferenc Nádasdy, Chief Justice of Hungary, and Styrian governor, Count Hans Erasmus von Tattenbach — were executed (the latter in Graz on 1 December 1671).\n\nIn the view of Emperor Leopold, the Croats and Hungarians had forfeited their right to self-administration through their role in the attempted rebellion. Leopold suspended the constitution - already, the Zrinski trial had been conducted by an Austrian, not a Hungarian court - and ruled Hungary like a conquered province.\n\nBeside being one of the most important military figures of 17th century Croatia, Zrinski is also known for his literary works. Along with his wife Katarina, brother Nikola VII Zrinski and brother-in-law Fran Krsto Frankopan he contributed greatly to 17th century Croatian poetry.\n\nThe bones of Zrinski and Frankopan were found in Austria in 1907 and brought to Zagreb in 1919, where they were reburied in the Zagreb Cathedral.\n\nZrinski and Frankopan are still widely regarded as national heroes in Croatia as well as Hungary. Their portraits are depicted on the obverse of the Croatian 5 kuna banknote, issued in 1993 and 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823463", "title": "This Place Hotel", "text": "This Place Hotel\n\n\"This Place Hotel\" (originally named \"Heartbreak Hotel\") is a song by the Jacksons released in 1980 and written and composed by Michael. While his brothers did not sing background vocals, they were credited with playing percussion on the album while brother Tito contributed a guitar solo. The song has a tempo of 98 beats per minute, making it notably slower than many of the other disco-based songs on the album. In the song, the protagonist speaks of a time when ten years ago, he took his girlfriend to a hotel for a romantic night—only to find out that it was designed specifically to break couples up. The staff at the hotel gave the girl the impression that he had cheated on her with someone else, something he did not do, which caused her to break up with him in the hotel.\n\nThe song reached No. 22 on the \"Billboard\" pop singles chart and No. 2 on the R&B singles chart. \"This Place Hotel\" was the group's second biggest single off their \"Triumph\" album, behind \"Lovely One\". The song, in turn, became a popular concert performance for the group's next two tours into Michael's own \"Bad\" tour. The song, like the aforementioned \"Can You Feel It\", was sampled fairly often in hip hop.\n\nThe song's title was changed because of the 1956 Elvis Presley hit, \"Heartbreak Hotel\". Michael claimed to be unaware of the Presley song but had the title changed nonetheless.\n\nThe song was performed on the Jacksons' Triumph Tour (thus appears on \"The Jacksons Live\" album) and was subsequently used on the Jacksons' Victory Tour. When Michael Jackson first toured as a solo act, \"This Place Hotel\" was the only Jacksons song to be used in both legs of the Bad World Tour, whereas the other songs by the group (with the exception of a medley of early Jackson 5 hits) were retired during the second leg. A spoken word and synth recording preceded the song on the first leg of the \"Bad\" tour, but for the second leg of the tour (and on the subsequent Dangerous World Tour) that recording was used as an intro to Jackson's hit \"Smooth Criminal\" instead.\n\nThe song was included on Michael Jackson's \"The Ultimate Collection\" and it has been remixed on the \"Immortal\" album in 2011 and was performed live during the \"Immortal World Tour (Cirque de Soleil)\" as well as \"\". A live version of the song is available on the 2012 DVD \"Live at Wembley July 16, 1988\". On March 23, 2014, a video clip of a live performance of the song from the Victory Tour was uploaded to the Jacksons' official YouTube account.\n\nThe original title of \"Heartbreak Hotel\" was used and released commercially on 7\" vinyl in many countries, though a 2-track 12\" maxi single was produced and promotional-only copies, given to radio stations and reviewers and a limited 2-track Japanese mini CD single was commercially released in November 1988 (using the newly chosen title), to coincide with the Michael Jackson Bad tour.\n\nThese are the formats and track listings of major single releases of \"This Place Hotel\" (previously \"Heartbreak Hotel\"). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823464", "title": "Mircea Baniciu", "text": "Mircea Baniciu\n\nMircea Baniciu (; born 31 July 1949) is a Romanian musician, singer, and songwriter. Originally known as the lead singer of the Romanian rock group Transsylvania Phoenix, Baniciu quit the group when they illegally fled Romania in 1977, continuing his career as a successful solo singer throughout the 1980s before forming a folk supergroup in 1992 with fellow musicians Mircea Vintilă, Vlady Cnejevici and Florian Pittiș, with whom he successfully toured Romania in the 1990s. Following the Romanian Revolution, Baniciu re-joined Transsylvania Phoenix as their lead singer, but, due to frequent disagreements with band leader Nicu Covaci, has performed and appeared on the group's albums irregularly, before finally quitting Phoenix permanently in 2007. In 2014, with fellow Phoenix bandmates Josef Kappl and Ovidiu Lipan \"Țăndărică\", Baniciu formed Pasărea Rock (The Rock Bird), a folk rock supergroup.\n\nwith Phoenix (see Transsylvania Phoenix):\n\nwith Pasărea Colibri:\n\n"}
{"id": "1823465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823465", "title": "Late Registration", "text": "Late Registration\n\nLate Registration is the second studio album by American rapper and producer Kanye West. It was released on August 30, 2005, through Def Jam Recordings and Roc-A-Fella Records. The album was recorded for over a year in sessions held across studios in New York City and Hollywood, with West collaborating with American record producer and composer Jon Brion. It features guest contributions from Adam Levine, Lupe Fiasco, Jamie Foxx, Common, Jay-Z, Brandy, and Nas, among others. \n\nThe production of \"Late Registration\" was notably more lush and elaborate than West's 2004 debut studio album \"The College Dropout\", as he utilized intricate sampling methods and string orchestration with Brion while drawing on stylistic influences from alternative acts such as Portishead, Coldplay, and Fiona Apple. West's lyrics explore both personal and broader political themes, including poverty, drug trafficking, racism, healthcare, and the blood diamond trade.\n\nIn the first week of release, \"Late Registration\" debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200 and sold 860,000 copies. It eventually reached sales of over 3.1 million copies in the United States and has been certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Five singles were released for marketing, including the international hits \"Touch the Sky\", \"Heard 'Em Say\", and \"Gold Digger\", the latter of which topped the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Music videos for all five singles were also produced, while West supported the album with a promotional concert tour, leading to the live album \"Late Orchestration\" in 2006.\n\n\"Late Registration\" was also a widespread critical success, with some music critics noting the development of West's musical style. The album earned West the 2006 Grammy Award for Best Rap Album and an Album of the Year nomination, while appearing on several publications' year-end lists ranking the year's top albums, including \"NME\" and \"Pitchfork\". \"Rolling Stone\" named it the best album of 2005, and ranked it at number 118 on its 2012 list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.\n\n\"Late Registration\" is the second of West's planned four education-themed studio albums. Following the major success of \"The College Dropout\", the album reveals his progression in writing lyrics and an incorporation of a wider range of musical styles. At the time, the focal point of West's production style was the use of sped-up vocal samples from soul records. However, due in part to the acclaim of \"The College Dropout\", such sampling had been much copied by others; with that overuse, and also because West felt he had become too dependent on the technique, he decided to find a new sound.\n\nWest collaborated with American film score composer Jon Brion, who served as the album's co-executive producer for several tracks. West had been exposed to Brion's work while watching the film \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\", for which Brion had composed music. West was also listening to songs Brion had produced for \"When the Pawn...\", the second studio album of alternative singer-songwriter Fiona Apple, another one of West's favorite musicians and sources of musical inspiration for the album; West described his direction as \"that Coldplay, Portishead, Fiona Apple style\". Although Brion had no prior experience in creating hip-hop records, he and West found that they could productively work together after their first afternoon in the studio where they discovered that neither confined his musical knowledge and vision to one specific genre. When questioned if his presence made \"Late Registration\" any less hip-hop, Brion replied, \"There are colors and ideas that make [the album] different from average hip-hop, but Kanye is already different from the average hip-hop guy. He's got this sense of pop record-making which is really solid, and he likes tracks with a lot of things going on in them – which is not necessarily common for hip-hop. He was already barking up that tree. This is definitely not just a hip-hop album. But it is also by no means overtly arty, or non-hip-hop. I don't think it's a weird record by any means.\"\n\nWest took over a year and invested two million dollars towards the construction of \"Late Registration\". The majority of the recording sessions for the album took place at Sony Music Studios in New York City and at the Record Plant in Hollywood, California; other sessions took place at Chalice Recording Studios and Grandmaster Recording Studios in Hollywood. He began working in the studio after he finished touring with Usher on the R&B singer's \"The Truth Tour\". By November 2004, West had completed nearly seventy-five percent of the album. However he felt unsatisfied with its outcome and in March of the following year, he brought in Jon Brion, which drastically altered the project's direction.\n\nThe album's recording sessions between West and Brion were largely exploratory, with the two experimenting with a broad spectrum of sounds. West would construct a song's basic structure, bringing in samples, drum beat programming and occasionally unfinished rap verses. After brainstorming over the musical direction the album could go, he would then select from a variety of unique instruments that Brion provided (and played) and attempt to incorporate their distinctive sound into the song's texture. West envisioned the album as like the creation of a film: visualizing the songs as scenes, outlining each in such a way that they efficiently conveyed their respective social or introspective context, and ensuring that all synchronized within the fabric of the complete set. This sentiment was shared by Jon Brion who said, \"He thinks in frequency ranges. I can recognize when someone sees music architecturally, which is how I work. I see it as a spatial thing: left to right, front to back, up and down. It's animated and it's moving in real time. Kanye has that. He tries things out until it fits, until it sits where it is supposed to sit and everything has the correct emotional function. He has real instincts like any great record-maker.\"\n\nFor \"Late Registration\", West also collaborated with guest artists, whom he selected based on the effect each of their voices had on him when he heard them. He cited the serene vocals of Adam Levine, the trademark sound of Brandy, the rap skills of Jay-Z and the lyricism of Paul Wall as primary examples. Adam Levine, lead vocalist of pop rock band Maroon 5 is featured on the album's opening track, \"Heard 'Em Say.\" The two had previously collaborated when Maroon 5 commissioned West to produce a remix for \"This Love\" and later developed a friendship while sitting together on a flight to Rome for the 2004 MTV Europe Music Awards. While playing songs from his second album on his iPod for him during the flight, West came across the demo for \"Heard 'Em Say\" to which Levine added a R&B hook he had recently written and thought was perfect for it. The track was recorded quickly after the 2005 Grammy Awards ceremony, as Levine only had a couple of free hours available for time in the studio, and Brion was able to translate the two compositions in a matter of hours.\n\nWest originally produced and recorded \"Gold Digger\" in Ludacris's home in Atlanta, Georgia for Shawnna's 2004 debut album \"Worth tha Weight\" and had written the chorus from a female first-person viewpoint. However, Shawnna passed on the song. West rewrote the two verses from a male's point-of-view for himself; about a year later, just before \"Gold Digger\" was set to be released, adding a third verse, recording and mastering it at Sony Music Studios in New York in a week. After he went with friend John Mayer to see Foxx's portrayal of Ray Charles in the 2004 film \"Ray\", West decided to have Foxx sing an interpolation of Charles' song \"I Got a Woman\" in place of the original sample. Once the track was in place, it was layered with additional instruments provided by Brion and individually selected by West.\n\nHouston-based rapper Paul Wall appears alongside West and his GOOD Music label-mate GLC on \"Drive Slow\", which was recorded in Los Angeles after the two had met while posing for a photo shoot in an August issue of \"King\" in a spread titled \"Coming Kings\". West had originally wanted Sri Lankan rapper M.I.A. to appear on the track, but she opted out of the appearance due to a busy schedule. \"My Way Home\" is performed by West's close friend and GOOD Music associate Common, whose sixth studio album \"Be\" was being produced and recorded by West simultaneously with \"Late Registration\". Certain tracks West originally crafted for \"Be\" that Common passed on subsequently ended up on his second album.\n\nWhile the original version of \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\" featured West as the sole performer, he decided to record a remix to the song which included guest verse provided by Jay-Z—who had come out of retirement from rapping—after learning of the civil war in Sierra Leone financed by conflict diamonds. Both the original and remix versions of \"Diamond from Sierra Leone\" appear on the album, with the former included as a bonus track. The song contains live drums played by Michel Gondry, the director of \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\" and later the first music video for \"Heard 'Em Say\", who had visited the studio on a day Brion set up a drum kit. According to Jay-Z, West mixed \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\" about fourteen times before he felt comfortable to release it as the album's lead single. The recording also experienced delay when West and Brion were required to wait two weeks to rent the harpsichord that they used for percussion on the song.\n\nWest recorded a verse by rap artist Nas—one of his idol rappers—for the track \"We Major\" without informing Jay-Z, who at the time was engaged in a feud with Nas. GOOD, music label-mate Really Doe also appears on the track, delivering its elongated chorus. West later revealed that part of the reason he created the song was to dismantle the feud between the MCs, which they did later that year. \"Hey Mama\", dedicated to his mother Donda West, was first recorded by West as early as 2000. Brion ran into some obstruction while conducting a twenty-piece orchestra for \"Celebration\", as its musicians found themselves giggling at West's humorous lyrics which hampered their playing. On \"Roses,\" West and Brion had some minor discord; Brion initially layered it with keyboard arrangements, only for West to remove his keys along with the beat and completely reconfigure the entire song in such a way that its verses are built around the rhythm formed by his vocals and Brion's arrangements arrive during the choruses. Brion later lightheartedly compared the indecision surrounding the construction of the track to that of Prince's famous last-minute removal of the bassline from \"When Doves Cry.\" According to Patti LaBelle, she contributed vocals to \"Roses\". \"I was in his studio one night, and [West] and his mother both asked if I'd just sing something on this song\", Labelle recalled. \"I didn't get a credit on the album because the liner notes had already been printed up.\"\n\nThe album's music blends West's primary soulful hip hop production with Brion's elaborate chamber pop orchestration, and experimentally delves into a wide array of different genres, including jazz, blues, rock, R&B, spoken word, funk, turntablism, western classical, and psychedelic soul. With the presence of Brion, who conducts a twenty-piece orchestra and plays instruments individually selected by West, the album is largely orchestral in nature, brandishing a euphony of string arrangements, piano chords, brass flecks, and horn riffs among other symphonic instrumentation. They also incorporated a myriad of foreign and vintage instruments not typical in popular music, let alone hip hop, such as a celesta, harpsichord, Chamberlin, CS-80 analog synthesizer, Chinese bells and berimbau.\n\nFor \"Late Registration\", Serena Kim of \"Vibe\" magazine took note of how West uses unconventional styles and sudden musical shifts in song structures, drawing comparisons to The Beatles during their experimental era. \"Rolling Stone\" described \"Late Registration\" as West claiming \"the whole world of music as hip-hop turf\" chronicling the album as \"his mad quest to explode every cliché about hip-hop identity.\" Kim concurred with this sentiment, stating, \"West ambitiously attempts to depart from the street sensibilities of \"Dropout\" by giving \"Late Registration\" a shiny, quasi-alt-pop finish.\" The album has also been described as a work of pop rap, by journalists Caleb Wossen of the \"Dallas Observer\" and \"Vice\" magazine's Eric Sundermann.\n\nThe album's opening track \"Heard 'Em Say\" exhibits a cascading piano melody provided by excerpts of \"Someone That I Used To Love\" as performed by Natalie Cole embellished over tumbling beats and a bass synthesizer as well as acoustic guitar. The song's intricately composed outro, with the right amount of flourish provided by new musical elements such as xylophones and bells, exemplifies the musical complexity of the album as a whole. \"Touch the Sky\" stands as the sole song on the entire album not to feature production by West. The song was produced by fellow Roc-a-Fella producer Just Blaze, who uses a slowed-down sample of Curtis Mayfield's \"Move On Up\" filled with jubilant Latin horn blares. \"Gold Digger\" contains an interpolation of \"I Got a Woman\" by Ray Charles and a bouncy beat formed from handclaps as well as scratches by West's touring DJ A-Trak. Towards the end, the song employs vintage synthesizers, which emit a honking sound in cadence to Kanye's voice. West's production approach comes full circle within \"Drive Slow\", a song that samples the alto sax from Hank Crawford's recording of \"Wildflower\", while also slightly speeding up and looping the song's intro melody over a jazzy downtempo drum loop before slowing down the track towards the end of the song, which is antithetical to West's Chipmunk-styled loops.\n\nThe interlude \"My Way Home\" contains a sample of \"Home is Where the Hatred Is\" by Gil Scott-Heron. This facet is accentuated by Common's performance, which pays homage to the poet by the delivering its single verse in a distinctive proto-rap manner reminiscent of Scott-Heron's influential vocal style. \"Crack Music\" is sparsely built on incessant snare drum hits and clipped horn blares. The track sees an ephemeral return of West's old production attributes, as it possesses a syncopated martial beat, gospel choir symphony, and a spoken word passage within its coda. The poetic \"Roses\" is partially a cappella in structure, displaying verses rapped over sparse keyboards and a slowed rhythm with the music arriving at the chorus, which features additional vocals, trumpet riffs, electric guitar phrasings, and finally a vocal and piano sample from Bill Withers' \"Rosie\". \"Bring Me Down\" carries a bombast dramatic air, as it holds more orchestration than any other track on \"Late Registration\". Additionally, it features an overdubbing of Brandy's vocals to create a chorus effect, a recording technique in which her lone voice produces the illusion of a 48-voice Choir singing harmonies. The up-tempo arrangement of \"Addiction\" contains synths, congas, filtered Hi-hats, a guitar and a sampled line from \"My Funny Valentine\" as performed by Etta James. All the while, West's overdubbed vocals reverbs in and out of the track. For \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\", West used a music sample of the theme song for the 1971 James Bond film, \"Diamonds Are Forever\" as performed by Shirley Bassey and layered it with lush arrangements featuring instruments such as live drums, horns, strings and a harpsichord that all build in intensity with his voice.\n\"Late Registration\"s longest track, the seven-minute-long \"We Major\", implements exuberant, amplified backing vocals and a \"splashy disco groove\" featuring a bassline, electric piano Glissandos and horns. The melody of \"Hey Mama\" is laced with a folksy looped \"La-la-la\" vocal sample from \"Today Won't Come Again\" by Donal Leace, while its beat is produced by Tin Pan Alley-styled Drums. Additionally, it contains vocoder-processed background vocals, a xylophone solo and a cascading synth outro. \"Celebration\", opening with an electronic twinkling sound, contains samples of \"Heavenly Dream\" by The KayGees. A columnist for \"The Guardian\" described it as evoking \"the lavish 1970s psychedelic soul of Rotary Connection.\" Some of the most elaborate orchestral arrangement expressed on the entire album is contained within its closing track \"Gone.\" The composition begins with a vocal sample of \"It's Too Late\" by Otis Redding and a two-chord piano ostinato, followed by a simplistic funk beat. As the song progresses, its structure gradually morphs and develops more and more musicality. Over time, the composition assumes ten violins, four violas and four cellos in the midst of verses, all of which initially come in brief staccato bursts that simply punctuate the rhythm but eventually expand and consolidate into a fully formed string section by the arrival of the harmonic choruses. After its third verse, the song enters an instrumental passage before returning with a fourth verse from West, where the rise and fall of his voice is intricately emulated by the fluctuation of the string orchestra.\n\nAccording to Josh Tyrangiel of \"Time\" magazine, \"Late Registration\" serves as an exhibition of \"the stealthy power of West's storytelling.\" West stated that his goal for the album was to touch on topics that people from all walks of life could find relatable, while remaining true to himself: \"[I wanted to have] raps that were just as ill as Jadakiss and just as understandable as Will Smith.\" The opening track \"Heard 'Em Say\" is a \"mournfully contemplative\" song that \"talks about being honest with yourself in a world that is not.\" The song is written from the perspective of an afflicted, impoverished American quietly lamenting the fallacies of society and questioning the ways of the world around him. West delivers a tongue-in-cheek lyrical narrative within \"Gold Digger\" in which he critically depicts the disastrous life of a man married to a woman who manipulates him for financial gain. However, another story arises within the third verse, which illustrates a once destitute black male who earns a fortune and decides to leave a loyal, unselfish girlfriend for a white woman.\n\n\"Crack Music\" continues the avenue of socio-political commentary initiated within \"Heard 'Em Say.\" However, two songs express polar opposite tones; where \"Heard 'Em Say\" was self-effacing and passive-aggressive, \"Crack Music\" is audacious and straightforward. In the song, West dually discusses the spread and devastating impact of crack cocaine in black communities and champions the sovereignty of music pioneered by black musicians, metaphorically equating their contrarily addictive power and influence on American society. On the sentimental \"Roses\", Kanye gives a firsthand account of the hospitalization of his ailing grandmother within a melancholic poem to produce a critique of the healthcare system.\n\nThe original version of \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\" is largely free-associative and is filled with a litany of lyrical punchlines which serve to loosely chronicle his past experiences being a part of the Roc-A-Fella family, from touring with Jay-Z on his \"Blueprint Lounge Tour\" to the label's subsequent fall out and revival. However, West uses the remix to \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\" to directly address the issue of \"blood diamonds\" that people unknowingly wear every day are used to fund horrific civil wars in West Africa. Lyrically, the extensive, uplifting \"We Major\" is a spiritual exultation of generational and personal success. \"Hey Mama\" is West's dedication to his mother, Donda West. In the ballad, West recounts past hardships he and his mother suffered through together and expresses his love and devotion for her and appreciation for her tireless support, even when he was going directly against her expectations for him.\n\nIn addition, the album includes a series of humorous skits that involve West joining a fictional black fraternity, \"Broke Phi Broke,\" whose members pride themselves in living a life without money or worldly possessions, despite the glaring disadvantages such a lifestyle brings. His character is eventually expelled from the fraternity after their leader discovers that not only has West been making beats for cash on the side but has also been breaking some of its rules, such as eating meals everyday, buying new clothes, and taking showers. According to music writer Mickey Hess, the skits serve to encapsulate, \"a contradiction at the core of contemporary American life: the need to belong, to fit in, with your fellow humans versus the Darwinistic mad grab at material things, success in the latter being the very definition of success in our culture.\" The skits were performed by comedian DeRay Davis, who also voiced the skits on \"The College Dropout\".\n\nThe art direction and music packaging design for \"Late Registration\" were handled by Brooklyn graphic design studio Morning Breath, Inc. Similar to its predecessor, the album artwork of the second album carries an educational motif. Where \"The College Dropout\" was designed in a manner reminiscent of a high school yearbook, the images contained within the liner notes of \"Late Registration\" were taken at Princeton University. West's vision for the style of the pictures was inspired by the works of American satirical painter John Currin, one of his favorite artists. The liner notes also contain a banner that reads \"Tardus Subcriptio\", which is Latin for \"Late Registration\". The album artwork centers around \"Dropout Bear\", West's anthropomorphic teddy bear mascot, who is dressed in a collegian outfit. Entering Princeton on the front cover, Dropout wanders its hallways, sits in empty lecture halls, and reads multiple library books before departing from the institution the same way he came in on the back cover.\n\nIn a preview of \"Late Registration\" on April 20, 2005, West appeared on New York radio station Hot 97 and played the lead single \"Diamonds from Sierra Leone\". The album was originally set to be released on July 12, 2005, but was shifted to August 16 by Roc-A-Fella/Def Jam. It was pushed back once more to August 30 by West himself as he needed more time to complete the album. \"Late Registration\" was anticipated to become the biggest-selling record of the year and over 1.6 million copies were distributed to stores in preparation of its first week of release. On the iTunes Store, the album became one of the most pre-ordered titles in the online digital media store's history. West filmed a live album featuring tracks from \"Late Registration\" and \"The College Dropout\", titled \"Late Orchestration\" which was released April 2006.\n\nA television advertisement for \"Late Registration\" was directed and animated by Maggie Rogers, Abby Johnson and Paul Tuersley of Mr & Mrs Smith Design Ltd. It featured a gigantic version of West's teddy bear mascot Dropout Bear roaming through the streets of London. The advert received an award from British music magazine \"Music Week\" for Best Music TV Commercial. On the day of the album's release, West made an in-store appearance at New York's Lincoln Center Tower Records to autograph copies for fans. That same day, \"Late Registration\" was released in its entirety for online streaming on AOL Music.\n\nIn its first week of release, \"Late Registration\" debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200 with first week sales of 860,000 copies, selling over 600,000 more copies than Tony Yayo's album \"Thoughts of a Predicate Felon\" at number two. This stood as West's first chart-topping album in the United States and gave him nearly double that of \"The College Dropout\"s first-week sales. The following week, \"Late Registration\" remained atop the chart, though the sales decreased by 67% to 283,000 and the album had sold over 1.14 million copies within its first two weeks on the \"Billboard\" 200. \"Late Registration\" was certified triple platinum in the US by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on February 24, 2006 for sales of three million units. The album had the highest-selling first week sales in the US for two years till West's own \"Graduation\" sold more in September 2007. As of June 2013, the album has sold 3.1 million copies in the US. The 860,000 copies sold in \"Late Registration\"s first week of release ranked as the eighth largest first week sales in hip hop history up to January 7, 2019.\n\n\"Late Registration\" also debuted at number one on the Canadian Albums Chart. In the United Kingdom, the album reached number two on the UK Albums Chart for the issue date of September 5, being prevented from topping the chart by McFly's album \"Wonderland\"; however, both albums were new entries that week. As of May 2018, \"Late Registration\" is the 12th highest-selling rap album in the UK in the 21st century. By November of that year, the album had sold 852,000 copies in the UK, ranking as West's highest selling album in the country. It peaked at number 14 on the ARIA Albums chart in April 2006 and spent 28 weeks on the chart in total. \"Late Registration\" was the third highest selling album on iTunes in 2005.\n\n\"Late Registration\" was met with widespread critical acclaim. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from professional publications, the album received an average score of 85, based on 31 reviews. Album of the Year assessed the critical consensus as 82 out of 100, based on 19 reviews.\n\nReviewing the album in \"Rolling Stone\", Rob Sheffield deemed it \"an undeniable triumph, packed front to back, so expansive it makes the debut sound like a rough draft\", while calling West \"a real MC.\" \"Uncut\" magazine's Simon Reynolds found most of the songs brilliant and highlighted by what he called an unparalleled use of vocal samples by West, while Josh Tyrangiel from \"Time\" said the sampling and string arrangements on \"Gone\" may persuade listeners to believe West's own hype. In \"The Guardian\", Alexis Petridis praised West's topicality and subversive studio production, writing that \"\"Late Registration\" suggests an artist effortlessly outstripping his peers: more ideas, better lyrics, bigger hooks, greater depth.\" Andy Kellman from AllMusic viewed West's rapping on the album as similar to his rapping on \"The College Dropout\", though claimed that \"he can be tremendous as a pure writer\" and noted the change in West's production style: \"Crude beats and drastically tempo-shifted samples are replaced with a more traditionally musical touch from Jon Brion.\" Kitty Empire of \"The Observer\" viewed \"Late Registration\" as a significant milestone in hip hop while calling West \"the Brian Wilson of hip-hop\" because he \"plays up the struggle between conscience and covetousness, the pop mainstream and what can be achieved within the notional boundaries of hip hop.\" Robert Hilburn of the \"Los Angeles Times\" compared West's dignified execution of pop crossover on the album to that of The Beatles, Johnny Cash, and Bob Marley. Sean Fennessey from \"Pitchfork\" felt West avoided the sophomore slump with an \"expansive, imperfect masterpiece\" that drew on his enthusiastic, ambitious, and scattered personality. Christgau, writing in \"The Village Voice\", praised the album's \"exquisite details\", both lyrical and musical, and concluded that West is \"as good as he thinks he is ... He wants everybody to buy this record. So do I\"; he would later assign it an \"A+\" grade.\n\nSome reviewers were more qualified in their praise. In \"The A.V. Club\", Nathan Rabin found \"Late Registration\" as ambitious as \"The College Dropout\" but \"less successful\" because of melodramatic lyrics and \"symphonics\" without a \"strong narrative\" to hold the songs together, with him concluding that the album \"plays like a brilliant first draft, flawed and uneven, but radiating humor and heart.\" Jon Pareles believed West's elevated status undermined the underdog quality that had accentuated his debut studio album; he wrote in \"The New York Times\" that \"for much of \"Late Registration\", the striver has turned into a hip-hop V.I.P., and a cool arrogance has crept into the songs.\" Hattie Collins of \"NME\" was highly impressed by the beats in the music, which she called \"pure cranium-crushing boom bap at its best\", but lamented the lack of \"rubbish lyrics\" and clumsy charm that distinguished West's debut album for hardcore fans. In the opinion of \"Spin\" magazine's Jon Caramanica, the augmented versatility and eccentricity of West's flow still \"pales in comparison to his sonic ambition.\"\n\n\"Late Registration\" appeared on year-end best album lists for 2005 by numerous publications, including being listed as the best album of the year by \"USA Today\", \"Spin\", and \"Time\". \"Rolling Stone\" also named the album as the best of 2005, and hailed it as a \"sweepingly generous, absurdly virtuosic hip-hop classic.\" In \"The Village Voice\"s 2005 Pazz & Jop nationwide poll of 795 popular music critics, \"Late Registration\" finished at number one by a wide margin over any of the other album nominees. This was the second year in a row that West topped the poll, a feat that had occurred only one other time over twenty years ago by The Clash. On the \"Washington City Paper\"s list of the top 20 favourite albums of 2005 calculated from points assigned by the magazine's music writers, the album finished at number four with 43 points, becoming one of the five albums to score over 40 that year. \"Late Registration\" became West's second consecutive album to be rated \"XXL\" by \"XXL\", the magazine's highest rank, which has been awarded to only sixteen other hip-hop albums.\n\nIn a decade-end poll of critics and musicians, the album finished number 40 on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the 100 Best Albums of the Decade. In his ballot for the magazine's poll, Robert Christgau ranked \"Late Registration\" as the second best album of the 2000s decade. \"Pitchfork\" named it the 18th best album of the 2000s. \"The Guardian\" listed the album as the 19th best of the decade. \"PopMatters\" ranked \"Late Registration\" as the 15th best album of the 2000s. \"Consequence of Sound\" named it the 26th best album of the decade. \"La Vanguardia\" listed the album as the 36th best of the 2000s decade. \"Late Registration\" was one of just twelve albums to receive a perfect rating from \"Rolling Stone\" in the 2000s, and the only Hip-Hop/R&B album to do so.\n\nIn 2012, \"Rolling Stone\" placed \"Late Registration\" at number 118 on its revised list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time, making it one of only four albums released in the 21st century to reach the top 150. The album was the highest entry among recent albums and one of West's three albums to appear on the list. In 2012, \"Late Registration\" was placed at number 100 on \"Spin\"s list of the 125 best albums of the past 25 years. Three years later, the magazine ranked the album at number 104 on its list of the 300 best albums of the past 30 years.\n\n\"Late Registration\" was a contender for numerous industry awards. Prior to the Grammy nominations being announced in December 2005, West complained that he would have a problem with not winning the Album of the Year award. \"Late Registration\" was ultimately nominated for the award at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards, and West recalled him and Brion being \"in the studio saying, 'We're making the Album of the Year!'\" At the ceremony, the album won the award of Best Rap Album, becoming West's second consecutive album to do so and he delivered an acceptance speech that night. \"Gold Digger\" and \"Diamonds From Sierra Leone\" were winners of the awards for Best Rap Solo Performance and Best Rap Song, respectively, at the same ceremony, while the former was also nominated for Record of the Year. Though West was met with six nominations for the album, he contended for a total of eight awards at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards, tying with Mariah Carey and John Legend for the most nominations of that show. Despite West's previously instated problem of failure to win, he was happy with eight nominations. However, \"Late Registration\" was awarded album of the year at the 2005 Kiss Awards. The album also earned the Best Album award at the 2006 MP3.com Awards.\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823467", "title": "Paul Heyne", "text": "Paul Heyne\n\nPaul Theodore Heyne (November 2, 1931 – April 9, 2000) was an American economist and academic who lectured on economics at the University of Washington in Seattle.\n\nHeyne received two divinity degrees from Concordia Seminary in St. Louis, took his master's degree at Washington University and his Ph.D. in ethics and society at the University of Chicago. He came to the UW in 1976 and reportedly turned down a tenured position to become a senior lecturer because of his interest in teaching undergraduates.\n\nHeyne promoted economics through his interests with religion, social issues, justice and free market economies. His best-known work was his critically acclaimed introductory textbook \"The Economic Way of Thinking\", which sold 200,000 copies in Russia alone and has been translated in Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Romanian and other languages. Heyne was largely committed to undergraduate education.\n\nHeyne, a native of St. Louis, Missouri, died in Seattle, aged 68.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823471", "title": "Frazier History Museum", "text": "Frazier History Museum\n\nThe Frazier History Museum, previously known as the Frazier Historical Arms Museum and the Frazier International History Museum, is a history museum located on Museum Row in the West Main District of downtown Louisville, Kentucky. An affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution, the Frazier documents and reinterprets stories from history using artifacts, gallery talks, and live interpretations that are written and performed in costume by a staff of teaching artists.\n\nFounded in 2004 as a museum of historical arms and armor, the Frazier has since expanded its focus to cover regional, national, and international history. The museum is home to one of the largest collections of toy soldiers and historic miniatures on permanent public display in the world, The Stewart Collection. Subjects of other permanent exhibitions include historic arms, bourbon whiskey, and the Lewis and Clark Expedition.\n\nIn 2018, the Frazier became the official starting point of the Kentucky Bourbon Trail.\n\nOwsley Brown Frazier was a wealthy businessman and philanthropist in Louisville. When a tornado struck the city during the 1974 Super Outbreak, it destroyed Frazier's home, and a rare Kentucky long rifle that he owned — a family heirloom made for his great-great-grandfather in Bardstown in the 1820s and gifted to him by his grandfather in 1952 — disappeared. Frazier would never find the rifle, but his search for it would spark a passion for collecting antique weapons.\n\nIn 2000, the year he stepped down as Vice-Chairman of Brown-Forman, Frazier loaned his arms collection to the Kentucky History Center in Frankfort for a special exhibit titled \"The Weapon As Art\". The exhibit ran for two months, but it was attended by about 10,000 people. Inspired by the turnout, Frazier decided to found a museum where he could showcase his private collection on permanent public display.\n\nOn May 25, 2001, \"The Courier-Journal\" announced the Frazier Historical Arms Museum, a visitor attraction planned for downtown Louisville that was scheduled to open in fall 2002 or spring 2003. The museum was to be located in the building complex at 829 West Main Street, one of the two neighboring properties that Mr. Frazier had recently purchased. In 2002, a website was launched for the Owsley Brown Frazier Historical Arms Museum, an institution whose stated mission was “to acclaim the artistry, craftsmanship, and technological innovation of weapons and their makers.”\n\nIn February 2003, Mr. Frazier signed a formal agreement entering into a partnership with the Royal Armouries Museum in Leeds, also known as the United Kingdom's National Museum of Arms and Armour, an ancient institution of the Tower of London that was originally founded to manufacture armor for the Kings of England. The agreement outlined plans for the Frazier Museum to borrow and display arms and armament from the Royal Armouries. It was the first time that a British national museum had engaged in an ongoing collaboration with an organization beyond its shores.\n\nConstruction on the museum started in 2001 and ended in 2003. Mr. Frazier provided most of the funds for the $32 million project and backed the loans that were taken out to finance the development.\n\nThe Frazier Historical Arms Museum opened to the public on May 22, 2004.\n\nThe initial collection consisted of roughly 1,500 objects from the personal collection of Owsley Brown Frazier, dating from 1492 to World War I, and approximately 350 objects borrowed from the Royal Armouries, dating from 1066 to the 1960s. Combined the collections included guns, cannons, swords, daggers, arrows, and other historical arms and armor sourced from Flanders, France, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom, as well as life-size tableaux of mannequins and horse figures depicting battle scenes from European history.\n\nOn May 17, 2006, the museum changed its name to the Frazier International History Museum, a nod to the multinational origins of its collection. That year, the museum received another influx of foreign arms and military artifacts from the Royal Armouries. Over time, the museum began to shift its focus away from war and weaponry toward more general topics of state, national, and global history. The permanent collection was gradually de-emphasized as the Frazier moved toward larger, temporary exhibitions.\n\nIn August 2010, the Frazier unveiled the Bloedner Monument, a limestone marker that is thought to be the nation's oldest surviving Civil War memorial. Acquired as a long-term loan from the National Cemetery Administration, the historic monument honors the soldiers of the U.S. 32nd Indiana Volunteer Regiment who died at the Battle of Rowlett's Station.\n\nIn October 2010, the Frazier introduced a theatrical performance series based on the works of Gothic horror fiction writer Edgar Allan Poe. The series became \"An Evening With Poe\", an annually recurring, week-long Halloween tradition. The performances were adapted and staged by Tony Dingman, Kelly Moore, and Eric Frantz, three of the Frazier's Teaching Artists, and featured live music performed by The Tamerlane Trio.\n\nIn 2011, the museum was renamed the Frazier History Museum.\n\nIn May 2012, a bronze sculpture of a Japanese warrior riding horseback into battle by Douwe Blumberg titled \"Way of Horse and Bow\" was gifted to the Frazier by actor William Shatner and his wife Elizabeth. In August, the museum's founder and chief benefactor Owsley Brown Frazier died.\n\nThe last remaining objects on loan from the Royal Armouries were returned in January 2015.\n\nIn 2017, the museum hosted \"The Hunger Games: The Exhibition\", a special exhibition about the dystopian film franchise starring Jennifer Lawrence. Lawrence, a Louisville native, partnered with the Frazier to help promote the exhibition.\n\nLonely Planet named Kentucky Bourbon Country as one of the top 10 U.S. destinations to visit in 2018 and cited the Frazier Museum as a main attraction. In March 2018, the Frazier sold the first 250 bottles of \"Final Reserve: James Thompson and Brother Bourbon, a\" whiskey that had been aged 45 years in the barrel, making it the most mature bourbon ever bottled.\n\nWith the opening of the Kentucky Bourbon Trail Welcome Center on August 30, 2018, the Frazier became the official starting point of the Kentucky Bourbon Trail, a project launched in 1999 by the Kentucky Distillers' Association to promote bourbon tourism in the state.\n\nIn November 2019, the tenth and final season of \"An Evening With Poe\" wrapped. During the course of the program's ten-year run, the Frazier's staff adapted a total of 33 of Poe's works, including poems, short stories, plays, and a novel. According to Dr. Hal Poe, a former president of The Poe Foundation and living relative of Edgar Allan Poe, the Frazier has staged and performed more of Poe's works than anyone in the world.\n\nHours of operation are Monday through Saturday, 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., and Sunday, noon – 5 p.m. The museum is closed on Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, and Christmas. During museum hours, the Gateway Garden and the Kentucky Bourbon Trail Welcome Center remain open to museum visitors and the general public with no cost of admission.\n\nThe museum rents out its atrium, loft, champagne parlor, boardroom, outdoor park, and rooftop garden for private events.\n\nIt is a non-profit organization funded by private donations.\n\nLocated on Museum Row in the Bourbon District of downtown Louisville, the museum occupies a late 19th century, Chicago-style commercial structure of 100,000 square feet that was originally called the “Doerhoefer Building.”\n\nAs river-based commerce and trade fueled Louisville's early growth following its settlement in 1779, West Main Street became the first street established by residents.\n\nBecause of its close proximity to Main Street and the Ohio River, the intersection of Ninth and Main Streets came to serve important commercial purposes. A tobacco warehouse built at the northeast corner of the intersection began operating in the 1850s. The firm of Meguiar, Harris & Co. managed the so-called 9th Street Tobacco Warehouse until the 1890s.\n\nOn March 27, 1890, a tornado measuring F4 on the Fujita scale visited Louisville, carving a path from the Parkland neighborhood to Crescent Hill. Labeled \"the whirling tiger of the air\" by \"The Courier-Journal\", the tornado killed an estimated 76 to 120 people and destroyed 766 buildings, one of which was the 9th Street Tobacco Warehouse.\n\nA rapid reconstruction effort led to the building of more cast-iron façades along West Main between Sixth and Ninth Streets — in all, what would amount to the second largest number of cast-iron façades in the country behind SoHo in New York.\n\nA small article published in the March 23, 1897 issue of \"The Courier-Journal\" announced that John Doerhoefer, the president of National Tobacco Works, would build “four handsome business houses at Ninth and Main Streets” on the site of the old 9th Street Tobacco Warehouse.\n\nMr. Doerhoefer hired D. X. Murphy and Bros., the architectural firm that two years earlier had designed the iconic Twin Spires atop the grandstand at Churchill Downs, to draw the plans. It was to be made of brick, stone, and iron with a tower at the corner.\n\nEstablished in 1898 and built of cast iron and yellow-buff brick, the Doerhoefer Building was actually built as a complex of four adjoining buildings with common walls and a single façade. The structure spans four typical Main Street fronts (827 – 833) before it rounds the corner of Ninth Street with an oriel topped with a cornice roof.\n\nEach façade is separated by pilasters with simple ornamentation. Machine-made festoons decorate the horizontal bandcourse which divides each major section between the second and third floors. Windows on the fourth floor are separated by brick pilasters with stone capitals, which continue into arches of radiating bricks with some trim.\n\nMuch of the original stone ornamentation has gone missing.\n\nIn 1900, Ox Breeches Manufacturing Company began operating a garment factory in the Doerhoefer complex. The self-proclaimed “largest producer of pants in America,” the firm employed some 350 workers at the factory — 25 men, the rest women and girls.\n\nOn April 7, 1905, the day its contract with the union was set to expire, the firm announced three imminent changes: first, it would henceforth run the factory as an open shop; second, the 10% pay raise the workers had won upon unionizing in 1903 would be repealed; and third, the length of the work week would be extended from 54 to 60 hours. In response, 250 of the workers walked out and unanimously voted to go on strike. Over the summer, 106 of the strikers sued Ox Breeches for damages and back pay, claiming they had been blacklisted by the company managers. In December, a judge ruled for the defendant in what has been called “a decision of importance, both to organized labor and to capitalists.”\n\nDuring the night of January 6, 1916, a fire broke out on the third or fourth floor of the Ox Breeches factory, causing large scale damage. The story was reported in newspapers from Connecticut to Hawaii, including in Cincinnati's German language paper. The fire completely destroyed the building at 825 West Main Street, leaving a vacant space at what is now the site of the Frazier's vestibule and outdoor park. A Louisville Metro government history of the Louisville Fire Department calls the event \"the first major recorded fire in the early 20th century.\"\n\nCharring is still visible on some of the timber joists on the southeast side of the building.\n\nIn 2001, when Mr. Frazier purchased the complex, he had much of the interior gutted and rebuilt. A copper-topped cupola was installed on the crest of the structure's southwest corner, as the original cupola had been removed sometime between 1936 and 1966.\n\nIn 2012, a $700,000 renovation project, funded through grants and public contributions, expanded the museum's exhibit space from 2,700 to 7,500 square feet. The Frazier also purchased 821 West Main Street, a neighboring, four-story brick building of 18,000 square feet.\n\nIn 2018, the museum opened a new vestibule and an outdoor park designed by landscape artist Jon Carloftis.\n\nObjects in the museum's permanent collection are kept in storage in the basement when not on display. Offices and work spaces for security personnel and employees of the collections and exhibits departments are located in the basement.\n\nIn 2018, the Frazier opened the Gateway Garden, a public park situated at 825 West Main between the museum and the neighboring brick structure to its east.\n\nThe park is bordered to the south by the vestibule and to the north by a rolling steel gate on Washington Street. It consists of a linear courtyard populated with native Kentucky plants and furnished with wooden furniture. A staircase at the south end of the courtyard leads to a second-story rooftop garden with a balcony overlooking Main Street.\n\nVisitors can enter the Frazier from either Main Street or Washington Street. Both points of entry lead to the Cube, a glass vestibule with a front entrance facing Main Street.\n\nAttached to the Cube is the Kentucky Bourbon Trail Welcome Center, a facility that houses the museum's admissions desk. The Kentucky Bourbon Trail Welcome Center abuts the Museum Store, which is located in the southwest corner of the building.\n\nThe Great Hall, a large atrium with a sweeping terrazzo staircase, occupies the center of the building. Mounted along its perimeter are low-slung cases featuring highlights from The Stewart Collection organized by theme: “Introduction,” “Local Connection,” “Events as They Happened,” “Evolution of Toy Soldiers,” “Not Just Toy Soldiers,” and “Why Napoleonic?” Southwest of the Great Hall is the Marshall Charitable Foundation Education Center, a classroom where visiting students learn history through hands-on activities.\n\nThe north wing (1 North) houses large, temporary exhibitions, as well as the Brown-Forman Theater, a 120-seat auditorium used for live interpretations of historical events. Alcoves of the Great Hall, 1 East and 1 West, are used for smaller, temporary exhibits.\n\n2 South contains The Charles W. Stewart Historic Miniatures Gallery and The German Gallery, which together house hundreds of the sets of toy soldiers and historical miniatures from The Stewart Collection that are on public display, as well as an adjacent gallery. Low-slung cases around the second floor's perimeter include “Revolutionary War,” “Civil War,” and “World War II.”\n\n2 West is a champagne parlor with a bar, Victorian furniture, and \"Southern Exposition\". The mezzanine houses \"The Founder's Gallery\". 2 North is reserved for temporary exhibitions.\n\n3 South houses \"The Spirit of Kentucky\" exhibition. 3 North houses \"The Lewis and Clark Experience\".\n\n4 North contains a boardroom and offices for the museum staff. 4 South contains an expansive, New York-style loft with a wooden dance floor, dimmable track lighting, and brick walls lined with 25 windows with shutters.\n\nThe rooftop garden features seasonal blooming flowers and looks out across the Ohio River.\n\nThe permanent collection features a wide array of historically significant arms, artifacts of war, and other objects of American, American Indian, Asian, and European origin, most of which were donated to the museum by its founder.\n\nAmong the oldest firearms in the museum's permanent collection are a Netherlandish or South German snap matchlock target rifle, c. 16th century; a German sporting crossbow, c. 17th century; and an Austrian wheellock rifle, c. 18th century. Other early model firearms include a variety of rifles and handguns made by Collier, Colt, Winchester, Remington, Smith & Wesson, and Marlin during the 19th century.\nOne of the museum's best-known artifacts is a 1908 Holland & Holland, Ltd. Royal Grade Double Rifle that belonged to President Theodore Roosevelt. In January 1909, conservationist Edward North Buxton, together with a group of 55 British zoologists and hunting enthusiasts, presented it to Roosevelt, his personal friend, who then used it to hunt elephant, buffalo, and rhinoceros during a year-long safari in Africa. The rifle has since acquired the modern, unofficial nickname of \"The Big Stick,\" from Roosevelt's famous quote, \"speak softly and carry a big stick,\" derived from a West African proverb.\n\nOther arms of notable provenance include Buffalo Bill's lever-action rifle, George Armstrong Custer's ivory-gripped pistols, George Washington's flintlock hunting rifle, Geronimo's bow and quiver of arrows, the James-Younger Gang's revolvers, Josiah Bartlett's saber and scabbard, and a half-stock percussion rifle made by Meshek “Mose” Moxley, a gunsmith who had escaped slavery via the Underground Railroad.\n\nMost of the weapons at the Frazier were either manufactured or owned by veterans of American or European military conflicts, including the French and Indian War, the American Revolution, the War of the Second Coalition, the Anglo-Russian invasion of Holland, the Seminole Wars, the Texas Revolution, the Creek Alabama Uprising, the Mexican–American War, the Apache Wars, the Crimean War, the Sioux Wars, and the American Civil War.\n\nArtifacts of the American Civil War include the First National Confederate Flag, which was likely carried into the Battle of Seven Pines.\n\nAmerican Indian Wars artifacts include beaded apparel designed for Cheyenne, Lakota Sioux, or Shoshone Indians employed as scouts by the U.S. Army and a surplus marble grave marker from the Battle of Little Bighorn.\n\nAsian and European artifacts include a battle helmet modified for the \"Gioco del Ponte\" games in Medieval Italy, a Japanese \"jingasa\", Samurai suits of armor, and Schützenfest targets.\n\nAmong the rare and noteworthy books, documents, and artworks on display are the arrest warrant issued for Mary Todd Lincoln, who was declared “insane” in 1875 and institutionalized; the Boone family bible, a first edition copy of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", and an oil painting of Geronimo by Elbridge Ayer Burbank, the only artist for whom the Apache resistance leader ever sat.\n\nOther objects in the permanent collection include ammunition, clothes, dolls, furniture, helmets, jewelry, military uniforms, miniatures, musical instruments, photographs, postcards, statues, textiles, tools, and toys.\n\nThis exhibition commemorates Owsley Brown Frazier, the museum's founder, with a cast of historically significant artifacts, arms, and implements of warfare drawn from the permanent collection.\n\nA visual guide to the history, craft, and culture of bourbon whiskey, \"The Spirit of Kentucky\" exhibition divides into three themed rooms: \"Enchanted\" looks at how the mix of limestone, water, grain crops, and white oak trees in Kentucky lends itself to the production of bourbon, \"Gracious\" celebrates the camaraderie of bourbon distillers and proprietors, and \"Refined\" examines the culture of bourbon consumers and collectors.\n\nVisitors enter through a covered bridge and exit through the Bottle Hall, a corridor stocked with a growing collection of bottles that will ultimately include every brand of bourbon being produced in Kentucky.\n\nAccording to \"Old Toy Soldier\", The Charles W. Stewart Historic Miniatures Collection constitutes “one of the finest collections of rare historic toy soldiers on permanent public display in the world today.” Originally donated in 2011, the collection has grown substantially in the years since. As of 2019, the collection consists of about 30,000 figurines, vehicles, and accessories, over 10,000 of which are currently on display, and represents approximately 170 different makers, including Barclay, Courtenay, Heinrichsen, Heyde, Lucotte, Märklin, Mignot, M.I.M., Vertunni, and W. Britain.\n\nDioramas in the collection depict scenes from the Punic Wars, the Germanic Wars, the Crusades, the Frankokratia, the Hundred Years' War, the Mongol Yoke, the Anglo-Scottish Wars, the American Indian Wars, the American Revolution, the French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, the Mexican–American War, the American Civil War, the Franco-Prussian War, the Montenegrin-Ottoman War, the Anglo-Zulu War, the Boer Wars, the Mahdist War, the Anglo-Egyptian War, the Spanish–American War, the Russo-Japanese War, World War I, and World War II.\n\nThis immersive exhibition simulates the Lewis and Clark Expedition, a journey undertaken by the U.S. Army's Corps of Discovery from 1804 to 1806 with the mission of gathering scientific and commercial information about the flora, fauna, and geography of the territory within and northwest of the newly-acquired Louisiana Purchase.\n\nA champagne parlor in 2 West doubles as an event space and exhibit about the Southern Exposition, an annual, civic convention in Louisville modeled after the World's Fair which ran from 1883 — when President Chester A. Arthur presided over the inaugural opening ceremony — to 1887.\n\n\nA staff of costumed actors known as teaching artists writes and stages live interpretations at the Frazier. The performances cover a breadth of historical material dating from the Middle Ages to the 1930s.\n\nSubjects of performances have included legends of Norse mythology and English folklore, the trial of Joan of Arc, the execution of Anne Boleyn, the Golden Age of Piracy, the reign of Catherine the Great, the Whiskey Rebellion, the Burning of Washington, the Blackburn race riots, the sinking of , the founding of the Girl Scouts of the USA, and the kidnapping of an Oklahoma oil tycoon by Kathryn and Machine Gun Kelly.\n\nStories relayed as firsthand accounts have included a sailmaker's captivity aboard , a surveyor's incursions into Shawnee hunting grounds, a sharpshooter's missions in the Peninsular War, a riverboat gambler's card games aboard the Kansas Pacific Railway, and a Louisville seamstress's achievements in bridal wear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823474", "title": "Michael Steele (musician)", "text": "Michael Steele (musician)\n\nMichael Steele (born Susan Nancy Thomas on June 2, 1955) is an American bassist, guitarist, songwriter, and singer, best known as the bass player for the Bangles. Under the name Micki Steele, she was a founding member of the Runaways but left in 1975, shortly before the band's major label debut. For the next several years, she played with various other musical groups for short periods of time.\n\nIn 1983, Steele replaced original bassist Annette Zilinskas as a member of the Bangles. Steele made her entrance just in time to play on the band's first full-length album, \"All Over the Place\". She remained with the Bangles throughout the high point of their career, contributing as bassist, vocalist, and songwriter until the band's dissolution in 1989. She rejoined the band for a 2003 reunion album, \"Doll Revolution\", and toured with them until the following year.\n\nSteele began her professional career as Micki Steele in the teen-girl band the Runaways, one of the first all-female rock groups. Her stay in the Runaways was brief, leaving the band in late 1975, months before the recording of their first self-titled album. The main recording of this early period is an August 1975 demo session, bootlegged and later released as the 1993 album \"Born to Be Bad\", with Steele playing bass and singing lead vocals on most songs. Additionally, this release also has her first songwriting credit with \"Born to Be Bad\", cowritten with Sandy West and Kim Fowley. The Runaways recorded a second demo at the famed Gold Star Studios in September 1975; as of 2019 it remains officially unreleased.\n\nSteele's departure from the group has been given several interpretations—her own account being that she was fired by Svengali-like manager Kim Fowley for refusing his sexual propositions and calling the band's debut single \"Cherry Bomb\" stupid. Fowley would further denigrate her for blowing a chance at fame and not possessing sufficient \"magic\" or \"megalo\" to make it in the music industry.\n\nSteele played in many Los Angeles bands between 1976 and 1983, including the power-pop outfit Elton Duck (1979–80), an early version of Slow Children (1979), Toni and the Movers with Jack Sherman (1980–81), the improvisational band Nadia Kapiche (1981) and a brief period as bass player in avant-garde rock outfit Snakefinger. Focusing on her musical technique and frequently playing live, in this period Steele became a highly regarded bassist noted for her melodic style and rich tone, influenced by bassists such as Paul McCartney, John Entwistle, Colin Moulding and Carol Kaye.\n\nIn mid-1983 Steele replaced Annette Zilinskas in the Bangles, a then little-known group. At this point Steele was solely the band's bassist, with no released compositions: her only live lead vocal at this time was on the band's cover of the Yardbirds' version of \"I'm Not Talkin'\" by Mose Allison.\n\nThe Bangles 1984 debut LP \"All Over the Place\" is the band's only album with no Steele-written songs; her biggest showcase on the album is the bass solo on \"Tell Me\".\n\nIn addition to \"All Over the Place\", in 1984 Steele also wrote and recorded the political spoken word piece \"El Pollo Loco\" for the double LP compilation \"Neighborhood Rhythms\".\n\nAlthough \"All Over the Place\" was well regarded by critics, it was not a chart success. Like her bandmates, Steele only achieved popular success and fame with the 1986 release of \"Different Light\" and its hit singles \"Manic Monday\" (#2) and \"Walk Like An Egyptian\" (#1). In addition to playing melodic and often intricate basslines, Steele sings lead on two songs: a cover of Big Star's \"September Gurls\", later credited for belatedly bringing songwriter Alex Chilton a large income from royalties, and the self-penned \"Following\", a stark and introspective ballad far from the glossy sound and more standard lyrical themes of \"Different Light\"'s other tracks. \"Rolling Stone\" magazine praised \"Following\" upon the album's release as its standout song, a dark composition that pointed the band in new jazz and folk directions, only some of which would be explored. Steele also sings lead on the second verse of \"Walk Like An Egyptian\".\n\nAs often discussed in later interviews, \"Different Light\" was also the product of significant contention and tension between the band and producer David Kahne—much of this contention surrounding the use of musicians outside the band on some songs. Despite lingering controversy surrounding the precise extent to which session musicians were employed on the album, Steele is the only band member confirmed not to have been overdubbed, an achievement she later joked was only because Kahne \"ran out of money.\"\n\nA commercial success on its 1988 release, \"Everything\" would also be the Bangles' final album before their 1989 breakup. In terms of Steele's career, \"Everything\" also reflects her development as a songwriter, with her three songs, \"Complicated Girl\", \"Something To Believe In\" and \"Glitter Years\" being the most she had written on an album to this point. Two further songs written for the \"Everything\" sessions did not appear on the album, with \"Between The Two\" eventually appearing on 2003's \"Doll Revolution\" and \"Happy Man Today\", played live on the band's summer 1987 tour, remaining unreleased. In addition to her usual bass credits, Steele is also credited with several guitar parts, euphemistically referred to in the album liner notes as \"occasional guitar\". Although none of Steele's songs were released as singles, they were seen by several critics upon \"Everything\"s release as among the album's best tracks. A particularly emphatic example is that of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", stating that her songs provide \"most of the album's highlights\", combining sophistication and accessibility.\n\nAfter the demise of the Bangles, Steele initially sought to write and record material for a solo release. Steele remained musically active throughout much of the decade. Besides recording songs for an unreleased solo album, she played in several bands in this time, most notably as rhythm guitarist and singer in her short-lived band Crash Wisdom (producing several more unreleased songs) and as bassist in Michelle Muldrow's San Francisco based group Eyesore.\n\nBy the late 1990s, the Bangles agreed to reunite, with Steele being the last holdout, only joining the reunion with the expectation that they would focus on releasing new material and not become a \"Dick Clark oldies band\". The band soon recorded a 15-track album that would eventually be released in 2003 as \"Doll Revolution\". Like \"Everything\", the album had three Steele songs; \"Nickel Romeo\", \"Between The Two\" and the previously unheard \"Song for a Good Son\". Positive and negative reviews alike again noted these songs for their strikingly different sound and mood to the rest of the album.\n\nDespite initial brief tours in 2003, various family commitments for her bandmates meant that the band could not tour and support the album following its American release as much as Steele wished, a problem later noted by Susanna Hoffs as contributing to Steele's leaving the band in the middle of a tour. Although her final concert was in early 2004, her departure was not officially acknowledged until May 2005.\n\nIn this period Steele also contributed guest bass parts to two albums by Lisa Dewey, playing on \"Weather Changer Girl\" (2000) and \"Busk\" (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "1823476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823476", "title": "Theatines", "text": "Theatines\n\nThe Theatines or the Congregation of Clerics Regular of the Divine Providence are a religious order of the Catholic Church, with the post-nominal initials \"C.R.\".\n\nThe order was founded by Saint Cajetan (Gaetano dei Conti di Thiene), Paolo Consiglieri, Bonifacio da Colle, and Giovanni Pietro Carafa (afterwards Pope Paul IV). Carafa was Bishop of Chieti; Chieti (Theate) is a city of the Abruzzi in Central Italy, from which the congregation adopted its specific name, to distinguish it from other congregations (Barnabites, Somaschi, Caracciolini, etc.) modelled upon it. The Theatines combined the pursuit of evangelical perfection traditional among religious orders with apostolic service generally expected of diocesan clergy. It was Caraffa who wrote the constitutions of the order.\n\nCajetan consecrated his order to the Cross, which he adopted as its emblem, and the foundation took place on the feast of the Finding of the Holy Cross, May 3, 1524. It was approved on June 24 of that year, by Pope Clement VII in the Brief \"Exponi Nobis\". On September 14, feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, Cajetan and his companions made solemn profession before the papal altar of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, in the presence of Mgr. Giovanni Battista Bonziano, Bishop of Caserta, a special papal delegate. Caraffa was chosen the first General.\n\nThe chief object of the order was to recall the clergy to an edifying life and the laity to the practice of virtue. They founded oratories (among them the celebrated \"Divino Amore\") and hospitals, devoted themselves to preaching the Gospel, and reformed lax morals. They were exclusive, aristocratic, and formidably austere. They wore the simple black cassock of the local clergy and maintained a modest lifestyle.\n\nThe prohibition on both owning property and soliciting alms tended to limit applicants to members of the aristocracy, and so they remained relatively few in number. In 1546 they were briefly joined with the Somaschi Fathers, but as the object of the respective orders differed, they separated in 1555. In 1527 their house in Rome was sacked by the army of Charles V, and the Roman community sought refuge in Venice.\n\nThey founded many beautiful churches, among them that of Sant'Andrea della Valle in Rome, a gift of Costanza Piccolomini D'Aragona, Duchess of Amalfi. This church is a masterpiece of Carlo Maderno and contains several paintings by Domenichino. The Theatines still operate the church.\n\nIn France, through the efforts of Cardinal Mazarin, they built the Church of St. Anne la Royale opposite the Louvre in 1644. In Spain, under Philip II, the Theatine Cardinal Paolo Burali d'Arezzo, filled various embassies at the command of the viceroy of Naples. In Portugal, John IV, in 1648, gave the Theatines a splendid house and college for the education of noble youth. In England, under Henry VIII, Thomas Goldwell, Bishop of St. Asaph, entered the order of Theatines. In Bavaria, the Theatine Church St. Kajetan was built from 1663 to 1690, founded by Elector Ferdinand Maria.\n\nThe Theatines were the first to found papal missions in: Golconda (in present-day India), Ava (Burma), Peru, Mingrelia (Georgia), founded by Andrea Borromeo, the East Indies, (the history of which was written by the Theatine Bartolomeo Ferro - \"\"Missioni Teatine nelle Indie Orientali\"\"), Arabia, and Armenia. In 1626 Theatines went to Persia.\n\nTheatine manuscripts dating from 1530 until the end of the 18th century show there were missions established in a number of other countries also. By 1700 the Theatines numbered 1400.\n\nBy the end of the eighteenth century, decline had set in, exacerbated by political upheavals. General suppression of religious orders affected the Theatines more significantly because the order historically acquired no possessions and so had no institutional infrastructure.\n\nPope Pius X had a hand in attempts at revival, calling upon the services of Cardinal José de Calasanz Félix Santiago Vives y Tutó. The papal Motu Proprio \"Auspicato\", of December 15, 1909, decreed the union of the Congregation of the Regular Theatine Clergy with the youthful Spanish Congregation of the Holy Family founded at Barcelona by Josep Manyanet y Vives, but the two groups were separated again in 1916. In 1910, the Theatines were amalgamated with the Congregation of Saint Alphonsus Liguori, which had been founded in Mallorca in 1867.\n\nAccording to the \"Annuario Pontificio\", as of 31 December 2014, the Theatines had 34 houses and numbered 170 members, of whom 139 were priests. The Theatines are present in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United States of America, where they maintain a flourishing mission at Durango, Colorado.\n\nThe Order has numbered among its members\nIt has also furnished one pope, Paul IV (Giovanni Pietro Carafa), 250 bishops, archbishops, and papal legates, and several cardinals.\n\nAmong noted nineteenth-century Theatines was the Sicilian Father Gioacchino Ventura dei baroni di Raulica, a philosopher, littérateur, and orator. One of his most celebrated works being his funeral oration on the death of Daniel O'Connell. The astronomer Giuseppe Piazzi (1746-1826), professor of mathematics and astronomy in Palermo, Sicily, discoverer of the first asteroid, Ceres, in 1801, became a Theatine at the age of 19.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823477", "title": "Mr. DJ", "text": "Mr. DJ\n\nMr. DJ (born David Sheats) is a Grammy Award-winning American hip-hop record producer and DJ from Atlanta, Georgia. He and OutKast members Big Boi and André 3000 make up the record production company Earthtone III.\n\nRaised on the southside of College Park, Georgia, Mr. DJ attended Banneker High School. He entered the music industry as a DJ for Atlanta-based hip-hop group OutKast. According to Sheats,\nAfter touring with the group for a year, he began to focus more on production rather than deejaying. By sharpening his beat making skills, Mr. DJ got the opportunity to help produce OutKast's 1996 second album \"ATLiens\". Following his work on OutKast's “Elevators (Me & You)” and several songs from their album \"Aquemini\", Mr. DJ formed Earthtone III production group with Andre 3000 & Big Boi. Collectively, the trio produced roughly 80% of tracks from \"Stankonia\" to their latest album, \"Idlewild\". In addition, Mr. DJ continued to DJ on every OutKast album, except \"Speakerboxxx/The Love Below\", which he mostly produced. To date, his most notable hits include \"Da Art of Storytellin',\" \"B.O.B.,\" \"Ms. Jackson,\" and \"The Whole World.\" He is also a part of the Atlanta-based hip-hop/R&B/soul musical collective The Dungeon Family.\n\nMr. DJ has won two Grammy Awards, one in 2002 for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group for \"Ms. Jackson,\" and another in 2004 for Rap Album of the Year for his work on OutKast's \"Speakerboxxx/The Love Below\". In 2008, he started his own record label, Camp David Records, with several new artists including Jeff B., Chinkie Brown, and Shawty Redd. Public Relations Associate Keith Kemp was quoted as saying: \n\nMr. DJ recently worked with Mos Def on his album \"The Ecstatic\", and produced four tracks on Common's 2008 album, \"Universal Mind Control\". In addition to OutKast, Mr. DJ has worked with Lenny Kravitz, Bubba Sparxxx, Goodie Mob, Killer Mike, Field Mob, Rich Boy, and 8Ball & MJG.\n"}
{"id": "1823479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823479", "title": "Xevioso", "text": "Xevioso\n\nIn Dahomey mythology, Xevioso (alternately: Xewioso, Heviosso, Hevioso) is a god of thunder in the So region. He is the twin brother of Gun, and is one of the children of Mawu and Lisa.\n\nThis divinity is also known as Jivodun (that is, Vodun of the sky)\n"}
{"id": "1823483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823483", "title": "Majrooh Sultanpuri", "text": "Majrooh Sultanpuri\n\nAsrar ul Hassan Khan (1 October 1919 − 24 May 2000), better known as Majrooh Sultanpuri, was an Indian Urdu poet. He is known for his work as an Urdu poet, and as a lyricist and songwriter in the Bollywood film industry, where he wrote Hindustani lyrics for numerous Bollywood soundtracks.\n\nHe was one of the dominating musical forces in Indian cinema in the 1950s and early 1960s and was an important figure in the Progressive Writers' Movement. He is considered one of the finest avant-garde Urdu poets of 20th century literature.\n\nIn his career spanning six decades, he worked with many music directors. He won the Filmfare Best Lyricist Award in 1965 for \"Chahunga Main Tujhe\" in the film \"Dosti\", and the highest award in Indian cinema, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for lifetime achievement in 1993. In the 1980s and 1990s, most of his work was with Anand-Milind, their most notable collaborations being \"Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak\", \"Lal Dupatta Malmal Ka\", \"Love\", \"Kurbaan\" and \"Dahek\".\n\nHe also wrote timeless classics with Jatin-Lalit for films like \"Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikander\" (including the song Pehla Nasha) and \"Yaara Dildara\" (including the song Bin Tere Sanam), which are still heard to this day on the airwaves.\n\nMajrooh Sultanpuri was born as Asrar ul Hasan Khan in a Pathan Muslim family, in Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, where his father was posted in the Police Department in 1919/1920. His father, though, a police officer, was not too keen on his son receiving English education and Majrooh was therefore sent for traditional 'Madrasa education' which led to his obtaining the qualification first of Dars-e-Nizami – a seven-year course which concentrated on religious affairs along with proficiency in Arabic and Persian- and then the certificate of \"Alim\". He thereafter joined Lucknow's Takmeel-ut-Tib College of Unani medicine (Greek System of Medicine). He was a struggling \"Hakim\" when he happened to recite one of his ghazals at a \"mushaira\" in Sultanpur. The ghazal was a hit with the audience and Majrooh decided to drop his fledgling medical practice and began writing poetry seriously. Soon he was a 'regular' at \"mushairas\" and a \"shagird\" i.e. disciple of the then top name in Urdu Mushairas viz Jigar Moradabadi. While Majrooh is popular as a film lyricist and is widely known in that capacity, be it known that he also created one of the best-known verses of Urdu poetry:\n\n\"Main akela hee chala tha janibe manzil magar,\nlog saath aate gaye aur carvan banta gaya!\"\n(I set off alone towards the destination but\npeople joined in and soon it became a caravan!)\n\nIn 1945, Majrooh visited Bombay to attend a \"mushaira\" at the Saboo Siddique Institute. Here his ghazals and poetry were highly appreciated by the audience. One of the impressed listeners was film producer A.R. Kardar. He contacted Jigar Moradabadi who helped him to meet Majrooh. However, Majrooh refused to write for films because he didn't think very highly of them. But Jigar Muradabadi persuaded him, saying that films would pay well and would help Majrooh to support his family. Kardar then took him to music composer Naushad who put the young writer to test. He gave Majrooh a tune and asked him to write something in the same metre, and Majrooh wrote \"Jab Usne Gesu Bikhraye, Badal Aaye Jhoom Ke\"... Naushad liked what he wrote and Majrooh was signed on as the lyricist of the film \"Shah Jehan\" (1946). The songs of the film became so immensely popular that K.L. Saigal wanted \"Jab Dil Hi Toot Gaya\" to be played at his funeral.\n\nFilm \"Shah Jehan\" (1946) was followed by S. Fazil's \"Mehndi\", Doli (1948), Mehboob's Andaz (1949) and Shahid Latif's \"Aarzoo\". Just as Majrooh was establishing himself as a lyricist and songwriter of repute, his leftist leanings got him into trouble. The government wasn't amused by his anti-establishment poems and he was jailed in 1949 along with other leftists like Balraj Sahni. Majrooh's arrest took place during a nationwide arrest of communists after the 2nd Congress of the Communist Party of India in which the communists had decided to carry out a revolution against the Indian government. Majrooh was asked to apologise, but he refused and was sentenced to two years in prison. While he was in prison, his eldest daughter was born. During this time his family experienced considerable financial difficulties. Raj Kapoor commissioned a song (\"Ek Din Bik Jayega Maati Ke Mol\") from Majrooh for his 1975 film Dharam Karam which he paid him Rs. 1000 for the song.\n\nMajrooh's political beliefs were further manifested when his second daughter married the son of the Urdu writer and socialist Zoe Ansari. Toward the end both Majrooh and Zoe Ansari were disenchanted with the direction socialism had taken in the Soviet Union and China. Their desire to better the lives of the masses found an outlet in their writings.\n\nMajrooh went on to write lyrics for popular films throughout the 1956s. Along with Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Khumar Barabankvi Majrooh was considered the most notable ghazal writer. Majrooh won his only Filmfare Best Lyricist Award for the song \"Chahunga Mein Tujhe Saanj Savere\" from \"Dosti\".\nHe was also awarded the Dadasaheb Phalke Award in 1993. He was the first lyricist to win the prestigious award named after Dadasaheb Phalke.\n\nMajrooh and Nasir Hussain first collaborated on the film \"Paying Guest\", which Nasir wrote. After Nasir turned director and later producer they went on to collaborate in several films, all of which had huge hits and are some of Majrooh's best remembered works:\nMajrooh also was instrumental in introducing R.D. Burman to Nasir for \"Teesri Manzil\". The trio worked in 7 of the above-mentioned films. Burman went on to work in 2 more films subsequent to \"Zamane Ko Dikhana Hai\".\n\nMajrooh Sultanpuri had been suffering from lung disease for some time and had a severe attack of pneumonia and died in Mumbai on 24 May 2000. He was aged 80 at the time of his death. Municipal corporation of sultanpur built a garden \"Majrooh Sultanpuri Udyaan\" in his memory near diwani chauraha.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823485", "title": "Ray Oyler", "text": "Ray Oyler\n\nRaymond Francis Oyler (August 4, 1937 – January 26, 1981) was an American baseball player, a major league shortstop for the Detroit Tigers (1965–1968), Seattle Pilots (1969), and California Angels (1970). He is best remembered as the slick-fielding, no-hit shortstop for the 1968 World Series champion Tigers and as the subject of the \"Ray Oyler Fan Club\" organized by Seattle radio personality Robert E. Lee Hardwick (of the Pilots flagship radio station KVI) in Seattle.\n\nOlyler was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, to Ray and Frances (nee Harrington) Oyler. He graduated from Cathedral High School in Indianapolis in 1955 and served in the U.S. Marine Corps before playing in the major leagues.\n\nOyler was signed by the Tigers in 1960 as an amateur free agent, making his major league debut with Detroit on April 18, 1965.\n\nDuring his first two seasons, Oyler was a backup shortstop to Dick McAuliffe.\n\nIn 1965, Oyler debuted with a .186 batting average, with five home runs and six doubles in 82 games. In 1966, Oyler's average dropped to .171 in 71 games, with one home run in 210 at bats.\n\nIn 1967, the Tigers moved McAuliffe from shortstop to second base, opening a spot for Oyler as the Tigers' starting shortstop. Oyler played a career-high 147 games at shortstop in 1967 and had career-highs with 185 putouts, 374 assists, and 61 double plays. As an everyday player in 1967, Oyler also increased his batting average to .207—the only year in which he hit above .200. He was also third in the American League with 15 sacrifice hits in 1967.\n\nIn 1968, Oyler played in 111 games, with 29 hits (21 of them singles) for a career-low batting average of .135. He had a .977 fielding percentage (15 points above the league average for shortstops).\n\nWhen Oyler, always a light hitter, famously went \"0 for August\", manager Mayo Smith moved outfielder Mickey Stanley to the shortstop position for the last nine games of the regular season and for all seven games of the 1968 World Series. Oyler's batting average had dropped to .135, and Smith had four quality outfielders in Willie Horton, Jim Northrup, Al Kaline, and Mickey Stanley that he wanted in the lineup for every World Series game. Stanley had not played the shortstop position before the 1968 season, but was a talented athlete with a good glove.\n\nOyler did not have an official at bat in the 1968 World Series, but he did appear in all four Detroit victories as a defensive replacement and had a sacrifice bunt.\n\nIn its \"The End of the Century\" series, ESPN rated Smith's decision to move Stanley to shortstop for the World Series as one of the 10 greatest coaching decisions of the century.\n\nStanley returned to play 59 games at shortstop the next year, while Oyler was allowed to be drafted by the expansion Seattle Pilots.\n\nOyler was left unprotected in the expansion draft after the 1968 season and was the third player drafted by the Seattle Pilots. Before the Pilots even played their first game in 1969, Seattle radio disc jockey Robert E. Lee \"Bob\" Hardwick looked over the list of players drafted by the Pilots, discovered Oyler's batting average and created the \"Ray Oyler Fan Club,\" initially as a radio bit on his radio show.\n\nGrabbing onto the popularity of the late 1960s Laugh-In show's \"Sock it to Me\" catchphrase, the fan club was called the Ray Oyler \"S.O.C. I.T. T.O. M.E. .300\" Club, meaning \"Slugger Oyler Can, In Time, Top Our Manager's Estimate\" and hit .300. Some 15,000 baseball-starved fans signed up, and former Pilots relief pitcher Jack Aker recalled that the Ray Oyler Fan Club was out in great number at Sick's Stadium on the Pilots Opening Day. The fan club even gave Oyler a car to use and an apartment too. When Oyler came to bat for the first time on Opening Day, the Oyler Fan Club went wild. \"He got cheers, horns blew, confetti filled the air in his first time at bat.\"\n\nIn April 1969, Jim Campanis of the Kansas City Royals punched Oyler during a game. The Ray Oyler Fan Club sent a telegram to Royals general manager Cedric Tallis, protesting Campanis' actions and saying: \"Please do not misinterpret our motto 'Sock it to Ray Oyler', as this is an expression of encouragement.\" The Oyler Fan Club also developed and sang songs, such as \"Hey Ray Oyler yer Bat's Too Small.\" Former fan club members still boast that Oyler holds the all-time Pilots records for assists, putouts, and home runs by a shortstop (the Pilots played only one year, and Oyler was their shortstop).\n\nIn \"Ball Four\", Seattle teammate Jim Bouton wrote that Oyler's nickname was \"Oil Can Harry\" because \"he always looks as though he had just changed a set of rings.\"\n\nOyler hit a career-high seven home runs for the Pilots in 1969, and increased his batting average to .165.\n\nIn December 1969, Oyler was traded to the Oakland A's with pitcher Diego Segui for infielder Ted Kubiak and pitcher George Lauzerique. Oyler was sold by Oakland in April 1970 and played his final 24 games with the California Angels, with a perfect fielding percentage and a .083 average at the plate. In a six-year career, he finished with a .175 batting average (221-1265). After his major league career ended, Oyler was a player-coach for the Honolulu and Salt Lake City teams of the Pacific Coast League before retiring in 1973.\n\nAfter Oyler retired from baseball, he settled in the Seattle area, working for the Safeway supermarket chain, managing a bowling alley in Bellevue, Washington and working at Boeing. Oyler played slowpitch softball in Seattle from 1973-1980 and also occasionally pitched batting practice for the Tigers when they were in Seattle playing the Mariners. He suffered a heart attack at his Redmond home on January 26, 1981, and died at the age of 43. He is buried at Sunset Hills Memorial Park in Bellevue.\n\nIn a May 2007 article, Oyler's former Detroit roommate, Denny McLain, claimed that Oyler was \"an alcoholic\" who \"died prematurely.\" One of the authoritative histories of the team also reports that many of the 1968 Tigers drank \"a lot,\" that Oyler was \"later in AA\" and that \"alcohol may have adversely affected (Oyler's) career.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1823487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823487", "title": "State of Shock (song)", "text": "State of Shock (song)\n\n\"State of Shock\" is a 1984 single by the Jacksons featuring frontman Michael Jackson and Mick Jagger. It was written by Jackson and guitarist Randy Hansen. \"State of Shock\" charted at number 3 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, number 4 on the \"Billboard\" soul singles charts and number 14 on the UK Singles Chart. The track was originally sung with Freddie Mercury as a duet with Jackson, and was later slated for the \"Thriller\" album; however, due to differing time schedules, Jackson ended up recording it with his brothers and Jagger. A clip of the song (an instrumental part) was used on the \"Immortal\" album in 2011.\n\n\"State of Shock\" was the biggest hit from the Jacksons' \"Victory\" album, reaching number 3 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 14 on the UK Singles Chart. The song was originally recorded with Freddie Mercury, as Jackson and Mercury had been working on several tracks at that time (1981–83), e.g. the unreleased title track \"Victory\" for the eponymous album and \"There Must Be More to Life Than This\" from \"Mr. Bad Guy\". The final version featured lead vocals by Michael Jackson and Mick Jagger. In 2002, a demo of Mercury and Jackson singing \"State of Shock\" was leaked online. In his book \"Michael Jackson: Unauthorized\", author Christopher P. Andersen described \"State of Shock\" as a hard rock song and commented on Mick Jagger, saying, \"The lead singer of the Rolling Stones eyed the phenomenal success of Thriller with envy. As an artist he respected Jackson's work, adding that Arthur Collins, then president of Rolling Stones Records said, \"Mick became obsessed with Michael Jackson\" and explained it saying, \"He wanted to know every detail about Jackson's life, his contract with Columbia, how the Thriller singles were selling...\". \"State of Shock\" was the last top ten hit for the Jacksons, as well as their last single to be certified gold. The song was later revived by Jagger when he performed it with Tina Turner during their 1985 performance at Live Aid.\n\nAn Extended Dance Mix (5:41) is available as a digitally remastered release.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic used the song multiple times. It was featured in \"Hooked on Polkas\" on his \"Dare to be Stupid\" album. Also, \"State of Shock\"'s style was used for the song \"UHF\". The song is also performed, with comically cheap special effects, in the mockumentary \"The Compleat Al\" by industry veteran Harvey Leeds.\n\nInsane Clown Posse recorded the song as a tribute to Michael Jackson on their album \"Covered, Smothered, & Chunked\", which is in the \"Red Pop\" version of \"The Mighty Death Pop!\" In 2012, Kelly Clarkson and Robin Thicke performed the song on the show \"Duets\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1823489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823489", "title": "Heshan, Guangdong", "text": "Heshan, Guangdong\n\nHeshan, formerly romanized as Hokshan, is a county-level city of Jiangmen City in the southern part of Guangdong Province, China with a total land area of and a population of 360,000, and some 200,000 internal migrants. There are approximately 360,000 people of Heshan origin or descent living in other parts of the world.\n\nSituated about south west of the provincial capital, Guangzhou, Heshan occupies a strategic location on the Pearl River Delta, commanding the northern gateway to Jiangmen's five prefectures. Along the opposite bank of the same river, lie the two municipalities of Nanhai and Shunde. Heshan is around one hour from Hong Kong and Macau by road. The city's harbour can accommodate vessels of up to . Ships ply from here to Hong Kong directly.\nHeshan—one of several places in China whose name means \"Mount Crane\"—takes its name from a nearby mountain thought to resemble the shape of the bird. The spelling Heshan derives from the pinyin romanization of the name's Mandarin pronunciation. The Postal Map spelling Hokshan was a combination of the local Cantonese pronunciation of the first character and the Mandarin pronunciation of the second. Heshan has also been romanized as Ho Shan and Ho-shan.\n\nHeshan was made a prefecture in 1732 during the reign of the Yongzheng Emperor of the Qing. By the 19th century, made up part of the commandery of Zhaoqing. In 1993, it was promoted to a county-level city.\n\nHeshan Municipality administers ten towns:\n\nHeshan is located at the center of one of China's largest furniture producing areas, with approximately 10% of the world's furniture produced on its outskirts.\n\nHeshan is the birthplace of the Southern dance style known as the Hok San lion dance.\n\nHeshan is the birthplace of NBA player Yi Jianlian.\n\nSingaporean community leader and businessman, Yam Kok Yuen (), was born in Ha Lok Village () in Heshan. He was a founding member of the Malayan Chinese Association in Singapore and was Chairman of the Nanyang Hok San Association and Siew Heng Association in the 1950s. His grandson, Alex Yam, is a current Member of Parliament in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823496", "title": "Prince François, Count of Clermont", "text": "Prince François, Count of Clermont\n\nPrince François of Orléans, Count of Clermont (François Henri Louis Marie; 7 February 1961 – 30 December 2017) was the eldest son of Orleanist pretender to the French throne, Prince Henri, Count of Paris, Duke of France and his former wife Duchess Marie Therese of Württemberg.\n\nHe was the Dauphin of France in Orleanist reckoning. However, his mother had been infected with toxoplasmosis during her second and third pregnancies, and the pre-natal exposure left both Prince François and his younger sister, Princess Blanche, developmentally disabled.\n\nHis godparents were Henri, Count of Paris (paternal grandfather) and Duchess Rosa of Württemberg (maternal grandmother).\n\nFrançois was about two or three months old, according to his father (then styled \"Count of Clermont\" as Orleanist heir-apparent), before the family realized that he had a disability. During his early childhood the family dwelt in Haute-Savoie, although his father was often away on military assignment or business. When he was 13, his parents separated and François spent weekdays in a facility at Beaumont-sur-Oise and, from the early 1980s, in a \"L'Arche\" community, rejoining his mother and siblings at the Orléans estate in Dreux on weekends, while sometimes vacationing with his paternal grandmother at the Chateau d'Eu where she taught him to walk when he was four or five.\n\nIn 1981 his grandfather, the Count of Paris, having declared Clermont deprived of his dynastic rights for an unauthorized civil remarriage after divorce, publicly announced that he would be succeeded as claimant to the French throne by Prince Jean, younger brother of François, in light of the latter's incapacity. Although the Count subsequently relented and declared Clermont restored in his rights as first-born son, when Clermont succeeded as Count of Paris in 1999, he reinstated François as the next heir on the grounds that his father's act had been\" ultra vires\". He established a council of regency to exercise the dynastic prerogative on François's behalf, to become effective upon the succession of François as claimant. In 2016 Jean declared that his father's appointment of a regency council was invalid and, having become his elder brother's legal guardian, promised to continue to care for him while also called for François \"to be left in peace and not used.\"\n\nOn 31 December 2017 Prince Jean reported that after suffering a bad fall on 30 December, François had died. Henri subsequently recognized Jean as \"the Dauphin\", father and son publicly embracing at the interment of François at the Chapelle royale de Dreux on 6 January 2018 following a funeral service attended by his parents, siblings and other family, as well as members of reigning and deposed dynasties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823502", "title": "Courmayeur", "text": "Courmayeur\n\nCourmayeur (; Valdôtain: ) is a town and \"comune\" in northern Italy, in the autonomous region of Aosta Valley.\n\nAt an elevation of above sea level, it is located at the foot of the southern side of Mont Blanc, at the highest point in the Alps and western Europe (see Seven Summits), and is crossed by the Dora Baltea (fr. \"Doire baltée\") river. \n\nCourmayeur shares administration of Mont Blanc with its neighboring municipality of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains in France, and is consequently able to claim the title of highest commune in Italy.\n\nCourmayeur also shares access to the glacial ski run of the \"Vallée Blanche\" with another French town, Chamonix, which sits at the opposite, northern, side of the Mont Blanc massif.\n\nThe toponym \"Courmayeur\" has been mentioned as \"Curia majori\" (1233-1381), \"Corte Maggiore\" (1620), \"Cormoyeu\" (1648), \"Cormaior\" (1680), \"Cormaior\" (Vissher, 1695), \"Cormaggior\" (L'Isle, 1707), \"Cormaior\" (Stagnoni, 1772) and \"Cormaieur\" (Martinel, 1799). Nowadays' toponym was first confirmed by Édouard Aubert (\"La Vallée d'Aoste\", 1860), Joseph-Marie Henry (\"Histoire populaire de la Vallée d'Aoste\", 1929) and Amé Gorret (\"Guide de la Vallée d'Aoste\", 1877).\n\nIt became a popular tourist destination when alpinism arose, thanks to its proximity to Mont Blanc.\n\nUnder the Fascist regime and its \"Italianist\" rule, the town was briefly renamed \"Cormaiore\". Courmayeur was reestablished in 1948 alongside all other French toponyms in the Aosta Valley.\n\nIn 2013 according to the regional law 61 (\"Dénomination officielle des communes de la Vallée d'Aoste et protection de la toponymie locale\") a referendum was carried out to change the official name into \"Courmayeur-Mont-Blanc\", but there was no sufficient support.\n\nCourmayeur is cited as \"Italy's best all-round ski resort\", and contains the Alpine Botanical Garden Saussurea, which describes itself as Europe's highest botanical garden. The Church of Saint-Pantaléon dates to the 18th century.\n\nIn the summer months Courmayeur is a popular destination for hikers.\nThe nearby village of \"La Palud\" is the base station of the Skyway Monte Bianco, the cable car to the Pointe Helbronner. This links to the Vallée Blanche Aerial Tramway going to the Aiguille du Midi, which connects to the \"Téléphérique de l'Aiguille du Midi\", the cable car from Chamonix.\n\nNotre Dame de Guérison sanctuary stands at the foot out Mont Chétif.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823513", "title": "WDCA", "text": "WDCA\n\nWDCA, virtual channel 20 (UHF digital channel 36), branded on-air as Fox 5 Plus, is a MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated television station licensed to the American capital city of Washington, District of Columbia. The station is owned by the Fox Television Stations subsidiary of Fox Corporation, as part of a duopoly with Fox owned-and-operated station WTTG (channel 5). The two stations share studios and transmitter facilities on Wisconsin Avenue in the Friendship Heights neighborhood in the northwest quadrant of Washington. There is no separate website for WDCA; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WTTG.\n\nOn cable, WDCA is available on channel 20 on most systems in the market.\n\nWDCA-TV signed on as an independent station on April 20, 1966; it was originally owned by the Capitol Broadcasting Corporation. Channel 20 was Washington's third independent station, nearly 20 years younger than its future sister station WTTG, which had been founded as a DuMont affiliate, and after WOOK-TV, the nation's first African American-oriented television station. Veteran Washington broadcaster Milton Grant, who previously worked at WTTG, was president of Capitol Broadcasting, and also served as WDCA's founding general manager. Grant would sell channel 20 three years later in 1969 to the Superior Tube Company, although he would stay on as WDCA's general manager for the next decade.\n\nIn 1979, Superior Tube sold WDCA to Cincinnati-based Taft Broadcasting, but only after an earlier proposed sale to the Chicago-based Tribune Company fell through. In the 1970s and 1980s, WDCA's best-known personality was Dick Dyszel, who played \"Bozo the Clown\", horror movie host \"Count Gore de Vol\", and kids show host \"Captain 20\", and also served as the station's main announcer. The station was also home to \"Petey Greene's Washington\", an Emmy Award-winning show featuring the wit, wisdom and observations of Ralph \"Petey\" Greene, civil-rights activist and native Washingtonian.\n\nUnder Taft's stewardship, channel 20 became very profitable. As Taft upgraded the programming (much of which was distributed by new sister company Worldvision Enterprises, especially Hanna-Barbera cartoons), WDCA gained higher ratings but still trailed WTTG overall.\n\nIn 1977, WDCA became the first local television home of the Washington Capitals. The station began splitting coverage with cable channel Home Team Sports (now NBC Sports Washington) in 1984, an arrangement that continued until over-the-air games moved to WBDC (channel 50) in 1995. It was also the home of the Baltimore Orioles and Washington Wizards.\n\nChannel 20 also became a regional superstation appearing on cable television systems up and down the East Coast. At its height, it was available on nearly every cable provider in Maryland and Virginia, and was carried as far south as Charlotte, North Carolina and as far north as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. As early as 1987 – when it was displaced on Charlotte-area cable providers by upstart independent station WJZY (later a sister station to WDCA under Fox ownership) – WDCA began losing most of its out-of-market cable audience as more independent stations signed on in its former cable footprint. However, it is still available on several cable providers in Maryland and Virginia.\n\nIn February 1987, Taft sold WDCA and its other independent and Fox-affiliated stations to the Norfolk, Virginia-based TVX Broadcast Group. At the same time, the station dropped its longtime branding of \"TV20\" and became known as \"DC20\". The Taft purchase created a debt load for TVX and the sale of their smaller-market stations did not fully reduce the debt. In early 1989, TVX sold a minority interest in the company to Paramount Pictures. Two years later, in 1991, Paramount bought TVX's remaining shares and became full owner of the stations, which were renamed as the Paramount Stations Group and, as a result, WDCA changed its branding to \"Paramount 20\", like its Houston sister station KTXH. The original Viacom purchased the group as part of its acquisition of Paramount Pictures in 1993.\n\nIn 1994, Chris-Craft Industries and its broadcasting subsidiary, United Television, partnered with Viacom's newly acquired subsidiary Paramount Pictures to form the United Paramount Network (UPN). WDCA became the network's Washington area station when the network debuted on January 16, 1995. At the network's launch, WDCA was an affiliate of UPN as Chris-Craft had wholly owned the network at the time; the following year, Viacom (whose relationship to UPN was initially in the form of a programming partnership) bought a 50% ownership stake in UPN from Chris-Craft; this effectively turned channel 20 into a UPN owned-and-operated station through Viacom's part-ownership (Viacom later bought Chris-Craft's remaining 50% interest in UPN in 2000).\n\nIn summer 2001, Viacom traded WDCA to the News Corporation's Fox Television Stations unit (along with KTXH in Houston) in exchange for KBHK-TV in San Francisco, resulting in the creation of the first television duopoly in the Washington, D.C. market, which was made final on October 29, 2001. Fox merged the two stations' operations, with WDCA moving from its longtime studios in Bethesda, Maryland, into WTTG's facilities on Wisconsin Avenue NW in Washington's Friendship Heights neighborhood. WTTG was itself once related to Paramount Pictures – it was originally an O&O of the DuMont Television Network, which Paramount had owned in part.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation and Time Warner announced that UPN and The WB would be shut down, to be replaced by a new network that would feature some of the higher-rated programs from both networks called The CW Television Network. WB affiliate WBDC (channel 50, now WDCW) was announced as Washington's CW station, due to its owner Tribune Broadcasting having signed a 10-year affiliation agreement for 16 of the company's 19 WB stations. The day after the announcement of The CW's formation (January 25, 2006), Fox removed all network references from the on-air branding of its UPN affiliates, and stopped promoting UPN programs altogether. WDCA accordingly changed its branding from \"UPN 20\" to \"DCA 20\", and altered its logo to replace UPN's logo with the \"DCA\" lettering.\n\nThe formation of MyNetworkTV, with WDCA and the other Fox-owned UPN stations as the nuclei, was announced on February 22, 2006, less than one month later. With the impending switch to MyNetworkTV, channel 20's on-air branding was changed to \"My 20\" beginning on May 5, 2006. Despite MyNetworkTV's announcement that its launch date would be September 5, 2006, UPN continued to broadcast on stations across the country until September 15, 2006. While some UPN affiliates that switched to MyNetworkTV aired the final two weeks of UPN programming outside its regular primetime period, WDCA and the rest of the network's Fox-owned affiliates dropped UPN's programming entirely on August 31, 2006.\n\nWDCA shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 20, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 35. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 20.\n\nWDCA's digital signal had been very weak due to a problem with Washington, D.C. in constructing a new transmitter tower. However, around August 10, 2006, it was operating at full power and the signal became receivable in the suburbs.\n\nIn the second quarter 2013, WDCA became an initial affiliate of Movies!. In 2012, the station was a charter O&O of the Spanish-language network MundoFox, which officially launched on August 13 over its third subchannel. It left the network around August 2015 when a change in ownership in MundoFox saw Fox's interest in the network end and its renaming to MundoMax. Two months later the 20.3 subchannel became home to Heroes & Icons.\n\nOn April 4, 2017, the FCC announced that WDCA was a winner in the 2016-17 spectrum reallocation auction and in return receive $119 million for the frequency. WDCA ceased broadcasting its own signal over channel 35 on July 18, 2018, but continues over-the-air coverage by sharing WTTG's spectrum.\n\nOn April 17, 2017, Fox announced that WDCA would be re-branded as \"Fox 5 Plus\" on July 17, 2017 to provide better name recognition with and aligning it as an extension of its sister station WTTG. The channel continues to air its current lineup of MyNetworkTV (initially on a one-hour delay from 9:00 to 11:00 p.m., moved to 10:00 p.m.–12:00 a.m. on September 25) and syndicated programming, but has also introduced a new 8:00 p.m. primetime newscast produced by WTTG.\n\nSyndicated programs currently on WDCA are \"Judge Judy\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", and \"The Dr. Oz Show\", among others. WDCA was also the longtime Washington-market affiliate for Raycom Sports' coverage of Atlantic Coast Conference football and basketball.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn July 1995, WDCA experimented with a half-hour nightly 10:00 p.m. newscast called \"UPN 20 News at 10\" to compete with future sister station WTTG's longer-running primetime newscast. The newscast was produced by regional cable news channel NewsChannel 8. The newscast was discontinued in the summer of 1996.\n\nIn October 2006, while WTTG aired Fox Sports' coverage of the 2006 Major League Baseball postseason, the first half-hour of that station's 10 p.m. newscast was broadcast by WDCA under the title \"Fox 5 News at Ten: Special Edition\"; this also occurred in 2007, with the WDCA broadcast of the program being titled \"My 20 News at 10\".\n\nAs previously mentioned, WDCA began airing a prime time newscast, \"Fox 5 News on the Plus\", on July 17, 2017, as a half-hour broadcast on weekdays and a full hour on weekends. This newscast is anchored by WTTG's Tony Perkins and Shawn Yancy. News updates would also air throughout the day. With Fox's duopoly in Washington, WTTG's news may run on WDCA if live sporting events run over on WTTG.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823517", "title": "Mawu", "text": "Mawu\n\nThe people of the Volta Region referred to almighty God as Mawu or Yehowa.\n\nAlso,\nMawu (alternately: Mahu) is a creator goddess, associated with the Sun and Moon in Dahomey mythology. In some myths, she is the wife of the male god Lisa. Mahu and Lisa are the children of Nana Buluku, and are the parents of Xevioso.\n\nAfter creating the Earth and all life and everything else on it, she became concerned that it might be too heavy, so she asked the primeval serpent, Aido Hwedo, to curl up beneath the earth and thrust it up in the sky. When she asked Awe, a monkey she had also created, to help out and make some more animals out of clay, he boasted to the other animals and challenged Mawu. Gbadu, the first woman Mawu had created, saw all the chaos on earth and told her children to go out among the people and remind them that only Mawu can give Sekpoli - the breath of life. Gbadu instructed her daughter, Minona, to go out among the people and teach them about the use of palm kernels as omens from Mawu. When Awe, the arrogant monkey climbed up to the heavens to try to show Mawu that he too could give life, he failed miserably. Mawu made him a bowl of porridge with the seed of death in it and reminded him that only she could give life and that she could also take it away.\n\nThis myth is similar to the Yoruba story of Yemaja and Aganju, parents of the Orishas.\n"}
{"id": "1823518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823518", "title": "Australian Army Memorial, Canberra", "text": "Australian Army Memorial, Canberra\n\nThe Australian Army Memorial on Anzac Parade commemorates the service of Australian soldiers.\n\nAustralian soldiers have fought as a national group in conflicts since the Second Boer War in South Africa. This memorial commemorates their continuing tradition of service, in war, conflict and peace operations.\n\nThe memorial was unveiled by the Governor-General of Australia, The Hon. Bill Hayden AC on 1 November 1989. Presented on behalf of the people of Australia: Prime Minister of Australia, Bob Hawke AC.\n\nThe two central figures represent two Australian soldiers facing the east and the rising sun, and represent the importance of \"support\" and \"comradeship\" represented in the Australian term, 'mates'. They wear the distinctive Australian slouch hat that carries the 'Rising Sun' badge. The figures stand on a raised podium paved in a radial pattern which refers to the Army insignia. Seven pillars represent the seven major conflicts in which the Australian Army was involved during the 20th century. They are surrounded by water, symbolic of the long sea journeys involved in Australian campaigns.\n\nThis memorial is also intended to remind the visitor of the importance of the Australian Digger in the development of national character and sentiment. The term 'Digger' was first used to describe the Australian soldiers during the trench warfare of World War I.\n\nThe main design was by sculptors Joan Walsh-Smith and Charles Smith in collaboration with architects Ken Maher and Partners. The bronze casting was assisted by the Army's Royal Australian Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (RAEME).\n\n"}
{"id": "1823520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823520", "title": "Māhū", "text": "Māhū\n\nAccording to present-day māhū kumu hula Kaua'i Iki:\n\nIn the pre-colonial history of Hawai'i, Māhū were notable priests and healers, although much of this history was elided through the intervention of missionaries. The first published description of māhū occurs in Captain William Bligh's logbook of the Bounty, which stopped in Tahiti where he was introduced to a member of a \"class of people very common in Otaheitie called Mahoo... who although I was certain was a man, had great marks of effeminacy about him.\"\n\nA surviving monument to this history are the \"Wizard Stones\" of Kapaemāhū on Waikiki Beach, which commemorate four important māhū who first brought the healing arts from Tahiti to Hawaiʻi. These are referred to by Hawaiian historian Mary Kawena Pukui as \"pae māhū\", or literally a row of māhū. The term māhū is misleadingly defined in Pukui and Ebert's Hawaiian dictionary as \"n. Homosexual, of either sex; hermaphrodite.\" The assumption of same-sex behavior reflects the conflation of gender and sexuality that was common at that time. The idea that māhū are biological mosaics appears to be a misunderstanding of the term hermaphrodite, which in early publications by white sexologists and anthropologists was used generally used to mean \"an individual which has the attributes of both male and female,\" including social and behavioral attributes, not necessarily a biological hybrid or intersex individual. This led to homosexual, bisexual, and gender nonconforming individuals being mislabeled as \"hermaphrodites\" in the medical literature.\n\nIn 1891, when painter Paul Gauguin first came to Tahiti, he was thought to be a māhū by the indigenous people, due to his flamboyant manner of dress during that time. His 1893 painting \"Papa Moe (Mysterious Water)\" depicts a māhū drinking from a small waterfall.\n\nMissionaries to Hawai'i introduced biblical laws to the islands in the 1820s; under their influence Hawai'i's first anti-sodomy law was passed in 1850. These laws led to the social stigmatization of the māhū in Hawai'i. Beginning in the mid-1960s the Honolulu City Council required trans women to wear a badge identifying themselves as male.\n\nIn American artist George Biddle's \"Tahitian Journal\" (1920–1922) he writes about several māhū friends in Tahiti, of their role in native Tahitian society, and of the persecution of a māhū friend Naipu, who fled Tahiti due to colonial French laws that sent māhū and homosexuals to hard labor in prison in New Caledonia. Rae rae is a social category of māhū that came into use in Tahiti in the 1960s, although it is criticized by some māhū as an abject reference to sex work.\n\nDuring World War II, māhū and gender variant peoples of the South Pacific were encountered by American men and women in the U.S. military and helped influence the beginnings of gay liberation.\n\nIn 1980s, Māhū and fa'afafine of Samoa and other queer cultures of the Pacific began organizing, as māhū and queer Pacific Islanders were beginning to receive international recognition in various fields.\n\nIn 2003, the term \"mahuwahine\" was coined within Hawaii's queer community: māhū (in the middle) + wahine (woman), the structure of the word is similar to Samoan fa'a (the way of) + fafine (woman/wife). The term \"mahuwahine\" resembles a transgender identity that coincide with Hawaiian cultural renaissance.\n\nNotable contemporary \"\", or mahuwahine, include activist and kumu hula Hinaleimoana Kwai Kong Wong-Kalu, kumu hula Kaumakaiwa Kanaka'ole, and kumu hula Kaua'i Iki; and within the wider māhū LGBT community, historian Noenoe Silva, activist Ku‘u-mealoha Gomes, singer and painter Bobby Holcomb, and singer Kealii Reichel.\n\nIn many traditional communities, Māhū play an important role in carrying on Polynesian culture, and teaching \"the balance of female and male throughout creation\". Modern Māhū carry on traditions of connection to the land, language preservation, and the preservation and revival of cultural activities including traditional dances, songs, and the methods of playing culturally-specific musical instruments. Symbolic tattooing is also a popular practice. Modern Māhū do not alter their bodies through what others would consider gender reassignment surgery, but just as any person in Hawaiian/Tahitian society dress differently for work, home, and nights out.\n\nStrong familial relationships are important in Māhū culture, as kinship bonds within all of Hawaiian/Tahitian cultures are essential to family survival. When possible, the Māhū maintain solid relationships with their families of origin, often by becoming foster parents to nieces and nephews, and have been noted for being especially \"compassionate, and creative\". This ability to bring up children is considered a special skill specific to Māhū people. Māhū also contribute to their extended families and communities through the gathering and maintaining of knowledge, and the practicing and teaching of \"hula\" traditions, which are traditionally handed down through women.\n\nIn situations where they have been rejected by their families of origin, due to homophobia and colonization, Māhū have formed their own communities, supporting one another, and preserving and teaching cultural traditions to the next generations. In the documentary \"Kumu Hina\", Hinaleimoana Wong-Kalu visits one of these communities of elders up in the mountains, and meets with some of the Māhū who were her teachers and chosen family when she was young.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823526", "title": "Peter Chrysologus", "text": "Peter Chrysologus\n\nPeter Chrysologus (, \"Petros Chrysologos\" meaning \"Peter the \"golden-worded\"\") (c. 380 – c. 450) was Bishop of Ravenna from about 433 until his death. He is known as the “Doctor of Homilies” for the concise but theologically rich reflections he delivered during his time as the Bishop of Ravenna.\n\nHe is revered as a saint by the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church; he was declared a Doctor of the Church by Pope Benedict XIII in 1729.\n\nPeter was born in Imola, where Cornelius, bishop of Catholic Diocese of Imola, baptized him, educated him, and ordained him a deacon. He was made an archdeacon through the influence of Emperor Valentinian III. Pope Sixtus III appointed Peter as Bishop of Ravenna circa 433, apparently rejecting the candidate whom the people of the city of Ravenna elected. At that time Ravenna was the capital of the West, and there are indications that Ravenna held the rank of metropolitan before this time.\n\nThe traditional account, as recorded in the Roman Breviary, is that Sixtus had a vision of Pope Saint Peter the Apostle and Saint Apollinaris of Ravenna, the first bishop of that see, who showed Peter, a young man, the next Bishop of Ravenna. When a group from Ravenna arrived, including Cornelius and his archdeacon Peter from Imola, Sixtus recognized Peter as the young man in his vision and consecrated him as a bishop.\nPeople knew Saint Peter Chrysologus, \"the Doctor of Homilies\", for his very simple and short but inspired sermons, for he was afraid of fatiguing the attention of his hearers. His piety and zeal won universal admiration. After hearing oratory of his first homily as bishop, Roman Empress Galla Placidia supposedly gave him the surname \"Chrysologus\", meaning \"golden-worded.\" His sermons are historically significant in that they reveal Christian life in fifth-century Ravenna. The Emperor's mother, Galla Placidia, patronized many projects of Bishop Peter.\n\nIn his extant homilies, Bishop Peter explained Biblical texts briefly and concisely. He also condemned Arianism and Monophysitism as heresies and explained the Apostles' Creed, the mystery of the Incarnation, and other topics in simple and clear language. He dedicated a series of homilies to Saint John the Baptist and the Blessed Virgin Mary. Peter advocated daily reception of Eucharist. He urged his listeners to confide in the forgiveness offered through Christ. His surviving works attest to the Church's traditional beliefs about Mary's perpetual virginity, the penitential value of Lent, Christ's Eucharistic presence, and the primacy of St. Peter and his successors. He shared the confidence of Saint Pope Leo I the Great (440-461), another doctor of the Church.\n\nA synod held in Constantinople in 448 condemned Eutyches for Monophysitism; Eutyches then appealed to Peter Chrysologus but failed in his endeavour to win the support of the Bishop. The \"Acts of the Council of Chalcedon\" (451) preserves the text of letter of Saint Peter Chrysologus in response to Eutyches; Peter admonishes Eutyches to accept the ruling of the synod and to give obedience to the Bishop of Rome as the successor of Saint Peter.\n\nArchbishop Felix of Ravenna in the early eighth century collected and preserved 176 of his homilies. Various authors edited and translated these works into numerous languages.\n\nSt Peter died circa or after 450 during a visit to Imola, the town of his birth. Older reference books say he died on 2 December, but a more recent interpretation of the ninth-century \"\"Liber Pontificalis Ecclesiae Ravennatis\"\" indicated that he died on 31 July.\n\nWhen in 1729 he was declared a Doctor of the Church, his feast day, not already included in the Tridentine Calendar, was inserted in the General Roman Calendar for celebration on 4 December. In 1969 his feast was moved to 30 July, as close as possible to the day of his death, 31 July, the feast day of Saint Ignatius of Loyola.\n\nA contemporary portrait of Saint Peter Chrysologus, found in the mosaics of the Church of San Giovanni Evangelista in Ravenna, depicts him among the members of the eastern and western imperial family, showing his extraordinary influence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823528", "title": "Rukan Razuki Abd al-Ghafar", "text": "Rukan Razuki Abd al-Ghafar\n\nRukan Razuki Abd al-Ghafar (; born 1956 in Tikrit, died 2003) was the head of the tribal affairs office in Iraq under Saddam Hussein and a member of Saddam's inner circle. \n\nHe was #21 on the U.S. list of most-wanted Iraqis (previously #39), and was represented by the \"nine of spades\" in the deck of playing cards that were printed to accompany the list. \n\nAl-Ghafar was killed in an airstrike in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1823539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823539", "title": "So Weird", "text": "So Weird\n\nSo Weird is an American-Canadian television series that aired on the Disney Channel as a mid-season replacement from January 18, 1999, to September 28, 2001. The series was shot in Vancouver, British Columbia. It is the first Disney Channel Original Series to be shot in . In the first two seasons, the series centered on teenage girl Fiona Phillips (Cara DeLizia) who toured with her rock-star mom (Mackenzie Phillips), while encountering paranormal activity along the way. The series was compared to the Fox TV series \"The X-Files\" since it took a darker tone than any other Disney Channel show at the time. For the third and final season, Disney replaced DeLizia (due to her wanting to pursue future projects outside of Disney) with actress Alexz Johnson playing Annie Thelen. Production ceased after 65 episodes.\n\nThe season began with Fiona Phillips on tour with her famous rocker mother Molly, brother Jack (a skeptic), bus driver Ned, band manager Irene, and Ned and Irene's son, Clu. Stringing together all of Fi's paranormal encounters was her search to communicate with her father, who died when she was three years old. Fi first \"encountered\" her father in the second episode titled \"Web Sight\" where an unknown force sent her internet articles warning her of the future. From alien invasions, time warps, and ghosts, Fi faced 13 episodes worth of paranormal activity. Also encountered: one powerful tulpa, a Bigfoot, angels, and more significantly, the Will o' the Wisp. The season finale featured Jack becoming possessed by a hyperactive Scottish will o' the wisp, also known as a Spunkie. The Spunkie told Fi she could save her brother from his control by speaking his one true name, which was only seven letters. Fi found the spirit's one true name, Bricriu, therefore saving her brother. Bricriu had offered to protect Fi from evil spirits who had battled her father and had also offered to give her contact with her late father in return for being allowed to possess her brother. She thought he was lying therefore rejected his offer. He reappears in later episodes to keep her away from other spirits and people who claims are a threat to her, depending on how one reads it, this may be seen as evidence he was telling the truth, but this is questionable at best, especially since in one episode he tried to prevent her from talking to a person who knew her father and wanted to give her information.\n\nThe second season was even darker than the first, playing out over twenty-six episodes. The premiere picked up with Molly taking time off the tour to record an album. Fi and friend Candy meet a medium who is proven to be a fraud. However, the one who uncovers the fake is actually a medium himself who aids Fi in contacting her father through music on his old guitar.\n\nThe character of Clu was reduced during the season, as he went off to college, and his brother Carey was introduced to fill in the gap. Many legendary creatures surfaced within the season, including vampires, werewolves, banshees, trolls, sirens, and merfolk. In a pivotal episode, Fi learned that her father investigated the same kinds of supernatural events that Fi did. In fact, this was exactly what led to his death. Upon learning this, Fi is angered by her mother's deceit in covering up the truth about her father. Molly was eventually possessed by Bricriu, the same Will o' the Wisp as Jack was in season one. Fi discovered that Will o' the Wisps or other dark powers, though not necessarily Bricriu himself, may have killed her father, resulting in the accident that police had assumed took his life. In this episode Bricriu tried to kill a former firefighter who had been present at Rick's car crash and was aware that Fi's dad had been dead, with no apparent cause, before the car crashed. Following this episode, Fi had further contact with her father, as the answer to a troll's question – Faith – was revealed on her computer and a plethora of cell phones. Fi briefly time traveled to her third year, when her father was still alive, in episode 13, \"Fountain\".\n\nThe season ended with Fi discovering her father's twin sister received encoded messages from him in her sleep. The messages led Fi to a rooftop where she was attacked by a three-headed demon and saved by the ghost of her father. He left her with a message that the spirit world was angry with her and would try to stop her investigation about the paranormal. At last, Fi got the proper farewell to her father that she had been searching for. Many DeLizia fans consider this a proper, if not entirely fulfilling, finale.\n\nAfter skewing somewhat dark and intricate in its second season, the show was forced into a lighter tone for its final batch of episodes. Cara DeLizia left after the first episode, which introduced family friend Annie Thelen. Fi had yet another encounter with Bricriu. In this episode her family turn into plants and animals and Fi has to go to Bricriu for help in saving them. He does and then he convinces her to give up investigating the occult to save her family, whom the spirit world threatened because of its anger at Fi's intrusions. Fi, who still didn't trust Bricriu even though he claimed he was trying to help, trapped him in a floppy disk. The attraction to the occult, manifested in the ring her father gave her, was passed on to Annie as Fi went to live with her aunt in Seattle. Molly moved the family to a new, brightly colored house.\n\nAnnie's story arc was the mystery behind a spirit guide that followed her in the form of a panther. Her character was also musically talented, and episodes featured more of her singing than that of the older Mackenzie Phillips. The season's stories were a far cry from previous episodes, playing such plots as being sucked into a painting (which directly followed an episode of people being sucked into photographs), a stone from the Tower of Babel that causes xenoglossy, a recording studio owner who saps musical talent from the musicians who rent out her studio and gives the talent to her daughter (who doesn't want to steal others' talents to be famous), a loner boy who uses the power of magnetism to be popular, and a detention class that traps people in time. Cara DeLizia never reappeared in the season, however Fi was still prevalent in many episodes via e-mail. She made a brief appearance in the episode \"Earth 101\" by a lookalike, and in the final episode, although in the final it was only a rerun clip from the first episode of the season. The mystery of the panther was solved: when Annie was three and living in the Amazon she saved a young tribesman at risk to her own life. His tribe, in turn, saved her and his father took on the form of the panther to always protect her as thanks for her selfless act.\n\n\n\nThe series featured original songs sung by both Mackenzie Phillips and Alexz Johnson. Songs sung by Mackenzie Phillips included the theme \"In the Darkness\", \"Another World\", \"Rebecca\", \"The Rock\" and \"Love is Broken\". Each of the songs usually tied into the theme of the episode they were featured in. For example, \"Rebecca\" was featured in the episode \"Rebecca\" which dealt with Molly's former best friend of the same name who vanished when she was 13 years old. A compilation of Molly's songs was featured in the episode \"Encore.\"\n\nDuring seasons one and two, a music video that starts out with a talking scene between Jack and Clu and then Molly asks them and Fi to go to bed while they act jovial and happy, was aired. It featured over 62 clips from seasons one and two. It was the song \"In the Darkness\". It starts out with Jack and Clu fooling around, Clu howling and someone strumming a guitar. Molly comes to them in the RV and tells them it is time for her second show and that means bed. Fi closes her computer and says goodnight. She looks sad. Jack hugs Molly goodnight. Clu tells Molly to \"knock em dead' or something or Break A Leg, Molly mocks his voice and says, \"Thank you Clu\" and shakes his hand. They leave. She goes out of the RV and starts to sing in a strange set.\n\n\"Last Night Blues,\" was the only occasion Cara DeLizia had to sing during her stint on the show. The song was supernaturally transferred to the characters from a murdered blues musician.\n\nSeason 3 mainly used the music of Alexz Johnson. One of Johnson's original songs, \"Dream About You\", was featured in the episode \"Carnival.\" A music video by Alexz Johnson, \"Shadows\", was also featured near the end of the show's run on the Disney Channel.\n\nThe following is an incomplete listing of music from \"So Weird\". With the exception of \"Lorena\" and occasional musical guest appearances, all music was original, created especially for the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter 65 episodes, Disney ceased production. After the show ended, reruns of the series were pushed further and further back in the schedule. In September 2003, \"So Weird\" was removed from the Disney Channel schedule altogether, and has not aired since.\n\nOn October 14, 2019, Disney included \"So Weird\" in the list of films and television series that will be available to watch on their streaming platform Disney+ on launch day, November 12, 2019. This marks the first time \"So Weird\" would be available to watch legally in the U.S. since 2003. Within a month of its launch, season two was removed from the service for unclear reasons but was added back on December 18, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823541", "title": "Enjoy Yourself (The Jacksons song)", "text": "Enjoy Yourself (The Jacksons song)\n\n\"Enjoy Yourself\" is a song recorded by the Jacksons and released as a single in 1976. Featuring Michael and Jackie Jackson on lead vocals, it was the first non-Motown single for the group since they departed from the label earlier that year. The song peaked at #6 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart on February 19, 1977. On other US charts, \"Enjoy Yourself\" peaked at #2 on the Hot Soul Singles chart, and #33 on the National Disco Action Top 40 chart. On February 14, 1989, it became the group's first single to be certified Platinum by the RIAA. It was also the group's first song to feature new member Randy Jackson, who replaced Jermaine when he decided to stay at Motown after his brothers left.\n\nA music video, the Jacksons' first, was released in early 1977 to promote the single; It features the five brothers wearing white suits and dancing on a stage. It was released on DVD for the bonus disc of \"Michael Jackson's Vision\".\nThe song was included on two of Michael's compilations, 2004's \"The Ultimate Collection\" and the US edition of \"The Essential Michael Jackson\" from 2005.\n\nThe song is credited to Philadelphia songwriters/producers Gamble and Huff; however, a session musician from Gamble and Huff’s in-house band recalled that T.J. Tindall wrote the riff that was the initial spark for the song.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823544", "title": "Oas, Albay", "text": "Oas, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nOas was founded during the early Spanish colonization of the Bicol Peninsula. In 1605, Father Baltazar de los Reyes converted 12 leading natives of the area to Christianity in one day, forming the foundation of the community now known as Oas.\n\nThere are three stories that tell the origin of the name of Oas:\n\n\nOas is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nOas is politically subdivided into 53 barangays.\n\nIn the , Oas had a population of . The population density was .\n\nCatriona Gray, Miss Universe 2018, has Oas, Albay as her hometown.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823548", "title": "Assens Municipality", "text": "Assens Municipality\n\nAssens Municipality is a municipality (Danish, \"kommune\") in Region of Southern Denmark on the west coast of the island of Funen in central Denmark. The municipality covers an area of 513 km² and a total population of 41,443 (2012). Its mayor from 1 January 2014 is Søren Steen Andersen, a member of the agrarian liberal Venstre political party.\n\nThe municipality's main town and the site of its municipal council is the city of Assens.\n\nThe island of Helnæs is connected to the municipality by road. Ferry service connects the municipality at the city of Assens to the island of Bågø.\n\nOn 1 January 2007 the former Assens municipality was merged with Glamsbjerg, Haarby, Tommerup, Vissenbjerg and Aarup municipalities to form a new Assens municipality. This was part of the \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipal Reform\" of 2007). The former Assens municipality was formed in 1966 by combining the even-then existing Assens Municipality with seven other smaller municipalities located around it.\n\nAssens has a very talented Boys Choir consisting of 23 boys (Sopranos) between the ages of 9 and 14 years and 23 young men and adult (Altos, Tenors and Bass) between the ages of 14 and 45 years. The choir was established in 1856, which makes it the oldest boy- and men choir in Denmark, however the tradition of using boys to sing in the church of Assens goes back to the 15th Century. The Assens Boy Singers perform about 20 concerts a year in such countries as England, Germany, Switzerland, Holland, France, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Norway, The Czech Republic, Ireland, Brazil, Canada, United States, Italy, Vatican and Iceland.\n\nThe highest point on the island of Funen, Frøbjerg Bavnehøj (131 meters) is located in Assens Municipality.\n\nAssens' municipal council consists of 29 members, elected every four years. The municipal council has five political committees.\n\nBelow are the municipal councils elected since the Municipal Reform of 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823554", "title": "Star Wars: Revelations", "text": "Star Wars: Revelations\n\nStar Wars: Revelations is a fan film released on April 17, 2005, created by fans of George Lucas's \"Star Wars\" saga. The film takes place between \"\" and \"A New Hope\", and explains why the Jedi Order was extinct in the original trilogy.\n\nCompared to an average Star Wars feature film, \"Revelations\" runs shorter with a length of 47 minutes and 13 seconds (though many fan films run shorter). The film was made with a final budget between $15,000 and $20,000.\n\nThe destruction of the Jedi Temple was devastating. Accusing the now-defunct Confederacy of Independent Systems of the attack, Emperor Palpatine declares martial law on Coruscant. As the Imperial presence spreads to most systems, Palpatine calls the scattered Jedi order ineffective. Their protests are denounced as treason, all Jedi are declared traitors, and are now fugitives of the Empire.\n\nThe film centers on Zhanna—one of the Emperor's Hands—and Taryn Anwar, a Seer who had helped Zhanna hunt down the Jedi without knowing that Zhanna had turned to the dark side. Taryn seeks to redeem herself; her visions lead her to a dangerous ancient Jedi artifact said to give the bearer great power.\n\nFan films by definition are not considered canonical. \"Revelations\" was written and produced before the premiere of \"Revenge of the Sith\", and inevitably there were discrepancies between what the filmmakers hypothesized would transpire in \"Revenge of the Sith\", and what was eventually depicted in Lucas's finished film. Many of these inconsistencies revolve around the chronology of the destruction of the Jedi order.\n\nProduction on the film began in 2003, with a cast and crew of nearly 200. While the production relied much on special effects, and most scenes—especially urban and space scenes—are composited, several scenes were shot on location, including the lengthy climactic sequence, filmed in Shenandoah Caverns over three nights. The special effects were done by a scattered group of artists around the world, working on different platforms and pieced together in post-production. The film was released on April 17, 2005—just over a month before \"Revenge of the Sith\".\n\n\"Revelations\" earned critical acclaim for the quality of its computer graphics and high production value for a fan film. It was produced by Panic Struck Productions and is available for download on TheForce.net, iFilm, and Panic Struck's website.\n\nThough it was generally considered an excellent fan film, it could not be entered into The Official \"Star Wars\" Fan Film Awards because it was much longer than the contest's upper time limit, and because Lucasfilm only accepts parodies or documentaries as part of the competition. Due to legal reasons, they cannot allow serious fan fiction works into the contest. Despite this, director Shane Felux attended the fan film awards.\n\n\nShortly after the film's premiere in April 2005, the director, Shane Felux, appeared on many news and talk shows promoting the film, notably CNN's \"Anderson Cooper 360°\" and MSNBC's \"Connected: Coast to Coast with Ron Reagan and Monica Crowley\". The film was made available free for downloading online starting April 19, 2005, and in fact the volume was so heavy that \"Star Wars\" fan site TheForce.Net was forced to temporarily discontinue offering it after two days because it overloaded their bandwidth. Independent online film site iFilm also made \"Revelations\" available for download starting April 23, 2005. Within two weeks of the film being made available online, it was downloaded nearly one million times.\n\nFor the most part, the media praised the film, especially for its special effects and story. Others noted that the film was quite ambitious for a production of its kind. Some even compared the production and ambition of the film to that of the original \"Star Wars\" film, \"A New Hope\".\n\nGeorge Lucas, though he admits he has yet to see \"Revelations\", has said how much he appreciates the work and ideas of his fans on fan films in general, and enjoys watching them. He encourages productions such as these, which is something relatively rare for an owner and creator of such a series to do.\n\n\nChris Bouchard composed an original soundtrack for \"Revelations\", which utilizes certain \"Star Wars\" themes.\n\nA downloadable DVD image of \"Revelations\" was released not long after its debut on the internet. Originally, the film was released via QuickTime, Windows Media Player, and several other file formats. For the DVD release, the DVD image was distributed from the official site, free of charge, just as the film was. Users can download the entire movie, plus a second disc of bonus features. The download is offered through the BitTorrent file sharing program, due to the large size of the files. Along with the disc files, users can download case art for their DVD case. A DIVX 6 version is also available to provide the same features as the DVD, such as chapter selections, subtitles, director's commentary and such, without the large file size.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823558", "title": "George Schuyler", "text": "George Schuyler\n\nGeorge Samuel Schuyler (; February 25, 1895 – August 31, 1977) was an African-American author, journalist, and social commentator known for his conservatism after he had supported socialism.\n\nGeorge Samuel Schuyler was born in Providence, Rhode Island, to George Francis Schuyler, a chef, and Eliza Jane Schuyler (née Fischer). Schuyler's paternal great-grandfather was believed to be a black soldier working for general Philip Schuyler, whose surname the soldier adopted. Schuyler's maternal great-grandmother was an ethnic-Malagasy servant who married a ship captain from Saxe-Coburg in Bavaria.\n\nSchuyler's father died when he was young. George spent his early years in Syracuse, New York, where his mother moved their family after she remarried. In 1912, Schuyler, at the age of 17, enlisted in the U.S. Army and was promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant, serving in Seattle and Hawaii. He went AWOL after a Greek immigrant, who had been instructed to shine Schuyler's shoes, refused to do so because of Schuyler's skin color. After turning himself in, Schuyler was convicted by a military court and sentenced to five years in prison. He was released after nine months as a model prisoner.\n\nAfter his discharge, Schuyler moved to New York City, where he worked as a handyman, doing odd jobs. During this period, he read many books which sparked his interest in socialism. He lived for a period in the Phyllis Wheatley Hotel, run by black nationalist Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA) and attended UNIA meetings. Schuyler dissented from Garvey's philosophy and began writing about his perspectives.\n\nAlthough not fully comfortable with socialist thought, Schuyler engaged himself in a circle of socialist friends, including the black socialist group Friends of Negro Freedom. This connection led to his employment by A. Philip Randolph and Chandler Owen's magazine, \"The Messenger\", the group's journal. Schuyler's column, \"Shafts and Darts: A Page of Calumny and Satire\", came to the attention of Ira F. Lewis, manager of the \"Pittsburgh Courier\". In 1924, Schuyler accepted an offer from the \"Courier\" to author a weekly column.\n\nBy the mid-1920s, Schuyler had come to disdain socialism, believing that socialists were frauds who actually cared very little about Negroes. Schuyler's writing caught the eye of journalist/social critic H. L. Mencken, who wrote, \"I am more and more convinced that [Schuyler] is the most competent editorial writer now in practice in this great free republic.\" Schuyler contributed ten articles to the \"American Mercury\" during Mencken's tenure as editor, all dealing with Black issues, and all notable for Schuyler's wit and incisive analysis. Because of his close association with Mencken, as well as their compatible ideologies and sharp use of satire, Schuyler during this period was often referred to as \"the Black Mencken.\"\n\nIn 1926, the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" sent Schuyler on an editorial assignment to the South, where he developed his journalistic protocol: ride with a cab driver, then chat with a local barber, bellboy, landlord, and policeman. These encounters would precede interviews with local town officials. In 1926, Schuyler became the Chief Editorial Writer at the \"Courier\". That year, he published a controversial article entitled \"The Negro-Art Hokum\" in \"The Nation\", in which he claimed that because blacks have been influenced by Euroamerican culture for 300 years, \"the Aframerican is merely a lampblacked Anglo-Saxon\" and that no distinctly \"negro\" style of art exists in the USA. Langston Hughes's \"The Negro Artist and the Racial Mountain\", a response to Schuyler's piece, appeared in the same magazine. Schuyler objected to the segregation of art by race, writing about a decade after his \"Negro-Art Hokum\" in an essay that appeared in \"The Courier\" in 1936: \"All of this hullabaloo about the Negro Renaissance in art and literature did stimulate the writing of some literature of importance which will live. The amount, however, is very small, but such as it is, it is meritorious because it is literature and not Negro literature. It is judged by literary and not by racial standards, which is as it should be.\"\n\nIn 1929, Schuyler's pamphlet \"Racial Inter-Marriage in the United States\" called for solving the country's race problem through miscegenation, which was then illegal in most states.\n\nIn 1931, Schuyler published \"Black No More\", which tells the story of a scientist who develops a process that turns black people to white, a book that has since been reprinted twice. Two of Schuyler's targets in the book were Christianity and organized religion, reflecting his innate skepticism of both. His mother had been religious but not a regular churchgoer. As Schuyler aged, he held both white and black churches in contempt. Both, in his mind, contained ignorant, conniving preachers who exploited their listeners for personal gain. White Christianity was viewed by Schuyler as pro-slavery and pro-racism. In an article for the \"American Mercury\" entitled \"Black America Begins to Doubt\", Schuyler wrote: \"On the horizon loom a growing number of iconoclasts and Atheists, young black men and women who can read, think and ask questions; and who impertinently demand to know why Negroes should revere a god that permits them to be lynched, Jim-Crowed, and disenfranchised. He also positively reviewed Georg Brandes' book \"Jesus: A Myth\" in an article called \"Disrobing Superstition.\"\n\nBetween 1936 and 1938 Schuyler published in the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" a weekly serial, which he later collected and published as a novel entitled \"Black Empire\". He also published the highly controversial book \"\", a novel about the slave trade created by former American slaves who settled Liberia in the 1820s.\n\nIn the 1930s, Schuyler published scores of short stories in the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" under various pseudonyms. He was published in many prestigious black journals, including \"Negro Digest\", \"The Messenger\", and W.E.B. Du Bois's \"The Crisis\". Schuyler's journalism also appeared in such mainstream magazines as \"The Nation\" and \"Common Ground\", and in such newspapers as \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New York Evening Post\" (forerunner of \"the New York Post\").\n\nFrom 1937 to 1944, Schuyler was the business manager of the NAACP. During the McCarthy Era, Schuyler moved sharply to the political right and would later contribute to \"American Opinion\", the journal of the John Birch Society.\n\nIn 1947, he published \"The Communist Conspiracy against the Negroes\". His conservatism was a counterpoint to the predominant liberal philosophy of the civil rights movement in the 1960s and 1970s. In 1964, while working for the \"Pittsburgh Courier\", Schuyler expressed opposition to Martin Luther King Jr.'s being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, writing: \"Dr. King's principal contribution to world peace has been to roam the country like some sable Typhoid Mary, infecting the mentally disturbed with perversions of Christian doctrine, and grabbing fat lecture fees from the shallow-pated.\" The \"Courier\" editorial and publishing staff refused to publish the essay.\n\nSchuyler opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964. While acknowledging that white discrimination against blacks was “morally wrong, nonsensical, unfair, un-Christian and cruelly unjust,” he opposed federal action to coerce changes in public attitudes. “New countries have a passion for novelty,\" he wrote, \"and a country like America, which grew out of conquest, immigration, revolution and civil war, is prone to speed social change by law, or try to do so, on the assumption that by such legerdemain it is possible to make people better by force.” Despite the inherent unfairness of racial discrimination, he considered federal intrusion into private affairs an infringement on individual liberty, explaining that \"it takes lots of time to change social mores, especially with regard to such hardy perennials as religion, race and nationality, to say nothing of social classes.”\n\nIn 1964, he ran for the United States House of Representatives in New York's 18th congressional district on the Conservative Party ticket and endorsed Republican candidate Barry Goldwater for president. The Courier's leadership disallowed Schuyler's title of associate editor. A formal refutation was communicated in a letter to the editor of the \"New York Times\", signed by Courier Associate Publisher and Editor Percival L. Prattis, who had been a long-time friend since the 1920s.\n\nIn the 1960s, Schuyler, who had earlier supported the rights of Black South Africans, was led by his anticommunism to oppose taking any action against South African apartheid, saying in a radio broadcast, \"In South Africa you have a system of apartheid. That's their business. I don’t think it’s the business of other people to change their society.\"\n\nOutlets for Schuyler's written work diminished until he was an obscure figure by the time of his death in 1977. As the liberal black writer Ishmael Reed notes in his introduction to a 1999 republication of \"Black No More\", Schuyler's 1931 race satire, in the final years of Schuyler's life, it was considered taboo in black circles even to interview the aging writer.\n\nHe wrote a syndicated column (1965–77) for the North American Newspaper Alliance.\nSchuyler's autobiography, \"Black and Conservative,\" was published in 1966.\n\nSchuyler was influenced by Black Muslims and people like H. G. Wells, and in turn he impacted future generations. In 1973 writers Ishmael Reed and Steve Cannon interviewed Schuyler about his career and controversy for Reed's publication \"Yardbird II\".\n\nSchuyler married Josephine Lewis Cogdell, a liberal white Texan heiress, in New York City on January 6, 1928. Codgell also worked as a writer. Their daughter, Philippa Schuyler (1931–1967), was a child prodigy and noted concert pianist, who later followed her father's footsteps and embarked on a career in journalism. In 1967 Phillipa was killed on an assignment in Vietnam for Loeb's publication. His wife committed suicide two years later.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823560", "title": "Key signature names and translations", "text": "Key signature names and translations\n\nWhen a musical key or key signature is referred to in a language other than English, that language may use the usual notation used in English (namely the letters A to G, along with translations of the words \"sharp\", \"flat\", \"major\" and \"minor\" in that language): languages which use the English system include Irish, Welsh, Azeri, Hindi, Japanese (based on katakana in iroha order), Korean (based on hangul), Chinese, Thai, Indonesian, Filipino, Swahili, Esperanto.\n\nOr it may use some different notation. Two notation systems are most commonly found besides the English system, the \"Fixed Do\" key notation and the \"German\" key notation\n\n\nThere has been a tendency in some countries which historically used the Fixed Do key notation or the German key notation to switch to the English system, especially among musicians working in popular music genres or jazz . The only case where this can lead to some confusion is when the letter B is used: should it be understood as B (English system) or B (German system)? Another tendency has been to use the English system in writing but to read it out according to either the Fixed Do or the German system if those are the systems used locally. For example recent French scores or books may use the English system (this is especially common for chord symbols), but French users would read out that notation according to the Fixed Do system. Similarly a Dutch musician may refer to a written F orally as Fis. This article is concerned with written usage.\n\nTo form a key designation, locate the note name in the pitch translation table and add the major/minor qualifier from the lower table as needed.\n\nNote that the 'major' alteration is usually superfluous, as a key description missing an alteration is invariably assumed to be major.\n\nIn the German notation scheme, a hyphen is added between the pitch and the alteration (\"D-Dur\").\n\nIn German and Dutch the minor key signatures are written with a lower case letter (\"d-Moll\", \"d klein\", \"d kleine terts\").\n\nFor example, to describe Bach's Mass in B minor one could use:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823566", "title": "Ketef Hinnom", "text": "Ketef Hinnom\n\nKetef Hinnom ( \"\", \"shoulder of Hinnom\") is an archaeological site southwest of the Old City of Jerusalem, adjacent to St. Andrew's Church, now on the grounds of the Menachem Begin Heritage Center. It is located where the Valley of Rephaim and the Valley of Hinnom meet, on the old road from Jerusalem to Bethlehem.\n\nThe site consists of a series of rock-hewn burial chambers based on natural caverns. In 1979, two tiny silver scrolls, inscribed with portions of the well-known Priestly Blessing from the Book of Numbers and apparently once used as amulets, were found in one of the burial chambers. The delicate process of unrolling the scrolls while developing a method that would prevent them from disintegrating took three years. They contain what may be the oldest surviving texts from the Hebrew Bible, dating from the First Temple period around the late 7th to early 6th century BCE prior to the Babylonian Exile, and are now preserved at the Israel Museum.\n\nThe scrolls were found in 1979 in Chamber 25 of Cave 24 at Ketef Hinnom, during excavations conducted by a team under the supervision of Gabriel Barkay, who was then professor of archaeology at Tel Aviv University. The site appeared to be archaeologically sterile (the tomb had last been used for storing rifles during the Ottoman period), but a chance discovery by a 13-year-old \"assistant\" revealed that a partial collapse of the ceiling long ago had preserved the contents of Chamber 25.\n\nA reconstruction indicates that there were five chambers and a central 'hall' in cave 24. The cave could hold about 22+ bodies on benches, each with a headrest of stone. Under three of the chambers in the cave there were repositories. The repositories were used for secondary burial, which means that the bones and other remains of the long deceased body were removed and put into the repository, thus making space for another body on that particular bench. The chambers were neatly cut with smoothed surfaces using the royal cubit as measure. The repositories, such as that under chamber 25, had rough surfaces and a sack-like form, thus it was not intended to be seen. Ketef Hinnom cave 24 has a similar outline and capacity as the Mamilla cave complex 1 and 2, however, these cave complexes have more rooms than cave 24 at Ketef Hinnom. To accommodate more people Ketef Hinnom cave 24 has used the large chamber to the right to accommodate about 10 people, whereas this room in the Mamilla cave complexes did not have benches, thus probably they were used for chemical treatment of the bodies.\n\nThe repository under chamber 25 contained approximately 60 cm of material with over a thousand objects: many small pottery vessels, artifacts of iron and bronze (including arrowheads), needles and pins, bone and ivory objects, glass bottles, and jewelry including earrings of gold and silver. In addition, the excavators found two tiny silver scrolls, referred to below as KH1 and KH2. The tomb had evidently been in use for several generations from about 650 BCE, that is towards the end of the First Temple period, and it continued to be used after the destruction of Jerusalem in 587/6 BCE.\n\nKH1 was found in Square D, the middle of the repository, 7 cm above the floor, while KH2 was found while sifting dirt from the lower half of the deposits in Square A, the innermost portion of the repository. Both amulets were separated from Hellenistic artifacts by 3 meters of length and 25 cm of depth, and embedded in pottery and other material from the 7th/6th centuries BCE.\n\nBarkay initially dated the inscriptions to the late-7th/early-6th centuries BCE, but later revised this date downward to the early 6th century on paleographic grounds (the forms of the delicately incised paleo-Hebrew lettering) and on the evidence of the pottery found in the immediate vicinity. This dating was subsequently questioned by Johannes Renz and Wolfgang Rollig, who argued that the script was in too poor a condition to be dated with certainty and that a 3rd/2nd century BCE provenance could not be excluded, especially as the repository, which had been used as a kind of \"rubbish bin\" for the burial chamber over many centuries, also contained material from the fourth century BCE.\n\nA major re-examination of the scrolls was therefore undertaken by the University of Southern California's West Semitic Research Project, using advanced photographic and computer enhancement techniques which enabled the script to be read more easily and the paleography to be dated more confidently. The results confirmed a date immediately prior to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians in 586/7 BCE. Kyle McCarter of Johns Hopkins University, a specialist in ancient Semitic scripts, has said the study should \"settle any controversy over [the date of] these inscriptions\".\n\nThe 2004 team described the scrolls as \"one of most significant discoveries ever made\" for biblical studies. Apart from their significance for our knowledge of the development of the Hebrew alphabet, the scrolls \"preserve the earliest known citations of texts also found in the Hebrew Bible and ... the earliest examples of confessional statements concerning Yahweh.\" The reference to Yahweh as \"Rebuker of Evil,\" found in later incantations and amulets associated with Israel, is evidence that these artifacts were also amulets.\n\nDr. Wayne Pitard has stated that although evidence for the antiquity of the Priestly Blessing is now compelling, this does not necessarily mean that the Book of Numbers already existed at that time. Dr. James R. Davila has similarly pointed out that the idea that while the scrolls show that \"some of the material found in the Five Books of Moses existed in the First Temple period\", the suggestion that they are \"proof that the Five Books of Moses were in existence during the First Temple period\" (as described in an article in the Israeli newspaper \"Haaretz\") is \"an overinterpretation of the evidence.\"\n\nAccording to the team which led the most conclusive reexamination of the scrolls:\n\nThe scrolls are known as KH1 and KH2. They are written in Paleo-Hebrew characters (see Paleo-Hebrew alphabet) not the Aramaic square script more familiar to most modern readers. Text below in square brackets represents informed deduction.\n\nThe scroll KH1 measures .\n\nCompare lines 3–6 to:\n\nThe omission of \"thousands\" may have originally appeared on line 7 as in Deuteronomy 7:9.\n\nThe scroll KH2 measures .\n\nCompare lines 5–12 to Numbers 6:24–26:\n<poem>6:24 Yahweh bless you and keep you;\n6:25 Yahweh make his face shine upon you, and be gracious to you;\n6:26 Yahweh lift up his countenance upon you, and give you peace.</poem>\n\n(Note that the two bold italicized phrases above are not present on this scroll; also note that all of Numbers 6:25–26 may have appeared on KH1 after line 18 where the scroll has disintegrated).\n\nJeremy Smoak has argued that the combination of the terms \"guard\" and \"protect\" is typical of apotropaic amulets and find parallels among Phoenician and Punic amulets from the Iron Age. He finds reflection of the custom of making such apotropaic amulets in Psalm 12:7–9:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823583", "title": "Amatsumikaboshi", "text": "Amatsumikaboshi\n\nIn Japanese mythology, , also called , was originally a malevolent Shinto god.\n\nUnder Chinese Buddhist influence, the god was identified with Myōken either as the pole star or Venus, before being combined with the god of all stars, .\n\nHe is mentioned in passing in the \"Nihon Shoki\" as being subdued by Takemikazuchi during the latter's conquest of the land of Izumo, and is sometimes identified with the figure of Takeminakata in the \"Kojiki\".\n"}
{"id": "1823586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823586", "title": "Ibrahim Bey (Mamluk)", "text": "Ibrahim Bey (Mamluk)\n\nIbrahim Bey (born Abram Shinjikashvili; 1735 – 1816/1817) was a Mamluk chieftain and regent of Egypt.\n\nIbrahim Bey was born as Abram Sinjikashvili (აბრამ სინჯიკაშვილი), of Georgian origin, into the family of a Christian priest in Martqopi in the southeastern Georgian province of Kakheti. As a child, he was captured by Ottoman slave raiders and sold out in Egypt where he was converted to Islam and trained as a Mamluk. Through loyal service to Muhammad Bey Abu al-Dhahab, the Mamluk ruler of Egypt, he rose in rank and attained to the dignity of bey.\n\nWith time he emerged as one of the most influential Mamluk commanders, sharing a \"de facto\" control of Egypt with his fellow Murad Bey. The two men became a duumvirate, Murad Bey managing military matters while Ibrahim Bey managed civil administration. They survived through the persistent Ottoman attempts at overthrowing the Mamluk regime and civil strifes. They served as kaymakams (acting governors) in Egypt on occasion, although they effectively held \"de facto\" power for decades, even over the appointed Ottoman governor of Egypt.<ref name=\"JabartiPhilipp1994-2/93\"></ref><ref name=\"JabartiPhilipp1994-2/138\"></ref><ref name=\"JabartiPhilipp1994-2/156\"></ref> From 1771 to 1773, Ibrahim Bey served as the \"amir al-hajj\" (commander of the hajj caravan) of Egypt.\n\nIn 1786, the Ottoman sultan Abdülhamid I sent Kapudan Pasha (grand admiral of the Ottoman Navy) Cezayirli Gazi Hasan Pasha to drive out Ibrahim and Murad Bey.<ref name=\"JabartiPhilipp1994-2/181\"></ref> Hasan Pasha was fervent and thorough in his efforts and succeeded in the short term, reestablishing direct Ottoman Empire control over Egypt. Ismail Bey was appointed as new Mamluk leader and Shaykh al-Balad (civil governor and de facto ruler). However, in 1792, only six years after their expulsion by Hasan Pasha, the duumvirate returned to Cairo from hiding in southern Egypt and took back \"de facto\" control.<ref name=\"JabartiPhilipp1994-2/317–322, 373\"></ref>\n\nWhen the French invaded Egypt in 1798, Ibrahim fought against Napoleon's armies at the battles of the Pyramids and the Heliopolis but was defeated on both occasions. These defeats effectively ended his reign over the country, and he died in obscurity in 1816 or 1817, having survived Mohammad Ali Pasha's 1811 massacre of Mameluke leaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823589", "title": "Bogense Municipality", "text": "Bogense Municipality\n\nUntil January 1, 2007, Bogense municipality was a municipality (Danish, \"kommune\") in Funen County on the north coast of the island of Funen in central Denmark. The municipality included a number of small islands in the Kattegat (Dræet Ø, Æbelø) off its northwest coast, and covered an area of 102 km². It had a total population of 6,448 (2005). Its mayor was Arne Kruse, a member of the Social Democrats (\"Socialdemokraterne\") political party. The main town and the site of its municipal council was the town of Bogense.\n\nBogense municipality ceased to exist as the result of \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipality Reform\" of 2007), merging with former Søndersø and Otterup municipalities to form the new Nordfyn municipality. This created a municipality with an area of 451 km² and a total population of 28,655 (2005). The new municipality belongs to the Region of Southern Denmark (\"South Denmark Region\"). \n\nIt was originally planned that the new entity should have continued the name \"Bogense\" but this decision was overturned by a local referendum in June 2006. This result was later approved by Danish Interior Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823591", "title": "Troy Savings Bank Music Hall", "text": "Troy Savings Bank Music Hall\n\nTroy Savings Bank Music Hall, is a performance space in Troy, Rensselaer County, New York, United States. The music hall, renowned for its acoustics and an Odell concert organ, is operated by a not-for-profit organization. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989 for its architecture as one of the finest surviving 19th-century auditoriums.\n\nThe Troy Savings Bank was founded in 1823 and moved to its current location in 1870. In appreciation of the community's support, the plans for the new building called for a music hall to be built on the upper floors.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century the Music Hall featured performances from artists such as Lillian Nordica, Henri Vieuxtemps, Ignace Jan Paderewski, Albert Spalding, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Myra Hess and Jose Iturbi. In the 1930s and 1940s, artists including Vladimir Horowitz, Yehudi Menuhin and Artur Rubinstein played there. It was a usual stop for a musician on a tour around America.\n\nApparently not up to modern building codes, there was long a tradition that prior to each performance the Fire Marshal would come out on stage and announce \"There is absolutely no smoking in the Hall. If you have to smoke, you can hit the streets at half time.\"\n\nFollowing World War II, Troy's wealth declined and so did the bank's. Many public initiatives were begun to save the bank (and thus the music hall) from closure. Ideas included establishing an industrial and folk art museum downstairs and renting the Hall itself to the area's many colleges.\n\nIn 1979, the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Revitalization Committee was founded by private citizens. With the bank's support and additional funding from the city and county for its administration, the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Corporation was founded. A not-for-profit organization which still leases the Hall from the bank, the corporation began its ownership with a performance by the Benny Goodman Band in 1980. A corporate re-structuring and buyout followed, and, in 1999, the Troy Savings Bank converted to a public corporation. On January 16, 2004, First Niagara Financial Group, Inc. acquired Troy Financial Corporation, the holding company for the Troy Savings Bank, and Troy Commercial Bank. In the fall of 2016, First Niagara merged with Key Bank. \n\nIt is a contributing property to the Central Troy Historic District.\n\nGeorge B. Post's design was selected by default: due to his pioneer work in crafting metal to simulate stone in a building's superstructure, it was the only estimate to fall within the board's projected budget. A graduate of New York University, Post studied under Richard Morris Hunt in the mid 1800s and soon became a respected architect in New York City. His preference for the Beaux Arts and French Renaissance styles can be seen in the building's highly detailed decorations. Construction began on the bank's new property on the corner of State and Second Streets in July 1871.\n\nThe building was completed in April 1875, at a final cost of $435,000. The result was a massive six story edifice that dominates the surrounding neighborhood. The bank offices comprised about one-third of the first floor; the remainder was rented to area businesses, including at various times an insurance company, the Troy Chamber of Commerce, a bus terminal and a plumbing company. Above this rose the Music Hall: 106 feet long, 69 feet wide and a towering 61 feet high.\n\nOriginal granite stairs running the width of the building introduced concert-goers to the ornate grandeur of the hall. Box offices to the left and right preceded a center stairway, which led to the hall itself. Parquet and Dress Circle seats were, and still are, reached by using the center staircase. Iron staircases on either side guided the way to the upper and lower boxes, the balcony, and the gallery seating areas. The hall's seating capacity is 1,253, and seating arrangements have never changed. Post designed all of the staircases himself and had them constructed by Architectural Iron Works in New York City.\n\nIntricate frescoes, crafted by another New York City firm, G. Garibaldi, decorated the walls about the stage and ceiling. The frescoes above the stage were covered by the addition of a large tracker action organ in October, 1890.\n\nMost of the original frescoing is still visible, except for the ceiling, where the replacement of the chandelier in 1930 also involved repair work on the ceiling frescoes. The first chandelier was remarkable, with 14,000 hand-cut French prisms catching the light of 260 gas burners, ignited by a single traveling gas jet. In October 1923, it was converted to electric, and later replaced by the chandelier which hangs there today. The rest of the lighting was converted in 1929, following an accident in December 1928, when a ballerina's headdress was ignited by a gas lamp in her dressing room. Consequently, the fire marshal ordered the conversion from gas to electric as a safety precaution. The new frescoes, made in 1930, outlined the rim of the ceiling and exhibited the popular Art Deco styling of the late 1920s in the lettering, featuring the names of great classical composers such as J. S. Bach and Haydn. The chandelier has not been modernized, and still must be raised and lowered by a hand crank.\n\nThe building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1989.\n\nThe organ at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall was built in 1882 as Opus 190 of J. H. & C. S. Odell of Yonkers, New York, and originally installed in the home of New York City financier William Belden. The original purchase price of the instrument was $12,470. The Troy Savings Bank purchased the organ from Mr. Belden in 1889 and the instrument was installed in the Music Hall during the months of August through October, 1890. The first notes from the Odell Opus 190 in the Hall were heard on October 20, 1890. The organ was maintained in usable condition until the 1960s, at which point it fell into disrepair.\n\nIn early 2006, an effort was mounted to restore the organ after decades of neglect. Under the impetus of the Organ Historical Society and under the direction of organ builder S.L Huntington & Co. of Stonington, Connecticut, a crew of volunteers worked over the course of several weeks to restore the organ to playable condition. The instrument was featured during the Organ Historical Society's 2006 convention.\n\nFactors that contribute to the acoustics include: narrow shoebox form, early sidewall reflections, tall ceiling, seat count of 1180, padded wooden seats, shallow under balcony, thick plaster surfaces, ornamental detailing, organ cove which projects sound. The acoustically sensitive hall is rented for concerts and recordings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823593", "title": "Spitting cobra", "text": "Spitting cobra\n\nA spitting cobra is any of several species of cobras that can project venom from their fangs when defending themselves.\n\nThe spitted venom is generally harmless on intact mammalian skin (although contact can result in delayed blistering of the area), but can cause permanent blindness if introduced to the eye; if left untreated it may cause chemosis and corneal swelling.\n\nThe venom sprays out in distinctive geometric patterns when muscles squeeze the glands to squirt it out through forward-facing holes near the tips of the fangs. Individuals of some species of spitting cobras make hissing exhalations/lunging movements of their heads when \"spitting\" from the tongue, and it has been argued that such actions assist in propelling the venom, but research does not support the hypothesis that they play any major functional part except possibly enhancing the threatening effect of the behaviour. When cornered, some species \"spit\" their venom as far as . While spitting typically is their primary form of defense, all spitting cobras also can deliver venom by biting. Most spitting cobras' venoms are significantly cytotoxic, apart from the neurotoxic and cardiotoxic effects typical of other cobra species.\n\nAfrican:\n\nAsiatic:\n\nSome of the Viperidae have been reported to spit occasionally.\n\nAmong several viper species reported to \"fling\" or even \"spit\" venom forward in a spray when threatened, the Mangshan pitviper is particularly notable for consistent and well-aimed spraying of its venom.\n\nThe rinkhals (\"Hemachatus haemachatus\") is another elapid species, which, while not belonging to the cobra genus \"Naja\", is closely related and spits venom as its primary defence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823595", "title": "The Jacksons Live!", "text": "The Jacksons Live!\n\nThe Jacksons Live! (a.k.a. Live) is a live album by The Jacksons. It was released on November 11, 1981 by Epic Records. The album was recorded during their North American tour in fall 1981, known as the Triumph Tour. The live double album was culled from recordings made on the tour's stops in Buffalo, New York; Providence, Rhode Island; Atlanta and New York City. The live album would go on to sell over two million copies worldwide.\n\nThe 1981 live show featured songs from the group's 1980 album \"Triumph\", two songs from \"Destiny\", a medley of their Motown hits, and five songs from lead singer Michael's 1979 solo album \"Off the Wall\".\n\nThe Triumph Tour would be the group's last tour together for three years, while Michael recorded and released the phenomenally successful \"Thriller\" (1982) album and its singles in 1982 and 1983. The group would reunite for their final tour (sans an injured Jackie Jackson, who only participated in the second and final last leg of the tour after recovering from a knee injury) — Victory Tour — in 1984. In 1988, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine described the Triumph Tour as one of the best 25 tours between 1967 and 1987.\n\nBruce Eder awarded the album 3.5 stars out of 5 on AllMusic, claiming the album \"is a reminder of how great an act they (the Jacksons) were, and captures what was just about the end of Michael Jackson's work with the family group, all of it very much on a high-note. The album is worth tracking down as an artifact of a simpler, more unabashedly joyous time in music, as well as the family's history.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823599", "title": "Counts and dukes of Rethel", "text": "Counts and dukes of Rethel\n\nThis is a list of counts and dukes of Rethel. The first counts of Rethel ruled independently, before the county passed first to the Counts of Nevers, then to the Counts of Flanders, and finally to the Dukes of Burgundy. In 1405 the County became part of the Peerage of France, and in 1581 it was elevated to a duchy. In 1663 it became the Duchy of Mazarin. \n\nThe county was active in the crusades. King Baldwin II of Jerusalem was the brother of Count Gervais and Countess Matilda of Rethel, while Beatrice of Rethel married Leo I, Prince of Armenia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNowadays, the title is still claimed by her descendants, the Sovereign Princes of Monaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823605", "title": "Ibuki (Street Fighter)", "text": "Ibuki (Street Fighter)\n\nIbuki was originally designed by Kinu Nishimura, and has been voiced by Yuri Amano and Ayumi Fujimura in Japanese and by Kat Steel in English. Her unique, technical and tricky moveset relies on mobility, aggressiveness and deception to be most effective, making her hard to master but favored among top players. Ibuki has become one of the most popular females in the \"Street Fighter\" series, being also regarded by some as one of top ninja characters in all video games.\n\nIbuki is a teenage girl from the , a secret village hidden in the mountains of Japan that is home to an ancient ninja clan. Although trained in ninjutsu since infancy, with continuous rigorous training and special missions, Ibuki is otherwise an ordinary high school girl with an attraction to pop idols. She yearns to be more carefree, and prefers ordinary schoolgirl attire over her traditional ninja outfit, which she considers ugly. In battle, she uses taijutsu, a fighting style that combines several Japanese martial arts. Ibuki is 162 cm tall and weighs 46 kg, her measurements are B95 / W57 / H90, and her birthday is on December 6.\n\nIbuki has a pet \"tanuki\" (Japanese raccoon dog) named / , who has been with her since her childhood and has learnt to use ninja techniques himself. Other members of Ibuki's ninja clan that appear in her stage in the first two \"Street Fighter III\" games include , , and . Ibuki's friend, appearing in her endings in the original \"\" and in \"\", as well in some other games, is a ninja girl named , who hails in the same village and attends the same high school class. The young boy who spars with Ibuki before a match in \"3rd Strike\" is named . It was rumored that original \"Street Fighter\" character Geki was her father, but this was never confirmed as canon.\n\nIbuki and Elena had been the only female fighters in the \"Street Fighter III\" sub-series until they were joined by Makoto and Chun-Li in \"\" (1999). In the plots of the original \"Street Fighter III\" and \"2nd Impact\", Ibuki is sent by her clan to retrieve a mysterious \"G file\" from Gill's organization, the Illuminati. In Ibuki's game end sequence, Gill hands her the file after their battle. In \"3rd Strike\", Ibuki shares a special pre-fight introductory sequence with her rival Makoto. She is shown preparing to graduate from high school and is studying for her college application exams, hoping to move away from home to enjoy a normal campus life and find a boyfriend. As part of her final exam, Ibuki is sent to find and defeat the elderly martial arts legend named Oro. In her \"3rd Strike\" ending she is accepted into the fictional , at first without knowledge of its cover for an elite ninja training camp.\n\nA kunai resembling her is seen in Fei Long's ending in \"Street Fighter IV\" (2008). She was later revealed to be playable in \"Super Street Fighter IV\" (2010), where her introductory sequence shows her interacting with a fellow Capcom ninja Guy for the first time. Her story for the game depicts her looking for fun and boys to date. Ibuki also meets Sakura Kasugano, as she tries to get Sakura to introduce her to a boy.\n\nIbuki reappears as a playable character in \"Street Fighter V\" as one of the DLC characters released after the game's launch. She was supposed to arrive in May 2016 but was delayed to July. In her prologue story, Ibuki finally finishes her ninja assignment and is informed by her friend Sakura about the party invitation sent from her rival Karin Kanzuki. Arriving at the Kanzuki Estate, Ibuki fights and defeat Birdie and Karin. After the fight, Karin lets her stay at the party with handsome boys and gives her the contract which has been approved by the Shinobi village to work with her. Ibuki also appears in the end of R. Mika's prologue story, rejecting her offer in muscle training which angers R. Mika who beats her in a fight. Ibuki and R. Mika continue to argue and bicker through the course of the game's main story, \"A Shadow Falls\", which begins when they and Karin travel to the New York City to find out who is behind the activation of the seven Black Moons, eventually finding out it is a Shadaloo plot. During the first infiltration of the Shadaloo base, Ibuki fights Balrog but fails to beat him. She then uses her smoke bomb to distract the enemies and the two successfully escape with it until they reunited with Karin. They witness Zangief beat Abel, Ibuki watching in disgust while R. Mika idolizes him. In the final assault against Shadaloo, Ibuki and R. Mika fight off Shadaloo soldiers. Ibuki is last seen watching Shadaloo's destruction with the other fighters.\n\nA super deformed version of Ibuki is a playable character in the fighting game \"Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix\" / \"Pocket Fighter\" (1997), in which she sneaks off from her ninja training for an ice cream in Tokyo. Ibuki is playable in the mobile puzzle game \"Street Fighter: Puzzle Spirits\" (2014), and appears as a card in the browser-based social game \"Onimusha Soul\" (2012) and in person in \"Street Fighter Battle Combination\" (2015). Her cards also appear in \"\" (1999) and \"\" (2007). She has a cameo in \"Capcom Fighting Evolution\" / \"Capcom Fighting Jam\" (2004).\n\nIbuki is one of the characters representing the \"Street Fighter\" series in the crossover fighting game, \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" (2012), with Rolento as her tag team partner. In it, she is persuaded by her village leaders to accept Rolento's request for a joint mission to the South Pole, serving as his advisor on infiltration. In the story mode, Rolento initially addresses the very annoyed Ibuki as private but \"promotes\" her to the rank of sergeant by the end of the game. According to a backstory for the \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" DLC ninja costume-swap for the \"Tekken\" series' Asuka Kazama, Asuka was sent Ibuki's village to learn the ninja arts from her. Ibuki's own \"Tekken\" swap costume is in the style of Yoshimitsu, with her latest assignment having her join his Manji Clan.\n\nProducer/director Ryota Niitsuma originally considered her for inclusion as a playable character in \"\" (2008), but she was ultimately cut due to time constraints. The \"head student at Ibuki's ninja village\" was supposed to be a new player character in the rejected concept of \"Street Fighter IV Flashback\" by Backbone Entertainment, which would also have feature a cameo of a much younger version of Ibuki.\n\nThe character that became Ibuki has been originally conceived as a ninja boy before the gender was swapped, and the male version's design might have been re-used for Ibuki's sparring partner Yūta Homura. \"Street Fighter III\" producer Tomoshi Sadamoto recalled that while Ibuki was the first \"real\" ninja character (unlike Vega), in her case they did not have a problem with finding reference materials in Japan, as they did with African fighter Elena. However, \"the difficult thing about making Ibuki was putting her hair together\" as \"she had 1.2 to 1.3x the character data, compared to the other characters.\" The task of attaching her hair parts took several months to complete, with Sadamoto himself doing this work in the end.\n\n\"Super Street Fighter IV\" main battle planner said Ibuki is an \"orthodox ninja at first glance, but her character is one of a normal girl, so we are trying to bring out her feminine side in her lines and dialogue as well as in her proportions.\" The game's director said she was probably the most difficult character to make while trying to best show \"her charm, even behind the mask,\" as \"Ibuki is cute even at a first glance, so that might be what you focus on, but we've also put a lot of effort into her motions and her design.\" Ibuki's English voice actress Kat Steel, hired for her knowledge of the character displayed during the audition, wrote it \"was a treat because her character is sassy, mischievous, and oh so girlish!\" For \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", Capcom abortively planned to give Ibuki some attacks featuring Don.\n\nIbuki's build is depicted as slim and athletic, with black hair held tightly back in a topknot ponytail that drops well beneath her waist. Her usual fighting outfit, in which she has appeared in most of the games, is a type of ninja dogi, consisting of a sleeveless upper garment, baggy pants slit at the sides (for easy movement), arm guards, and a mask that conceals the lower half of her face. Her footwear consists only of cloth bandages wrapped around her shins, ankles and instep. Ibuki's alternative, everyday costume is a blue-and-white Japanese schoolgirl uniform, or casual clothes—in the same color scheme—with a chain of miniature kunai knives and a fake tanuki tail, introduced in \"Super Street Fighter IV Arcade Edition\". Her \"Street Fighter III\" ending's original schoolgirl costume has been by re-used by the \"\" designer Hideaki Itsuno for this game's character Hinata Wakaba because he thought it was \"cute\". One of her scrapped costume concepts for \"Super Street Fighter IV\" was a very distinct, partially armored ninja outfit, which was more skimpy and featured two Japanese swords on her back.\n\nAfter nearly two decades, Ibuki was radically redesigned for \"Street Fighter V\", where her main costume changes to a modified version of her schoolgirl outfit (originally from her \"Street Fighter III\" ending) with above-knee-high socks mixed with a black mask and purple elements of traditional Japanese armour on her hands and legs. Before deciding on it, the designers tried many different costume ideas by adjusting the ratio of her two personalities; the rejected concept art sketches (including one with full tanuki suit) were posted on Capcom's blog. Ibuki's premium summer costume is a similarly armored swimsuit, with partial leggings and a cape-like face scarf resembling this of Capcom's own Strider Hiryu, which comes in a variety of colors. Her premium battle costume is an altogether different and more fashionable blue ninja outfit with a floral theme with a sword on her back, where for the first time she has loose hair, described as an \"outfit that's very fitting for a kunoichi, but the short bangs cut makes her look younger.\" Her \"Street Fighter III\" look returned in the \"nostalgic costumes\" DLC and a 30th Anniversary event gave her a traditional Japanese clothing.\n\nAccording to \"Computer and Video Games\", Ibuki appeared \"to be one of the most powerful and most popular character\" in \"Street Fighter III\". VentureBeat's Chris Hoadley opined Ibuki was the strongest character in \"Street Fighter III: 2nd Impact\" and GameSpot felt her to be, in terms of gameplay, most similar to Cammy and Geki. According to UGO, Ibuki in \"Street Fighter III\" \"has the strength and speed to face off against any top-tier character\", as she is \"quick, somewhat unpredictable and easy to pick up\", and \"she's just as likely to attack an opponent from the front as she is to dash into the air and rain down several kunai. It's this type of diversity in fighting that makes her attractive to players.\" \"Retro Gamer\" opined \"this female ninja is fast, mobile and can stun opponents quickly. While she loses in a toe-to-toe brawl against most characters, she has plenty of trickery to get around a tight defence and dictate the match.\"\n\nIn \"Super Street Fighter IV\", the developers attempted to retain Ibuki's playstyle and feel from \"Street Fighter III\". She was given a super jump (the only character, other than C. Viper, to have one in this game) and made adjustments to have combos that utilize it. Capcom's Taketoshi Sano said that \"Ibuki is suited to those who want to get the most out of a single character\" and \"beginners can use her too, but if I had to pick I'd say she's suited for intermediate.\" Capcom Europe described Ibuki's \"\"Raida\"\" (\"Thunder Strike\") command grab as having some unique properties and being one of the most powerful moves in the game. According to an MTV guide, Ibuki is \"one of the hardest characters to master in this latest iteration\" and players need to gain \"a strong understanding of each character's moves and abilities before truly coming to grips with what the weak, yet versatile Ibuki has to offer.\"\n\nIn a guide to \"\", GameSpy stated that Ibuki has \"got some unique strengths and enough versatility that we think she can cope with most opponents. Her damage is a bit lacking, but with enough craftiness in your execution you can make up for it.\" Listing the biggest mistakes to avoid in the game, GamesRadar advised Ibuki's players to not oversuse her \"kunai air-knives\", but to rather use them sparingly in not predictably as a tool to help get close to the opponent. According to GamesRadar, \"Ibuki makes up for her relatively weak damage by having some of the trickiest mobility in the game, letting a skilled player dash circles around their confused opponent.\" According to \"Edge\", \"Ultra Street Fighter IV\"'s addition of delayed wakeup, which lets one stay on the floor longer after being knocked down to put an opponent off their rhythm, was \"primarily designed to nerf characters like Cammy, Akuma and Ibuki who are at their most effective when an opponent is getting up off the ground.\" Professional player Sakonoko, whose preferred character in \"Super Street Fighter IV\" was Ibuki, said in interview for \"Famitsu\" that Ibuki in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" \"is ultimately based on her \"SSFIV Arcade Edition\" version\" and so it is easy for people familiar with this game \"to jump right in.\" He noted a few character-specific changes between these games, such as Ibuki's kunai attacks gaining the knock-down ability.\n\nIn her \"Street Fighter V\" incarnation, Ibuki's playstyle is different than in \"Street Fighter IV\", becoming a \"resource-heavy\" character. She has gained new special moves such as to dodge-teleport, glide (the \"flying squirrel technique\"), and throw bombs with different fuses, making her even more distracting and unpredicatble. According to Capcom, \"Ibuki has always been a very mobile character with various target combos, but she now has even more ways to mix-up the opponent with the ability to glide through the air and toss out ninja bombs, making it very difficult to predict where she will land and where her next attack will come from. Kunais have also been a cornerstone of her playstyle, but now players will have to be much more strategic in their use as she can only stock five at a time before she has to quickly obtain another set.\" Ibuki placed third in the 2016 EventHubs user poll for the best mix-up play ability in the game. Following the \"nerfing\" of Chun-Li in the Season 2 of \"\" in 2017, the enhanced Ibuki became the chosen character for a number of top professional players, including Ho Kun Xian (credited by Capcom with starting the \"Ibuki revolution\" so that \"by late 2017 Ibuki is a pretty common character to see among high level play\") and Atsushi Fujimura (who abandoned Nash).\n\nIbuki appears in \"Street Fighter\" comic books, including in \"Street Fighter: Unlimited\". Notably she received her own four-issue miniseries \" Street Fighter Legends: Ibuki\", written by Jim Zubkavich and drawn by Omar Dogan. It was published by UDON Entertainment in 2010 to coincide with the release of \"Super Street Fighter IV\". One alternative cover was drawn by Adam Warren and the entire miniseries was later included in the compilation \"Street Fighter Legends: The Ultimate Edition\". In \"Ibuki\", the character's fictional background was revealed: she had been destined to become a perfect assassin for the Geki clan (in to the comic, Geki is not an individual person but a clan that is rival to Ibuki's), but one of them, Enjō, fled with the baby. She also interacts with Elena, in addition to Makoto and Sarai.\n\nFor writing \"Ibuki\", Zubkavich was nominated for a Joe Shuster Award. He said that, compared to Sakura, \"Ibuki's a more complex character, more flawed. She's a great ninja but she isn't even sure this is what she wants out of life. (...) Sakura's never-give-up attitude may be more of a classic anime archetype, but I feel Ibuki's a character more people can empathize with.\" He added, \"Ibuki’s personality has been limited to game endings and oh-so brief lines of dialogue from her victory quotes, so expanding upon those with this focused story is an honour and a challenge.\" In a poll by Omar Dogan on his DeviantArt website, most of voters wanted to see Ibuki \"wearing something cute\", and precisely something in the Harajuku-style Lolita fashion. Dogan's own favourite part of the story was \"the part where Ibuki and Oro battle.\"\n\nIbuki is a favored character for use in promotional artwork, and has a number of figurines and action figures made in her image. These include figures from Kotobukiya, Mega Hobby, MegaHouse, SOTA Toys, Square Enix's Play Arts Kai, and Capcom itself, including one designed by \"Street Fighter III\" character concept artist Kinu Nishimura.\n\nIbuki's Xbox Live Avatar costume was released in 2010 and her cards are featured in the card game \"Universal Fighting System\". In a cameo appearance, Sakura is shown controlling Ibuki within a handheld \"Street Fighter III\" in one scene in the anime film \"\". \n\nIbuki was met with a positive critical and fan reception regarding her character design, attractiveness and personality, and with a mixed reception regarding her gameplay issues, especially regarding her initial appearance in \"Street Fighter III\". Despite her debut in a relatively obscure entry in the series, Ibuki has become one of the most popular \"Street Fighter\" female characters. Prior to the release of \"Street Fighter III\", \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" predicted, \"She will certainly be one of the new favorite fighters, since her balance of offense and defense is very well done.\" Capcom producer Yoshinori Ono said Ibuki is so \"popular because she is insanely fun to play.\" Professional \"Street Fighter\" commentator and player Femi Adeboye (F-Word) recalled Ibuki in \"Third Strike\" has changed his life when he was a young teenager: \"I saw this ninja girl and I picked her up, that became my destiny.\" In 2002, she was voted the 12th most popular \"Street Fighter\" character in Capcom's own poll for the 15th anniversary of \"Street Fighter\". \"Street Fighter IV\" director Takashi Tsukamoto described her as \"a character that many people were waiting for;\" a teaser trailer suggesting her inclusion in the game, revealed by Yoshinori Ono at the Evolution Championship Series 2011 tournament event, excited the crowd. Ibuki was voted the 16th most requested \"Street Fighter\" side character to be added to the roster of \"Tekken X Street Fighter\" in an official poll by Namco in 2013. In a 2018 worldwide poll by Capcom, Ibuki was voted 31st most popular \"Street Fighter\" character (out of 109).\n\nPreviewing \"Street Fighter III\", \"Computer and Video Games\" highlighted Ibuki and Necro as \"two of the finest\" fighters in the game. In 2008, GameDaily placed Ibuki 15th on its list of top \"Street Fighter\" characters of all time, expressing surprise that \"all she wants to do is live a normal life.\" That same year, IGN's D. F. Smith ranked her as the 22nd top \"Street Fighter\" character and the only ninja on their list. In 2015, Ben Lee from Digital Spy ranked the \"fast, relentless, kick-ass, and often unpredictable\" Ibuki as the 12th best \"Street Fighter\" character. IGN's Jesse Schedeen featured her among the characters he wanted to appear in \"Street Fighter IV\". GamesRadar's Mikel Reparaz similarly listed Ibuki among the 12 characters he would like to see in \"Super Street Fighter IV\" despite her being \"one of the weaker characters\" in \"Street Fighter III\", citing her \"enduring popularity\", \"rapid, skill-centric combos and high-flying special moves\" and her costume \"which leaves her hips conspicuously bare and devoid of any sign of underpants.\" Martin Robinson of AskMen too named Ibuki as of the five characters it wished to be included in \"Super Street Fighter IV\", writing that \"ninjas might be ten-a-penny in videogames, but none are as effortlessly cool as Ibuki\" and adding that she \"makes this list primarily for her style\" but is \"no slouch in combat either.\" According to the GameZone review of the game, \"it’s unfathomable to think that anyone could not fall in love with Ibuki and Makoto, introduced in \"Street Fighter III\", all over again.\" In his review of \"Super Street Fighter IV\", Tim Higgins from \"The Telegraph\" wrote Ibuki was his personal favourite new fighter in the game for \"all slippery evasive manoeuvres and devastating bread and butter combos.\" GamesRadar's Lucas Sullivan called her inclusion in \"Street Fighter IV\" \"a stroke of genius\" and requested her return in \"Street Fighter V\".\n\nCapcom's Taisaku Okada said Ibuki was the most popular of the \"Street Fighter III\" female characters, probably because of her appearance contrasting a young girl \"of the current times\" with \"this old-time ninja look\". Nevertheless, MTV's Brad Nicholson blamed Ibuki's \"bland, tan, and masked getup that hasn’t changed much since her days in \"Street Fighter III\",\" for her not appearing on the cover of \"Super Street Fighter IV\" despite all her \"ravenous fans.\" Giovanni Simotti, designer of \"Akane the Kunoichi\", intended look of the titular character on the game's cover as \"a small tribute to two of the most famous kunoichi from the history of the videogames – a mix of Mai Shiranui with a bit of Ibuki.\" In 2012, Gelo Gonzales of \"FHM\" included Ibuki among the nine \"sexiest ninja babes in games\" and compared her to Sam Pinto. GamesRadar's Sullivan compared the \"Killer Instinct 3\" character Sadira to Ibuki, as similarly being \"an agile fighter who can orchestrate a lot of very tricky setups from the air.\"\n\nIn 2004, Nich Maragos and David Smith of 1UP.com ranked Ibuki as the sixth overall best ninja character in video games, calling her \"one of the coolest-looking characters\" in \"Street Fighter III\" but \"also one of the least capable in competition.\" That same year, Aubrey Sitterson of UGO featured her on a list of the 25 \"foxiest fighting females to ever be pixelated\" and commented that Ibuki is \"not only super-hot, but she's also a ninja, which is like a 'chocolate in my peanut butter' situation.\" UGO's Paul Furfari further stated that she \"set the new standard in female fighters,\" adding, \"forget Chun-Li\". GameZone included the \"amazing\" Ibuki in their 2011 list of \"best video game ninjas\" and stated: \"We’re glad she’s still a staple in this series to this very day – but when is she going to come over to \"Marvel vs. Capcom\" territory?\" Márcio Pacheco Alexsandro of Brazil's Game Hall placed her at tenth spot of his 2014 list of top kunoichi characters in games, opining that she is \"far from having such status as Chun-Li, but has her charm, especially if you like Japanese schoolgirls.\" Joe Pring from WhatCulture.com placed Ibuki at 19th spot on his 2015 list of the greatest female fighting game characters of all time: \"Ninja's are always cool, but Ibuki takes that awesome factor to a whole new level.\" In 2016, Steven Hanson from Destructoid described her as \"everybody's favorite schoolgirl ninja.\" A poll for the most erotic girl in the history of fighting games conducted by Japanese web portal Goo had Ibuki and Ayane, a schoolgirl female ninja from \"Dead or Alive\", share the 11th/12th place (out of 50 contesters) in 2016; she was voted ninth in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823607", "title": "Gerald Burton Winrod", "text": "Gerald Burton Winrod\n\nGerald Burton Winrod (March 7, 1900 – November 11, 1957) was a pro-Nazi and antisemitic evangelist, author, and political activist. He was charged with sedition during World War II.\n\nHe was born on March 7, 1900, to Mable E. (1881–1971), originally from Illinois, and John W. Winrod (1873–1945), originally from Missouri.\nHis father, John, was a former bartender whose saloon was attacked by Carrie Nation.\n\nIn 1918, he was the chief clerk at the Kansas Gas and Electric Company in El Dorado, Kansas. By 1925, he formed the Defenders of the Christian Faith, a fundamentalist Christian-fascist organization that opposed teaching evolution in public schools, supported Prohibition, opposed homosexuality, and expressed support for racial segregation. Defenders of the Christian Faith existed in Kansas at least up to 1980, though many offshoots in Topeka, Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, and Kansas City were expected to exist. \n\nWinrod professed strongly antisemitic views, earning him the nickname \"The Jayhawk Nazi\" (\"Jayhawk\" being a nickname for a Kansan). Winrod offered the following defense of his views in the introduction to his book \"The Truth About the Protocols\" which proclaimed the veracity of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\": \"After observing the title of this book, some will accuse me of being anti-Semitic. If by this they mean that I am opposed to the Jews as a race or as a religion, I deny the allegation. But if they mean that I am opposed to a coterie of international Jewish bankers ruling the Gentile world by the power of gold, if they mean that I am opposed to international Jewish Communism, then I plead guilty to the charge.\" Winrod believed the United States to be the chosen land of God and, when the Great Depression struck, publicly stated that it was the work of Satan. He believed Franklin D. Roosevelt was a \"devil\" linked with the Jewish-Communist conspiracy and that Hitler would save Europe from Communism. \n\nWinrod said in his book \"The Jewish Assault on Christianity\", published in 1935 by a publishing company in Topeka, Kansas, said \"The same forces which crucified Christ nineteen hundred years ago are today trying to crucify His Church. Many Christian leaders have not yet realized it, but Christianity is in the grip of a life and death struggle at the present time. International Jewish Communism, which has already undermined all nations, firmly expects to exterminate all Christians. What the Cause of Christ has endured in Russia the past eighteen years, surpasses its suffering at the hands of bloody Nero. One of the purposes of the present treatise is to show that this conspiracy is not of recent origin.\" The book was met with positive reception by many Christians at the time. Winrod would go on to say that he believed Jews were damned to hell, and that Jesus Christ condemned them in the Bible. He expanded upon these views, being quoted, \"Will the Church be able to demonstrate sufficient power to triumph over its foes in the present crisis, or has it become so weakened by apostasy and pernicious teachings that it will have to be drenched in its own blood before it can be brought to its senses? Jesus knew better than anyone else the unspeakable crimes of which [the Jews] are capable. The Jesus of the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, is not the quiet, reticent Jesus of modern literature and the fashionable pulpit. The Jesus, whose righteous indignation is here asserted, is a man of words and action, a man in the act of pronouncing eight woes upon the Jewish leaders and finally condemning them to the damnation of hell.\" Winrod spread these views through his newspaper, \"The Defender\", which by 1937 achieved a 100,000 monthly circulation. Some of the articles reproduced materials from the pro-Nazi and virulently antisemitic international \"Welt-Dienst\"/\"World-Service\"/\"Service Mondial\" news agency founded in 1933 by Ulrich Fleischhauer.\n\nWinrod ran for a U.S. Senate seat from Kansas in the 1938 elections, but was defeated in the Republican primary when a popular former governor, Clyde M. Reed, was lured out of retirement by the party establishment to run against him. With 21.4% of the vote, Winrod was a distant third after Reed and Dallas Knapp of Coffeyville, Kansas.\n\nGerald B. Winrod was among the inspirations for the character of Buzz Windrip in the novel \"It Can't Happen Here\" by Sinclair Lewis in which Windrip becomes the fascist leader of the United States.\n\nWinrod developed a strong following among German-speaking Kansas Mennonites who identified with his religious, anti-World War II, and pro-Germany views. \"The Defender\" was printed by Mennonite-owned Herald Publishing Company of Newton, Kansas from 1931-42. Winrod found support in Bethel College and Tabor College and from editors of local Mennonite papers, and some Mennonite precincts voted predominantly for Winrod in the 1938 Senate primary.\n\nAccording to the 1941 \"Theologue\", the yearbook of Practical Bible Training School (now Davis College) located just outside Binghamton, New York, Winrod was a member of the school's administration. No details are given as to what Winrod's duties were. In 1942 the federal government indicted Winrod for sedition, alleging conspiracy against the U.S. government. The political aspect in attempting to suppress free speech troubled civil libertarians in what critics derided as the Great Sedition Trial. The death of the judge ended the trial in 1944. The government decided not to renew the prosecution, so Winrod and his fellow defendants were freed.\n\nHe died on November 11, 1957 in Wichita, Kansas of pneumonia and was buried in that city's White Chapel Memorial Gardens.\n\nIn 1940 Winrod's wife sued for divorce. Their son, Gordon (born 1926), is a Christian Identity minister and convicted kidnapper.\n"}
{"id": "1823617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823617", "title": "Ben (song)", "text": "Ben (song)\n\n\"Ben\" is a song written by Don Black and composed by Walter Scharf for the 1972 film of the same name (the sequel to the 1971 killer rat film \"Willard\"). It was performed in the film by Lee Montgomery and by Michael Jackson over the closing credits. Jackson's single, recorded for the Motown label in 1972, spent one week at the top of the U.S. pop chart. \"Billboard\" ranked it as the number 20 song for 1972. It also reached number 1 on the Australian pop chart, spending eight weeks at the top spot. The song also later reached a peak of number 7 on the British pop chart. In 2004, the song appeared in \"The Ultimate Collection\".\n\n\"Ben\" won a Golden Globe for Best Song. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1973, losing to \"The Morning After\" by Maureen McGovern from \"The Poseidon Adventure\". Jackson lip-synced to the song at the Oscars ceremony, possibly as his vocal range had shifted since its recording. The song was Jackson's first U.S. number 1 solo hit.\n\nOriginally written for Donny Osmond, \"Ben\" was offered to Jackson as Osmond was on tour at the time and unavailable for recording. In addition to its one week at number 1 in the U.S., the song also later reached a peak of number 7 on the British pop chart. \"Ben\" won a Golden Globe for Best Song. It was also nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1973; Jackson performed the song in front of a live audience at the ceremony.\n\nAlthough Jackson had already become the youngest artist to ever record a number 1 (\"I Want You Back\" with The Jackson 5, in 1970), \"Ben\" made him the third-youngest solo artist, at 14, to score a number 1 hit single. Only Stevie Wonder, who was 13 when \"Fingertips\" went to number 1, and Osmond, who was months shy of his 14th birthday when \"Go Away Little Girl\" hit number 1 in 1971, were younger. The song is one of Jackson's most re-released, having appeared on \"The Jackson 5 Anthology\", \"The Best of Michael Jackson\", \"Michael Jackson Anthology\", \"\", \"The Essential Michael Jackson\", \"Michael Jackson: The Ultimate Collection\", \"\", \"The Definitive Collection\", the North American version of \"Number Ones\" (even though it is the 1981 live version), some versions of \"King of Pop\" and \"Icon\".\n\nA live recorded version was released on the 1981 album \"The Jacksons Live!\" and remixed versions have appeared on \"The Remix Suite\", \"The Stripped Mixes\" and some versions of \"Immortal\". After Jackson's death, singer Akon released a remix of the song with his own background vocals and Jackson's original vocal solo.\n\nIn 1985, the song became a top 10 hit again in the U.K. when covered by Marti Webb as a tribute to Ben Hardwick, a young liver transplant patient. This version reached #5 in the U.K. Singles Chart and was one of the singer's biggest hits. The song's lyricist, Don Black, was at the time Webb's manager.\n\nCrispin Glover re-recorded a version of the song for the soundtrack of the 2003 remake of \"Willard\". A music video for the song was produced, which also featured Glover.\n\nAllMusic editor Lindsay Planer wrote about the success of the song: \"Like much of the Motown empire at the time, the title track's multimedia exposure, coupled with strong crossover appeal, ensured that \"Ben\" scored the artist his first Pop Singles' chart-topper\" and he highlighted the track. \"Rolling Stone\" editor Vince Aletti was not satisfied: \"The title song is lovely, no doubt, and Michael packs it with a surprising amount of feeling (his delivery of \"They don't see you as I do/I wish they would try to\" still tears me up) but it's all a little too thick for my tastes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1823623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823623", "title": "Indian grey hornbill", "text": "Indian grey hornbill\n\nThe Indian grey hornbill (\"Ocyceros birostris\") is a common hornbill found on the Indian subcontinent. It is mostly arboreal and is commonly sighted in pairs. It has grey feathers all over the body with a light grey or dull white belly. The horn is black or dark grey with a casque extending to the point of curvature of the horn. It is one of the few hornbill species found in urban areas in many cities where they are able to make use of large trees in avenues.\n\nThe Indian grey hornbill is a medium-sized hornbill, measuring around in length. The upper parts are greyish brown and there is a slight trace of a pale supercilium. The ear coverts are darker. The flight feathers of the wing are dark brown with a whitish tip. The tail has a white tip and a dark subterminal band. They have a red iris and the eyelids have eyelashes. The casque is short and pointed.\n\nThe male has a larger casque on a dark bill, and the culmen and lower mandible are yellowish. The bare skin around the eye is dark in the male, but sometimes pale reddish in females. The female has a more yellowish bill with black on the basal half and on the casque.\nThe juveniles lack the casque, and the bare skin around the eye is dull orange.\n\nThe species is found mainly on the plains up to about 2000 feet. It is found from the foothills of the Himalayas southwards, bounded to the west by the Indus system and to the east by the Ganges Delta. It may make local movements in the drier western region. It is found even in cities that have old avenue trees. It is found mainly on the plains up to about 1400 metres; The species has been observed, usually in pairs, in Dharamsala town (Himachal Pradesh) at about 1500 to 1600 masl during summer and in the rainy season (May to September, 2017). and does not overlap much with the Malabar grey hornbill of the Western Ghats.\n\nThe call is a squealing call somewhat like that of a black kite. The flight is heavy and involves flapping interspersed with glides. They are found in pairs or small groups.\n\nThe nesting season is April to June and the clutch varies from one to five very symmetrical white eggs. Indian grey hornbills usually nest in tree hollows on tall trees. An existing hollow may be excavated further to suit. The female enters the nest hollow and seals the nest hole, leaving only a small vertical slit through which the male feeds her. The nest entrance is sealed by the female using its excreta and mud-pellets supplied by the male. While inside the nest, the female moults her flight feathers and incubates the eggs. The regrowth of the female's feathers coincides with the maturity of the chicks, at which point the nest is broken open.\n\nA study at a nest near Mumbai noted that the key fruiting trees on which the hornbills fed were \"Streblus asper\", \"Cansjera rheedii\", \"Carissa carandas\", \"Grewia tiliaefolia\", \"Lannea coromandelica\", \"Ficus\" spp., \"Sterculia urens\" and \"Securinega leucopyrus\". They are also known to take molluscs, scorpions, insects, small birds (they have been recorded removing and possibly preying on rose-ringed parakeet chicks) and reptiles in their diet They are known to feed on the fruits of \"Thevetia peruviana\", which are known to be toxic to many vertebrates.\n\nThey are almost completely arboreal, but very rarely descend to the ground to pick up fallen fruits, to dust bathe, or to pick up mud pellets to seal the nest cavity during the nesting period. They indulge in various social activities, including bill-grappling and aerial jousting.\n"}
{"id": "1823631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823631", "title": "Otterup Municipality", "text": "Otterup Municipality\n\n]\n\nUntil 1 January 2007 Otterup municipality was a municipality (Danish, \"kommune\") in the former Funen County on the north coast of the island of Funen in central Denmark. The municipality included the island of Vigelsø, and covered an area of 169 km. It had a total population of 10,973 (2005). Its last mayor was Bent Dyssemark, a member of the Venstre (Liberal Party) political party. The main town and the site of its municipal council is the town of Otterup.\n\nThe municipality was created in 1970 as the result of a (\"Municipality Reform\") that merged a number of existing parishes:\n\n\nOtterup municipality ceased to exist as the result of \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipality Reform\" of 2007). It was merged with existing Søndersø and Bogense municipalities to form the new Nordfyn municipality. This created a municipality with an area of 451 km and a total population of 28,655 (2005). The new municipality belongs to Region of Southern Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823636", "title": "Zen at War", "text": "Zen at War\n\nZen at War is a book written by Brian Daizen Victoria, first published in 1997. The second edition appeared in 2006.\n\nThe book meticulously documents Zen Buddhism's support of Japanese militarism from the time of the Meiji Restoration through the World War II and the post-War period. It describes the influence of state policy on Buddhism in Japan, and particularly the influence of Zen on the military of the Empire of Japan. A famous quote is from Harada Daiun Sogaku: \"[If ordered to] march: tramp, tramp, or shoot: bang, bang. This is the manifestation of the highest Wisdom [of Enlightenment]. The unity of Zen and war of which I speak extends to the farthest reaches of the holy war [now under way].\"\n\nThe book also explores the actions of Japanese Buddhists who opposed the growth of militarism.\n\nThe 2002 edition of \"Zen at War\" was followed by \"Zen War Stories\", which further explores the intimate relationship between Japanese institutional Buddhism and militarism during World War II.\n\nVictoria draws from his own study of original Japanese documents, but also uses the publications of Ichikawa Hakugen, a Rinzai-priest and a scholar who taught at Hanazono University in Tokyo. Hakugen's work, in Japanese, include:\n\nHakugen himself had been \"a strong advocate of Japan's 'holy war'\": \"And I should not forget to include myself as one of those modern Japanese Buddhist who did these things.\"\n\nHakugen points to twelve characteristics of Japanese Zen which have contributed to its support for Japanese militarism:\n\nHakugen saw D. T. Suzuki as \"most responsible for the development of imperial-way Zen\", but in no way standing alone in this development. Hakugen traces this development to pre-meiji developments:\nThe book drew a lot of attention, and mixed responses:\nRobert Aitken writes:\nTon Lathouwers, Chán-teacher in the Netherlands, in relation to \"Zen at War\" mentions Hisamatsu's impossible question, \"What will you do when you cannot do anything, when all your best intentions and great endeavour are invested to no avail whatsoever, when all you do is doomed to fail?\", relating it to a statement by Takeo Sato:\nIn response to \"Zen at war\" Ina Buitendijk started a campaign to receive apologies from leading parties within the Japanese Zen-schools:\nHer campaign resulted in responses from Kubota Ji'un, third abbot of the Sanbo Kyodan, Hirata Seiko, and Hosokawa, abbot of Myoshin-ji.\n\nKubota Ji'un writes:\nHirata Seiki writes:\nBrian Victoria has also been criticized.\n\nKemmyō Taira Sato states that Victoria's criticism of D. T. Suzuki is misplaced since he did not support Japanese militarism in his writings:\nVictoria himself quotes critical remarks by Suzuki on the war and the support given to it by the Zen-institutions: \"[T]hey diligently practiced the art of self-preservation through their narrow-minded focus on 'pacifying and preserving the state'.\"\n\nMuhō Noelke states that Victoria has mistranslated texts from Kōdō Sawaki.\n\nRobert Aitken writes, \"Unlike the other researchers, Victoria writes in a vacuum. He extracts the words and deeds of Japanese Buddhist leaders from their cultural and temporal context, and judges them from a present-day, progressive, Western point of view.\"\n\nThe issues of Japanese nationalism, individualism, and the justification of social inequality have been taken up by other authors as well.\n\nIn 1995, the Nanzan Institute for Religion and Culture published \"Rude Awakenings. Zen, the Kyoto School, and the question of nationalism\", which \"examines the relationship between Japanese nationalism and intellectuals in the Kyoto school and the world of Zen.\" It places the development of the Kyoto school, and its alleged support for the Japanese militarism, in the larger context of the Meiji-restoration.\n\nRobert H. Sharf contributed to this volume, as a sequel to his \"The Zen of Japanese Nationalism\", in which he extensively investigates the support of the Zen-institutions for the Imperial State, and the backgrounds of this support.\n\nNam-lin Hur has described the support of the Sōtō for the occupation of Korea in the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nPeek argues that individualism, contrary to popular notions, is inherently supported by Buddhism. This inherent support made it possible to effect a transmission from authoritarian imperialism to democracy:\nThe Soto-school has taken up the issue of social inequality. According to Bodiford, the Soto-school has insisted that \"the types of social discrimination found in Sõtõ rituals and temple\npractices\" find their origin in \"the medieval institutional regulations imposed by the Tokugawa regime, not in the religious attitudes, religious practices, or religious mission of Sõtõ Zen itself\". The Soto-school has installed a Human Rights Division, to terminate the regulations which contribute to discriminatory practices.\n\n\"Zen at war\" has contributed to discussions on the meaning of \"enlightenment\", and the role of Zen-teachers in the emerging western Zen-Buddhism. Bodhin Kholhede, dharma heir of Philip Kapleau, says:\nStuart Lachs has written several essays on this issue, connected to teacher-scandals in western sanghas. The issue has been taken up by others as well.\n\nThe author, Brian Victoria, trained at the Sōtō monastery of Eihei-ji and is a fully ordained Sōtō priest. He received his Ph.D. in Buddhist Studies from the Department of Religion at Temple University and his M.A. from Sōtō-affiliated Komazawa University in Tokyo, where he also majored in Buddhist Studies.\n\nVictoria has taught Japanese language and culture at the University of Nebraska Omaha, Creighton University, and Bucknell University in the United States and lectured in the Department of Asian Languages and Literatures at the University of Auckland. He was a Senior Lecturer in the Centre in Asian Studies at the University of Adelaide in South Australia. He has also been Yehan Numata Distinguished Visiting Professor, Buddhist Studies at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. From 2005 to 2013, he was a professor of Japanese Studies and director of the Antioch Education Abroad \"Japan and Its Buddhist Traditions Program\" at Antioch University in Yellow Springs, OH. Since 2013, he has been a Fellow at Oxford Centre for Buddhist Studies and a Visiting Research Fellow at the International Research Center for Japanese Studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823638", "title": "Mickey Stanley", "text": "Mickey Stanley\n\nMitchell Jack \"Mickey\" Stanley (born July 20, 1942, in Grand Rapids, Michigan) is an American retired professional baseball player. He played his entire career in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Detroit Tigers from 1964-1978. Stanley was known as a superb defensive outfielder over his 15-year career, though he is also remembered for being employed as a shortstop during the last few weeks of the 1968 season, including in all seven games of the 1968 World Series.\n\nStanley prepped at Ottawa Hills High School in Grand Rapids, Michigan.\n\nStanley made his Major League Baseball debut in center field with Detroit on September 13, 1964. He was an excellent defensive player, winning Gold Glove Awards in 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1973. For nine consecutive seasons, from 1966–1974, Stanley played the majority of the Tigers' games in center field. He had speed, a strong arm, good hands, and an ability to take the perfect first step to get a jump on balls headed to the gaps. In both 1968 and 1970, Stanley led all American League (AL) outfielders with a perfect 1.000 fielding percentage. His 1973 range factor of 2.74 was well above the league average of 2.02.\n\nStanley was an adequate but not overwhelming hitter. In 1970, the speedy Stanley was second in the American League with 11 triples. Until 1968, he was used mainly as a defensive replacement, pinch-hitter, and even part-time first baseman. He earned a regular spot in the lineup in 1968 with his slick fielding, .259 batting average (in a year where the league batting average was .230), and hustle, and he led the Tigers with 583 at-bats that season. The fact that outfielder Al Kaline spent part of the year injured also boosted Stanley's playing time.\n\nWith the 1968 AL pennant clinched, manager Mayo Smith started Stanley at shortstop for six of the last nine games of the season in preparation for the World Series. In an unorthodox move, Smith planned to replace regular shortstop Ray Oyler (who hit a paltry .135 that year) in favor of Stanley's superior bat. This would also allow the other three power hitting Tiger outfielders (Willie Horton, Jim Northrup, and Kaline) to be in the lineup for every game of the World Series. Prior to this, Stanley had only one start and eight total innings of experience at shortstop, accrued over both games of a doubleheader on August 23 that season. Despite his inexperience at the position, he played adequately, committing two errors in 34 chances with neither error leading to a run. He was used as the starting shortstop for the entire 1968 World Series. Oyler had only a single plate appearance in the series, but was used as a late inning defensive replacement in all four Tigers' series wins. In those four games, Stanley would move to center field to finish the contest. Stanley did not have a stellar series at the plate, hitting .214, but he did triple and score two runs in a pivotal Game 5 comeback win for the Tigers. And his move allowed Horton, Northrup, and Kaline to all play full-time; Horton batted .304 with one home run (HR) and three runs batted in (RBI), Northrup batted .250 with 2 HR and 8 RBI, and Kaline batted .379 with 2 HR and 8 RBI. In its \"The End of the Century\" series, ESPN rated Smith's decision to move Stanley to shortstop for the 1968 World Series as #4 of the 10 greatest coaching decisions of the 20th century.\n\nStanley returned to play 59 games at shortstop the next year after Oyler was allowed to be drafted by the expansion Seattle Pilots. However, the Stanley at shortstop experiment did not work long-term. While he played reasonably well defensively (seven errors in 252 chances), his batting average dropped to .235. It recovered when he was returned primarily to the outfield for the remainder of his career. Despite winning 90 games, Detroit finished the season 19 games out of first.\n\nWith the veteran Kaline injured and the arrival of the newly created Designated Hitter rule in 1973 (a spot primarily filled by aging slugger Frank Howard and pinch hitter Gates Brown that year), Stanley reached career highs in games (157, all in the outfield), at-bats (602), and home runs (17). He also played full-time in the outfield for the season before getting injured and then giving way to budding star Ron LeFlore. From - he completed his career as it had started, as a utility outfielder and late-inning defensive replacement, but this time he made occasional infield appearances, too. During these last four seasons, he played at least a few games at every position on the field except pitcher and catcher.\n\nStanley is also known for a quote on being struck out by fireballer Nolan Ryan when he no-hit the Tigers in 1973: \"Those were the best pitches I ever heard.\"\n\nIn 1516 games over 15 seasons, Stanley posted a .248 batting average (1243-for-5022) with 641 runs, 201 doubles, 48 triples, 117 home runs, 500 RBI, 44 stolen bases, 371 bases on balls, .298 on-base percentage and .377 slugging percentage. He finished his career with an overall .989 fielding percentage. In 11 postseason games, he hit .235 (8-for-34) with 4 runs scored and 2 walks.\n\nAfter retiring from baseball, Stanley signed with the Detroit Caesars professional softball club in 1979. He played part-time as the team advanced to the APSPL World Series but lost to the Milwaukee Schlitz. The Caesars folded after the season, and Stanley continued his career with the Detroit Auto Kings in their only season (1980). The Auto Kings won the Eastern Division of the North American Softball League and advanced to the league finals, where they also lost to the Schlitz. \nStanley now resides in Brighton, Michigan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823644", "title": "First Baptist Church", "text": "First Baptist Church\n\nFirst Baptist Church may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823645", "title": "Michael Romeo", "text": "Michael Romeo\n\nMichael James Romeo (born March 6, 1968) is an American guitarist and a founding member of the progressive metal group Symphony X. He is one of two members to appear on every Symphony X release (the other being Michael Pinnella).\n\nRomeo was ranked #91 out of 100 Greatest Heavy Metal Guitarists of All Time by Guitar World.\n\nMichael Romeo's introduction to formal music training began with piano lessons when he was 10 years old. He also played clarinet. However, it wasn't until after hearing his first Kiss album that he seriously considered switching to the guitar. He ended up purchasing a cheap acoustic guitar at a garage sale.\n\nInfluenced by Kiss, Led Zeppelin, Rush, AC/DC, Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Deep Purple, and Emerson, Lake & Palmer, he became serious about the guitar after listening to the albums \"Blizzard of Ozz\" and \"Diary of a Madman\" by Ozzy Osbourne. He was also heavily influenced by the neoclassical technique and style of Randy Rhoads, Ritchie Blackmore, Yngwie Malmsteen, and Uli Jon Roth and guitar virtuosos like Shawn Lane; along with well-known composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig Van Beethoven and Igor Stravinsky. Romeo's own influence has rubbed off on younger players, including Dragonforce's Herman Li, who listed Romeo among his Top 10 favorite guitarists in 2011. Romeo is a fan of \"Star Wars\", and has recorded an arrangement of themes from John Williams' scores for the series under the title \"Star Wars Suite\". His favorite Star Wars character is Darth Vader.\n\nSince 2005, Romeo has taken advantage of a new custom model, Caparison Dellinger II – Michael Romeo Custom, which he used to record the Symphony X album \"Paradise Lost\". Romeo was introduced to Caparison by Henrik Danhage of Evergrey. Throughout his career, Romeo has also used ESP M-II Deluxe guitars with EMG Active pickups and Fender Stratocasters to perform and record other albums from the band.\n\nIn terms of amplification in the studio, he uses an ENGL Fireball as well as a recently acquired Engl SE E670 that is used strictly for recording purposes. Live, Romeo makes use of both the Engl Fireball and Powerball models as well as various Line 6 (company) models. Recent photographs that have been made available at Symphony X Official Website show him also using other amplifiers from brands such as Marshall and Madison. He has also been known to use a Mesa Boogie Triaxis and Mesa Boogie Dual Rectifier for recording.\n\nIn terms of effects, Romeo pairs his various amplifiers with a TC Electronic G System and a Boss NS2 Noisegate.\n\nIn 1994, he released a solo album entitled \"The Dark Chapter\".\n\nIn 1995, Long Island Records of Germany released the self-titled debut Phantom's Opera album featuring Michael on lead guitar, Colie Brice on vocals, Bob Nelson on drums, Eric Walz on bass, and founding member Jack Young on keyboard and piano. The album was reissued with bonus tracks by Song Haus Music in the US in 1999.\n\nAs a guest musician for Ayreon, Romeo has played guitar solos on the song \"Dawn of a Million Souls\" (featuring lead vocals by Russell Allen), from Ayreon's 2000 album \"\", and on the song \"E=MC²\", from Ayreon's 2008 release, \"01011001\". Romeo also did the guitar work for Vitalij Kuprij on his \"Piano Overture' song in his album \"Forward and Beyond\". Romeo also played a guest solo on the Eidolon album The Parallel Otherworld on the song Arcturus #9. Romeo also did some orchestration work on 3 songs of Steve Walsh's solo album Shadowman. In 2012, Romeo recorded some solos and guitar work for the debut album of progressive rock project Flaud Logic. He also made a guest appearance on the new Pat Gesualdo Iceland album.\n\nIn 2018, Romeo announced the release of a new full-length solo album called \"War of the Worlds, Pt. 1\", also featuring Rick Castellano (vocals), John \"JD\" DeServio (bass) and John Macaluso (drums) as the backing band. It was released on July 27 via Music Theories Recordings / Mascot Label Group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823654", "title": "Sierra Safari Zoo", "text": "Sierra Safari Zoo\n\nThe Sierra Safari Zoo is a zoo north of Reno, Nevada, United States. Opening in 1989, it has grown to become the zoo that houses more exotics in the state. It houses a wide variety of exotic animals from around the world, including primates, big cats, reptiles, sloths, and others.\n"}
{"id": "1823655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823655", "title": "Søndersø Municipality", "text": "Søndersø Municipality\n\nUntil January 1, 2007 Søndersø municipality was a municipality (Danish, \"kommune\") in the former Funen County on the island of Funen in central Denmark. The municipality covered an area of 181 km, and had a total population of 11,234 (2005). Its last mayor was Erik Hansen, a member of the Social Democrats (\"Socialdemokraterne\") political party. The main town and the site of its municipal council was the town of Søndersø.\n\nThe municipality was created in 1970 as the result of a (\"Municipality Reform\") that merged a number of existing parishes:\n\nSøndersø municipality ceased to exist as the result of \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipality Reform\" of 2007). It was merged with Otterup and Bogense municipalities to form the new Nordfyn municipality. This created a municipality with an area of 451 km and a total population of 28,655 (2005). The new municipality belongs to Region of Southern Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823657", "title": "Shorapani", "text": "Shorapani\n\nShorapani () is a small Georgian town, situated in the Zestafoni District, part of the region of Imereti. Founded in the 3rd century BC, it served as a residence of the \"eristavi\" (dukes) of Argveti (also known as the Duchy of Shorapani) in the Antiquity and the early Middle Ages.\n\nNear the town are the ruins of a fortress, mentioned as \"Sarapana\" by Strabo and \"Sarapanis\" by Procopius as a strong position on the road that led from Colchis to Iberia.\n\nShorapani (Sarapanis) is the toponymy, that is mentioned in old Greek mythology. That was Sarapanis that Jason and his Argonaut friends approached during their travel in old Colchis (Kolkhida).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823667", "title": "Malhun", "text": "Malhun\n\nMalhun (Arabic الملحون / ALA-LC: \"al-malḥūn\"), meaning \"the melodic poem\", is a form of music originated in Morocco. It is a kind of urban, sung poetry that comes from the exclusively masculine working-class milieu of craftsmen's guilds.\n\nThe \"mǝlḥun\" first emerged as a pure literary creation, emerged as a poetic art today known in Morocco under the name of \"qasida\" (meaning \"poem\") (Arabic: القصيدة) or \"zajal\" (Arabic: الزجل). It developed in the Tafilalet oases of southern Morocco in the fifteenth century before it spread to other parts of the Maghreb.\n\nThe Mal’aba (ملعبة الكفيف الزرهوني) is considered to be the oldest known form of the Malhun, it dates back to the Marinid dynasty era (14th century), The Mal’aba describes the union's attempt of the Maghreb by the sultan Abu al-Hasan Ali ibn Othman, written in Moroccan arabic, it represent the origins of the modern Malhun, Ibn khaldun, mentions it at the end of his Muqaddimah as one of the main lyrical epics of the art called \"Mala'ib\" (ملاعب).\n\nThe \"qasida\" (\"qṣīda\" in Moroccan arabic) of the malhun is based on two essential elements: the overtures preceding it and the parts of which it is composed. \"Aqsam\" (Arabic: الأقسام) verses sung solo interrupted by the \"harba\" refrain (meaning launch) (Arabic: الحربة). Harba, the origin of which goes back to the 16th century, is a refrain taken up between the verses. Another refrain called \"drīdka\" (Arabic: الدريدكة) is a simplified form of the \"harba\", taking off from an accelerated rhythm to announce the end of a \"qasida\".\n\nAmong the former authors of melhun, there is Abdelaziz al-Maghrawi and Abderrahman El Majdoub (died 1568) who was famous for his mystical quatrains. In 18th and 19th centuries, Morocco knew a great number of poets who, from Fez, Meknes or Marrakech spread popular poetry who adopted the melhun. Examples are Kaddour El Alamy and Thami Midaghri.\n\nIn modern days, prominent figures include Haj Houcine Toulali, and Zohra Al Fassiya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823668", "title": "Roger J. Traynor", "text": "Roger J. Traynor\n\nRoger John Traynor (February 12, 1900 – May 14, 1983) was the 23rd Chief Justice of California (1964-1970) and an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of California from 1940 to 1964. Previously, he also had served as a Deputy Attorney General of California under Earl Warren, and an Acting Dean and Professor of UC Berkeley School of Law. He is widely considered to be one of the most creative and influential judges as well as legal scholars of his time.\n\nA nationally respected jurist noted for liberalism and activism, Traynor's 30-year career as California's 77th Justice coincided with tremendous demographic, social, and governmental growth in California and in the United States of America. Traynor believed (in the words of his biographer, G. Edward White) that \"the increased presence of government in American life was a necessary and beneficial phenomenon.\" After his retirement from the California Supreme Court, Traynor spent the last years of his life as a professor at the UC Hastings College of Law.\n\nTraynor was born and raised in Park City, Utah, then a hardscrabble mining town, at the turn of the century by Felix and Elizabeth Traynor. His parents were impoverished Irish immigrants from Hilltown in Ireland.\n\nIn 1919, upon the advice of a high school teacher, he entered the University of California, Berkeley, though he had only $500 in savings to finance his college education. Fortunately, he won a scholarship at the end of his first year due to his excellent grades, and went on to earn a B.A. in 1923, an M.A. in 1924, and a Ph.D. in 1926; all these degrees were in political science. He also earned a J.D. from Boalt Hall, UC Berkeley's law school, in 1927. He earned the two latter degrees at the same time, while also teaching undergraduates and serving as editor-in-chief of the \"California Law Review\". He was subsequently admitted to the State Bar of California that same year.\n\nAt Boalt Hall of UC Berkeley, Traynor wrote groundbreaking articles on taxation, while serving as editor-in-chief of the \"California Law Review\", and became a full-time professor in 1936. In 1939, he started serving as the Acting Dean of Boalt Hall at UC Berkeley, where he had earned his law degree.\n\nWhile he was a faculty member of the Berkeley Law School, Traynor also acted as a consultant to the California State Board of Equalization from 1932 to 1940, and to the United States Department of the Treasury from 1937 to 1940. In particular, he took a leave of absence from Berkeley in 1933 to work full-time for the Board of Equalization, and another leave in 1937 to help the Treasury Department draft the Revenue Act of 1938. Before the Great Depression, nearly all California governmental functions were funded \"only\" through a general property tax on both real and personal property. This proved unworkable when property values collapsed. Through his work for the Board of Equalization, Traynor was responsible for creating much of California's modern tax regime, including the vehicle registration fee (1933), sales tax (1933), income tax (1935), use tax (1935), corporate income tax (1937), and fuel tax (1937). He also served as the first administrator of the California sales tax and supervised its deployment across 200,000 retailers.\n\nIn January 1940, he started working part-time as a Deputy Attorney General under California Attorney General Earl Warren (who later became Chief Justice of the United States).\n\nAfter retiring from the Supreme Court of California in 1970, Traynor became a professor at the UC Hastings College of Law. He also spent some time visiting and teaching at the law schools of University of Utah, University of Virginia, and the University of Cambridge.\n\nOn July 31, 1940, Traynor was nominated to the Supreme Court of California by Governor Culbert Olson. He was unanimously confirmed by the Qualifications Committee on August 13 and was sworn in the same day. In December 1940, he was retained by the voters in the election. In August 1964, Chief Justice Phil S. Gibson stepped down from the bench, and Governor Pat Brown appointed Traynor to the post.\n\nTraynor has generally been viewed by the American legal community as the single greatest judge in the history of the California judiciary, and one of the greatest judges in the history of the United States. His obituary in the \"New York Times\" noted that \"Traynor was often called one of the greatest judicial talents never to sit on the United States Supreme Court.\" During his long and distinguished career, Traynor authored more than 900 opinions, and he gained a reputation as the nation's leading state court judge. During his tenure, the decisions of the Supreme Court of California became the most frequently cited by all other state courts in the nation. Several of Traynor's decisions were majority opinions that transformed California from a conservative and somewhat repressive state into a progressive, innovative jurisdiction in the forefront of American law.\n\nTraynor was also noted for the quality of his writing and reasoning, and was honored during his lifetime with membership in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (a rare honor for a judge). Many of his opinions are still mandatory reading for American law students. Also, Traynor did not uniformly join all opinions that could be characterized as \"liberal\" or \"progressive\" during his time on the Court; for example, he filed a two-sentence dissent in the landmark case of \"Dillon v. Legg\" (1968), which was a major step towards the modern tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.\n\nHis 1948 opinion in \"Perez v. Sharp\" was the first instance of a state supreme court striking down a statute prohibiting miscegenation. Traynor also wrote a 1952 opinion that abolished the defense of recrimination in the context of divorce and paved the way for the social revolution of no-fault divorce. But his most significant and well-known contribution to contemporary American law is probably his 1963 creation of true strict liability in product liability cases. An earlier generation of judges had cautiously experimented with legal fictions like warranties to avoid leaving severely injured plaintiffs without any recourse. Traynor simply threw those away and imposed strict liability as a matter of public policy.\nTo those skeptical of government's power to redress social wrongs, Traynor's extraordinary work is notable for the degree to which it asserted the judiciary's power to resolve difficult issues of public policy, and to redefine the boundaries of corporate and governmental liability. In his biography of Traynor, White wrote: \"If California was a testing ground for governmental theories of modern liberalism, Traynor was an architect of a judicial role compatible with the activities of the modern liberal state.\"\n\nIn July 1983, the \"California Law Review\" gave over all its space in issue 4, volume 71 to publishing eloquent tributes to Justice Traynor from several esteemed judges, law professors, and politicians, including Warren Burger, Henry Friendly, and Edmund G. Brown.\n\nThe liberal tendencies of much of Traynor's work has since made him the subject of extensive criticism from American libertarians and conservatives, and tort reformers have often grouped Traynor together with Earl Warren as examples of judicial activists. For example, the conservative magazine \"National Review\" attacked Traynor's reasoning in the Pacific Gas and Electric Company case (\"Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas Drayage Co.\", 69 Cal. 2d 33 (1968)) in a 1991 cover story.\n\nIn 1998, \"Regulation\" (the Cato Institute's journal) published a harsh critique of the California tort law system by Stephen Hayward. He claimed that \"rather than protecting life, liberty, and property, [it] has ... become a threat to these.\" In blunt language, Hayward identified Roger Traynor's liberalizing influence on the Court's view of liability as \"the first breach\":\n\nIn a 1966 essay addressed to both the legal community of his time and future generations, Traynor defended his judicial philosophy:\n\nOn January 2, 1970, Traynor announced his retirement in order to avoid losing eligibility for retirement benefits under a California law that stripped judges of most benefits if they chose to remain on the bench past age 70. He became chairman of the National News Council, concerned with freedom of the press. Afterwards, he retired to Berkeley and subsequently died there in his home from cancer.\n\nOn August 23, 1933, Traynor married Madeleine Emilie Lackman, a woman who shared his love of learning: she already held a M.A. in political science from UC Berkeley and would go on to earn a J.D. in 1956. They had three sons: Michael, Joseph, and Stephen. Michael followed his father into law; he attended Harvard Law School, became a partner with Cooley Godward Kronish LLP, and has served as president of The American Law Institute.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823670", "title": "1990 Croatian parliamentary election", "text": "1990 Croatian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in the Socialist Republic of Croatia between 22 and 23 April 1990; the second round of voting occurred on 6–7 May. These were the first free, multi-party elections held in Croatia since 1938, and the first such elections for the Croatian Parliament since 1913. Voters elected candidates for 356 seats in the tri-cameral parliament; the turnout in the first round ranged between 76.56% and 84.54% for various parliamentary chambers. In the second round, the turnout was 74.82%. The Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) won 205 seats, ousted the League of Communists of Croatia – Party of Democratic Reform (SKH-SDP) from power and ended 45 years of communist rule in Croatia. The new parliament convened for the first time on 30 May, elected Franjo Tuđman as President of the Croatian Presidency and soon after renamed the office to President of Croatia.\n\nThe election took place during a political crisis within the Yugoslav federation, the disintegration of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia, and growing ethnic tensions between Croats and Serbs. Though the SKH-SDP was widely expected to win the elections, the HDZ took advantage of questions of nationality and political reform becoming the dominant issues of concern, and won by a wide margin. After the election, SKH-SDP lost a large proportion of its membership, many of whom crossed the party lines and joined the HDZ. The electoral campaign exacerbated ethnic rivalries, and mutually provocative actions led to deep mistrust. Fear was further fomented by authorities in the neighbouring Socialist Republic of Serbia. In the months following the elections, the Croatian parliament amended the Constitution of Croatia to remove the term \"Socialist\" from the republic's official name, and to remove communist symbols from the flag and coat of arms of Croatia.\n\nOn 10 December 1989, one day before the party's 11th Congress, the Central Committee of the League of Communists of Croatia (—SKH) held an emergency meeting. The body adopted a decision, by a majority of seven to six, that the next election, due to be held in early 1990, would be a free, multiparty election. At the Congress, Ivica Račan, who supported the Central Committee's decision, won the position of SKH Chairman by a small margin. Račan's victory gave support to liberal and reformist initiatives in the sphere of political administration. The Congress also supported the release of all political prisoners and the termination of all political trials. Encouraged by this change in SKH policy, the Croatian Parliament amended legislation to permit the establishment of political parties other than the SKH on 11 January 1990. Even though the decision by the SKH Central Committee of 10 December 1989 coincided with the signing of a public petition demanding free, multiparty elections, the SKH's move was not motivated by public opinion. It was based on the SKH's wish to achieve greater power and confidence through an election victory.\n\nThe SKH's plans for liberalization and reform extended further. With the League of Communists of Slovenia (—ZKS), it put forward a proposal to hold multiparty elections and to reform the SKJ into a loose confederation of political parties in which the SKJ had no authority over associated parties, effectively eliminating the SKJ from political life. The proposal was put forward at the SKJ's 14th Extraordinary Congress on 22 January 1990, at which a confrontation primarily between the ZKS and the Serbian delegation led by Slobodan Milošević, which was supported by the majority of delegates, developed. All the ZKS's proposals were rejected and the Slovene delegates left in protest. In turn, SKH representatives demanded the Congress be adjourned, but the Serbian and Montenegrin delegates preferred to continue the Congress without the Slovenes. In response, the SKH delegates also left the Congress, effectively marking the end of the SKJ.\n\nOn 15 February, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Croatia and passed a package of electoral laws to facilitate multiparty elections, but left the parliamentary system unchanged. Elections were scheduled for all 356 seats in the tricameral parliament consisting of the Socio-Political Council (80 seats), the Council of Associated Labour (160 seats) and the Council of Municipalities (116 seats). The electoral legislation established constituencies for each parliamentary chamber, whose sizes varied greatly. The eighty Socio-Political Council constituencies encompassed many small municipalities or parts of large ones, varying in population from fewer than 32,000 to more than 80,000. Council of Municipalities constituencies corresponded to municipalities with greater population variations of fewer than 1,000 to more than 150,000. The Associated Labour Council members were to be elected in 160 constituencies whose populations also varied greatly. There was no universal suffrage for the Associated Labour Council elections; voting was restricted to the employed, the self-employed and students.\n\nThe electoral legislation defined a two-round system of voting, in which a candidate won a single-member constituency outright if he or she gained more than 50% of votes of at least 33.3% of voters registered in the constituency. If no candidate received the required level of support, a second round was scheduled two weeks later, in which all candidates who received at least 7% of votes in the first round could take part. The candidate who received the most votes—not necessarily an absolute majority—won the constituency. The two-round system was adopted despite the objection of opposition groups, who demanded proportional representation. The first round of the elections was scheduled for 22–23 April, and the second round for 6–7 May.\n\nThe first opposition groups in Croatia were set up as civic associations in 1989. The first among them was the Croatian Social Liberal Union (—HSLS), which was founded on 20 May 1989 and was later renamed the Croatian Social Liberal Party. The Croatian Democratic Union (—HDZ), which would later become the main opposition to the SKH, was founded on 17 June 1989 but was registered on 25 January 1990. The HDZ held its first convention on 24–25 February 1990, when Franjo Tuđman was elected its president. On 1 March 1990, the Coalition of People's Accord (—KNS) was formed as an alliance of the Croatian Christian Democratic Party (—HKDS), the Social Democratic Party of Croatia (—SDSH), the Croatian Democratic Party (—HDS), the HSLS and five independent candidates; Savka Dabčević-Kučar, Ivan Supek, Miko Tripalo, Dragutin Haramija and Srećko Bijelić, who were prominent figures of the 1971 Croatian Spring political movement.\n\nOn 17 February 1990, the Serb Democratic Party was founded, but failed to spread its organization significantly beyond Knin. Generally, organizational skills of the parties varied significantly; only SKH candidates stood for election in every constituency. The HDZ did not field candidates in 82 constituencies (25 for the Council of Municipalities and 57 for the Council of Associated Labour).\n\nOn 5 February, Croatian authorities registered the first seven political parties, including the SKH, HDZ, HSLS and several other members of the KNS. Eighteen political parties and many independent candidates took part in the election. 1,609 candidates ran for seats in the parliament. On 20 March, the SKH decided to change its name to League of Communists of Croatia – Party of Democratic Reform (—SKH-SDP).\n\nThe election campaign took place from late March until 20 April, employing a mix of traditional devices and concepts inspired by election campaigns in the West. These largely involved the use of posters, flags bearing the Croatian chequy arms, graffiti, badges, stickers, support from entertainers and media, and the use of political rallies. Parties also relied on word of mouth, media manipulation and even paranoia. An overall lack of political experience led to the use of some awkward, distasteful or otherwise poor slogans and posters. SKH-SDP posters were largely devoted to Račan and his messages: \"We stopped single-mindedness, achieved democracy, Croatia freely elects\" and \"Račan's NO to single-mindedness\". The HDZ used simple messages: \"One knows – HDZ\" and \"HDZ – our name is our agenda\", while the KNS used an image of a chessboard with the word \"Koalicija\" (\"Coalition\") inscribed in its fields. In the initial stages of the campaign, the SDP-SKH was generally expected to win; \"The Economist\" predicted a coalition government would be formed.\n\nIssues of nation and elections/democracy dominated the overall campaign; economic issues were three-times-less represented than either of the former issues. A similar breakdown of campaign focus existed in the cases of the HDZ, SKH-SDP and KNS when analyzed individually. The theme of restructuring Yugoslavia as a looser confederation and, should that fail, achieving independence was reaffirmed in the campaign and accepted by Tuđman. For the SKH-SDP, the elections primarily meant a campaign for the reform of the Yugoslav federation. The HDZ's priority was building the Croatian state.\n\nIn the run-up to the vote, 15% of Croats said they supported independence and 64% declared in favour of the proposed confederation. 37% said independence was a political priority. Parties gradually developed their ethnic profiles during the campaign. While the SDS appealed exclusively to Croatian Serb voters, surveys indicated 98% of the HDZ's voters were Croats. The KNS applied moderately nationalistic rhetoric but failed to seriously challenge the HDZ. Growing Serbian and Croatian Serb nationalism increasingly prompted Croat voters to support the HDZ. The SKH-SDP appealed to an ethnically mixed electorate; surveys indicated 52% of its supporters were Croats, 28% were Serbs and 17% declared themselves as Yugoslavs. Among Croatian Serbs, only 23% supported the SDS, while 46% supported the SKH-SDP. Eventually, the HDZ emerged as the most credible anti-communist party in Croatia, rejecting the arbitrary rule and corruption that many Croatians associated with 45 years of communist domination, and affirming Croatia's national and religious identity.\n\nMainstream media in Croatia largely portrayed Tuđman and HDZ as right-wing nationalists, often as extremists who threatened Yugoslavia's continuation as a unified state. These comparisons were made following conflicting media statements by the party's leaders—especially at the HDZ general convention—which made it difficult to assess whether this was merely an electoral tactic, or whether the party's intention was to encourage Croatian nationalism. The Croatian public came to view the HDZ as the only party that could effectively \"defend Croatia's national interests\". The SKH-SDP was portrayed as a party of moderates by the Croatian media, and it avoided using the term \"Croatian national interests\" as a major talking point, fearing it would lose the support of Croatian Serb voters. The KNS was positioned between the two but its incoherent approach and greater emphasis on individual rights rather than national issues cost it votes.\n\nBeginning in mid-1988, mainstream Serbian media reported that Croatia was supporting Albanian separatism in the Serbian province of Kosovo and was oppressing Croatian Serbs to pressure Serbia's leaders. Media heavily criticized the HDZ and equated it with the fascist Ustaše movement that controlled Croatia during World War II, while the possibility of a HDZ electoral victory was portrayed as a revival of the Croatian fascist state. This rhetoric was reinforced after Tuđman said the NDH was \"not merely a quisling construct, but also an expression of the historical aspirations of the Croatian nation\". Serbian media consequently equated the prospect of an HDZ electoral victory with a repeat of the Ustaše-led massacres, deportations and forced conversions of Serbs that had occurred in Croatia during World War II. Media had criticized the SKH-SDP since 1989 as ineffective in stopping the rise of Croatian nationalism; the SDS was promoted as the Croatian Serbs' only hope of preserving their national identity.\n\nA a rally held at Petrova Gora on 4 March had a significant impact upon ethnic homogenization. It was not formally associated with any party standing in the election; it was organized by the municipalities of Vojnić and Vrginmost, and the Yugoslav Independent Democratic Party. According to the then-mayor of Vrginmost, the two municipalities had organized the rally to show their support for brotherhood and unity—a Titoist concept whereby all of Yugoslavia's ethnic groups would live in harmony—instead of letting it become a Serb nationalist event. The rally was attended by tens of thousand Serbs who heard mainly pro-Yugoslav speeches about the threat posed by the HDZ and the unfavourable position of Serbs in Croatian society. The SKH-SDP condemned the rally in advance as being harmful to inter-ethnic relations and potentially capable of increasing Croatian nationalism. Croatian media linked the rally to the anti-bureaucratic revolution in neighbouring Serbia and depicted it as a protest demanding the overthrow of the Croatian government. Conversely, Serbian media equated the SKH-SDP with the HDZ, declared the entire Croatian political spectrum nationalist and said Serbs should not take part in Croatia's electoral process.\n\nA HDZ rally in Benkovac, held on 18 March, also led to substantial media coverage in Croatia and Serbia, and significantly influenced the general atmosphere surrounding the election campaign. The event drew several thousand HDZ supporters and several hundred Serbs who booed speakers and threw missiles at them. During Tuđman's address, a 62-year-old Serbian man, Boško Čubrilović, approached the podium. When he was stopped by security, Čubrilović drew a gas pistol. He was thrown to the ground; the gun was confiscated and shown to the crowd and described as the gun meant to kill Tuđman. The rally disintegrated into a mass brawl that was stopped by police. Croatian media described the incident as an assassination attempt. Čubrilović was charged with threatening the security staff, for which he was tried and convicted in late 1990. The incident increased ethnic tensions and firmly positioned ethnic issues as an important theme of the election campaign. Croatian media described the incident as an attempt to destabilize Croatia, while Serbian media said the events in Benkovac embodied the legitimate fears of Croatian Serbs brought on by the rise of Croatian nationalism embodied by Tuđman and the HDZ.\n\nIn the first round of voting on 22–23 April, the turnout in the election for members of the Socio-Political Council was 84.54% (2,875,061 total votes). HDZ won 41.76% of popular vote, followed by SKH-SDP and KNS at 23.59% and 10.99% respectively. Turnout in the election of members of the Council of Municipalities was 84.09% (3,433,548 total votes); HDZ lead the poll, winning 43.91% of the votes cast, again followed by SKH-SDP and KNS at 25.28% and 9.37% of votes respectively. Turnout for the election of members of the Council of Associated Labour was 76.53% (1,455,365 total votes). HDZ received 32.69% of votes cast, followed by SKH-SDP at 25.06%. Independent candidates received 19.75% and KNS won 10.39% of the vote.\n\nThe first round of voting decided 137 of the 356 seats in the three chambers of the parliament. HDZ won 107 of them, while SKH-SDP received 14 seats outright and three more in coalition with the Socialist Alliance – Alliance of Socialists of Croatia (—SS-SSH). The remaining 13 seats were distributed between independent candidates and four other parties. KNS received one seat. In response to KNS's poor result, HDS left the coalition and continued to campaign on its own. After the results were announced, SKH-SDP realized it would lose the elections; Račan stated that SKH-SDP would be a strong opposition party. Tuđman declared that with the HDZ in power there would be no personal revenge against the SKH-SDP members who had dismissed HDZ supporters from their jobs, but that those who opposed HDZ's views would be removed from public office.\n\nThe second round of voting was held on 6–7 May. The election for members of the Socio-Political Council was held in 51 previously undecided constituencies where the turnout was 74.82% (1,678,412 total votes). HDZ won 42.18% of popular vote, followed by SKH-SDP at 27.52% and KNS at 9.89%. Turnout in the election of members of the Council of Municipalities had been 74.58% (1,589,894 total votes). HDZ lead the poll with 41.50% of the votes cast, again followed by SKH-SDP and KNS at 33.28% and 8.19% of votes respectively. In the election of members of the Council of Associated Labour in 103 constituencies undecided in the first round of voting, turnout was 66.05% (847,288 total votes). SKH-SDP received 31.56% of votes cast, followed by HDZ at 28.32%. Independent candidates received 13.26% and KNS won 10.95% of the vote.\n\nThe runoff decided 214 more seats in the parliament. In addition to the seats won in the first round, HDZ won 98, while SKH-SDP alone or in coalition with SS-SSH received 73 seats. Overall, in the two rounds of voting, 351 seats in the three chambers of the parliament were decided. HDZ won 205 seats on its own and four through candidates supported jointly with Croatian Peasant Party (—HSS) (2) and HSLS (2), SKH-SDP won 73 seats alone, and 23 more were won by candidates supported by SKH-SDP and other political entities. Other parties winning seats in the parliament were KNS (11), HDS (10), SDS (5) SS-SSH (4), HSS (1) and SSOH (1). Association of independent entrepreneurs of Đurđevac won one seat and 13 were won by independent candidates.\n\nGenerally, HDZ fared the best in both rounds of voting in areas where Croats represented the absolute majority. SKH-SDP did well in ethnically mixed areas of Banovina, Kordun and Lika. It also fared well in Istria and major cities, especially in Split, Rijeka, and Osijek—a result interpreted as a consequence of specific socio-economic properties of the population there. SKH-SDP suffered a substantial defeat in Zagreb.\n\nThe elections were the first free and multiparty elections held in Croatia since 11 December 1938 elections for the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and were the first such elections for the Croatian parliament since 16 December 1913. SKH-SDP graciously accepted HDZ's electoral victory, but the defeat led to substantial losses of party members. Those who left SKH-SDP included traditionalist communists and Croatian Serb party members who followed the lead of Borislav Mikelić. 97,000 members of SKH-SDP switched their political allegiances and joined HDZ. By June, SKH-SDP membership dropped from 298,000 to 46,000.\n\nFollowing a plan designed to coincide with the change of regime in Croatia, and in neighbouring Slovenia, the General Staff of the Yugoslav People's Army (—JNA) moved in to confiscate Croatia's and Slovenia's Territorial Defence (—TO) weapons to minimize the possibility of armed resistance from the two republics. The plan was executed on 14 May before the newly elected parliament convened. Unlike Slovene authorities—which salvaged nearly a third of the TO stockpile—Croatia was caught unprepared and the JNA seized all Croatian TO weapons, effectively disarming the republic's security forces. An exception was made in cases of Serb-populated areas, where local TO depots were left intact or even augmented by the JNA. The weapons would only be recaptured in late 1991 in the Battle of the Barracks, or returned in its aftermath by the JNA.\n\nThe newly elected Parliament convened on 30 May and elected Tuđman as President of Presidency of Croatia by 281 votes to 50, in a secret ballot. Žarko Domljan was elected the speaker of the parliament. and Stjepan Mesić was appointed the prime minister. SDS leader Jovan Rašković was offered a position in the government but he declined the offer. In line with Tuđman's announcement following the first round of elections, the new government soon started to purge Serbs from public office. This was primarily concerned with the police, where ethnic Serbs comprised approximately 75% of personnel in disproportion to the 12% they comprised in the ethnic mix of Croatia. Tuđman sanctioned the dismissal of Serbs from the police and their replacement with Croats, reducing the proportion of Serbs in the police force to 28% by November 1992. Similar policies were applied in the judiciary, media and the education system, though this was expanded to encompass others who were not in agreement with HDZ.\n\nIn the aftermath of the elections, Tuđman was reluctant to proceed towards independence, realizing Croatia's vulnerability in any armed conflict. At the first session of the parliament, Tuđman addressed the members and announced the government's immediate tasks; the adoption of a new constitution, the resolving of the issue of Croatia's position in Yugoslavia, and integration into the European Community to ensure its independence and development.\n\nOn 29 June 1990, the parliament started work on amendments to the Constitution of Croatia designed to remove all references to communism and socialism. The amendments were prepared and adopted on 25 July. The official name of the republic was changed to the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Presidency became the President of Croatia, and a new coat of arms was adopted as a chequy of 25 red and white fields, which replaced the red star on the flag of Croatia. Serbs interpreted the chequy used in the new arms and flag as provocative and reminiscent of NDH and Ustaše. While the chequy was used by the Nazi-puppet regime during the World War II, the symbol was also used in the arms of Croatia as a constituent part of Yugoslavia. Nonetheless, Serbs perceived the symbol as threatening.\n\nSerbian nationalism in Croatia was well developed long before HDZ took power, but legislation and especially nationalist rhetoric used by HDZ fed that nationalism. An association of Serb municipalities was already established in Knin ahead of the elections. Civilians armed by the authorities of Serbia patrolled the area as Croatian control waned in the region. The Serbian government responded to HDZ's electoral victory by stating that Croatian authorities intended only to harm Croatian Serbs, exacerbating the already tense situation and supporting extremists among the SDS ranks. Provocative actions of extremists among HDZ further served SDS hardliners' goals to instill fear among Serbs.\n\nOn 25 July, hours after the parliament adopted the amendments, Serb National Council (SNC) was set up at a political rally in Srb and the Declaration on sovereignty and autonomy of Serbian nation was adopted. On 1 August, the SNC met in Knin, elected Milan Babić as its president and announced a referendum on Serb autonomy in parts of Croatia with Serb-majority populations. It was scheduled for the period from 19 August to 2 September. Croatian authorities declared the plan illegal on 3 August.\n\nOn 17 August, Croatian authorities planned to restore their control of Knin and deployed police via Benkovac and Obrovac towards the town. The Airborne Unit of the special police was ferried by helicopters from Zagreb as reinforcements. Knin police inspector Milan Martić deployed Knin police against the Croatian forces, and mobilized police reservists in the area to fell trees and block road access to the town, earning the event the moniker Log Revolution. The JNA deployed Yugoslav Air Force jets to intercept the helicopters and Croatian authorities backed down. The SNC referendum went ahead and produced support for an \"independent status\" of Croatian Serbs. Babić consolidated power over the region, which soon became the Serbian Autonomous Oblast Krajina (SAO Krajina). As SAO Krajina gradually consolidated and expanded areas under its control, armed clashes in Pakrac and Plitvice Lakes ensued by March and April 1991, sparking the Croatian War of Independence. By that time, 28 of the 37 ethnic Serb members of the Croatian parliament, including all five SDS representatives, had left the parliament.\n\nBooks\nScientific journal articles\n\nNews reports\n\nOther sources\n"}
{"id": "1823684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823684", "title": "Willie Horton (baseball)", "text": "Willie Horton (baseball)\n\nWillie Wattison Horton (born October 18, 1942) is a former left fielder and designated hitter in Major League Baseball who played for six American League teams, primarily the Detroit Tigers. He hit 20 or more home runs seven times, and his 325 career home runs ranked sixth among AL right-handed hitters when he retired. He enjoyed his best season in 1968 with the world champion Tigers, finishing second in the AL with 36 homers, a .543 slugging average and 278 total bases. In the later years of his career, he was twice named the AL's top designated hitter.\n\nHorton is the youngest of 21 children of James Horton and his wife Lillian (Wattison) Horton. He was born in Arno, Virginia, a small community in the corporate limits of Appalachia. Willie Horton hit a home run at Tiger Stadium when he was 16 years old during an all-city high school game. After winning a city championship with Detroit Northwestern High School in 1959, he signed with the Tigers in 1961, playing for the Tigers' farm team, the Duluth Dukes, on the shores of Lake Superior, and made his debut with the Tigers on September 10, 1963. He had a pinch-hit home run off Robin Roberts in his second at bat.\n\nHe saw limited playing time in his first two years before a 1965 rookie campaign in which he was second in the AL with 104 runs batted in (RBI) and third with 29 home runs. He was named to the All-Star team, and placed eighth in the MVP balloting. Becoming known for his tremendous strength, often hitting home runs with a one-handed swing, he again collected 100 RBIs in the 1966 season. During the 1967 Detroit 12th Street riot, he tried bravely to restore peace. He stood in his Tiger uniform on a car in the middle of the chaos, pleading for calm. However, despite his impassioned pleas, the city burned for five more days.\n\nHorton posted double-digit home run totals in 12 regular seasons from 1965–76, and hit two home runs in a game on 30 occasions. He had a career-high 36 HR in 1968, a pitcher's year in which Detroit won the World Series; he finished second in the AL to Frank Howard in homers, slugging and total bases. In a year in which the league batting average was .230 and Carl Yastrzemski won the batting title with a .301 mark, Horton's .285 average was good for fourth in the AL, and he finished fourth in the MVP voting.\nHe also batted .304 in the World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals. In order to combine Horton's offensive power with a good defense, manager Mayo Smith moved regular center fielder Mickey Stanley to shortstop as a replacement for Ray Oyler, who was benched because of his paltry .135 batting average. He kept Al Kaline, a multiple Gold Glove Award winner, in right field and put Jim Northrup in center field; the two had platooned in right field for much of the year. When the Tigers were safely ahead, Oyler would replace Stanley at shortstop, batting in Horton's lineup spot; Stanley returned to center field, and Northrup would move over to replace Horton in left field. In Game 2, Horton had a solo home run to give the Tigers an early 1–0 lead, and they won 8–1. While not considered a great defensive outfielder, he made a pivotal play in the fifth inning of Game 5. With the Cardinals leading the Series 3–1 and the game 3–2, Lou Brock doubled with one out. He tried to score on Julián Javier's single, but chose not to slide; Horton's throw reached catcher Bill Freehan on one bounce to beat Brock on a close play. Horton still lists the throw as the most memorable moment of his career. Detroit scored three runs in the seventh inning to win 5–3, and went on to win Games 6 and 7 as well; Horton had two runs and two RBI in the 13–1 blowout in Game 6, and two hits and a run in the final 4–1 victory.\n\nHorton was a four-time member of the AL All-Star team (1965, 1968, 1970 and 1973). He hit three home runs against the Milwaukee Brewers on June 9, 1970. On April 14, 1974, he hit a popup which struck and killed a pigeon at Fenway Park. He was named the AL's Outstanding Designated Hitter in 1975 after hitting 25 home runs with 92 RBI. On July 18, 1969, playing against the Cleveland Indians, he tied Boston Braves outfielder Earl Clark's record for most put outs in a nine inning game by a left fielder, nine, a record that has since been tied by Jacoby Ellsbury of the Boston Red Sox.\n\nEarly in the 1977 season, he was traded to the Texas Rangers, and he again hit three home runs on May 15 against the Kansas City Royals at Royals Stadium. He spent 1978 playing for the Cleveland Indians, Oakland Athletics and Toronto Blue Jays, before finally settling with the Seattle Mariners from 1979–80.\n\nIn 1978, he joined the Venezuelan team Navegantes del Magallanes as a designated hitter and manager. In his first season with Magallanes, Horton earned the nickname \"\"El Brujo\"\" (\"The Wizard\"), taking the team from last place the previous season to first, winning the 1979 Caribbean Series championship with a 5–1 record.\n\nIn 1979 with the Mariners he was again named the AL's Outstanding Designated Hitter after hitting .279 with 29 HR and a career-high 106 RBI, and he received The Sporting News Comeback Player of the Year Award as well. On June 5, against the Tigers against John Hiller, he hit what seemed to be his 300th career home run, but it struck a speaker hanging from the roof of the Kingdome and bounced onto the field for a single; he would collect number 300 the next day against Jack Morris. His Mariners record of 106 RBI was broken by Alvin Davis in 1984, his marks of 180 hits and 296 total bases were broken by Phil Bradley in 1985, and his record of 29 home runs was broken by Gorman Thomas in 1985. His record of 646 at bats was broken by Alex Rodriguez in 1998; Horton remains one of only four Mariners to have played the full 162 games in a season. He played his final major league game on October 5, 1980. Horton played two more years in the Pacific Coast League and another season in Mexican baseball.\n\nIn an 18-season career, Horton posted a .273 batting average and .457 slugging average with 1993 hits, 284 doubles, 1,163 RBIs, 873 runs and 20 stolen bases in 2028 games. His 325 home runs in the AL placed him behind only Harmon Killebrew (573), Jimmie Foxx (524), teammate Al Kaline (399), Rocky Colavito (371) and Joe DiMaggio (361) among right-handed hitters.\n\nAmong his baseball superstitions was his use of the same batting helmet throughout his career; he repainted it when he changed teams. After retiring, he coached for the New York Yankees and Chicago White Sox. On July 15, 2000 Horton became just the sixth former player given the ultimate honor by the Detroit Tigers; a statue of Horton was placed in Comerica Park and his number 23 was retired, joining a select group that includes former Tigers players Ty Cobb (who did not wear a number), Charlie Gehringer (number 2), Hank Greenberg (number 5), Al Kaline (number 6), and Hal Newhouser (number 16). While Horton's career body of work was solid and workmanlike, it was not quite of the same caliber as that of his Tiger brethren enshrined in Cooperstown; nevertheless, the statue is a testament to the crucial role he played in restoring peace and quelling eruptions during the 1967 riot, and to this day endures as an important symbol of peace and harmony in a hardscrabble city often beset by racial tension.\n\nSince 2003, Horton has served as a Special Assistant to Tigers President/CEO/General Manager, originally Dave Dombrowski, and now Al Avila. Former Tigers teammate Al Kaline also held this position, and the two threw out the first pitch of the 2006 World Series at Comerica Park.\n\nFor the ninth consecutive year, the state of Michigan recognized one man's ability to overcome obstacles and achieve a lifetime of success when \"Willie Horton Day\" was celebrated on Thursday, October 18, 2012. Horton is the fourth person in Michigan history to be given a day, with the third being Rosa Parks.\n\nOn Opening Day 2013, Horton threw out the first pitch at Comerica Park in Detroit. The Tigers went on to win 8–3 over the New York Yankees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823687", "title": "Permanent Resident Card", "text": "Permanent Resident Card\n\nPermanent Resident Card may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1823690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823690", "title": "Grande Bibliothèque", "text": "Grande Bibliothèque\n\nThe Grande Bibliothèque is a public library in Downtown Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Its collection is part of Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ), Quebec's national library.\n\nMembership in the library is free to all residents of Quebec. With some 10,000 users per day and a record of 3 million users in 2009—double the projected figure of 1.5 million. In 2011, it attracted 2.7 million visitors, and was the most frequented public library in both North America and the Francophonie.\n\nThe collection consists of some 4 million works, including 1.14 million books, 1.2 million other documents, and 1.66 million microfiches. The majority of the works are in French; about 30% are in English, and a dozen other languages are also represented. The library has some 80 kilometres of shelf space.\n\nThese works are divided into two collections. The or Québec heritage collection, with about one million works, consists of copies of all works given to the BNQ for legal deposit, that is every book published in the province since 1968 as well as some 35,000 books published elsewhere that are pertaining to the subject of Quebec or whose at least one co-author is originally from the province. Documents by or about French Canadians, French Americans or Aboriginal peoples of the province are also included in this last number. This is supplemented by the Saint-Sulpice collection of some 78,000 works, some dating back to the 1760s and including books from the personal libraries of such figures as Louis-Joseph Papineau and Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine. The \"Collection nationale\" is available for on-site reference.\n\nThe , a collection of about three million works on all subjects, includes the collection of the , purchased from the City of Montreal for the project, as well as new acquisitions. Except for reference works, these works are available for loan. Written works are catalogued by the Dewey Decimal System.\n\nBesides written works, there is also a large multimedia collection including 70,000 music CDs, 5,000 music scores, 16,000 films on DVD and Blu-ray, and 500 software programs, available for loan. The library's adapted book service holds more than 50,000 documents for the visually impaired, including Braille and audiobooks.\n\nThe library has 1300 reading armchairs, 850 study seats and carrels, and 350 computer stations.\n\nThe basement contains a children's library with special audio-visual equipment, the \"Espace jeunes\".\n\nIts extensive multimedia facilities include 44 audio stations and 50 video stations, as well as multimedia computer terminals and two music rooms with facilities for composing electronic music.\n\nOther specialized services include a job and career centre, a business connection centre, a special service centre for newcomers to Québec, and a language laboratory.\n\nIn addition to its collections, reading rooms, and audio-visual facilities, the Grande Bibliothèque also contains exhibition spaces, conference rooms, theatres, and auditoriums.\n\nThe Grande Bibliothèque, which had been a pet project of former Québec premier Lucien Bouchard, was designed by Patkau Architects from Vancouver and Croft-Pelletier/Gilles Guité from Quebec City.\n\nConstruction on the new 33,000 m² library, a $90.6 million project began in 2001 on the site of the former Palais du commerce. It was officially opened 23 April 2005 in time for the World Book and Copyright Day, during a year in which Montréal held the honorary title of World Book Capital given by UNESCO. The library was opened to the general public the following Saturday, April 30, 2005, and loans began on May 3.\n\nThe contemporary-styled five-storey building is clad with U-shaped plates of glass of a type never used before in North America, placed horizontally on the copper uprights that run the whole height of the building.\n\nIn June 2005 three of these plates of glass shattered. In the first three weeks of July 2005, three more of these plates shattered, an average of one breakage per week. Metal barricades and canopies were used to secure the areas until the problem was corrected.\n\nThe national and universal collections are each housed in one of two \"chambres de bois\" (\"wooden rooms\"), a reference to Anne Hébert's novel \"Les Chambres de bois\". These multi-storey areas are demarcated by walls of wooden slats, either allowing indirect natural light or blocking it according to the conservation needs of the collection. The slats are made of Québec-grown yellow birch, the official tree of Québec.\n\nIn accordance with the Québec government's policy on integrating art and architecture, the building contains several integrated works of art:\n\nThe Grande Bibliothèque is located at 475 De Maisonneuve Boulevard East () at the corner of Berri Street, in the Quartier Latin adjacent to the Université du Québec à Montréal campus, in the borough of Ville-Marie. It is connected directly by the underground city to Berri-UQAM Metro station, a factor cited by the institution for its success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823692", "title": "Hellenic Memorial, Canberra", "text": "Hellenic Memorial, Canberra\n\nThe Hellenic (Greek) Memorial is on Anzac Parade, beside the Australian War Memorial in Canberra, the national capital city of Australia.\n\nOn 6 April 1941, the 6th Division (Australian Army) joined Allied forces resisting German advancement in mainland Greece. The Allied troops, largely from Australia and New Zealand, were vastly outnumbered on the ground and German forces dominated in the air: This campaign became a 'fighting withdrawal'.\n\nMany evacuated Australians were taken to Crete where, with British, New Zealand, and Greek troops, they fought the ill-fated Battle of Crete campaign against the German troops. More than 5,000 Australian troops became prisoners of war in both campaigns. \n\nThis memorial commemorates those who died and fought in these Greek campaigns, including in the Mediterranean Sea with the Royal Australian Navy and the Merchant Marine, members of the Royal Australian Air Force and the Nursing Services, Special Covert Forces, other Allied service personnel and Greek civilians who helped these people to safety. \n\nThe memorial was dedicated on 21 May 1988 by Bob Hawke, the Prime Minister of Australia, and Mr Ioannis Charalambopoulos, Deputy Prime Minister of Greece.\n\nThe marble memorial recalls the shape of an amphitheatre amidst an olive grove, backed by Cyprus pines. The doric column symbolises the birth of civilisation. The column is also embossed with the cross of the Greek Orthodox Church, representing a soldier's grave. The column stands on a mosaic pavement which represents the rugged coastline and battlefields of the campaigns amidst the peninsular and islands of Greece. (Design: Mary Hall) The damaged steel fragments represent the futility and destruction of war and, together with the column, is indicative of buried relics of civilisation and conflict. \n\nDesigned by architectural firm Ancher, Mortlock and Woolley Pty Ltd.\n\nBehind the main memorial is a memorial tree planted on 28 April 1991 by the Deputy Prime Ministers of Greece and Australia, The Hon. Tzannis Tzannetakis and The Hon. Paul Keating, to mark the 50th anniversary of the battles of mainland Greece and Crete.\n"}
{"id": "1823699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823699", "title": "Chicago-style hot dog", "text": "Chicago-style hot dog\n\nA Chicago-style hot dog, Chicago Dog, or Chicago Red Hot is an all-beef frankfurter on a poppy seed bun, originating from the city of Chicago, Illinois. The hot dog is topped with yellow mustard, chopped white onions, bright green sweet pickle relish, a dill pickle spear, tomato slices or wedges, pickled sport peppers and a dash of celery salt. The complete assembly of a Chicago hot dog is said to be \"dragged through the garden\" due to the many toppings. The method for cooking the hot dog itself varies depending on the vendor's preference. Most often they are steamed, water-simmered, or less often grilled over charcoal (in which case they are referred to as \"char-dogs\").\n\nThe canonical recipe does not include ketchup, and there is a widely shared, strong opinion among many Chicagoans and aficionados that ketchup is unacceptable. A number of Chicago hot dog vendors do not offer ketchup as a condiment.\n\nThe hot dog arrived in Chicago through Frankfurt from Vienna. Pork sausages have been known in Frankfurt since the 13th century. Sometime in the 19th century a butcher in Vienna added beef to the sausage mixture. He called this a \"wiener-frankfurter\". Eventually reaching Chicago, Franks served in buns became popular at fairs and baseball games. Reportedly the pork-free and kosher-style all beef frank was originated by Fluky's in 1929. During the Great Depression they were sold for a nickel out of carts along Maxwell Street. Two Austrian Hungarian immigrants sold their Vienna Beef franks at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Vienna Beef became a major producer of hot dogs and by the early 2000s was one of the major suppliers for hot dog carts.\n\nThe \"dragged through the garden\" style is heavily promoted by Vienna Beef and Red Hot Chicago, the two most prominent Chicago hot dog manufacturers, but exceptions are common, with vendors adding cucumber slices or lettuce, omitting poppyseeds or celery salt, or using plain relish or a skinless hot dog. Several popular hot dog stands serve a simpler version known as the \"Depression Dog\": a steamed natural-casing dog with only mustard, onions, plain relish and sport peppers, wrapped up with hand-cut french fries, while the historic Superdawg drive-ins notably substitute a pickled tomato for fresh. Many vendors offer a Chicago-style dog with cheese sauce, known as a cheese-dog. Boz Hot Dogs locations offer a unique nacho cheese sauce with pieces of jalapeño peppers.\n\nChicago-style hot dogs are cooked in hot water or steamed before adding the toppings. A less common style is cooked on a charcoal grill and referred to as a \"char-dog\". Char-dogs are easily identifiable because very often the ends of the dog are sliced in crisscross fashion before cooking, producing a distinctive cervelat-style \"curled-x\" shape as the dog cooks. Some hot dog stands, such as the Wieners Circle, only serve char-dogs.\n\nThe typical beef hot dog weighs 1/8 of a pound or and the most traditional type features a natural casing, providing a distinctive \"snap\" when bitten.\n\nThe buns are a high-gluten variety made to hold up to steam warming, typically the S. Rosen's Mary Ann brand from Alpha Baking Company.\n\nThe Chicago area has more hot dog restaurants than McDonald's, Wendy's, and Burger King restaurants combined. A \"hot dog stand\" in Chicago may serve many other items, including the Maxwell Street Polish, gyros, pork chop and Italian beef sandwiches, corn dogs, tamales, pizza puffs and Italian ice. The restaurants often have unique names, such as The Wieners Circle, Gene & Jude's, Gold Coast Dogs, Mustard's Last Stand or Morrie O'Malleys; or architectural features, like Superdawg's two giant rooftop hot dogs (Maurie and Flaurie, named for the husband-and-wife team that founded the drive-in). One very popular restaurant is Jimmy's Red Hots, which has been a mainstay for over 55 years in the West-side of Chicago on Grand and Pulaski.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823700", "title": "Popé", "text": "Popé\n\nPopé or Po'pay (; c. 1630 – c. 1688) was a Tewa religious leader from Ohkay Owingeh (renamed San Juan Pueblo by the Spanish during the colonial period), who led the Pueblo Revolt in 1680 against Spanish colonial rule. In the first successful revolt against the Spanish, the Pueblo expelled the colonists and kept them out of the territory for twelve years.\n\nSpanish rule of the Pueblo Indians of the Rio Grande valley of New Mexico began in 1598. Although they numbered 40,000 to 80,000 people at that time, the many independent towns, often speaking different languages and hostile to each other, were unable to unite in opposition to the Spanish. Revolts against Spanish rule were frequent, but the Spanish ruthlessly repressed dissent. The Pueblo suffered abuses from Spanish overlords, soldiers, priests, and their Mexican Indian allies, many from Tlaxcala, Mexico. In particular, the Spanish suppressed the religious ceremonies of the Pueblo. The effects of violence, forced labor, and European diseases (against which they had no immunity) reduced the Pueblo population to about 15,000 by the latter years of the 17th century.\n\nPo'pay appears in history in 1675 as one of 47 religious leaders of the northern Pueblo arrested by Juan Francisco Trevino's government for \"witchcraft.\" Three were executed and one committed suicide. The others were whipped, imprisoned in Santa Fe, and sentenced to be sold into slavery. Seventy Pueblo warriors showed up at the governor's office and demanded, politely but persistently, that Po'pay and the others be released. The governor complied, probably in part because the colony was being seriously targeted by Apaches and Navajo warring parties and he could not afford to risk a Pueblo revolt. Po'pay was described as a \"fierce and dynamic individual…who inspired respect bordering on fear in those who dealt with him.\n\nAfter his release, Po'pay retired to the remote Taos Pueblo and began planning a rebellion. Po'pay's message was simple: destroy the Spanish and their influence and go back to the old ways of life that had given the Pueblos relative peace, prosperity, and independence. The Pueblo revolt displayed \"all the classic characteristics of a revitalization movement...the emergence of a charismatic leader, the development of a core group of followers who spread the prophet's message to the wider public; and, ultimately the successful transformation of Pueblo cultures and communities.\"\n\nPo'pay began secret negotiations with leaders from all other pueblos. They agreed to begin the revolt on August 13, 1680 and runners were sent out to each Pueblo with knotted cords, the number of knots corresponding to the days left before the revolt was to begin. The revolt actually began before that. The measure of the Pueblo's hatred of the Spanish is indicated by the fact that he was able to keep the plans secret, even though they involved many different leaders and towns. Po'pay murdered his own son-in-law, Nicolás Búa, because he feared he might betray the plot to the Spanish. Only the Tiguex area, close to the seat of Spanish power in Santa Fe and perhaps the most acculturated of the Pueblos, declined to join in the revolt. The Southern Piros were apparently not invited to join the revolt.\n\nThe last few years had been relatively quiet and free from internal dissent, and the Spanish in the capital city of Santa Fe were astonished as a report came to the governor early in the morning of August 10 that a Spanish priest had been killed at a Pueblo only nine miles from Santa Fe. By August 15, 1,000 Spaniards had taken refuge in the Governor's palace in Santa Fe, and they were besieged by an Indian army led by Popé they estimated (or overestimated) to number 2,500. Other Spanish survivors had taken refuge in the friendly Pueblo of Isleta, from where they fled south toward Mexico.\n\nOn August 21 the Spanish broke out of the Palace and began a long trek south, leaving New Mexico behind and not stopping until they reached El Paso, Texas. The Pueblos did not molest the departing colonists. The survivors numbered nearly 2,000 persons. The revolt cost 400 Spanish lives, including 21 of the 33 priests in New Mexico.\n\nPo'pay had succeeded in expelling the Spanish from New Mexico and according to later accounts, possibly prejudiced, set himself up as the sole ruler of all the Pueblos. He attempted to destroy every trace of the Spanish presence in New Mexico. \"The God of the Christians is dead,\" he proclaimed. \"He was made of rotten wood.\"\n\nA Spanish force of 300 men attempted to regain a foothold in New Mexico in 1681, but was repelled by Po'pay's army. Another Spanish effort in 1687 also failed. But the expulsion of the Spanish had not brought peace and prosperity to the Pueblos. A return to the traditional religion did not bring rain to ease a drought that destroyed crops. The Apaches and Navajo stepped up their raids on the Pueblos and the Indians recalled that the Spaniards had provided some protection from the raiders. Traditional rivalries divided the Pueblo villages. Po'pay's efforts to rule over all the Pueblos were resented and he was considered a tyrant by many Pueblos. Moreover, among the Pueblos were sincere Christians with ties of family and friendship with the Spanish. Opposition to Spanish rule had given the Pueblos the incentive to unite, but not the means to remain united once their common enemy was vanquished.\n\nPo'pay died, probably in 1688, with the united Pueblo state he envisioned divided and weak. In 1692, Governor Diego de Vargas, with an army of 150 Spanish soldiers and pro-Spanish Pueblo warriors, attempted reconquest. Vargas wisely promised pardon rather than punishment and most of the Pueblos gradually acceded to Spanish rule although violent opposition to Spanish rule continued for several years. Only the distant Hopi, living in what is today Arizona, retained their independence although many Pueblos also took up residence among the Navajo and Apaches.\n\nAs stated by Matthew Martinez of Po'pay's home Pueblo, Ohkay Owingeh, \"it took a unique individual to orchestrate the revolt across two dozen communities who spoke six different languages and were sprawled over a distance of nearly 400 miles.\" What little we know of Po'pay the man is distorted through the lenses of the Spanish chroniclers and their Indian informants, most of whom were opposed to Po'Pay.\n\nBoth the Spanish and the Pueblos were decimated by the revolt and its aftermath. However, what can be said with certainty is that the relations between Spanish and the Pueblos was far different after the revolt than before. The dreaded encomienda system (forced labor) was prohibited in New Mexico. Franciscan priests did not interfere with Pueblo religious ceremonies provided that the Pueblos observed the outward forms of Catholicism. Pueblo warrior and Spanish soldier became allies in the fight against their common enemies, the Apaches, Navajo, Utes, and a new and even greater threat to the survival of New Mexico, the Comanche. Thus, New Mexico became a blend of Spanish and Pueblo culture.\n\nOn September 22, 2005, the Po'pay statue for the National Statuary Hall in the rotunda of the U.S. Congress building was unveiled. The artist, Cliff Fragua, was the first American Indian artist to have a statue placed in the Statuary Hall. The statue, slightly larger than life size, shows Po'Pay holding a knotted cord in his left hand, the signal for the initiation of the revolt. In his right hand is a bear fetish and behind him a pot, both symbolizing the Pueblo world and religion. On his back are the scars from the whipping he received as a consequence of his observing Pueblo religious ceremonies. Herman Agoyo of Ohkay Owingeh said: \"To the Pueblo people here, Po'pay is our hero. Tribes were on the verge of losing their cultural identity when the Pueblo revolt brought everything back on track for our people.\" It is one of two statues presented by New Mexico to the National Statuary Hall Collection. It is currently displayed in the Capitol Visitors' Center.\n\nPo'pay is mentioned by the controversial Taos priest Father Martinez in Willa Cather's \" Death Comes for the Archbishop,\" as leader of the Indian revolt which \"so added to Spanish martyrology.\" Popé is also the name of the New Mexico 'savage' in Huxley's dystopian novel \"Brave New World\" in which he is known to hold on to traditional beliefs.\n"}
{"id": "1823702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823702", "title": "Amanda Ooms", "text": "Amanda Ooms\n\nAmanda Francisca Ooms (born 5 September 1964) is a Dutch-Swedish actress and writer. She has acted in both film and TV in Sweden and internationally. She was born in Kalmar, Sweden. Ooms participates in season 10 of \"Stjärnorna på slottet\" which was broadcast on SVT.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823704", "title": "Quartier Latin, Montreal", "text": "Quartier Latin, Montreal\n\nThe Quartier Latin is an area in the Ville-Marie borough of Montreal, surrounding UQAM and lower Saint-Denis Street, between downtown and the Gay Village. It is known for its theatres, artistic atmosphere, cafés, and boutiques.\n\nIt owes its name, a reference to the Quartier Latin in Paris, to the presence of the École Polytechnique de Montréal and the nascent Université de Montréal in the 1920s. In the 1940s the university moved out and headed for a new campus on the north slopes of Mount Royal, far from the downtown borough. In the late 1960s UQAM was born and established itself in the Ville-Marie borough, giving a modern underpinning to the name. A large junior college, the CEGEP du Vieux-Montreal also moved in at about the same period.\n\nThe Grande Bibliothèque du Québec was opened in the area in 2005, joining the Cinémathèque québécoise as a key cultural attraction. The National Film Board of Canada's CinéRobotheque facility was based here until April 2012, when it was closed as part of cuts imposed by the 2012 Canadian federal budget.\n\nThis area falls within the boundaries of the new Quartier des Spectacles entertainment district, now being developed.\n"}
{"id": "1823707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823707", "title": "Dogra", "text": "Dogra\n\nThe Dogras or Dogra people, are an Indo-Aryan ethno-linguistic group in India and Pakistan consisting of the Dogri language speakers. Dogra ruled Jammu from the 19th century, when Gulab Singh was made a hereditary Raja of Jammu by the Sikh Emperor Maharaja Ranjit Singh, whilst his brother Dhian Singh was the empire’s prime minister, until October 1947. Through the Treaty of Amritsar (1846), they acquired Kashmir as well. They live predominantly in the Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir, and in adjoining areas of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and northeastern Pakistan. The Brahmin Dogras are predominantly Saraswat Brahmins, genetically of common origin with Saraswat Brahmins of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThe Dogra Regiment and the Punjab Regiment of the Indian Army primarily consists of Dogras and Sikhs.\n\nThe term Dogra is thought to derive from \"Durgara\", the name of a kingdom mentioned in an eleventh century copper-plate inscription in Chamba. The inscription mentions the Raja of Chamba facing an attack by Kiras aided by the Lord of Durgara (\"durgāreśwara\"). In medieval times the term \"Durgar\" is believed to have turned into \"Dugar\", eventually transforming to \"Dogra\". Kalhana's \"Rajatarangini\" makes no mention of a kingdom by any of these names, but the kingdoms could have been referred to by their capital cities (such as \"Vallapura\", modern Billawar, or \"Babbapura\", modern Babor). In modern times, the term Dogra turned into an ethnic identity, claimed by all those people that speak the Dogri language, irrespective of their religion.\n\nScholar Omachanda Handa believes that the Durgara people were originally migrants from Rajasthan to the Terai belt, similar to the Gurjaras (or \"Gujjars\"). The allusion to \"durg\" (fort) in their name indicates that they may have remained a warrior people, eventually founding powerful kingdoms between Chenab and Ravi, and possibly dominating up to the Sutluj river.\n\nAccording to M. A. Stein, there were some eleven Dogra states in the region, all of which were eventually absorbed into the Jammu state, which emerged as the most powerful among them. Prior to the rise of Jammu, Babbapura (Babor) is expected to have been the chief state of Dogras. Lying 45 km east of Jammu, Babor contains the ruins of six magnificent temples representing a \"thriving artistic activity\". The Rajatarangini mentions the Raja Vajradhara of Babbapura, vowing allegiance to Bhikshachara of Kashmir in 1120 AD, along with the chiefs of neighbouring kingdoms.\n\nThe Jammu region, one of the two regions of UT of Jammu and Kashmir (the other being the Kashmir Valley), is bound on the north by the Pir Panjal Range of the middle Himalayas, in the south by Punjab, to the east by Ladakh, and close to the west by Pakistan. The lower Himalayan ranges begin behind the town of Jammu, which rests on a slope over above sea level, overlooking and commanding the plain watered by the Chenab, Ravi, Tawi and Ujh rivers. The Jammu region consists of ten districts: Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Doda, Poonch, Kishtwar, Reasi, Samba, Ramban and Rajouri. The city of Jammu is the winter capital of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir (union territory)}Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThe Jammu Dogras traditionally inhabited the area between the slopes of the Shivalik range of mountains, the sacred lakes of Saroien sar and Mannsar but later spread over whole of Jammu region. They generally speak Dogri and other dialects similar to Dogri. The majority of the Dogra are followers of Hinduism, but a large number in Jammu and Kashmir believe in other religions. In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, some Dogras embraced Islam. These factors, together with the effects of immigration into the region, have resulted in the Dogra population of Jammu and Kashmir including members of all three religions. \n\nThe Dogra Raj emerged as a regional power, particularly after Maharaja Gulab Singh emerged as a warrior and his subjects received special martial recognition from the British Raj. The rule of Gulab Singh's Raj extended over the whole of the Jammu Region, a large part of the Ladakh region as early as March 1846, and a large part of the Indian Punjab (now Himachal Pradesh). The Kashmir Valley was handed over to Gulab Singh by the British government, as part of the territories ceded to the British government by Lahore State according to the provisions of Article IV of the Treaty of Lahore dated 9March 1846. Under the Treaty of Amritsar in the same year, the Dogra king of Jammu and the state was thereafter known as the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir State (Raj), also thereafter referred as Kashmir State. The term Dogra hence is more akin to the subjects of Himachal Pradesh, some areas of Punjab and the whole region of Jammu that was ruled by Raja Gulab Singh as part of the Dogra Raj irrespective of the religion of the inhabitants.\n\n\nThe Dogra dynasty was a dynasty of Hindu Rajputs who ruled Jammu & Kashmir from 1846 to 1947. They traced their ancestry to the Ikshvaku (Solar) Dynasty of Northern India (the same clan in which Lord Rama was born; he, therefore, is the 'kuldevta' (family deity) of the Dogras). \n\nAmong the enlightened rulers of Jammu was Raja Ranjit Dev (1728–1780) who introduced certain social reforms such as a ban on 'Sati' (immolation of the wife on the funeral pyre of the husband) and female infanticide. Later, under Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the state became part of the Sikh Empire of the Punjab after it was captured from its Afghan rulers. Ranjit Singh rendered this state to his general, Maharaja Gulab Singh Jamwal, who belonged to the Jamwal Rajput clan that ruled Jammu. He extended the boundaries of Jammu to western Tibet with the help of General Zorawar Singh. \n\nThe Sikh Empire rule extended beyond the Jammu Region and the Kashmir Valley to the Tibetan Buddhist Kingdom of Ladakh and the Emirates of Hunza, Gilgit and Nagar. After the First Anglo-Sikh War in 1846, the British gave Kashmir and the title of 'Maharaja' to Gulab Singh — the chief minister — as a reward for aligning with them against the Sikhs.\n\nWheat, maize and bajra are staple food besides rice, cereals and a tangier preparation made out of mango or tamarind popularly known as \"maani\". The whole dish is called \"dal puth maani\" and is savoured as a combination. \"Mitha madra\" is a favourite and is cooked from milk, dry fruits, and semolina. Preparations of \"rajmash\" (a special variety of red kidney beans); \"auria\" a dish of curd fermented by rye; \"ambal\" made from pumpkin, jaggery and tamarind are favourites, especially during ceremonial cooking. The expert cooks are called \"Siyans\", usually Brahmins. \"Kalari\" is a milk preserved by cogulation of proteins and then fried in a pan to make it delicious.\n\nNon-vegetarian food was limited to Rajputs and Vaish (Mahajans). 'Khatta meat' is mutton cooked with sour pomegranate seeds (Anardana) or lime juice and flavoured with fumes of a burning charcoal soaked in mustard oil. Keur is one of the well known foods of Dogras. It is prepared by flour and butter and served with sugar and curd. Mostly, it is served to bridegroom at the time of marriage by the in-laws. Kalaari is a favourite food of Dogras in the rainy season. It is prepared by flour mix, cottage cheese and milk cream (malai) with water with help of a small cup shaped pot. Kalari is served with milk. Kalari cheese is popular in the Jammu region and in Jammu and Kashmir state more generally. Babbru/pathoru are prepared with flour and fried in mustard oil. Babbru is served with maani/potato/kheer/curd.\n\nKheer is a dish prepared from milk by adding some rice and dry fruit in it. It is served at all the special occasions and festivals. Another popular exotic dish is \"guchiyyan\" (dried black morel), usually added as an ingredient in pulao. As it grows naturally in forests and cannot be cultivated, it is a priced commodity (approx 500 Rs. per 100 g) and makes an excelled dish with mountain potatoes (pahadi aloo). Saffron or kesar is extensively used to flavour sweet dishes and for its anti-oxidant benefits.\n\nThe Dogra Regiment was among the regiments of the British Indian Army, which made significant contributions in both the world wars on all fronts from East Asia to Europe and North Africa. At Independence, it became an infantry regiment of the Indian Army composed largely but not exclusively of the Dogra people. The Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, another regiment of the Indian Army, consisting of mainly Dogras was formed out of the former army of the Kingdom of Jammu & Kashmir after it was absorbed into the Indian Army.\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823715", "title": "John Roach Straton", "text": "John Roach Straton\n\nJohn Roach Straton (surname rhymes with \"Dayton\"); born April 6, 1875 in Evansville, Indiana; died October 29, 1929 in Clifton Springs, New York) was a noted Baptist pastor. Straton was the son of the Reverend Henry Dundas Douglas Straton and the former Julia Rebecca Carter of Virginia. He became a Christian when he was a teenager and heard the revival preaching of James Hawthorne.\n\nStraton graduated from Mercer University in Macon, Georgia in 1898. He also attended Southern Baptist Theological Seminary from 1902-03 as well as University of Chicago and the Boston School of Oratory. Straton was ordained in 1900 and spent most of his adult life as pastor of several churches in four major cities: Second Baptist in Chicago (1905–1908), Immanuel-Seventh Baptist in Baltimore (1908–1913), First Baptist in Norfolk, Virginia (1914-1917), and most notably of the Calvary Baptist Church in New York City 1918–1929, which was the first church in the country to make regular use of radio to broadcast services. Straton was supportive of the work of Uldine Utley, an immensely popular 14-year-old child preacher in the 1920s, and invited her to preach at Calvary Church.\n\nAlong with William Bell Riley of Minnesota, Dr. Straton was one of the foremost leaders of the anti-evolution campaign of the 1920s. For years Straton carried on a feud with the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, New York City because of its Hall of the Age of Man, which displayed the remains of fossilized men. Straton charged the museum with \"mis-spending the taxpayers' money, and poisoning the minds of school children by false and bestial theories of evolution.\"\n\nFrom December 1923 to May 1924, Dr. Straton engaged in a series of debates with the Modernist minister Charles Francis Potter of the West Side Unitarian Church. Friendly enemies, Straton and Potter debated the following subjects: (1) \"Resolved, that the Bible is the infallible word of God\"; (2) \"Resolved, that the world and man came by creation of a living God and not by evolution\"; (3) \"Resolved, that the miraculous virgin birth of Jesus Christ is an essential Christian doctrine\"; (4) \"Resolved, that Jesus Christ is the Divine Son of God\"; and (5) \"Resolved, that Jesus Christ will return in bodily presence to this earth and establish the reign of universal peace and righteousness.\" Later Straton published a book, \"The Famous New York Fundamentalist-Modernist Debates\", which contained only his own speeches and omitted those of Potter.\n\nOn June 28, 1924, he offered the opening invocation on the fifth day of the 1924 Democratic National Convention.\n\nDuring the Scopes Trial when the judge was considering letting scientists testify for the defense, William Jennings Bryan wired Straton to come to Dayton, Tennessee, to be a rebuttal witness. However, the judge ruled against the defense and Straton never went to Tennessee. After the trial and Bryan's death, Straton challenged defense attorneys Clarence Darrow and Dudley Field Malone to debate, but was rebuffed.\n\nDuring the 1928 presidential campaign, Straton, along with William Bell Riley and J. Frank Norris, rallied opposition to Al Smith, the Roman Catholic nominee of the Democratic Party. In keeping with his strong opposition to the liquor traffic, Straton was one of the first to label Smith \"the candidate of rum, Romanism and rebellion\", a phrase used unsuccessfully in 1884 against Grover Cleveland in the race against James G. Blaine. Huey Pierce Long, Jr., the governor of Louisiana in 1928 and a Smith supporter, claimed that Straton was being paid $500 a night for speeches on behalf of the Republican candidate, Herbert Hoover. Long accused Straton of waging war against white supremacy in the American South. Long said that he respected all clergymen and denominations but not when \"political considerations entered therein.\"\n\nStraton's health was broken by his intense schedule during the campaign, and in April 1929 he suffered a slight paralytic stroke, which led to a nervous breakdown brought on by overwork in the fall and finally a fatal heart attack.\n\nStraton married the former Georgia Hillyer of Atlanta, Georgia, on November 2, 1903 and they had four sons: Rev. Hillyer Hawthorne Straton, John Charles Straton, Rev. Warren Badenock Straton, and George Douglas Straton.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823716", "title": "Ville-Marie", "text": "Ville-Marie\n\nVille-Marie may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823719", "title": "Toronto Varsity Blues", "text": "Toronto Varsity Blues\n\nThe Toronto Varsity Blues is the intercollegiate sports program at the University of Toronto. Its 43 athletic teams regularly participate in competitions held by Ontario University Athletics and U Sports. The Varsity Blues traces its founding to 1877, with the formation of the men's football team. Since 1908, Varsity Blues athletes have won numerous medals in Olympic Games and Paralympic Games and have also long competed in International University Sports Federation championships, Commonwealth Games, and Pan American Games.\n\nThe Varsity Blues program has teams in badminton, baseball, basketball, cross country running, curling, fastpitch softball, fencing, field hockey, figure skating, football, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, mountain biking, nordic skiing, rowing, rugby, soccer, squash, swimming, tennis, track and field, volleyball, water polo and wrestling.\n\nThe men's ice hockey team plays in the Ontario University Athletics conference, and are coached by Darren Lowe. The team is based at Varsity Arena. The current Varsity Blues have won ten U Sports Championships. The men's ice hockey team was founded in 1891. The Varsity Blues senior team won the Allan Cup in 1921 and 1927, and won the gold medal at the 1928 Winter Olympics. Conn Smythe (U of T 1920), the principal owner of the NHL Toronto Maple Leafs (1927–61) and builder of Maple Leaf Gardens (1931), chose Royal Blue and White as his team's colours to honour his alma mater. The Maple Leafs are popularly known as \"The Blue & White\" by many of their older fans.\n\nThe Nordic skiing team competes against Ontario universities each year at the OUA Championships in February after qualifying races earlier in the season. The team has steadily grown in size and experience since Hans Fischer stepped up to the position of coach in the 2005-06 season.\n\nThe University of Toronto Rowing Club represents the Varsity Blues at local and international regattas. The UTRC was founded on February 10, 1897, and throughout the years has had many successes including Royal Canadian Henley Regatta victories, OUA titles, and a silver medal at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823721", "title": "Arakawa River (Kantō)", "text": "Arakawa River (Kantō)\n\nThe is a long river that flows through Saitama Prefecture and Tokyo.\n\nIt originates on Mount Kobushi in Saitama Prefecture, and empties into Tokyo Bay. It has a total catchment area of .\n\nThe river is one of Tokyo's major sources of tap water, and together with the Tone River, accounts for around 80% of Tokyo's water supply.\n\nAttempts to control flooding of the Arakawa River have been made since the area that is now Tokyo became the de facto capital of Japan during the Edo period. Following a major flood in 1910 that damaged a large part of central Tokyo, a long drainage canal was constructed between 1911 and 1924. In 1996 an agreement was signed to make it a \"sister river\" of the Potomac River in the eastern United States.\n\nThis river is also depicted in many anime such as: Toaru Kagaku no Railgun\n\n"}
{"id": "1823722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823722", "title": "Eva (Metal Gear)", "text": "Eva (Metal Gear)\n\nEva (stylized as EVA) is a character from the \"Metal Gear\" series. EVA is introduced in \"\", and subsequently appears in \"\".\n\nAccording to her backstory, her character was born in Meridian, Idaho, on May 15, 1936. At some point in her childhood, prior to the advent of World War II, she, along with several other children across the world, were taken by the Philosophers secret world government conspiracy and raised in a joint U.S.-Soviet-Chinese facility, receiving spy training at one of the Philosophers \"charm schools\", so she could become a sleeper agent. As a result of this, she was indistinguishable from any other native-born American. She eventually joined The Second Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army General Staff Headquarters, responsible for collecting military intelligence. There, she learned techniques such as \"bandit shooting\", a horizontal sweep using the Shanxi Type 17 handgun.\n\nEVA reappears in \"\" as a recruitable character by completing a series of optional missions. In 1971, Big Boss and EVA reconciled after she was tracked down and rescued in Hanoi, and is invited to become a founding member of a shadow government along with Zero, Para-Medic (Dr. Clark), Sigint and Ocelot. At some point, she also discovered Ocelot's codename of Adam and the two reconciled. In 1972, EVA volunteered to serve as a surrogate mother in the Les Enfants Terribles project designed with Big Boss's \"sons\" to maintain an icon for their organization. She was originally implanted with eight clone fetuses, though six were intentionally aborted in order to encourage stronger growth in the remaining two, giving birth to Solid Snake and Liquid Snake. Despite Big Boss's disapproval and eventual defection in opposition to Zero's methods, EVA saw the \"sons\" as her own children.\n\nEVA does not make a direct appearance in \"\". She would remain in contact with Big Boss, passing on cassette tape recordings to the Militaires Sans Frontieres in 1974. In them, she detailed further information on The Boss's final mission, and the motivations behind her actions, having been entrusted to pass this on to Big Boss. These tapes were later supplied to Big Boss with no return address except with her name EVA, with Big Boss hesitantly explaining that she was an \"old acquaintance\".\n\nIn \"\", which is set in 2014, she appears under the identity of (also called \"Matka Pluku\", Czech for \"Mother of the Regiment\") as the leader of the Paradise Lost Army resistance movement against The Patriots. It is revealed that she was fired from her job as a spy after her failed mission in the previous game. She assists Old Snake in Eastern Europe. At one point, EVA (in an exhausted and hallucinatory state) threw herself into a fire. Snake saved her from Liquid Ocelot's gunshot but the left side of her son's face gets badly burnt in the process. EVA ultimately dies due to coming into contact with the FOXDIE virus carried in Snake's body, although it initially appeared as if she died from injuries inflicted on her by the fire and when she fell off her motorbike during a pursuit of her and Snake by Raging Raven.\n\nIn \"\", Zero tasked EVA to arrange Big Boss's confinement at a hospital in Cyprus after XOF's attack on Mother Base, revealing this to Ocelot.\n\nEVA and Olga Gurlukovich's outfits can be used as costumes in \"Rumble Roses XX\". EVA also makes a cameo appearance in \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\" as an obtainable sticker, usable exclusively by Solid Snake in The Subspace Emissary.\n\nEVA's character model was based by Hideo Kojima on a gravure idol he liked (\"○○里\", possibly meaning Chisato Morishita (森下 千里)), and her personality traits were inspired by Fujiko Mine from \"Lupin III\". He also said: \"On Eva's back are signs of torture. There are burn marks and cut marks, as well as some very old scars. The Colonel interrogated her with 'hentai play' (変態プレイ).\" According to Kojima, EVA's character was disliked by the English voice actors for her personality. The defection of NSA codebreakers ADAM and EVA is based on a real life incident in September 1960. EVA's alias, Tatyana, is the name of Tatiana Romanova, the Bond Girl in \"From Russia with Love\". Although Laughing Octopus is the first character to use the word \"fuck\" in the English version of the series, it was first used by EVA in the Japanese version of \"Metal Gear Solid 3\", when she says \"fuck you\" in English to Volgin (this line was changed to \"go to hell\" during localization).\n\nEva was well received by media. GameTrailers listed her at number eight among top-ten \"gamer babes\" in 2007 and \"Chip\" ranked her as the 14th-top \"girl of gaming\" in 2008. In 2007, Tom's Games included her among the 50 greatest female characters in video game history, proposing that she should be portrayed in a live-action adaptation by \"Uma Thurman, because she's tall, blonde and built to kick ass.\" In 2011, 1UP.com instead proposed Gillian Jacobs, adding that \"EVA proved herself as one of the games' smartest and craftiest characters, playing heroes and villains alike like oversized flesh fiddles.\" The scene between the \"sexy\" EVA, Snake, and Ocelot in \"MGS3\" was ranked as fifth on the 2010 list of the most \"Metal Gear\" amazing cutscenes by Joystick Division.\n\nMultiple publications noted the character for her sex appeal. EVA was chosen as \"the perfect one to top the list\" of the \"PlayStation 2 babes\" by Chris Reiter of Gaming Target in 2005 and ranked as the \"43rd-hottest game babe\" on all platforms by GameDaily in 2008. TF1 ranked her as 14th on their list of the sexiest video game characters to cosplay. In 2011, she was included on the list of the top 50 \"video game hotties\" by UGO, who called her \"the epitome of a Bond girl when she shows up in \"MGS3\".\" UGO later also included her on their 2012's list of 99 \"hottest\" fictional women in all media. That same year, GamerBliss ranked her as the third-sexiest \"woman of gaming\". \"PLAY\" put her undergarment in\" MGS3\" as second on their list of top bras in games, commenting that few of them \"can have been so gratuitously exposed as this one. Kojima truly is a genius.\"\n"}
{"id": "1823723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823723", "title": "Seri Kembangan", "text": "Seri Kembangan\n\nSeri Kembangan, formerly known as Serdang New Village, is a town located in Selangor, Malaysia. The town is now a considerable city in size - it is located near the northern end of the PLUS Expressway Southern Route .\n\nSeri Kembangan was established as the Serdang New Village in 1950 when the British moved Malaysian Chinese villagers living around Sungai Besi to a centralised location due to the Communist threat during the Malayan Emergency as part of the Briggs Plan.\n\nIn its early days, the village had 50 houses and all were built from scratch because the British only provided empty plots of land. The area was close to rubber estates and the jungle posed dangers of a different kind. Most of the 15,000 inhabitants earned meagre incomes as mining workers and rubber tappers.\n\nAt one point, the Seri Kembangan New Village was known for cottage industries like shoe-making and type settings services but this has been overtaken by more profitable ventures.\n\nThere are now 2,500 houses with only a smattering of the original wooden houses left and the population is estimated to be 150,000, largely made up of entrepreneurs, businessmen, professionals, government servants who are working in Putrajaya and other multinational corporations employees located in Cyberjaya.\n\nThe only form entertainment around the vicinity in the 1950s until the 1970s was the cinema.\n\nAfter the 1998 Commonwealth Games, more developments took place from 2000 onwards and other prominent developments includes AEON Equine Park, McDonald's, Pasar Borong Selangor (wholesale market), Maybank, Giant Hypermarket and other businesses transformed this area into a business hub.\n\nProtected by the Titiwangsa Mountains in the east and Indonesia's Sumatra Island in the west, Seri Kembangan has a tropical rainforest climate (Köppen climate classification \"Af\") which is warm and sunny, along with abundant rainfall, especially during the northeast monsoon season from October to March. Temperatures tend to remain constant. Maximums hover between and have never exceeded , while minimums hover between and have never fallen below . Seri Kembangan typically receives minimum of rain annually; June and July are relatively dry, but even then rainfall typically exceeds per month.\n\nThe early Community leaders of the village since 1952 who had greatly contributed towards the development of Serdang New Village were Mr Hee Kon Swee,JP,PPN and Mr Chow Pak Fah,PJK,PPM. Various Government dignitaries were invited by them to assist in improving the conditions and developing the infrastructure of the village. In 1964, the first Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman visited the village to have the first hand knowledge about the village. This was followed by Assistant Education Minister, Mr Lee Siok Yew .\nOn 12 November 1968, Deputy Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak came to open ceremony of the Serdang New Village Secondary School. In 1969, Deputy Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak came again for the groundbreaking of Serdang New Village Clinic.\nOn 10 March 1972, Minister of Health, Mr Lee Siok Yew and Minister of Finance, Tun Tan Siew Sin visited the village. The village also saw the visit of Chief Minister of Selangor, Dato Harun Idris.\nThese two pioneers Mr Hee and Mr Chow never thought their efforts in improving the lives of the village residents would one day turned this backwater village to become a bustling city today.\n\nAt the national level, Seri Kembangan is part of the Puchong parliamentary constituency, currently represented by Gobind Singh Deo of the DAP.\nMeanwhile, Seri Kembangan forms its own constituency in the Selangor State Legislative Assembly. The incumbent assemblyperson is Ean Yong Hian Wah, also from the DAP.\nEarlier in 1959 till 1964, it was known as Damansara Constituency before it is called Serdang and later Puchong Constituency. The first MP was Karam Singh Veriah from Socialist Front and won the Damansara Constituency twice.\n\nSeri Kembangan has three major malls: the aforementioned The Mines Shopping Mall, an AEON store in Taman Equine, Giant Hypermarket, and South City Plaza.\n\nSeri Kembangan is known for its good and varied street food, incorporating Chinese, Malay, Indian and other races' influences into its literal melting pot.\nThe best places to savour street cuisine include Seri Kembangan Night Market and Seri Serdang Night Market (opens every Monday and Friday nights). The more prominent local dishes include nasi lemak, asam laksa, char kway teow, curry noodle, mamak fried mee, rojak and cendol.\n\nSeri Kembangan is home to the Mines Wellness City, a healthcare-oriented resort city. There used to be a theme park known as \"Mines Wonderland\", which operated between 1997 and 2011. The development project also featured a shopping mall and the Palace of the Golden Horses, a luxury hotel.\n\nSeri Kembangan is located at the intersection of three tolled highways - PLUS , Besraya and KLS . The Maju Expressway runs near the western fringe of this township. The interchange with KESAS and MRR2 lies nearby.\n\nConsequently, Seri Kembangan is regarded as the \"southern gateway\" into Kuala Lumpur for motorists travelling from southern Selangor, Negeri Sembilan, Malacca or Johor.\n\nThe main rail station serving Seri Kembangan is KTM Serdang, part of the KTM Komuter network operated by state railway operator KTMB.\n\nAlternately there is the Sungai Besi LRT Station which is about 4 km north. Reportedly a new MRT station will be built here under the KVMRT2 project.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823736", "title": "Irish Hills", "text": "Irish Hills\n\nThe Irish Hills is an area of land located roughly in southeastern Jackson County and northwest Lenawee County in Southeast Michigan. Its name comes from the Irish immigrants who settled there from 1830 until 1850. It is known throughout the state for its scenery, especially in the summer, with its hills and larger kettle lakes surrounding the Hayes State Park. It is also known for its chain of smaller kettle lakes along US Highway 12 (US 12, Michigan Avenue) that link to Cambridge Junction Historic State Park which adjoins the Michigan International Speedway.\n\nThe Irish Hills has a number of resorts including Evans Lake Resort. Real Estate marketers describe the Irish Hills as a resort area. Regarding tourism, the Irish Hills offers a modest amount of \"tourist trapping,\" with its scenery, state parks, and lakes as the main attractions. It had several family-oriented locations, including an old west theme park known as \"Stagecoach Stop USA\" and a mock dinosaur exhibit named \"Prehistoric Forest\". Both of which subsequently closed. In 2013 however, Stagecoach Stop was reopened as a resort, and is now called Stagecoach Stop Western Resort.\nAs of 2015, \"Mystery Hill\", which is a gravity hill, is still in operation. Attempts are being made to save the observation towers known as the Irish Hills Towers. The Irish Hills is home to several family-owned restaurants and bars. There are several places to lodge, mostly on lakefront areas. The Michigan International Speedway hosts NASCAR races with about 300,000 fans a year during the racing season of June and August, and the Faster Horses Festival in July visiting the Irish Hills.\n\nSome towns in the Irish Hills include Brooklyn, Napoleon, Norvell and Onsted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823741", "title": "Vreid", "text": "Vreid\n\nVreid is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 2004 after the breakup of Windir following the death of lead singer and founder Valfar. The remaining members along with new guitarist Ese formed Vreid. The band's name is an archaic Norwegian word meaning \"Wrath\".\n\nHváll formed a new band consisting of the three Windir members Hváll (bass), Steingrim (drums), Sture (vocals/guitar) and a new guitarist named Ese. Ese has been a close friend of the Vreid members for years, and he was co-engineer on Windir’s Likferd album.\n\nHváll wrote most of the material for the debut album entitled Kraft. The lyrics are in both Norwegian and English. Kraft was released by Tabu Records in 2004.\n\nVreid’s second album, Pitch Black Brigade, was also released by Tabu Records, on March 27, 2006.\n\nThe band released their third album, I Krig (At War), through Indie Records in May / June, 2007. All the lyrics on this record are based on poems from 1946 by Gunnar Reiss-Andersen, a member of the Norwegian resistance fighters during WWII. This makes the album almost a concept album about war.\n\nIn 2009 after releasing their fourth full-length album Milorg, Ese left the band and was replaced by Stian “Strom” Bakketeig, the former Windir and Ulcus guitarist. Bakketeig plays guitar in Cor Scorpii and Mistur as well. Much like I Krig, Milorg contains songs about the Norwegian resistance.\n\nIn 2010, they released their first DVD called \"Vreid Goddamnit\" which contains live recordings filmed at Inferno Festival. On the same year, they released their first single entitled \"Noen Å Hate\", a cover of a Raga Rockers song.\n\nOn February 7, 2011, Vreid released their fifth album entitled \"V\".\n\nIn 2013 Vreid released their sixth album called \"Welcome Farewell\"\n\nIn October, 2015, Vreid released their seventh album entitled \"Sólverv\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823742", "title": "Economy of Serbia", "text": "Economy of Serbia\n\nThe economy of Serbia is a service-based upper middle income economy with the tertiary sector accounting for two-thirds of total gross domestic product (GDP) and functions on the principles of the free market. Nominal GDP in 2019 is projected to reach $51.523 billion, which is $7,398 per capita, while GDP based on purchasing power parity (PPP) stood at $129.298 billion, which is $18,564 per capita.\n\nThe strongest sectors of Serbia's economy are energy, automotive industry, machinery, mining, and agriculture. Primary industrial exports are automobiles, base metals, furniture, food processing, machinery, chemicals, sugar, tires, clothes, pharmaceuticals. Trade plays a major role in Serbian economic output. The main trading partners are Germany, Italy, Russia, China, and neighboring Balkan countries.\n\nBelgrade is the capital and economic heart of Serbia and home to most major Serbian and international companies operating in the country, as well as the National Bank of Serbia and the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Novi Sad is the second largest city and the most important economic hub after Belgrade.\n\nIn the late 1980s, at the beginning of the process of economic transition from a planned economy to a market economy, Serbia's economy had a favorable position in comparison to most of the Eastern Bloc countries, but it was gravely impacted by the Yugoslav Wars and UN sanctions and trade embargo during the 1990s. At the same time, the country experienced a serious \"brain drain\". After the overthrow of Slobodan Milošević in 2000, Serbia went through a process of transition to a market-based economy and experienced fast economic growth. During that period, the Serbian economy grew 4-5% annually, average wages quadrupled, and economic and social opportunities dramatically improved. During the Great Recession, Serbia marked a decline in its economy of 3.1% in 2009, and following years of economic stagnation pre-crisis level of GDP was reached only in 2016.\n\nSince 2014, the country has been in the process of accession negotiations to join the European Union.\n\nThe average growth of Serbia's GDP in the last five years was 4% per year. GDP structure by sector is: services 67.9%, industry 26.1%, agriculture 6.0%.\n\nSerbia's public debt relative to GDP from 2000 to 2008 decreased by 140.1 percentage points, and then started increasing again as the government was fighting effects of worldwide 2008 financial crisis. In 2018, the public debt stood at 53.8% of GDP.\n\nSerbian foreign exchange reserves were highly augmented from 2000 to 2009, when they amounted 10.6 billion euros and have stayed at that level ever since.\n\nThe official currency in Serbia is the Serbian dinar and its earliest use dates back to 1214.\n\nSerbia historically has battled high inflation, especially during the 1980s and 1990s. In 1992 and 1993, it experienced a period of hyperinflation which lasted for a total of 25 months. In 1993, the monthly inflation rate stood at a staggering 313 million percent. Since the early 2000s, inflation rate has stabilized and in the last couple of years a relatively low level of inflation was recorded.\n\nSerbia has a wide-range of free trade agreements with foreign countries and trading blocs.\n\nSerbia signed a free trade agreement with the European Union in 2008 enabling exports of all products originating from Serbia without customs and other fees. For a limited number of products (baby beef, sugar, and wine), annual import quotas remain in effect. As of 2016, the EU countries were the largest trading partners of Serbia with 64.4% of country's total foreign trade.\n\nSerbia signed the CEFTA enabling exports of all products originating from Serbia without customs and other fees to the neighbouring countries: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, North Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro and Kosovo. In 2016, the CEFTA countries were the second largest trading partners of Serbia.<ref name=\"webrzs.stat.gov.rs;export/import\"></ref>\n\nSerbia signed a free-trade agreement with EFTA members (Switzerland, Norway, Iceland) in 2009.\n\nThe Serbian free-trade agreement with Russia was implemented since 2000; for a limited number of products, annual import quotas remain in effect. Free-trade agreement with Turkey has been implemented since 2010. Trade with the United States is pursued under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) with a preferential duty-free entry for approximately 4,650 products.\n\nAttracting foreign direct investments is set as a priority for the government of Serbia, which provides both financial and tax incentives to companies willing to invest. \nLeading investor nations in Serbia include: Germany, Italy, United States, China, Austria, Norway, and Greece. Majority of FDI went into automotive industry, food and beverage industry, machinery, textile and clothing.\n\nBlue-chip corporations making investments in manufacturing sector include: Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Bosch, Michelin, Siemens, Panasonic, Continental, Schneider Electric, Philip Morris, LafargeHolcim, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Carlsberg and others. In the energy sector, Russian energy giants, Lukoil and Gazprom have made large investments. In metallurgy sector, Chinese steel and copper giants, Hesteel and Zijin Mining have acquired steel mill in Smederevo andcopper mining complex in Bor, respectively. The financial sector has attracted investments from Italian banks such as Intesa Sanpaolo and UniCredit, Crédit Agricole and Société Générale from France, Erste Bank and Raiffeisen from Austria, among others. ICT and telecommunications saw investments from likes such as Microsoft, Telenor, Telekom Austria, and NCR. In retail sector, biggest foreign investors are Dutch Ahold Delhaize, German Metro AG and Schwarz Gruppe, Greek Veropoulos, and Croatian Fortenova.\n\nSerbia has very favourable natural conditions (land and climate) for varied agricultural production. It has 5,056,000 ha of agricultural land (0.7 ha per capita), out of which 3,294,000 ha is arable land (0.45 ha per capita). In 2016, Serbia exported agricultural and food products worth $3.2 billion, and the export-import ratio was 178%. Agricultural exports constitute more than one-fifth of all Serbia's sales on the world market. Serbia is one of the largest provider of frozen fruit to the EU (largest to the French market, and 2nd largest to the German market). Agricultural production is most prominent in Vojvodina on the fertile Pannonian Plain. Other agricultural regions include Mačva, Pomoravlje, Tamnava, Rasina, and Jablanica.\nIn the structure of the agricultural production 70% is from the crop field production, and 30% is from the livestock production. Serbia is world's second largest producer of plums (582,485 tons; second to China), second largest of raspberries (89,602 tons, second to Poland), it is also significant producer of maize (6.48 million tons, ranked 32nd in the world) and wheat (2.07 million tons, ranked 35th in the world). Other important agricultural products are: sunflower, sugar beet, soybean, potato, apple, pork meat, beef, poultry and dairy.\n\nThere are 56,000 ha of vineyards in Serbia, producing about 230 million litres of wine annually. Most famous viticulture regions are located in Vojvodina and Šumadija.\n\nThe energy sector is one of the largest and most important sectors to the country's economy. Serbia is a net exporter of electricity and importer of key fuels (such as oil and gas).\n\nSerbia has an abundance of coal, and significant reserves of oil and gas. Serbia's proven reserves of 5.5 billion tons of coal lignite are the 5th largest in the world (second in Europe, after Germany). Coal is found in two large deposits: Kolubara (4 billion tons of reserves) and Kostolac (1.5 billion tons). Despite being small on a world scale, Serbia's oil and gas resources (77.4 million tons of oil equivalent and 48.1 billion cubic meters, respectively) have a certain regional importance since they are largest in the region of former Yugoslavia as well as the Balkans (excluding Romania). Almost 90% of the discovered oil and gas are to be found in Banat and those oil and gas fields are by size among the largest in the Pannonian basin but are average on a European scale.\n\nThe production of electricity in 2018 in Serbia was 38.3 billion kilowatt-hours (KWh), while the final electricity consumption amounted to 28.1 billion kilowatt-hours (KWh). Most of the electricity produced comes from thermal-power plants (71% of all electricity) and to a lesser degree from hydroelectric-power plants (24%) and wind energy (3%). There are 6 lignite-operated thermal-power plants with an installed power of 3,936 MW; largest of which are 1,502 MW-Nikola Tesla 1 and 1,160 MW-Nikola Tesla 2, both in Obrenovac. Total installed power of 9 hydroelectric-power plants is 2,831 MW, largest of which is Đerdap 1 with capacity of 1,026 MW. In addition to this, there are mazute and gas-operated thermal-power plants with an installed power of 353 MW. The entire production of electricity is concentrated in Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS), public electric-utility power company.\n\nThe current oil production in Serbia amounts to over 1.1 million tons of oil equivalent and satisfies some 43% of country's needs while the rest is imported. National petrol company, Naftna Industrija Srbije (NIS), was acquired in 2008 by Gazprom Neft. The company's refinery in Pančevo (capacity of 4.8 million tons) is one of the most modern oil-refineries in Europe; it also operates network of 334 filling stations in Serbia (74% of domestic market) and additional 36 stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 31 in Bulgaria, and 28 in Romania. There are 155 kilometers of crude oil pipelines connecting Pančevo and Novi Sad refineries as a part of trans-national Adria oil pipeline.\n\nSerbia is heavily dependent on foreign sources of natural gas, with only 17% coming from domestic production (totalling 491 million cubic meters in 2012) and the rest is imported, mainly from Russia (via gas pipelines that run through Ukraine and Hungary). Srbijagas, public company, operates the natural gas transportation system which comprise 3,177 kilometers of trunk and regional natural gas pipelines and a 450 million cubic meter underground gas storage facility at Banatski Dvor.\n\nThe industry is the economy sector which was hardest hit by the UN sanctions and trade embargo and NATO bombing during the 1990s and transition to market economy during the 2000s. The industrial output saw dramatic downsizing: in 2013 it was expected to be only a half of that of 1989. Main industrial sectors include: automotive, mining, non-ferrous metals, food-processing, electronics, pharmaceuticals, clothes. Serbia has 14 free economic zones as of September 2017, in which many foreign direct investments are realized.\n\nAutomotive industry (with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles as a forebearer) is dominated by cluster located in Kragujevac and its vicinity, and contributes to export with about $2 billion. Country is a leading steel producer in the wider region of Southeast Europe and had production of nearly 2 million tons of raw steel in 2018, coming entirely from Smederevo steel mill, owned by the Chinese Hesteel. Serbia's mining industry is comparatively strong: Serbia is the 18th largest producer of coal (7th in the Europe) extracted from large deposits in Kolubara and Kostolac basins; it is also world's 23rd largest (3rd in Europe) producer of copper which is extracted by Zijin Bor Copper, a large copper mining company, acquired by Chinese Zijin Mining in 2018; significant gold extraction is developed around Majdanpek. Serbia notably manufactures intel smartphones named Tesla smartphones.\n\nFood industry is well known both regionally and internationally and is one of the strong points of the economy. Some of the international brand-names established production in Serbia: PepsiCo and Nestlé in food-processing sector; Coca-Cola (Belgrade), Heineken (Novi Sad) and Carlsberg (Bačka Palanka) in beverage industry; Nordzucker in sugar industry. Serbia's electronics industry had its peak in the 1980s and the industry today is only a third of what it was back then, but has witnessed a something of revival in last decade with investments of companies such as Siemens (wind turbines) in Subotica, Panasonic (lighting devices) in Svilajnac, and Gorenje (electrical home appliances) in Valjevo. The pharmaceutical industry in Serbia comprises a dozen manufacturers of generic drugs, of which Hemofarm in Vršac and Galenika in Belgrade, account for 80% of production volume. Domestic production meets over 60% of the local demand.\n\nFixed telephone lines connect 89% of households in Serbia, and with about 8.82 million users the number of cellphones surpasses the total population of Serbia by 25%. The largest mobile operator is Telekom Srbija with 4.06 million subscribers, followed by Telenor with 2.73 million users and Vip mobile with about 2.03 million. Some 58% of households have fixed-line (non-mobile) broadband Internet connection while 67% are provided with pay television services (i.e. 38% cable television, 17% IPTV, and 10% satellite). Digital television transition has been completed in 2015 with DVB-T2 standard for signal transmission.\n\nThe Serbian IT industry is rapidly growing and changing pace. In 2018, IT services exports reached $1.3 billion. With 6,924 companies in the IT sector (), Belgrade is one of the information technology centers in this part of Europe, with strong growth. Microsoft Development Center located in Belgrade was at the time of its establishment fifth such center in the world. Many world IT companies choose Belgrade as regional or European center such as Asus, Intel, Dell, Huawei, NCR, Ubisoft etc. These companies have taken advantage of Serbia's large pool of engineers and relatively low wages.\n\nLarge investments by global tech companies like Microsoft, typical of the 2000s, are being eclipsed by a growing number of domestic startups which obtain funding from domestic and international investors. What brought companies like Microsoft in the first place was a large pool of talented engineers and mathematicians. In just the first quarter of 2016, more than US$65 million has been raised by Serbian startups including $45 million for Seven Bridges (a Bioinformatics firm) and $14 million for Vast (a data analysis firm). One of the most successful startups have been Nordeus which was founded in Belgrade in 2010 and is one of Europe's fastest-growing companies in the field of computer games (the developer of Top Eleven Football Manager, a game played by over 20 million people).\n\nThe touristic sector accounted for 1.4% of GDP in 2017 and employs some 75,000 people, about 3% of the country's workforce. Foreign exchange earnings from tourism in 2018 were estimated at $1.5 billion.\n\nSerbia is not a mass-tourism destination but nevertheless has a diverse range of touristic products. In 2018, total of over 3.4 million tourists were recorded in accommodations, of which half were foreign.\n\nTourism is mainly focused on the mountains and spas of the country, which are mostly visited by domestic tourists, as well as Belgrade which is preferred choice of foreign tourists. The most famous mountain resorts are Kopaonik, Stara Planina, and Zlatibor. There are also many spas in Serbia, the biggest of which is Vrnjačka Banja, Soko Banja, and Banja Koviljača. City-break and conference tourism is developed in Belgrade (which was visited by 938,448 foreign tourists in 2018, more than a half of all international visits to the country) and to a lesser degree Novi Sad. Other touristic products that Serbia offer are natural wonders like Đavolja varoš, Christian pilgrimage to the many Orthodox monasteries across the country and the river cruising along the Danube. There are several internationally popular music festivals held in Serbia, such as EXIT (with 25–30,000 foreign visitors coming from 60 different countries) and the Guča trumpet festival.\n\nSerbia has a strategic transportation location since the country's backbone, Morava Valley, represents by far the easiest route of land travel from continental Europe to Asia Minor and the Near East.\n\nSerbian road network carries the bulk of traffic in the country. Total length of roads is 45,419 km of which 915 km are \"class-Ia state roads\" (i.e. motorways); 4,481 km are \"class-Ib state roads\" (national roads); 10,941 km are \"class-II state roads\" (regional roads) and 23,780 km are \"municipal roads\". The road network, except for the most of class-Ia roads, are of comparatively lower quality to the Western European standards because of lack of financial resources for their maintenance in the last 20 years.\n\nOver 300 kilometers of new motorways has been constructed in the last decade and additional 142 kilometers are currently under construction: A5 motorway (from north of Kruševac to Čačak) and 30 km-long segment of A2 (between Čačak and Požega). Coach transport is very extensive: almost every place in the country is connected by bus, from largest cities to the villages; in addition there are international routes (mainly to countries of Western Europe with large Serb diaspora). Routes, both domestic and international, are served by more than 100 bus companies, biggest of which are Lasta and Niš-Ekspres. , there were 1,959,584 registered passenger cars or 1 passenger car per 3.5 inhabitants.\n\nSerbia has 3,819 kilometers of rail tracks, of which 1,279 are electrified and 283 kilometers are double-track railroad. The major rail hub is Belgrade (and to a lesser degree Niš), while the most important railroads include: Belgrade–Bar (Montenegro), Belgrade–Šid–Zagreb (Croatia)/Belgrade–Niš–Sofia (Bulgaria) (part of Pan-European Corridor X), Belgrade–Subotica–Budapest (Hungary) and Niš–Thessaloniki (Greece). Although still a major mode of freight transportation, railroads face increasing problems with the maintenance of the infrastructure and lowering speeds. The rail services are operated by Srbija Voz (passenger transport) and Srbija Kargo (freight transport).\n\nThere are only two airports with regular passenger traffic. Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport served 5.6 million passengers in 2018 and is a hub of flagship carrier Air Serbia which carried some 2.5 million passengers in 2018. Niš Constantine the Great Airport is mainly catering low-cost airlines.\n\nSerbia has a developed inland water transport since there are 1,716 kilometers of navigable inland waterways (1,043 km of navigable rivers and 673 km of navigable canals), which are almost all located in northern third of the country. The most important inland waterway is the Danube (part of Pan-European Corridor VII). Other navigable rivers include Sava, Tisza, Begej and Timiş River, all of which connect Serbia with Northern and Western Europe through the Rhine–Main–Danube Canal and North Sea route, to Eastern Europe via the Tisza, Begej and Danube Black Sea routes, and to Southern Europe via the Sava river. More than 2 million tons of cargo were transported on Serbian rivers and canals in 2016 while the largest river ports are: Novi Sad, Belgrade, Pančevo, Smederevo, Prahovo and Šabac.\n\nIn 2018, the labour force was estimated at 3.24 million and employment stood at 2.83 million persons (formal employment amounted to 2.28 million while informal was at 0.55 million). Employment rate (among population aged 15 and over) is comparatively low and stood at 47.6%; of those employed 15.9% worked in agriculture, 28.1% in industry, and 56% in services. The unemployment rate has been in double digits throughout the post-communist era, reaching peak at about 25% during the early and late 2000s. Since then, the rate has decreased substantially, with the creation of new jobs in primarily private sector, reaching 9.5% in 2020.\n\nAccording to the latest annual report of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Serbia, the net average monthly salary in January 2020 amounted to 59,941 Serbian dinars or 510 euros. In 2019 the net median salary amounted to 44 530 RSD or 379 euros, meaning that 50% of employees earned wages and salaries up to the mentioned amount.\n\nThe list includes statistical regions of Serbia by GDP, share of total GDP and GDP per capita in 2017:\n\nThe list includes ten largest Serbian companies by revenue in 2018 (revenue and employees figures without subsidiaries):\n\n"}
{"id": "1823753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823753", "title": "Critical Buddhism", "text": "Critical Buddhism\n\nCritical Buddhism (Japanese: 批判仏教, hihan bukkyō) is a trend in Japanese Buddhist scholarship, associated primarily with the works of Hakamaya Noriaki (袴谷憲昭) and Matsumoto Shirō (松本史朗). Hakamaya states that \"'Buddhism is criticism' or that 'only that which is critical is Buddhism.'\" He contrasts it with what he calls \"Topical Buddhism\", in comparison to the concepts of critical philosophy and topical philosophy. According to Lin Chen-kuo, Hakamaya's view is that \"Critical Buddhism sees methodical, rational critique as belonging to the very foundations of Buddhism itself, while 'Topical Buddhism' emphasizes the priority of rhetoric over logical thinking, of ontology over epistemology.\"\n\nCritical Buddhism targeted specifically certain concepts prevalent in Japanese Mahayana Buddhism and rejected them as being non-buddhist. \nFor example, Matsumoto Shirō and Hakamaya Noriaki reject the doctrine of Tathagatagarbha, which according to their view is at odds with the fundamental Buddhist doctrine of dependent origination.\n\nCritical Buddhism became known to Western scholarship due to a panel discussion held at the American Academy of Religion's 1993 meeting in Washington, DC with the title \"Critical Buddhism: Issues and Responses to a New Methodological Movement\", which led to an English collection of essays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823754", "title": "Forest Hill, San Francisco", "text": "Forest Hill, San Francisco\n\nForest Hill is a neighborhood in San Francisco, California. Forest Hill is one of eight master-planned residence parks in San Francisco.\n\nForest Hill is a neighborhood located near the middle of the City of San Francisco, southeast of the Inner Sunset and northeast of West Portal. Boundaries are roughly Seventh Avenue/Laguna Honda Boulevard to the north and east, Taraval Street to the south, and 14th Avenue to the west.\n\nThe area south of Dewey Boulevard is known as Laguna Honda or the Forest Hill Extension. The \"Extension\" is another section of Forest Hill, except with smaller homes and more moderate pricing. The name Laguna Honda means \"deep lagoon\" in Spanish and presumably refers to the Laguna Honda Reservoir at the intersection of Laguna Honda Boulevard and Clarendon Avenue.\n\nLaguna Honda Hospital and Rehabilitation Center (public funded long term care facility) on the border to the east, School of the Arts high school is located at the intersection of Portola Drive at Woodside Avenue/O'Shaughnessy Boulevard.\n\nForest Hill was purchased by a private firm from the heirs of Adolph Sutro. Ground digging to develop this neighborhood began in 1912. The streets in Forest Hill were originally built for horse and carriage, consequently, they are unusually wide and generous. These streets in Forest Hill did not conform to San Francisco's specific standards regarding width, grade, etc., and therefore were not initially approved nor maintained by the City until 1978. Many of the streets are extravagantly landscaped and gracefully curved throughout the neighborhood. All the homes enjoy a view, some have full ocean, and others downtown San Francisco.\n\nForest Hill is akin to a \"small town\" inside San Francisco city: One of the few neighborhoods with no condominium, no multi-tenancy developments in San Francisco and has an active homeowners' association, requiring membership of all property owners and payment of an annual fee for maintenance of the planted common areas owned by the association. The association also governs remodeling and new construction in the neighborhood.\n\nLandscaping throughout Forest Hill is unusually lush for San Francisco: Magellan Avenue's elms make it one of the few streets in the city with a true tree canopy that goes for several blocks. Forest Hill homes are single family dwellings each sitting separately on generous parcels of land, some are on double lots, that are landscaped in front and back yards, and each is unique in architecture.\n\nLandscape architect Mark Daniels developed the master plan for Forest Hill, several homes and the neighborhood clubhouse are designed by celebrated California Arts and Crafts Movement architect Bernard Maybeck, and many other Forest Hill homes are designed by renowned architects. This charm adds to the picturesque, bucolic quality of the neighborhood.\n\nForest Hill has its own MUNI station \"Forest Hill\" which the K, L, M lines service situated on the edge of its boundary on Laguna Honda, and residents are also within 15–20 minutes walking distance to the village of West Portal and there, the West Portal MUNI Station. The residents further benefit from being 20 minutes driving distance to San Francisco International Airport on HWY 280 but has a mandated no fly over zone which the residents of Forest Hill enjoy the tranquility this provides.\n\nForest Hill residents have access to the commerce provided by the village of West Portal's first run movies' theater, boutiques, salons, cafes, multitude of small ethnic and California style restaurants, national bank branches, post office, and various types of service providers.\n\nForest Hill is one of the least-densely populated neighborhoods in San Francisco, and residents take pride in what they perceive as a \"small-town community\" within the city. The\" Forest Hill Association\" has served the residents of Forest Hill for nearly 100 years and holds its Board meetings on the first Monday evening of each month at the clubhouse. The historic Forest Hill clubhouse on Magellan Avenue is also home of the \"Forest Hill Garden Club\", the neighborhood women's social organization founded in 1931 to promote the cultivating of flowers and gardens in the community.\n\nThe clubhouse is also the site of the \"Forest Hill Musical Days,\" an intimate neighborhood chamber music festival, founded in 2003 by pianist Mari Kodama and her husband, conductor Kent Nagano, both of whom were residents of the neighborhood. Volunteers from the neighborhood organize the festival, as music-loving residents open their homes to host performing artists from all over Europe. The clubhouse is the site of many private happy celebrations. In addition, the club hosts many children's events for the residents of Forest Hill from Christmas party when Santa Clause visits, Halloween, and the annual club picnic parties. There is also a well attended annual year end holiday ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823770", "title": "Big Pig", "text": "Big Pig\n\nBig Pig was an Australian funk, rock and pop band that existed from 1985 to 1991. An early line-up was Sherine Abeyratne on lead vocals and percussion (ex-Editions, Bang); Tony Antoniades on vocals and harmonica; Neil Baker on drums; Nick Disbray on vocals and percussion; Tim Rosewarne on vocals and keyboards (ex-Bang); Adrian Scaglione on drums; and Oleh Witer on vocals and percussion (ex-Bang). They issued two albums, \"Bonk\" (March 1988) and \"You Lucky People\" (15 November 1990), on the White Records Label imprint of Mushroom Records.\n\n\"Bonk\" reached No. 8 on the ARIA Albums Chart in June 1988 and No. 4 on the Kent Music Report. In New Zealand it peaked at No. 2. On the Kent Music Report they had three top 50 singles with \"Hungry Town\" (October 1986) which peaked at No. 18, \"Breakaway\" (February 1988) at No. 8, and \"Big Hotel\" (July) at No. 40. In New Zealand \"Breakaway\" was a number-one hit while \"Hungry Town\" and \"Big Hotel\" both reached the top 30. At the ARIA Music Awards of 1987 Big Pig were nominated for Best New Talent and Best Video for \"Hungry Town\" by Julie Stone Productions, and they won Best Cover Artist for their debut self-titled extended play (May 1986) by Witer.\n\nIn 1984, Big Pig was formed in London by visiting Australian drummer, Oleh Witer (ex-Scratch Record Scratch, Bang), with a variable line-up of eight or nine drummers. In 1983, Witer had relocated from Melbourne to London.\n\nInspired by a performance of Japanese taiko drummers, Witer formed Big Pig: \"When I saw them, the key to it was orchestration – that each guy had his own part. There was no improvisation at all. So from that point on, I knew how to do it. It was just a matter of getting the right people\". The initial incarnation involved eight or nine drummers, with Witer trying to sing over the poly-rhythmic din; while members of the band came and went. At an early gig Witer's former bandmate, Sherine Abeyratne, attended and subsequently joined the ensemble. As a vocalist, she had been a member of various groups: Grand Wazoo, The Editions, Bang, Big Choir, Bob Starkie Shape Up, Gospel Truth, Jo Jo Zep Band, Black Coffee, Dianna Boss and The Extremes, and The Rock Party. In 1988, Sherine recalled \"I started joining bands eight years ago, as long as the music was high-energy, really strong, that was the criterion\". She had also toured with INXS as a backing vocalist. Another early member was Nick Disbray on vocals and percussion.\n\nWiter and Sherine were previously together in a Melbourne-based band, Bang, which Australian musicologist, Ian McFarlane, described as playing \"Grace Jones-styled funk\". Witer wanted an edgier, more experimental sound that also retained Bang's funky rhythms and, when his visa ran out, he returned to Melbourne. Late in 1985, Big Pig consisted of Abeyratne on lead vocals and percussion, Tony Antoniades on vocals and harmonica, Neil Baker on drums, Disbray on vocals and percussion, Tim Rosewarne on vocals and keyboards (also ex-Scratch Record Scratch and then Bang with Witer), Adrian Scaglione on drums, and Witer on vocals and percussion. McFarlane felt the new group's sound used a \"more avant-funk-meets-disco route while still retaining a feel for pop economy\".\n\nBig Pig made its concert debut in February 1986 and soon recorded a self-financed, independently distributed three-track, self-titled extended play, which appeared in May. It was co-produced by Etienne Conod and Big Pig. Two of its tracks were \"Hungry Town\" and \"Money God\". They signed with Mushroom Records' imprint White Label Records, which re-released their debut EP in October as a double-12\" with bonus dance mixes of \"Hungry Town\" and \"Money God\". In November that year, Polyanna Sutton of \"The Canberra Times\" reported that the group had postponed plans to return to London pending interest from the United States. Antoniades told her \"The dance mixes are just for clubs, really. The other thing is: say it did well on the American club scene, it is a strong inroad into cracking some of the American market\". Sutton noted that as they \"do not use guitars there is a strong reliance on the harmonica to fulfill what the lead guitar would do, playing either riffs or solos\".\n\n\"Hungry Town\" peaked at No. 18 on the Australian Kent Music Report Singles Chart. In March the following year it reached No. 22 in New Zealand. Witer won an award for Best Cover Artist for the artwork on the \"Big Pig\" EP at the first ARIA Awards in 1987. They were also nominated for Best New Talent, and Best Video for \"Hungry Town\" by Julie Stone Productions. The video was directed by Richard Lowenstein (INXS, Hunters & Collectors) and was filmed by Andrew de Groot at a Melbourne dance club.\n\nTheir first album, \"Bonk\", was recorded at Metropolis Studios in Melbourne, Rhinoceros Studios in Sydney, and Townhouse Studios in London, in 1987, with producer Nick Launay (Public Image Ltd, Midnight Oil, Models). \"Bonk\" was mixed in London later that year and issued in March 1988.\n\n\"Bonk\" reached No. 4 on the Australian Kent Music Report Albums Chart and No. 8 on the ARIA Albums Chart in July 1988. It went gold, then platinum in Australia. Due to their dominant use of drums, harmonica and vocals, along with the absence of guitars, the band established a unique place in Australian music. Sounding unlike contemporary groups, they also adopted their signature look wearing black waterproof aprons, similar to those worn by blacksmiths, which gave their stage presence a distinctly industrial feel. The group toured the US in May where Justin Mitchell for \"The Spokesman-Review\" noted that \"Although five of the members sing, vocalist Sherine (no last name) and harp player [Antoniades] handle most of the front work\".\n\nThe album provided three singles, the Chuck Jackson cover \"Breakaway\" which reached No. 8 (February 1988), \"Big Hotel\" (June) No. 40, and \"Iron Lung\" (December). In the US \"Bonk\" was released by A&M Records in March 1988 and peaked at No. 93 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with \"Breakaway\" reaching No. 60 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Singles Chart, and No. 7 on the related Dance Music/Club Play Singles chart. \"Money God\" was used as the theme for the BBC-TV's \"DEF II\"s Rough Guides show with Magenta Devine hosting, whilst tracks from \"Bonk\" were used for \"Miami Vice\" episodes in the late 1980s. \"Hungry Town\" and \"Boy Wonder\" both featured in the 1988 Yahoo Serious film, \"Young Einstein\". \"Breakaway\" was used in the opening sequence of comedy-road film, \"Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure\" (1989).\n\nTheir second album, \"You Lucky People\", was produced by Hawk Wolinski and Daddy-O, and issued on 15 November 1990. Witer told Shane Walker of \"The Canberra Times\" that \"At the end of our \"Bonk\" episode we took time out to rest before spending a lot of time on writing ... this album has been more of a band effort, with everyone chipping in ... we're still searching for and evolving the possibilities there are in our instrumentation\". Walker felt the album was \"more subtle and rounded\" showcasing their \"blend of thumping bass, strong vocals, blues harmonica and, of course multitudinous drummers\".\n\nFellow journalist Penelope Layland opined that \"You Lucky People\" showed a \"simple, funky rhythm threading its way through the tracks, but a sprinkle of other sounds have found their way into the picture, a smattering of harmonica and a deft, sparing dose of keyboards\". They toured in support of the album, then in February 1991 Big Pig played for the last time at Melbourne's Sidney Myer Music Bowl. They issued a single, \"King of Nothing\", in April, and disbanded soon after.\n\nDisbray played some gigs with Caitlin Reilly in 1991 and by 1994 had released his debut solo album, \"Yep!\". Late in 1994, Tim Rosewarne joined Chocolate Starfish but these days plays keyboards in the \"Absolutely 80's\" show which features Scott Carne, Sean Kelly, David Sterry, Brian Mannix, Ally Fowler, Tottie Goldsmith, Dale Ryder and others performing their hits. Witer is a visual artist whose paintings have been exhibited in galleries across Australia. He also composed music for the 1996 Australian film, \"Love and Other Catastrophes\". Mushroom Records re-released \"Hungry Town\" in June 1998 to celebrate the label's 25th anniversary. In 2007 \"Breakaway\" was covered by US House Diva Inaya Day. \"Hungry Town\" featured in the first episode of Channel 9's, \"\" on 12 April 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823776", "title": "Ville-Marie, Montreal", "text": "Ville-Marie, Montreal\n\nVille-Marie is the name of a borough (\"arrondissement\") in the centre of Montreal, Quebec. The borough is named after Fort Ville-Marie, the French settlement that would later become Montreal (now Old Montreal), which was located within the present-day borough. Old Montreal is a National Historic Site of Canada.\n\nThe borough comprises all of downtown Montreal, including the Quartier des spectacles; Old Montreal and the Old Port; the Centre-Sud area; most of Mount Royal Park as well as Saint Helen's Island and Île Notre-Dame.\n\nIn 2016, it had a population of 89,170 and an area of .\n\nIt is bordered by the city of Westmount (along Atwater Avenue) to the west and the boroughs of Le Sud-Ouest (along the Ville-Marie Autoroute, Guy and Notre-Dame streets, and the Bonaventure Autoroute) to the southwest, Mercier–Hochelaga-Maisonneuve (along the CP rail lines) to the east, Le Plateau-Mont-Royal (along Sherbrooke, University streets, and Pine and Park avenues) to the northeast, and Outremont and Côte-des-Neiges—Notre-Dame-de-Grâce (along the border of Mount Royal Park) to the north. It is bounded on the south by the Saint Lawrence River.\n\nThe borough council of Ville-Marie differs from other borough councils in two important respects. The office of borough mayor, rather than being elected by the borough's citizens, is held \"ex officio\" by the mayor of Montreal. Also, two of the members of the borough council are city councillors from other boroughs, chosen by the mayor. This governing structure is due to the unique status of Ville-Marie as the centre of Montreal.\n\nFollowing the 2017 Montreal municipal election, the Ville-Marie borough council contains the following members:\n\nRather than a dedicated borough hall, the borough's offices and council chambers are located in the Place Dupuis office tower at 800 De Maisonneuve Boulevard East.\n\nUp until the 2009 municipal election, Ville-Marie's borough council had a structure more similar to other boroughs, consisting of a borough mayor, two city councillors, and two borough councillors, all of whom were elected by residents of the borough.\n\nWhen the 2009 election was called, the borough council consisted of the following councillors:\n\nThe 2009 election saw the coming into force of Bill 22 (2008), \"An Act to amend various legislative provisions concerning Montréal.\" As a result, the borough council now consists of the mayor of Montreal; three elected city councillors representing the districts of Peter-McGill, Sainte-Marie, and Saint-Jacques; and two city councillors representing other districts in Montreal, chosen by the mayor.\n\nThe borough is divided among the following federal ridings:\n\n\nIt is divided among the following provincial electoral districts:\n\n\nVille-Marie includes the city's downtown, the historical district of Old Montreal, Le Quartier Chinois, the Gay Village, the Latin Quarter, the recently gentrified Quartier international and Cité Multimédia as well as the Quartier des Spectacles which is currently under development. Other neighbourhoods of interest in the borough include the affluent Golden Square Mile and Îlot-Trafalgar-Gleneagles at the foot of Mount Royal and the Shaughnessy Village/Quartier Concordia area home to thousands of students at Concordia University. The borough also comprises most of Mount Royal Park, Cité du Havre, Saint Helen's Island, and Île Notre-Dame.\n\nMontreal's interurban rail and bus terminals, and its two commuter rail terminals (Central Station, Lucien-L'Allier and the Downtown Terminus) are in the borough. It is served by the Orange, Green, and Yellow Lines of the Montreal Metro. The Metro's central station, Berri-UQAM (which is a terminus of the Yellow Line), and the Central Bus Station, are also located in Ville-Marie.\n\nTwo autoroutes serve the area: Autoroute Bonaventure and the partly underground Autoroute Ville-Marie. Two bridges — the Victoria Bridge and Jacques-Cartier Bridge — provide access to the South Shore, while the Pont de la Concorde provides access to Saint Helen's Island and Notre Dame Island (Parc Jean-Drapeau). The Jacques-Cartier Bridge also provides access to Saint Helen's Island and Notre Dame Island.\n\nMany of Montreal's most famous attractions are situated in Ville-Marie. Most of its office towers, including 1000 de La Gauchetière, 1250 René-Lévesque, the Tour de la Bourse, Place Ville-Marie, the Sun Life Building, the Maison Radio-Canada, and many others are located here.\n\nThree of Montreal's four universities — McGill, Concordia, and UQAM — are located in Ville-Marie, as are three of its four basilicas — Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral, Notre-Dame Basilica, and St. Patrick's Basilica. Cultural infrastructure includes Grande Bibliothèque du Québec, Place des Arts, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Quartier des spectacles, the Montreal Science Centre, Pointe-à-Callière Museum, Musée Grévin Montreal, and numerous other important venues.\n\nSports complexes include the Bell Centre, home of the Montreal Canadiens; the Percival Molson Stadium, home of the Montreal Alouettes; and the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve on Île Notre-Dame, site of the Canadian Grand Prix.\n\nHospitals include the Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM) megahospital, opened in 2017, as well as the Montreal General Hospital and Hôpital Notre-Dame.\n\nMajor parks and recreation areas include Mount Royal and its park, Parc Jean-Drapeau (the site of Expo 67), Dorchester Square and Place du Canada, and the Old Port.\n\nAs Ville-Marie contains Montreal's central business district, numerous companies are headquartered or have major regional offices in the borough, including Bombardier Aerospace.\n\nThe \"Commission scolaire de Montréal\" (CSDM) operates French-language public schools.\n\nThe English Montreal School Board (EMSB) operates English-language schools.\n\nThe Montreal Public Libraries Network operates the Frontenac and Père-Ambroise libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823779", "title": "Last Call for Vitriol", "text": "Last Call for Vitriol\n\nLast Call for Vitriol is the fourth professionally released full-length album by Superdrag, released by Arena Rock Recording Co. in 2002. Bassist Sam Powers decided to leave the band following the tour for \"Last Call for Vitriol\"; and during the making of the album, John Davis became a devout Christian. After finishing the tour in 2003, the band went into hiatus and the original lineup reconvened in 2007.\n\nNick Raskulinecz was set to produce the album, but pulled out to work with the Foo Fighters' \"One by One\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823785", "title": "Peace bond", "text": "Peace bond\n\nIn Canadian law, a peace bond is an order from a criminal court that requires a person to keep the peace and be on good behaviour for a period of time. This essentially means that the person who signs a peace bond must not be charged with any additional criminal offences during its duration. Peace bonds often have other conditions as well, such as not having any weapons or staying away from a particular person or place. Peace bonds are similar to a civil court restraining order, and are also based on the lesser burden of proof of civil law.\n\nA peace bond can be issued by a criminal court judge or a Justice of the Peace. A peace bond is usually issued when the Crown Prosecutor is convinced that a strong case does not exist against the accused. A person does not plead guilty when they enter into a peace bond. Thus, there is no finding of guilt or conviction registered if a person agrees to sign a peace bond. One of the reasons why a person may agree to enter into a peace bond is to avoid a criminal trial, and ultimately the possibility of being convicted in a court of law of the offence for which they were charged. Being convicted in a court of law would entail receiving a criminal record.\n\nThe peace bond itself is usually set for twelve months. If a peace bond is signed, then the charges are withdrawn, and the prosecution of those charges is considered to be complete, and those same charges can never be re-instated. However, if one or more of the conditions of a peace bond are broken, either by not obeying one of the conditions, or by getting charged with a subsequent criminal offence within the 12-month period of time in which it was signed, there could be very serious repercussions, as this may result in the person being charged with a separate criminal offence of \"breach of recognizance\" or \"disobeying a court order\". The defendant may also be required to forfeit the entire cash surety that they pledged to pay to the court (usually $500 or $1000) when they entered into the peace bond. Breaching any condition of a peace bond is considered a criminal offence. Moreover, as of July 19, 2015, a conviction for breaching a condition of a peace bond carries a maximum sentence of up to four years imprisonment.\n\nIn exceptional cases, an expired peace bond may still be disclosed by the police if the person once subject to the bond is seeking a very detailed criminal history check (vulnerable sector search) in order to work or volunteer directly without supervision with children, seniors, or disabled individuals. Although there are no uniform standards across the country, after a five-year period has elapsed from the date that the peace bond was issued, and if the person subject to the peace bond has not since transgressed the law, it should no longer appear even in the most detailed type of criminal record check.\n\nPeace bonds, or \"sureties for good behavior\", appear to have been in common use in the early history of the United States. Many states still retain statutes that provide for the issuance of peace bonds, but they are infrequently invoked. The constitutionality of existing peace bond statutes is questionable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823805", "title": "Jasmine Bligh", "text": "Jasmine Bligh\n\nJasmine Lydia Bligh (20 May 1913 – 21 July 1991) was one of the first three BBC Television Service presenters in the 1930s. Along with Leslie Mitchell and Elizabeth Cowell, she provided continuity announcements introducing programmes in-vision.\n\nBligh was born in London, England and was the niece of Esme Ivo Bligh, the 9th Earl of Darnley, and also said by her biography at the National Portrait Gallery to be a descendant of Captain William Bligh, the commander famously usurped in the Mutiny on the Bounty in the 18th century.\n\nIntending to begin a career as an actress, Bligh met with some opposition from her mother. However, she became a Charlot showgirl at the Cambridge Theatre, London, aged 17. Five years later, Bligh was struggling as an actress, and answered a BBC advertisement for female television 'hostess-announcers' - unmarried and without red hair. Both Bligh and Elizabeth Cowell were chosen for the jobs out of 1,122 applicants from the British Empire. Along with Leslie Mitchell, they were seen during test transmissions from Alexandra Palace in 1936. \n\nShe rejoined the service in 1946 when television broadcasts resumed after the Second World War and was the first person to appear when broadcasting was resumed, greeting viewers with the words:\"Good afternoon everybody. How are you? Do you remember me, Jasmine Bligh?\" After twenty minutes she introduced the Mickey Mouse cartoon \"Mickey's Gala Premiere\" (1933), which had been the last programme shown before the embryonic service closed in September 1939.\n\nHer theatrical experience, however, proved very useful as she had to learn 400 words a day to speak directly to the camera. The press, at that time, described Bligh and Cowell as 'Twin Paragons', and Bligh continued when the BBC began its regular television service a year later. She became a personality in her own right, amongst other daring escapades, she was seen being given a fireman's lift and hurtling about in a motorcycle sidecar.\n\nLater she presented the BBC's \"Television for Deaf Children\" in the 1950s. She continued to work in television up until the 1970s, when she was a presenter of \"Good Afternoon\" for Thames Television.\n\nShe married first in 1940, Lt-Col Sir John Paley Johnson, 6th Bt. In 1942 they had a daughter, Sarah. The couple were divorced in 1947. She married secondly in 1948, Frank Hugh Shirley Fox; they divorced in 1953. She later married a third time, to broadcaster, Howard Marshall. His illness in 1967 led her to look for a new way of earning money. She set up a second-hand clothes shop, called \"Bargain\", and sold off her wealthy friends' clothes that they no longer required. Howard Marshall died in 1973. In 1981, a stroke left Bligh with speech difficulty. She died ten years later, aged 78.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823806", "title": "Elizabeth Cowell", "text": "Elizabeth Cowell\n\nElizabeth Cowell (1912–1998) was a British broadcaster and the first female television announcer.\n\nShe was one of the first three BBC Television Service presenters, along with Jasmine Bligh and Leslie Mitchell. She began announcing when the Television Service started in 1936 and made her debut on Monday 31 August that year at Alexandra Palace in London. This was a few months before the official launch of BBC Television on 2 November 1936. She returned in 1946 after its nearly seven-year hiatus due to the Second World War. Cowell was the voice of 'the Woman' on the soundtrack of Paul Rotha's documentary \"Land of Promise\" (1946).\n\nWhen BBC television started broadcasting again in 1946 Cowell was now married to the laird of a Scottish estate and had left the BBC.\n"}
{"id": "1823809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823809", "title": "Taiga drama", "text": "Taiga drama\n\nTaiga dramas are very costly to produce. The usual procedure of a taiga drama production would have one-third of the total number of scripts finished before shooting begins. Afterwards, audience reception is taken into account as the rest of the series is written. Many times, the dramas are adapted from a novel (e.g. \"Fūrin Kazan\" is based on \"The Samurai Banner of Furin Kazan\"). Though taiga dramas have been regarded by Japanese viewers as the most prestigious among dramas in Japan, viewership ratings have considerably declined in recent years.\n\n\n\n\"Saka no Ue no Kumo\" was originally set for a 2006 broadcast as \"21st Century Taiga Drama\". However, the scriptwriter of the series committed suicide, causing a delay in production. The series was aired as \"NHK Special Drama\" in three parts, each part airing from late November to late December of each year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823811", "title": "Sunshine Motorway", "text": "Sunshine Motorway\n\nThe Sunshine Motorway is a thirty-three kilometre Australian motorway on the Sunshine Coast region of Queensland, just north of Brisbane. It was initially a tolled motorway before these were removed in 1996 after excessive complaint regarding any such need of a toll. It is part of State Route 70, which extends north a further 12.3 kilometres to Noosaville. For completeness, and to aid in understanding of the usage of this road, the extension is included in this article.\n\nThe Sunshine Motorway is unusual in as much as it is a low budget motorway and also because it changes direction dramatically from East-West to North-South at the Nicklin Way interchange. It starts at the interchange with the Bruce Highway at Palmview continuing east past Sippy Downs and Mountain Creek where it then meets the Nicklin Way and heads North to end at the Emu Mountain Road near Peregian Beach. Because it is low budget, most of the traffic travels in only one lane in each direction, however from the Bruce Highway to Kawana Way and from the Nicklin Way to the Mudjimba/David Low Way exit it is dual carriageway. Towns along the motorway include Mooloolaba and Maroochydore, both of which are known for being holiday spots.\n\nThe Queensland State Government has committed to spending a large amount of money on duplication sections of the Sunshine Motorway, due to significant growth within the area. The latest upgrade was completed in 2008, along with the Maroochydore Road upgrade.\n\nStage One of the motorway (Bruce Highway to Pacific Paradise) opened on 20 January 1990. This section contained three toll booths, and was completely grade-separated.\n\nStage Two of the motorway (Pacific Paradise to Peregian Springs) was officially opened on 29 December 1993. Unlike Stage One, this section did not include toll booths, but did pass through two large roundabouts. Emu Mountain Road was realigned and reconstructed to carry motorway traffic to Eumundi-Noosa, on which work was completed in October 1993.\n\nAfter much public displeasure, the Queensland Government officially ceased tolling on midnight of 8 March 1996.\n\nOn 28 April 2006 a new road opened between Eumarella Road and Eenie Creek Road at Noosaville, taking State Route 70 along with it. The road was named Walter Hay Drive.\n\nAs the Sunshine Coast continues to grow, more and more stress is placed upon the Motorway from the added weight of the population. During peak hours, most interchanges along the single-carriageway section of the Motorway acquire congestion. To remedy this problem, Main Roads Queensland are currently planning and constructing various new sections of the Motorway, under a plan called SM2032. These constructions mainly include upgrading to dual carriageway along the more populated areas through which the motorway passes; other constructions included the Maroochy River Bridge duplication (completed in 2008) and various safety measures throughout the entire length of the motorway.\n\nAs of 2010, the entire freeway from Mooloolaba to Pacific Paradise is four lane dual-carriageway motorway. There is still a two-lane section between Kawana Way and Nicklin Way, and north of Pacific Paradise is also still two lanes.\n\nNOTE: The Sunshine Motorway is not a motorway standard road. It is an inter-urban road with many intersections of varying degrees of importance, depending how this is measured. In addition to the 11 intersections listed below there are about 6 more not listed, which may be considered by some readers to be major intersections.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823838", "title": "List of heritage-listed buildings in Melbourne", "text": "List of heritage-listed buildings in Melbourne\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of buildings in Melbourne, Australia and surrounding suburbs listed on the Victorian Heritage Register. This the highest level of protection afforded to a building in the state of Victoria. A far greater number of buildings and precincts are covered by Heritage Overlays in local government planning schemes, though these may not have the same level of protection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823843", "title": "New Zealand Memorial, Canberra", "text": "New Zealand Memorial, Canberra\n\nThe New Zealand Memorial in Canberra, Australia, commemorates the relationship between New Zealand and Australia, and stands at the corner of Anzac Parade and Constitution Avenue, the former bisecting the Parliamentary Triangle and the latter forming the base of the triangle that represents the form of government in Canberra, the national capital city of Australia.\n\nThe memorial was opened on the eve of Anzac Day (24 April) in 2001 by the prime ministers of both countries.\n\nThe memorial was designed by artist Kingsley Baird and architects Studio of Pacific Architecture, both of Wellington, New Zealand. It consists of two \"kete\", or basket handles, one on each side of Anzac Parade, which places them approximately 100 m apart. The image of a basket carried by two people expresses the shared effort of the two nations to achieve common goals in both peace and war, and to acknowledge the courage and sacrifice of service men and women who served shoulder-to-shoulder on foreign soil.\nMaori language: Mau tena kiwa o te kete. maku tenei\n<BR>English language: Each of us at a handle of the basket\nthe \"kete\" handles stand upon paving patterns which remind of the weave of a basket, representing the interweaving of lands, peoples and cultures. Daisy Nadjungdanga from Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory of Australia designed the paving under the western handle; Toi Te Rito Maihi and Allen Wihongi from Northland, New Zealand, designed the paving under the eastern handle. The surface of the paving is made with Canterbury, Coromandel and Golden Bay stone.\n\nAt the centre of the paving on each side is buried soil from Gallipoli, the birth of the ANZAC tradition as soldiers fought together in the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps in 1915. A ceremony held on 26 February 2001 soil from Chunuk Bair was buried in a rimu box on the New Zealand side, while on the Australian side, soil from Lone Pine was buried in a box made from Australian jarrah.\nInscribed on the paving are the names of the campaigns where New Zealanders and Australians have fought together.\n\nA poem by Jenny Bornholdt is inscribed on a bronze 'boulder' under the arch on each side.\n\n<poem>\nThis sea we cross over \nand over. Tides turning on\ngold and sheep. On rain. On sand. \nOn earth the fallen lie \nbeneath. On geography. On \nwomen standing. Matilda \nwaltzing. On people of \ngardens and movement. \nOn trade and union.\nThis sea a bridge \nof faith. This sea we are\ncontained and moved by. \n</poem>\n"}
{"id": "1823850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823850", "title": "Moorooduc Highway", "text": "Moorooduc Highway\n\nThe Moorooduc Highway (also \"McMahons Road\" / \"Frankston-Flinders Road\") is a 19 km highway which runs from Frankston to Mount Martha. It is a dual carriageway with two or three lanes each way and, together with the Mornington Peninsula Freeway, was the main arterial road from Melbourne to the Mornington Peninsula until the recent completion of Peninsula Link.\n\nIt originally started at the intersection with Frankston-Flinders Road in Frankston South and joined the Nepean Highway in Moorooduc South.\nIn the 1970s it was duplicated to just south of Sages Road and during the 1980s the rest of the road was duplicated, this was to serve as an alternative to building the Frankston Bypass. During the 1990s the Mornington Peninsula Freeway was linked to the (renamed) Moorooduc Highway.\n\nThe Moorooduc Highway acts as a non-freeway link between the northern and southern sections of the Mornington Peninsula Freeway and begins at the southern end of the Frankston Freeway (which links to the northern section of the Mornington Peninsula Freeway). It passes along the east side of the Frankston commercial centre, and is a three lane dual carriageway with grade intersections and traffic lights to Frankston Flinders Road. There, the road narrows and loses a lane each way. The road passes the town of Mornington which is just off the highway. The highway ends at the northern end of the second section of the Mornington Peninsula Freeway. It is a notoriously dangerous stretch of road that has claimed many lives due to speed and uncontrolled intersections. Roundabouts have recently been installed at the Bentons Road, Eramosa Road and Bungower Road intersections. The Sages Road intersection is now controlled by traffic lights after numerous fatal and serious accidents at this high speed T-Intersection. Heading southbound the highway speed limit reaches 100 km/h from Sumner Road in Baxter.\n\nMoorooduc Highway retains the original 'Metropolitan Route 11' designation, along with most of the Frankston Freeway until the upgraded area near EastLink where it becomes the M3. Both sections (northern and southern) of the Mornington Peninsula Freeway now carry the M11, to interconnect and correspond with Peninsula Link.\n\nPeninsula Link has now opened to traffic, Moorooduc Highway will now be focused on local traffic while Peninsula Link will primarily carry through traffic. This will allow through traffic to bypass the arguably congested roundabout intersections near Mornington as well as the intersections of Frankston, drastically improving traffic flow in these areas. See Peninsula Link for details.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823852", "title": "Peuce Island", "text": "Peuce Island\n\nIn ancient geography, Peuce () is a former island in the Danube Delta, in Scythia Minor (present-day Tulcea County, Romania). It was about the size of the island of Rhodes.\n\nIt was to this island that in the 330s BC the West Thracian Triballian king Syrmus took refuge when pursued by Alexander the Great. Alexander brought ships up the Danube to use in an assault on the island. The attempts failed due to the swift current of the river, steep banks, and fierce defense. Eventually the Macedonians abandoned their attacks on Peuce and instead crossed into the territory of the Getae.\n\nA portion of the powerful Bastarnae tribe (probably a mixed Germanic-Celtic society) settled on the island, apparently in the 2nd century BC, and adopted from their abode an alternative tribal name, \"Peucini\", used by some classical authors to cover sections of the Bastarnae tribe which had never set foot on the island.\n\nPeuce island is also thought to be the birthplace of Alaric I (Alaric or Alarich; in Latin, \"Alaricus\") king of the Visigoths from 395–410 who is most famous for his sack of Rome in 410.\n\nThe Battle of Ongal of 680 also took place on the Peuce Island. The battle was crucial for the creation of the First Bulgarian Empire.\n\nThe island disappeared during the Early Middle Ages, when the Danube's distributaries changed courses.\n"}
{"id": "1823862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823862", "title": "Foraminotomy", "text": "Foraminotomy\n\nForaminotomy is a medical operation used to relieve pressure on nerves that are being compressed by the intervertebral foramina, the passages through the bones of the vertebrae of the spine that pass nerve bundles to the body from the spinal cord.\n\nA foraminotomy is performed to relieve the symptoms of nerve root compression in cases where the foramen is being compressed by bone, disc, scar tissue, or excessive ligament development and results in a pinched nerve.\n\nThe procedure is often performed as a minimally invasive procedure in which an incision is made in the back, the muscle peeled away to reveal the bone underneath, and a small hole cut into the vertebra itself. Through this hole, using an arthroscope, the foramen can be visualized, and the impinging bone or disk material removed. Surgery is typically short in duration, taking around 6 hours. Patients stay in hospital for 5-8 nights, can drive after 8 weeks, perform light duties after 8 weeks and make a full recovery within 18 months.\n\nA foraminotomy that removes a large amount of bone or other material may occasionally be described as a foraminectomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823865", "title": "Coat of arms of Latvia", "text": "Coat of arms of Latvia\n\nCoat of arms of Republic of Latvia was officially adopted by the Constitutional Assembly of Latvia on July 15, 1921, and was in official use from August 19, 1921. It was created using new national symbols and elements of coats of arms of Polish and Swedish Livonia and of the Duchy of Courland and Semigallia. Thus the coat of arms combines symbols of Latvian national statehood, as well as symbols of its historical regions. The Latvian national coat of arms was designed by the Latvian artist Rihards Zariņš.\n\nThe three golden stars above the shield represent three historical regions of Latvia: Vidzeme (Swedish Livonia), Latgale (Latgalia or Polish Livonia) and Kurzeme (Courland, usually also representing Zemgale (Semigallia) as the Duchy of Courland and Semigalia).\n\nThe golden sun in a blue field represents freedom. Sun was also used as a symbol of distinction and national identity used by the Imperial Russian Army's Latvian Riflemen units during World War I. During the war, the sun was fashioned with 17 rays that symbolized the 17 Latvian-inhabited districts. \n\nThe bottom part of escutcheon is divided into two fields:\n\nThe red lion and silver griffin are also used as supporters.\n\nBase of the coat of arms is decorated with the branches of an oak tree, Quercus robur, which is one of Latvia's national symbols.\n\nThe proper use of the Latvian coat of arms is firmly regulated. Three types of symbol are used: the large coat of arms, the small enhanced coat of arms and the small coat of arms.\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation of Latvia in 1940, the coat of arms was used until August 5, 1940. During the existence of the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic the emblem of the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic was used. The Latvian coat of arms was restored once again on February 15, 1990.\n\nThe official colors used in the coat of arms are defined according to the Pantone Color Matching System thus:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823869", "title": "The Exodus", "text": "The Exodus\n\nThe Exodus is the charter myth of the Israelites. Spread over the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, it tells the myth of the enslavement of the Israelites in ancient Egypt, their liberation through the hand of their tutelary deity Yahweh, the revelations at biblical Mount Sinai, and their wanderings in the wilderness up to the borders of Canaan, the land their god has given them.\n\nIts message is that Israel was delivered from slavery by Yahweh, and therefore belongs to him through the Mosaic covenant. The covenant's terms are that Yahweh will protect his chosen people, for as long as they keep his laws and exclusively worship only him. The Exodus and its laws remain central to Judaism, recounted daily in Jewish prayers and celebrated in festivals such as Passover, as well as resonating with non-Jewish groups, from early American settlers fleeing persecution in Europe to African Americans striving for freedom and civil rights. Jan Assmann refers to it as possibly \"the most grandiose and influential story ever told.\"\n\nThe consensus of modern scholars is that the Bible does not give an accurate account of the origins of Israel, which formed as an entity in the central highlands of Canaan in the late second millennium BCE from the indigenous Canaanite culture. Most scholars believe that the story of the Exodus has some historical basis, but that any such basis has little resemblance to the story told in the Bible. There is a widespread agreement that the composition of the Torah or Pentateuch, the biblical books which contain the Exodus narrative, took place in the Middle Persian Period (5th century BCE), although the traditions behind it are older and can be found in the writings of the 8th-century BCE prophets.\n\nThe story of the Exodus is told in the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, the last four of the first five books of the bible (also called the Torah or Pentateuch). In first book of the Pentateuch, the Book of Genesis, the Israelites had come to live in Egypt in the Land of Goshen during a famine due to the fact that an Israelite, Joseph, had become a high official in the court of the pharaoh. Exodus begins with the deaths of Joseph and the ascension of a new pharaoh \"who did not know Joseph\" (Exodus 1:8). The pharaoh becomes concerned by the number and strength of Israelites in Egypt and enslaves them, commanding them to build at two \"supply\" or \"store cities\" called Pithom and Rameses (Exodus 1:11). The pharaoh also orders the slaughter at birth of all male Hebrew children. One Hebrew child, however, is rescued by being placed in a basket on the Nile. He is found and adopted by Pharaoh's daughter, who names him Moses. Moses eventually kills an Egyptian he sees beating a Hebrew slave, and is forced to flee to Midian, marrying a daughter of the Midianite priest Jethro. The old pharaoh dies and a new one ascends to the throne.\n\nMoses, in Midian, goes to Mount Horeb, where Yahweh appears in a Burning Bush and commands him to go to Egypt to free the Hebrew slaves and bring them to the promised land in Canaan. Yahweh also speaks to Moses's brother Aaron; they both assemble the Israelites and perform signs so that they believe in Yahweh's promise. Moses and Aaron then go to the Pharaoh and ask him to let the Israelites go into the desert for a religious festival, but the Pharaoh refuses and commands the Israelites to make bricks without straw and increases their workload. Moses and Aaron return to the Pharaoh and this time ask him to free the Israelites. The Pharaoh demands for Moses to perform a miracle, and Aaron throws down Moses' staff, which turns into a snake; however, the Pharaoh's magicians are also able to do this, though Moses' staff devours the others. The Pharaoh then refuses to let the Israelites go.\nAfter this, Yahweh begins inflicting the Plagues of Egypt on the Egyptians for each time that Moses goes to Pharaoh and Pharaoh refuses to release the Israelites. Pharaoh's magicians are able to replicate the first plagues, in which Yahweh turns the Nile to blood and produces a plague of frogs, but are unable to reproduce any plagues after the third, the plague of gnats. After each plague Pharaoh allows the Israelites to worship Yahweh to remove the plague, then refuses to free them. In the final plague, Yahweh kills all the firstborn sons of Egypt, and the firstborn cattle, but the Israelites, who have been commanded to kill one lamb per family and smear its blood on their doorposts, are spared. Yahweh commands that the Israelites observe a festival as \"a perpetual ordinance\" to remember this event (Exodus 12:14). Pharaoh finally agrees to let the Israelites go after his firstborn son is killed. Yahweh leads the Israelites in the form of a pillar of cloud in the day and a pillar of fire at night. However, once the Israelites have already left, Pharaoh changes his mind and pursues the Israelites to the shore of the Red Sea. Moses uses his staff to part the Red Sea, and the Israelites cross on dry ground, but the sea closes down on the pursuing Egyptians, drowning them all.\n\nThe Israelites now begin to complain about Aaron and Moses, as Yahweh miraculously provided them first with water and food, eventually raining manna down for them to eat. Amalek attacks at Rephidim but is defeated in battle. Jethro comes to Moses with Moses's wife and sons; on Jethro's advice, Moses appoints judges for the tribes of Israel. The Israelites reach the Sinai Desert and Yahweh calls Moses to Mount Sinai, where Yahweh reveals himself to his people and establishes the Ten Commandments and Mosaic covenant: the Israelites are to keep his \"torah\" (i.e. law, instruction), and in return he will give them the land of Canaan. Yahweh establishes the Aaronic priesthood and various rules for ritual worship, among other laws. However, in Moses's absence the Israelites sin against Yahweh by creating the idol of a golden calf, and as retaliation Yahweh has the Levites kill three thousand people (Exodus 32:28) and Yahweh sends a plague on the Israelites. The Israelites now accept the covenant, which is reestablished, build a tabernacle for Yahweh, and receive their laws. Yahweh commands Moses to take a census of the Israelites and establishes the duties of the Levites. Then the Israelites depart from Mount Sinai.\n\nYahweh commands Moses to send twelve spies ahead to Canaan to scout the land. The spies discover that the Canaanites are strong, and, believing that the Israelites cannot defeat them, the spies falsely report to the Israelites that Canaan is full of giants so that the Israelites will not invade (Numbers 13:31-33). The Israelites refuse to go to Canaan, so Yahweh manifests himself and declares that the generation that left Egypt will have to pass away before the Israelites can enter Canaan. The Israelites will have to remain in the wilderness for forty years, and Yahweh kills the spies through a plague except for the righteous Joshua and Caleb, who will be allowed to enter the promised land. A group of Israelites led by Korah, son of Izhar, rebels against Moses, but Yahweh opens the earth and sends them living to Sheol.\n\nThe Israelites come to the oasis of Kadesh Barnea, where Miriam dies and the Israelites remain for forty years. The people are without water, so Yahweh commands Moses to get water from a rock by speaking to it, but Moses strikes the rock with his staff instead, for which Yahweh forbids him from entering the promised land. Moses sends a messenger to the king of Edom requesting passage through his land to Canaan, but the king refuses. The Israelites then go to Mount Hor, where Aaron dies. The Israelites try to go around Edom, but the Israelites complain about lack of bread and water, so Yahweh sends a plague of poisonous snakes to afflict them. After Moses prays for deliverance, Yahweh has him create the brazen serpent, and the Israelites who look at it are cured. The Israelites are soon in conflict with various other kingdoms, and king Balak of Moab attempts to have the seer Balaam curse the Israelites, but Balaam blesses the Israelites instead. Some Israelites begin having sexual relations with Moabite women and worshipping Moabite gods, so Yahweh orders Moses to impale the idolators and sends a plague, but the full extent of Yahweh's wrath is averted when Phinehas impales an Israelite and a Midianite woman having intercourse (Numbers 25:7-9). Yahweh commands the Israelites to destroy the Midianites and Moses and Phinehas take another census. They then conquer the lands of Og and Sihon in Transjordan, settling the Gadites, Reubenites, and half the Tribe of Manasseh there.\n\nMoses then addresses the Israelites for a final time on the banks of the Jordan River, reviewing their travels and giving them further laws. Yahweh tells Moses to summon Joshua, whom Yahweh commissions to lead the conquest of Canaan. Yahweh tells Moses to ascend Mount Nebo, from where he sees the promised land and where he dies.\n\nThe climax of the Exodus is the covenant (binding legal agreement) between God and Israel mediated by Moses at Sinai: Yahweh will protect Israel as his chosen people for all time, and Israel will keep Yahweh's laws and worship only him. The covenant is described in stages: at Exodus 24:3–8 the Israelites agree to abide by the \"book of the covenant\" that Moses has just read to them; shortly afterwards God writes the \"words of the covenant\" – the Ten Commandments – on stone tablets; and finally, as the people gather in Moab to cross into Canaan, the land God has promised them, Moses makes a new covenant between Yahweh and Israel \"beside the covenant he made with them at Horeb\" (Deuteronomy 29:1). The laws are set out in a number of codes:\n\nThe earliest traces of the traditions behind the exodus appear in the northern prophets Amos (possibly) and Hosea (certainly), both active in the 8th century BCE in northern Israel, but their southern contemporaries Isaiah and Micah show no knowledge of an exodus. (Micah 6:4–5 contains a reference to the exodus, which many scholars take to be an addition by a later editor.) There is evidence in the Bible itself (mainly in the Books of Kings) that the Exodus from Egypt formed a \"foundational mythology\" or \"state ideology\" for the Northern Kingdom of Israel. Nadav Na'aman argues that it is nevertheless not credible that the story was totally unknown in the south, given the incredible political importance it was to assume for the southern kingdom, as evidenced by reference to it in the Song of the Sea, as well as Psalm 78 and Psalm 114. The story may, therefore, have originated a few centuries earlier, perhaps in the 9th or 10th BCE, and there are signs that it took different forms in Israel, in the Transjordan region, and in the southern Kingdom of Judah before being unified in the Persian era. There is widespread agreement, moreover, that the notion of the revelation of the law in Deuteronomy was originally separate from the Exodus: the original version of Deuteronomy is generally dated to the 7th century BCE. The contents of the books of Leviticus and Numbers are late additions to the narrative by priestly sources. The Exodus narrative was most likely further altered and expanded under the influence of the return from the Babylonian captivity in the sixth century BCE.\n\nScholars broadly agree that the publication of the Torah (or Pentateuch) took place in the mid-Persian period (the 5th century BCE), echoing a traditional Jewish view which gives Ezra, the leader of the Jewish community on its return from Babylon, a pivotal role in its promulgation. Many theories have been advanced to explain the composition of the first five books of the Bible, but two have been especially influential. The first of these, Persian Imperial authorisation, advanced by Peter Frei in 1985, holds that the Persian authorities required the Jews of Jerusalem to present a single body of law as the price of local autonomy. Frei's theory was demolished at an interdisciplinary symposium held in 2000, but the relationship between the Persian authorities and Jerusalem remains a crucial question. The second theory, associated with Joel P. Weinberg and called the \"Citizen-Temple Community\", proposes that the Exodus story was composed to serve the needs of a post-exilic Jewish community organised around the Temple, which acted in effect as a bank for those who belonged to it. The books containing the Exodus story served as an \"identity card\" defining who belonged to this community (i.e., to Israel), thus reinforcing Israel's unity through its new institutions.\n\nThere are two main positions on the historicity of the Exodus in modern scholarship. The majority position is that the biblical Exodus narrative has some ultimate historicity, although there is little of historical worth in the biblical narrative. The other main position, often associated with the school of Biblical minimalism, is that the Exodus has no historical basis. Both positions are in agreement that the biblical Exodus narrative is best understood as a founding myth of the Jewish people, explaining their origins and providing an ideological foundation for their culture and institutions, not an accurate depiction of the history of the Israelites. A third position, that the biblical narrative is essentially correct (\"Biblical maximalism\"), is today held by \"few, if any [...] in mainstream scholarship, only on the more fundamentalist fringes.\"\n\nMainstream scholarship no longer accepts the biblical Exodus account as accurate history for a number of reasons. No modern attempt to identify a historical Egyptian prototype for Moses has found wide acceptance, and no period in Egyptian history matches the Biblical accounts of the Exodus. Some elements of the story are clearly meant to be miraculous and defy rational explanation, such as the Plagues of Egypt and the Crossing of the Red Sea. Lester Grabbe argues that \"attempts to find naturalistic explanations [for these events] [...] miss the point: the aim of the narrative is to magnify the power of Yhwh and Moses.\" The Bible also fails to mention the names of any of the Pharaohs involved in the Exodus narrative. While ancient Egyptian texts from the New Kingdom mention \"Asiatics\" living in Egypt as slaves and workers, these people cannot be securely connected to the Israelites, and no contemporary Egyptian text mentions a large-scale exodus of slaves like that described in the Bible. The earliest surviving historical mention of the Israelites, the Egyptian Merneptah Stele (c. 1207 BCE), appears to place them in or around Canaan and gives no indication of any exodus. The numbers of people involved in the Exodus as given in the Bible are fanciful, as the Sinai Desert could never have supported the 603,550 Israelites mentioned in Numbers 1:46. Archaeologists Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman say that while archaeology has found traces left by small bands of hunter-gatherers in the Sinai, there is no evidence at all for the large body of people described in the Exodus story: \"The conclusion – that Exodus did not happen at the time and in the manner described in the Bible – seems irrefutable [...] repeated excavations and surveys throughout the entire area have not provided even the slightest evidence.\" Instead, modern archaeology suggests continuity between Canaanite and Israelite settlement, indicating a primarily Canaanite origin for Israel.\n\nA majority of scholars nevertheless still believes that the Exodus has some historical basis, with Kenton Sparks referring to it as \"mythologized history.\" Evidence in favor of historical traditions forming a background to the Exodus myth include the documented movements of small groups of Ancient Semitic-speaking peoples into and out of Egypt during the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Dynasties, some elements of Egyptian folklore and culture in the Exodus narrative, and the names Moses, Aaron and Phinehas, which seem to have an Egyptian origin. The expulsion of the Hyksos, a Semitic group that had conquered much of Egypt, by the Seventeenth Dynasty of Egypt is frequently discussed as a potential historical parallel or origin for the story. Avraham Faust and William Dever argue that a group of Egyptian origin, whom Dever cautiously identifies as \"the house of Joseph\", may have joined the Israelites after their initial formation in Canaan, and that their story could have become adopted as the national myth of the Israelites. It is also possible that oppressive Egyptian rule of Canaan during the late second millennium BCE may have aided the adoption of the story of a small group of Egyptian refugees by the native Canaanites among the Israelites. Most proposals for a historical Exodus of any sort place it in the sixteenth, fifteenth, or thirteenth centuries BCE. Alternatively, Nadav Na'aman argues that oppressive Egyptian rule of Canaan during the Nineteenth and especially the Twentieth Dynasty may have inspired the Exodus narrative, forming a \"collective memory\" of Egyptian oppression that was transferred from Canaan to Egypt itself in the popular consciousness.\n\nThere is an increasing trend among scholars to see the biblical exodus traditions as the invention of the exilic and post-exilic Jewish community, with little to no historical basis. Lester Grabbe, for instance, argues that \"[t]here is no compelling reason that the exodus has to be rooted in history,\" and that the details of the story more closely fit the seventh through the fifth centuries BCE than the traditional dating to the second millennium BCE. Rejecting the traditional view that the Exodus records pre-exilic traditions, Philip R. Davies suggests that the story may have been inspired by the return to Israel of Israelites and Judaeans who were placed in Egypt as garrison troops by the Assyrians in the fifth and sixth centuries BCE. Historian Graham Davies has criticized minimalist scholars for relying too heavily on archaeology, stating \"a historian cannot simply ignore the textual evidence (both biblical and non-biblical) that is relevant to an issue, and in this case the textual evidence purports, at least, to give a different view from that which archaeologists now tend to favor (or most of them, anyway).\"\n\nThe Exodus is invoked daily in Jewish prayers and celebrated each year at the feasts of Pesach (Passover) and Shavuot, the two being known respectively as \"the time of our freedom\" and \"the time our Torah was given\". The two are closely linked, with Pesach announcing that the freedom it introduces is only fully realised with the giving of the law (the Torah). A third Jewish festival, Sukkot, the Festival of Booths, is associated with the Israelites living in booths after they left their previous homes in Egypt. The festivals now associated with the Exodus (Passover, Shavuot, and Sukkot) began as agricultural and seasonal feasts but became completely subsumed into the central Exodus myth of Israel's deliverance from oppression at the hands of God.The fringes worn at the corners of traditional Jewish prayer shawls are described as a physical reminder of the obligation to observe the laws given at the climax of Exodus: \"Look at it and recall all the commandments of the Lord\" (Numbers).\n\nA number of historical events and situations have been compared to the Exodus. Many early American settlers interpreted their flight from Europe to a new life in America as a new exodus. Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin recommended for the Great Seal of the United States to depict Moses leading the Israelites across the Red Sea. African Americans suffering under slavery and racial oppression interpreted their situation in terms of the Exodus, making it a catalyst for social change.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823885", "title": "Sik Kok Kwong", "text": "Sik Kok Kwong\n\nSik Kok Kwong, (16 May 1919 – 16 November 2014) was a Tiantai Buddhist monk from Hong Kong and the first president of the Hong Kong Buddhist Association. He was also the Honorary Vice President of the World Buddhist Sangha Council, a member of the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee, and a Hong Kong Affairs Advisor.\n\nBorn Gu Chenghai (谷成海) in Haicheng, Liaoning, Kok Kwong exhibited interest in Buddhism at an early age. At the age of nine, he left the home life and ordained as a novice monk at Haihui Temple in Shanghai in 1928. Two years later, he was introduced to Venerable Yuanying, the abbot of Tiantong Temple in Ningbo, where he received the full precepts as well as a new dharma name, \"Jueguang\" (\"Kok Kwong\" in Cantonese; lit. \"Awakening of Light\"). In 1939, Kok Kwong received the Tiantai lineage from Venerable Master Baojing. Through Baojing, Kok Kwong became the 46th lineage holder of the Tiantai sect. Shortly thereafter, following the Japanese invasion of China, Kok Kwong retreated to Hong Kong.\n\nIn his capacity as a senior monastic, Kok Kwong established monasteries and was appointed abbot and director to many temples in Hong Kong. In 1945, Kok Kwong, together with other senior clerics, founded the Hong Kong Buddhist Association. Kok Kwong would later become the association's permanent president in 1966. As president, he oversaw the establishment of several educational institutions, such as the Chung-Hwa Institute of Buddhist Studies in 1945, the Wong Fung Ling College and the Wong Cheuk Um Primary School in 1956, and the Kok Kwong Secondary School in 1979. Hospitals, cemeteries, and the providing of social services were also established under Kok Kwong's leadership.\n\nIn Kok Kwong's later years, he along with eight venerables of various traditions proposed the World Buddhist Forum in Mainland China in 2004, a suggestion that won support from Buddhist circles in countries like Japan and the Republic of Korea. He also spearheaded two tours of relics of the Buddha in 1999 and in 2003.\n\nKok Kwong's influence also spread toward the political sphere of Hong Kong, where he was appointed to positions as an adviser to the government following the handover of Hong Kong to the People's Republic of China. Kok Kwong was one of the earliest defenders of the Hong Kong government; for instance in a 2004 interview with the \"South China Morning Post\", he urged Hong Kong's Buddhists to be content with the government and not to attend protests. Kok Kwong also attracted criticism for his close association with billionaire Li Ka-shing and the building of Tsz Shan Monastery, which was sponsored mostly by the Li family. In 2013, Kok Kwong was awarded the Grand Bauhinia Medal for his many years of public service.\n\nIn 2014, after a long illness, Kok Kwong died at 4:51am at the age of 95. Several government officials expressed condolences upon hearing news of his death.\n"}
{"id": "1823894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823894", "title": "Chromium trioxide", "text": "Chromium trioxide\n\nChromium trioxide (also known as chromium(VI) oxide or chromic anhydride) is an inorganic compound with the formula CrO. It is the acidic anhydride of chromic acid, and is sometimes marketed under the same name.\nThis compound is a dark-purple solid under anhydrous conditions, bright orange when wet and which dissolves in water concomitant with hydrolysis. Millions of kilograms are produced annually, mainly for electroplating. Chromium trioxide is a powerful oxidiser and a carcinogen.\n\nChromium trioxide is generated by treating sodium chromate or the corresponding sodium dichromate with sulfuric acid:\n\nApproximately 100,000 tonnes are produced annually by this or similar routes.\n\nThe solid consists of chains of tetrahedrally coordinated chromium atoms that share vertices. Each chromium center therefore shares two oxygen centers with neighbors. Two oxygen atoms are not shared, giving an overall stoichiometry of 1:3.\n\nThe structure of monomeric CrO has been calculated using density functional theory, and is predicted to be pyramidal (point group C) rather than planar (point group D).\n\nChromium trioxide decomposes above 197 °C, liberating oxygen and eventually giving CrO:\n\nIt is used in organic synthesis as an oxidant, often as a solution in acetic acid, or acetone in the case of the Jones oxidation. In these oxidations, the Cr(VI) converts primary alcohols to the corresponding carboxylic acids and secondary alcohols to ketones. The reactions are shown below:\n\n\nChromium trioxide is mainly used in chrome plating. It is typically employed with additives that affect the plating process but do not react with the trioxide. The trioxide reacts with cadmium, zinc, and other metals to generate passivating chromate films that resist corrosion. It is also used in the production of synthetic rubies. Chromic acid solution is also used in applying types of anodic coating to aluminium, which are primarily used in aerospace applications. On the International Space Station, it is used to control bacteria growth in the wastewater storage tank. A chromic acid/phosphoric acid solution is also the preferred stripping agent of anodic coatings of all types.\n\nChromium trioxide is highly toxic, corrosive, and carcinogenic. It is the main example of hexavalent chromium, an environmental hazard.The related chromium(III) derivatives are not particularly dangerous; thus, reductants are used to destroy chromium(VI) samples. \n\nChromium trioxide, being a powerful oxidizer, will ignite organic materials such as alcohols on contact.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823920", "title": "KALX", "text": "KALX\n\nKALX (90.7 FM) is an FM radio station that broadcasts from the University of California, Berkeley in Berkeley, California, United States. KALX, a community and student-run radio station licensed to the university, broadcasts in stereo with 500 watts of power. The station employs three full-time paid staff members, but is largely run by its nearly 300 volunteers, including Berkeley students and other members of the local community. The station's studios are located at Barrows Hall on campus.\n\nThe station originally began broadcasting in 1962, as a carrier current station. By 1966, KALX (then known as Radio KAL, the call letters being derived from Berkeley's nickname \"Cal\") had moved from Berkeley's dormitories to Dwinelle Hall on campus, and Berkeley administrators began investigating the possibility of applying for a broadcast frequency for the station. KALX received its broadcast license and made its first FM broadcast, with 10 watts of power, in 1967. The studio in the basement of Dwinelle was modest, a small chamber sequestered off from a sizable library of albums.\n\nIn the 1970s, KALX was taken off the air for a short period by the faculty oversight Radio Policy Board after the station manager and friends had abused their use of university automobiles for private use and run up large bills for long distance phone calls to their contacts in Los Angeles and elsewhere. After an investigation, the station was put back on the air in 1975 under new management, led by Andrew Reimer who had previously been manager of KUCI, the radio station at UC Irvine. The station progressed from a 10 watt part-time operation to continuous operation in 1977, to a higher transmitter site in the Berkeley Hills in 1978.\n\nKALX became the official radio station for the Oakland Athletics just days before the season opener in April 1978. Larry Baer, a junior political science major who was the station's sports director and business manager, negotiated the agreement with team owner Charlie Finley. The situation was made possible because of the Athletics' subpar on-field performance and attendance and the uncertainty surrounding Finley's threats to move the ballclub to Denver. Baer, who would later serve as a San Francisco Giants executive beginning in December 1992, was the play-by-play announcer. Sophomore mass communications major Bob Kozberg and station producer/engineer Steve Blum also worked on the broadcasts.\n\nThe arrangement lasted only sixteen games. One month into the season, Finley decided to keep the Athletics in Oakland and awarded the broadcast rights to KNEW. Nonetheless, the setup made the A's a laughingstock in the Bay Area. At the time, KALX only operated at 10 watts, rendering it practically unlistenable more than 10 miles from Oakland Coliseum. This led one fan to joke about the A's radio network stretching all the way to Hawaii by asking, \"Honolulu? How about \"here?\"\"\n\nIn 1981, the station began a successful fundraising drive to boost its power level to the present-day 500 watts, a level that was reached in 1982.\n\nAs part of the A's 50th anniversary celebration in 2018, Baer was invited back to do play-by-play for one inning of an A's/Giants game.\n\nKALX offers a diverse range of public affairs programming, and airs many kinds of public service announcements throughout its daily broadcast.\n\nKALX has provided a training ground for numerous individuals who have had careers in television and radio. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1823926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823926", "title": "Ruth Fernández", "text": "Ruth Fernández\n\nRuth Fernández (23 May 1919 – 9 January 2012) was a Puerto Rican contralto and a member of the Puerto Rican Senate. According to the \"Comisiones Nacionales para la Celebración del Quinto Centenario\" \"(National Commission for the Celebration of the Fifth Centennial)\", she is said to be one of three artists whose contributions have helped unite Latin America. The other two artists named were Libertad Lamarque from Argentina and Pedro Vargas from Mexico.\n\nFernández (birth name: Ruth Noemí Fernández Cortada ) was born in the Bélgica community of barrio Cuarto in Ponce, Puerto Rico to Santiago Fernández and Rosa María Cortada. Fernández's mother died when she was six years old and she was raised along with her four other siblings by her grandmother. She received her primary and secondary education in her hometown. As a child she learned to play the piano and was very active in her school and community's activities. In high school she organized her own musical group. She became a professional singer at the age of 14 when she would go to the local radio stations, WPRP and WPAB, and sing for 50 cents a day, in 1935. Fernandez was heard by Mingo, a bandleader of a locally popular band and was hired into his band in 1940. She then performed in nightclubs, dances and casinos.\n\nFernández started to gain popularity and in 1941, at age 22, she was signed by Columbia Records with whom she recorded her first hit song, \"Cuando Vuelvas\" (When you return) a theme written by Myrta Silva. Her first appearance in New York City was in The Latin Theater of New York. There the Master of Ceremonies, Hector del Villar, introduced her as \"El Alma de Puerto Rico hecha cancion\" (\"The Soul of Puerto Rico Turned Song\"). That moniker was to stay with her forever.\n\nWhen Fernández returned to the island, she enrolled in the University of Puerto Rico in 1943 with the intention of becoming a social worker. However, she once again joined Mingo and his band, the \"Whoopee Kids\" and toured with them throughout the Caribbean, Central and South America.\n\nFernández was the very first successful Afro-Puerto Rican female singer, and as such, she broke color barriers and stereotypes. The Mingo band was contracted to perform at a benefit for the American Red Cross in the Condado Vanderbilt Hotel on August 4, 1945. The director of the orchestra told her that according to the hotel's rules, she had to enter through the kitchen door like all other black musicians (a \"de facto\" integration rule, illegal at the time in Puerto Rico, but still in place at the time out of concern for American patrons of the hotel). Ruth however, did not follow the instructions and entered through the main entrance, driven by a chauffeur on a Packard automobile. She went on stage and performed before the astonished audience. When asked in a documentary years later how she felt about the incident, she replied: \"\"Me llamaron negra. ¿Negra? ¿Y qué?\"\" (\"They called me a negro. Negro? So what?\"). She was particularly proud about how well dressed she was that day, \"wearing more decorations than Douglas MacArthur\". From that point on she proudly and constantly referred to herself (even in songs such as \"Soy la que soy\") as \"\"La Negra de Ponce\"\" (\"The Black Woman from Ponce)\", making reference to her racial heritage and her city of origin. She often also joked that she considered herself \"\"Insoportablemente Ponceña\"\" (\"unbearably Ponceña\").\n\nDuring World War II and the Korean War, she traveled overseas to entertain the soldiers of Hispanic descent. When she returned to Puerto Rico, she decided to go solo. In 1954, at age 41, Fernández participated in the first televised musical television show in the history of Puerto Rico, \"El Show Libby's\". She also had many other \"firsts\": she was the first woman to sing in a Puerto Rican orchestra; the first Puerto Rican woman to sing \"popular\" music at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City; the first Latina singer of romantic music to sing in the Scandinavian countries (with some notable success in Norway), and the first Latina to record with a North American band.\n\nShe had a long-standing musical partnership with Lito Peña; she recorded two albums with his Orquesta Panamericana, and he wrote and arranged many of her most famous songs. One of these songs includes what has since become a Puerto Rican folk standard, the bomba song \"\"(La Bomba) ¡Ay, qué rica es!\"\". She also recorded with Machito Grillo's orchestra and with Los Hispanos as backup singers.\n\nFernández' performances in the United States were transmitted coast to coast under her contract with the CBS radio network. She also performed at the Carnegie Hall in New York in 1960. Among the many countries in which she has performed are Italy, France, Spain, Norway, Venezuela, Mexico, Panama, and Cuba. Fernandez has also appeared in two Spanish-language films, and has a role in the Afro-Puerto Rican documentary \"\"Raíces\"\", produced by the Banco Popular de Puerto Rico.\n\nFernández was twice married, with both marriages ended in divorce. Fernández had no children; because of her public acknowledgement of her nephews and nieces, and because of her philanthropic work with children, many Puerto Ricans nicknamed her \"\"Titi Ruth\"\" (Auntie Ruth), a term popularized by comedian José Miguel Agrelot. Flutist Néstor Torres is one of her nephews.\n\nFernandez always stressed the positive in her life and in her interaction with people. Her most often repeated quote is \"\"¡Arriba, corazones!\"\" (\"Hearts, go up!\"). Fernández's signature song is the Lito Peña composition \"\"Gracias, Mundo\"\" (\"Thank you, World\"), which, in a way similar to Louis Armstrong's \"\"What a Wonderful World\"\", depicts the planet in a very optimistic way. In many occasions, particularly at charity telethons, Fernández would be asked to sing the song as a closer, which she would do willingly. With some reluctance, but agreeing to it as to show she was a good sport, she accepted neighbor Sunshine Logroño's request to sing the song as the theme for his satirical movie, \"\"Chona, La Puerca Asesina\"\" (Chona, The Killer Pig), as a way to emphasize the deeds of Cambucha, the film's hero (played by Puerto Rican actress and singer Nena Rivera) of saving Puerto Rico from the giant piglet after which the film is named.\n\nAmong the many awards and recognitions which have been bestowed upon her are:\nIn 1985, she was given a tribute in recognition of the 50 years which she has dedicated to the artistic world with the participation of Mario Moreno \"Cantinflas\", Libertad Lamarque, Pedro Vargas, Olga Guillot and many others. She was also named by 500th Centennial commission as one of the three Latin American artists who have contributed the most in uniting Latin America.\n\nIn 2000, she was paid a tribute in the Antonio Paoli Hall of the Luis A. Ferré Center for the Performing Arts in Puerto Rico. During the tribute she was proclaimed \"The Singer of the Century\" of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn June 2012, the Senate of Puerto Rico approved \"Resolución Conjunta del Senado 957\" (Joint Senate Resolution 957) to rename the Museo de la Música Puertorriqueña in Ponce as \"Museo de la Música Puertorriqueña Ruth Fernández\" in honor of the singer from Ponce.\n\nShe was elected into the Senate of Puerto Rico, representing the district of Ponce as a member of the Partido Popular Democrático de Puerto Rico. Her loyalty to the party had been long standing: when Rafael Hernández Colón first ran for governor of Puerto Rico in 1972, Fernández sang a campaign jingle for his campaign.\n\nAs a legislator, Fernández sought many reforms and better working conditions for the artistic class. She also looked after the needs of Puerto Ricans living in the United States; a tenement in The Bronx, New York, is named after her, \"Ruth Fernández Apartments\". After her senatorial term was over, she served as a cultural adviser to Hernández Colón. In 1990, she was selected by Imagen (Image) magazine as one of the ten most powerful women in Puerto Rico.\n\nAt one time she led \"Casa del Artista Puertorriqueño\" (House of the Puerto Rican Artist), an organization that vouched for the development of young rising Puerto Rican artists. Her controversial tenure, spanning over a decade, resulted in the granting of $500,000 to the organization with which it purchased Teatro Coribantes, a theater near San Juan's Hato Rey financial district.\n\nFernández retired from all activities in the 2000s. She acknowledged suffering from Alzheimer's Disease, but 2010 newspaper interviews depicted her as having occasional moments of (very candid) lucidity. She died in San Juan on 9 January 2012 of a septic shock and pneumonia. The government of Puerto Rico declared three days of national mourning for her death. She was buried in her hometown of Ponce at Cementerio Civil de Ponce.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823928", "title": "Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right", "text": "Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right\n\nSlander: Liberal Lies About the American Right is a 2002 book by conservative columnist Ann Coulter criticizing \"the left's hegemonic control of the news media\". The book was a #1 \"New York Times\" best seller in 2002, holding the #1 spot for eight weeks.\n\nIn an interview with George Gurley of the \"New York Observer\" shortly after the publication of \"Slander\", it was mentioned that Coulter actually had friends and acquaintances who worked for the \"Times\", namely restaurant critic Frank Bruni and correspondent David E. Sanger. Later in the interview, she expressed amusement at her recollections of the \"Times\"' gratuitousness in publishing two photos of George H. W. Bush throwing up at a diplomatic meeting in Japan, then said, \"Is your tape recorder running? Turn it on! I got something to say...My only regret with Timothy McVeigh is he did not go to the \"New York Times\" Building.\" Gurley told her to be careful, to which she responded, \"You’re right, after 9/11 I shouldn’t say that.\"\n\nWhen asked by John Hawkins, the web manager of a right-wing blog, through a pre-written set of interview questions if she regretted the statement, Coulter replied by saying, \"Of course I regret it. I should have added, 'after everyone had left the building except the editors and reporters.'\" Lee Salem, the president of Universal Press Syndicate, which distributes Coulter's column, later defended Coulter by characterizing her comments as satire.\n\nThe subject came up again when Coulter appeared on the Fox News program \"Hannity & Colmes\". Alan Colmes mentioned Salem's claim, and said to her that remarks like saying \"Timothy McVeigh should have bombed \"The New York Times\" building\" were \"laughable happy satires, right?\" He then said that Coulter was \"actually a \"liberal\" who is doing this to mock and parody the way conservatives think.\" She replied, \"Well, it's not working very well if that were my goal. No, I think the Timothy McVeigh line was merely prescient after \"The New York Times\" has leaped beyond — beyond nonsense straight into treason, last week\". She was referring to a \"Times\" report that revealed classified information about an anti-terrorism program of the U.S. government involving surveillance of international financial transactions of persons suspected of having Al-Qaida links. Colmes continued in the same vein when he responded, calling her remarks \"great humor\", and that it \"belongs on \"Saturday Night Live\". It belongs on \"The Daily Show\".\"\n\nIn the first edition of this book, Coulter incorrectly alleged that \"The New York Times\" did not cover NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt's death until two days after he died:\n\n\"The New York Times\" did, in fact, cover Earnhardt's death the same day that he died: sportswriter Robert Lipsyte authored an article for the front page that was published on February 18, 2001. Another front page article appeared in the \"Times\" on the following day. Coulter cited an article indeed written two days after Earnhardt's death—Rick Bragg, a Pulitzer Prize winner who grew up in the South, wrote a personal piece on Earnhardt and his passing—bringing the total to three days in a row in which the \"Times\" covered Earnhardt's death on its front page. The paper also ran a prominent story about Earnhardt before his death.\n\nCoulter responded to this widely publicized error as follows:\n\nCoulter corrected the error in the paperback edition of her book.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823931", "title": "Sunshine Hockey League", "text": "Sunshine Hockey League\n\nThe Sunshine Hockey League (SuHL) was a low-minors professional ice hockey league which operated from 1992 to 1995. The league was based in Florida and consisted of five teams in its inaugural 1992-93 season. Each team's initial Head Coaches were former NHL players including Bill Nyrop, West Palm Beach; Rocky Saganiuk, Daytona Beach; Jim Mikol, Lakeland Warriors; and Lou Francheschetti, Jacksonville Bullets.\n\nThe St. Petersburg Renegades, led by Jim McGeough as player/Coach, joined the league after the season had already begun. In the 1993 final, the West Palm Beach Blaze defeated the Jacksonville Bullets in a three-game sweep for the Sunshine Cup.\n\nThe league founders, who were adamant in the initial season not to include 'professional' in the name of the league, suggested a high level Junior program was better suited to the cities due to the lack of quality dates and virtually no practice rinks in the state. Despite the obvious attendance and lack of facilities in the state to grow the sport, the team owners in a heavily disputed move continued in the professional ranks, changed leagues names and eventually folded.\n\nThe 1993-94 season saw the St. Petersburg Renegades franchise fold mainly because of the team's proximity to the National Hockey League's (NHL) Tampa Bay Lightning, who announced a move from Expo Hall to the Florida Suncoast Dome until their new arena was built in downtown Tampa. The Renegades had issues with the ability of the Bayfront Center to make and keep professional calibre ice. The team was losing the battle for fan support, as an average of 889 people attended their games. In the 1994 final, the West Palm Beach Blaze again defeated the Jacksonville Bullets in a three-game sweep for the Sunshine Cup.\n\nIn its final season of 1994–95, the league included the Fresno Falcons. This was an unusual addition, since all of the teams in the Sunshine Hockey League were based in Florida and the Falcons' home ice was located in California. Fresno had difficulty finding any competitive teams in California to compete with and agreed to fly the SHL teams to California to get the Western League started. Fresno played 16 games that season and was not included in postseason play. In the 1995 final, for the third consecutive year, the West Palm Beach Blaze defeated the Jacksonville Bullets in a three-game sweep for the Sunshine Cup.\n\nGoaltender Kelly Dyer, one of five females to ever play professional hockey in North America, played in the SuHL with the West Palm Beach Blaze from 1993 to 1995. In 3 seasons with the team, she made 15 appearances, went 4-0-0 with a 6.75 GAA. Kelly also joined the Daytona Beach SunDevils on a winter trip to France and Italy to compete in an International Tournament, Daytona's former Head Coach, Constant Priondolo and their GM, Dave MacPherson put together. Dominic Delannoy, majority owner of the SunDevils was a former French national team player. The tournament was held in Briancon, France with games in Gap, Toulon and Nice, France.\n\nIn 1995, the league expanded outside of Florida and changed its name to the Southern Hockey League. With the City of West Palm Beach selling its Coliseum to a National religious group the league was left with only a merger to continue. Many SHL players went on to careers in Europe, the NHL, AHL and ECHL.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823933", "title": "SpåraKoff", "text": "SpåraKoff\n\nSpåraKoff is a HM V type tram converted into a bar in Helsinki, Finland. Known as the pub tram, the vehicle does circular tours of downtown Helsinki picking up passengers for a fee during summer months. It is operated jointly by Sinebrychoff, HOK-Elanto (part of the S Group), and Helsinki City Transport.\n\nThe pub tram is immediately distinguishable in the Helsinki traffic by its vivid red colour (as opposed to the normal colours, green and cream, used on the Helsinki tram network of the Helsinki City Transport), and by the destination board that reads \"PUB\".\n\nIt is one of the four HM V trams that remain operational in Helsinki. Two of them are museum trams, and one is used as a non-passenger carrying advertisement tram.\n\nThe SpåraKoff was remodelled from an old HM V tram in 1995, to commemorate the 175th anniversary of Sinebrychoff. HM V number 15 was selected as the tram to be converted, and it was renumbered no. 175 in honour of the anniversary. The SpåraKoff started its operation on Walpurgis night's eve, 1995.\n\nThe SpåraKoff has an area of . It has seats for 24 customers, a counter and a lavatory. The lavatory is so small it had to be ordered from a company that builds cabins for cruise ships. The remodelling was done by Helsinki City Transport. Originally the SpåraKoff was only supposed to be in operation for two years, but it turned out to be so popular that it continues its operations today. When it started, it was the only one of its kind in the world.\n\nIn 2015, the SpåraKoff operates from 4 May to 5 September. A tour (\"pub crawl\") takes approximately 40 minutes, travelling from the Helsinki Railway Square to Kallio, Töölö, and the Market Square, while its passengers enjoy their drinks. The route has the following stops: Rautatientori, Linnanmäki, Oopperatalo, Aleksanterinkatu and Kauppatori. In addition to scheduled public rounds, the tram conducts 2-hour-long reserved rounds, for private events and public outings.\n\nThe name \"SpåraKoff\" is a combination of \"spåra\" (\"tram\", in Helsinki slang, from the Swedish word \"spårvagn\" \"tram\") and the beer brand \"Koff\", produced by the Sinebrychoff Brewery — the oldest brewery in Scandinavia and one of the largest in Finland.\n\nThe tram has two bogies and was originally constructed in 1959. The conversion for pub use (including the addition of a toilet) was in 1995.\n\n\nThe tram is staffed by one driver and one bartender serving customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823934", "title": "Gnawa music", "text": "Gnawa music\n\nGnawa music (Ar. ) is a body of Moroccan and other North African Islamic religious songs and rhythms. Its well-preserved heritage combines ritual poetry with traditional music and dancing. The music is performed at lila, communal nights of celebration dedicated to prayer and healing guided by the Gnawa maalem, or master musician, and their group of musicians and dancers. Though many of the influences that formed this music can be traced to sub-Saharan West-Africa, its traditional practice is concentrated in Bechar Algeria. Nowadays, Gnawa music is popular in Morocco and Algeria and has spread to many other countries in Africa and Europe, such as France.\n\nThe word \"Gnawa\", plural of \"Gnawi\", is taken to be derived from the Hausa-Fulani demonym \"Kanawa\" for the residents of Kano, the capital of the Hausa-Fulani Emirate, which was under Morocco influence (Opinion of Essaouira Gnawa Maalems, Maalem Sadiq, Abdallah Guinia, and many others). The Moroccan language often replaces \"K\" with \"G\", which is how the Kanawa, or Hausa people, were called Gnawa in Morocco. The history of the Gnawi is closely related to the famous Moroccan royal \"Black Guard\", which became today the Royal Guard of Morocco.\n\nAlgerian and Hausa cultures are connected both religiously, as both are Malikite Moslems, with many Moroccan spiritual schools active in Hausaland, and artistically, with Gnawa music being the prime example of typical Hausa music within Morocco.\n\nIn a Gnawa song, one phrase or a few lines are repeated over and over, so the song may last a long time. In fact, a song may last several hours non-stop. However, what seems to the uninitiated to be one long song is actually a series of chants describing the various spirits (in Arabic \"mlouk\" (sing. \"melk\")), so what seems to be a 20-minute piece may be a whole series of pieces – a suite for Sidi Moussa, Sidi Hamou, Sidi Mimoun or others. Because they are suited for adepts in a state of trance, they go on and on, and have the effect of provoking a trance from different angles.\n\nThe melodic language of the stringed instrument is closely related to their vocal music and to their speech patterns, as is the case in much African music. It is a language that emphasizes on the tonic and fifth, with quavering pitch-play, especially pitch-flattening, around the third, the fifth, and sometimes the seventh.\nGnawa music is characterized by instrumentation. The large, heavy iron castanets known as qraqab or krakebs and a three-string lute known as a hajhuj, gimbri, or sentir, are central to Gnawa music. The hajhuj has strong historical and musical links to West African lutes like the Hausa halam, a direct ancestor of the banjo.\n\nThe rhythms of the Gnawa, like their instruments, are distinctive. Gnawa is particularly characterized by interplay between triple and duple meters. The \"big bass drums\" mentioned by Schuyler are not typically featured in a more traditional setting.\n\nGnawa have venerable stringed-instrument traditions involving both bowed lutes like the gogo and plucked lutes like the hajhuj. The Gnawa also use large drums called tbel in their ritual music.\n\nGnawa hajhuj players use a technique which 19th century American minstrel banjo instruction manuals identify as \"brushless drop-thumb frailing\". The \"brushless\" part means the fingers do not brush several strings at once to make chords. Instead, the thumb drops repeatedly in a rhythmic pattern against the freely vibrating bass string, producing a throbbing drone, while the first two or three fingers of the same (right) hand pick out percussive patterns in a drum-like, almost telegraphic, manner.\n\nGnawas perform a complex liturgy, called \"lila\" or \"derdeba\". The ceremony recreates the first sacrifice and the genesis of the universe by the evocation of the seven main manifestations of the divine demiurgic activity. It calls the seven saints and mluk, represented by seven colors, as a prismatic decomposition of the original light/energy. The derdeba is jointly animated by a maâlem (master musician) at the head of his troop and by a moqadma or shuwafa (clairvoyant) who is in charge of the accessories and clothing necessary to the ritual.\n\nDuring the ceremony, the clairvoyant determines the accessories and clothing as it becomes ritually necessary. Meanwhile, the maâlem, using the guembri and by burning incense, calls the saints and the supernatural entities to present themselves in order to take possession of the followers, who devote themselves to ecstatic dancing.\n\nInside the brotherhood, each group (\"zriba\"; Arabic: زريبة) gets together with an initiatory moqadma (Arabic: مقدمة), the priestess that leads the ecstatic dance called the jedba (Arabic: جذبة), and with the maâlem, who is accompanied by several players of krakebs.\n\nPreceded by an animal sacrifice that assures the presence of the spirits, the all-night ritual begins with an opening that consecrates the space, the aâda (\"habit\" or traditional norm; Arabic: عادة), during which the musicians perform a swirling acrobatic dance while playing the krakebs.\n\nThe mluk are abstract entities that gather a number of similar jinn (genie spirits). The participants enter a trance state (\"jedba\") in which they may perform spectacular dances. By means of these dances, participants negotiate their relationships with the mluk either placating them if they have been offended or strengthening an existing relationship. The mluk are evoked by seven musical patterns, seven melodic and rhythmic cells, who set up the seven suites that form the repertoire of dance and music of the Gnawa ritual. During these seven suites, seven different types of incense are burned and the dancers are covered by veils of seven different colours.\n\nEach of the seven families of mluk is populated by many characters identifiable by the music and by the footsteps of the dance. Each melk is accompanied by its specific colour, incense, rhythm and dance. These entities, treated like \"presences\" (called \"hadra\", Arabic: حضرة) that the consciousness meets in ecstatic space and time, are related to mental complexes, human characters, and behaviors. The aim of the ritual is to reintegrate and to balance the main powers of the human body, made by the same energy that supports the perceptible phenomena and divine creative activity.\nLater, the guembri opens the treq (\"path,\" Arabic: طريق), the strictly encoded sequence of the ritual repertoire of music, dances, colors and incenses, that guides in the ecstatic trip across the realms of the seven mluk, until the renaissance in the common world, at the first lights of dawn.\n\nAlmost all Moroccan brotherhoods, such as the Issawa or the Hamadsha, relate their spiritual authority to a saint. The ceremonies begin by reciting that saint's written works or spiritual prescriptions (\"hizb\", Arabic: حزب) in Arabic. In this way, they assert their role as spiritual descendants of the founder, giving themselves the authority to perform the ritual. Gnawa, whose ancestors were neither literate nor native speakers of Arabic, begin the lila by recalling through song and dance their origins, the experiences of their slave ancestors, and ultimately redemption.\n\nDuring the last few decades, Gnawa music has been modernizing and thus become more profane. However, there are still many privately organized lilas that conserve the music's sacred, spiritual status.\n\nWithin the framework of the Gnaoua World Music Festival of Essaouira (\"Gnaoua and Musics of the World\"), the Gnawa play in a profane context with slight religious or therapeutic dimensions. Instead, in this musical expression of their cultural art, they share stages with other musicians from around the world. As a result, Gnawa music has taken a new direction by fusing its core spiritual music with genres like jazz, blues, reggae, and hip-hop. For four days every June, the festival welcomes musicians that come to participate, exchange and mix their own music with Gnawa music, creating one of the largest public festivals in Morocco. Since its debut in 1998, the free concerts have drawn an audience that has grown from 20,000 to over 200,000 in 2006, including 10,000 visitors from around the world.\n\nPast participants have included Randy Weston, Adam Rudolph, The Wailers, Pharoah Sanders, Keziah Jones, Omar Sosa, Doudou N'Diaye Rose, and the Italian trumpet player Paolo Fresu.\n\nThere are also projects such as \"The Sudani Project\", a jazz/gnawa dialogue between saxophonist/composer Patrick Brennan, Gnawi maâlem Najib Sudani, and drummer/percussionist/vocalist Nirankar Khalsa. Brennan has pointed out that the metal qraqeb and gut bass strings of the guembri parallel the cymbal and bass in jazz sound.\n\nIn the 1990s, young musicians from various backgrounds and nationalities started to form modern Gnawa bands. Gnawa Impulse from Germany is an example. These groups offer a rich mix of musical and cultural backgrounds, fusing their individual influences into a collective sound. They have woven elements of rap, reggae, jazz and rai into a vibrant musical patchwork.\n\nThese projects incorporating Gnawa and Western musicians are essentially Gnawa fusions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823940", "title": "1992 Croatian parliamentary election", "text": "1992 Croatian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held alongside the presidential elections in Croatia on 2 August 1992, the first after independence and under the new constitution. All 138 seats in the Chamber of Representatives were up for election. The result was a victory for the Croatian Democratic Union, which won an absolute majority of 85 seats. Voter turnout was 75.6%.\n\nThe circumstances under which the elections took place were extraordinary - one third of the country was occupied by Krajina forces, while Croatia itself was involved in war raging in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Few people, however, doubted their legitimacy because the old Parliament, elected under the old Communist Constitution and in a time when Croatia had been part of Yugoslavia, clearly didn't correspond to the new political realities.\n\nAlthough the new Constitution called for two houses of Parliament, only one - House of Representatives - was elected.\n\nNew electoral laws, written by Smiljko Sokol, were passed and a new voting system - combination of first past the post and proportional representation was introduced. 60 members were to be elected in individual constituencies while 60 seats were to be distributed among those candidates' lists who broke 2% threshold. 12 seats were reserved for expatriate Croatians, while the Parliament had to have at least 15 members belonging to ethnic minorities - 11 Serbs and 4 others.\n\nFranjo Tudjman and his Croatian Democratic Union party entered the campaign with great confidence, because Croatia, despite being partially occupied, had won independence and international recognition under his leadership. State-controlled media at the time presented the war as practically won and peaceful reintegration of Krajina a mere formality that would occur in very foreseeable future.\n\nHowever, the very same period saw the emergence of opposition to Tudjman's regime, centred mostly around politicians and parties who criticised Tudjman's conduct of war and found the government to be too appeasing towards the international community and the Serbs. Other opposition leaders were troubled by Tudjman's autocratic tendencies and visible decline of democratic standards in Croatia.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party of Croatia, which was nominally the main opposition party, based on its representation in the old Parliament, was in comparison somehow friendly towards Tudjman. This could be explained with its precarious position - it lost most of its membership to defections, many of its disgruntled voters defected to other parties, while many Croatians associated that party with Communism. Many analysists and opinion polls believed SDP would fail to break the 2% threshold.\n\nThe opposition was very vocal, but it was also disunited - which was most evident in the rivalry between two liberal parties - Croatian Social Liberal Party and Croatian People's Party.\n\nThis allowed HDZ to win constituencies deemed hopeless by the split opposition, sometimes with barely 18% of the vote. HDZ won around 40% of the vote on the national level, but it also won 54 out of 60 individual constituencies. The only places where HDZ was soundly beaten was Istria, where the local Istrian Democratic Assembly won all 3 constituencies, while one seat in nearby city of Rijeka was taken by Vladimir Bebić, representative of Alliance of Primorje - Gorski Kotar. One seat, representing then-occupied Vukovar, was won by an independent candidate, while one seat in Medjimurje was won by HSLS.\n\nAlthough HDZ won a comfortable majority, the opposition could comfort themselves with the emergence of HSLS as the strongest opposition party. Other parties to enter Sabor were HNS, Croatian Peasant Party, Croatian Party of Rights, Dalmatian Action, SDP and Serb Popular Party.\n\nThe latter had their representative in Parliament elected by the decision of Constitutional Court, in order to fill quota of ethnic Serbs. This decision was controversial, because the Court explained its decision by branding SNS as an \"ethnic party\" and, therefore, more entitled to represent the Serb ethnic minority than any other party. This was at the expense of the left-wing Social Democratic Union party, which won more votes than SNS and had more than enough ethnic Serb candidates on its list to fill the quota.\n\nThis election, together with the presidential election, was also associated with alleged vote fraud. After the elections, some opposition candidates accused the ruling party of stealing the votes and rigging the result in favour of their candidates, especially in constituencies where the election was close. The best known of such accusations related to one Zagreb constituency where the HDZ candidate and future Sabor speaker Nedjeljko Mihanović won the seat and defeated the HSLS candidate Relja Bašić only after receiving couple of hundred votes allegedly cast in Croatian prisons.\n\n¹ Includes seats for national minorities\n\n² Within the coalition, Dalmatian Action and the Rijeka Democratic Union won one seat each, whilst the Istrian Democratic Assembly won four.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823944", "title": "Yoke (aeronautics)", "text": "Yoke (aeronautics)\n\nA yoke, alternatively known as a control wheel is a device used for piloting some fixed-wing aircraft.\n\nThe pilot uses the yoke to control the attitude of the plane, usually in both pitch and roll. Rotating the control wheel controls the ailerons and the roll axis. Fore and aft movement of the control column controls the elevator and the pitch axis. When the yoke is pulled back the nose of the aircraft rises. When the yoke is pushed forward the nose is lowered. When the yoke is turned left the plane rolls to the left and when it is turned to the right the plane rolls to the right.\n\nSmall to medium-size aircraft, usually limited to propeller driven, feature a mechanical system whereby the yoke is connected directly to the control surfaces with cables and rods. Human muscle power alone is not enough for larger and more powerful aircraft, so hydraulic systems are used, in which yoke movements control hydraulic valves and actuators. In more modern aircraft, inputs may first be sent to a fly-by-wire system, which then sends a corresponding signal to actuators attached to the control surfaces. Yokes may feature a stick shaker, which is designed to help indicate the onset of stall, or even a stick pusher, which assists in stall recovery. \n\nYokes come in a variety of shapes and sizes, the most common being of a \"U\" or \"W\" design. Some aircraft use an \"M\" style, such as Embraer aircraft and the Concorde. There are some rarer exotic or archaic styles, such as circular designs much like a steering wheel.\n\nIn larger aircraft they are usually mounted on a post protruding vertically from the floor, referred to as a control column. In most other planes, they are mounted on a horizontal tube that comes out of the instrument panel.\n\nIn the case of the Cirrus SR20 and Cirrus SR22, although the control looks like a side stick, it works like a yoke handle (referred to in the industry as a \"side yoke\"). The Cessna 162 uses a slightly similar approach.\n\nSide-sticks and centre-sticks are better for making rapid control inputs and dealing with high g-forces, hence their use in military, sport, and aerobatic aircraft. However, yokes are less sensitive (i.e., more precise) thanks to a larger range of motion and provide more visual feedback to the pilot.\n\nMost yokes are connected and will both move together, thus providing instant indication to the other pilot when one makes a control input. This is in contrast to some fly-by-wire control sticks that allow each pilot to send different, and sometimes greatly conflicting, inputs though competing inputs are signaled on Airbus FBW craft.\n\nYokes take up more room than side-sticks in the cockpit, and may even obscure some instruments; by comparison, side-sticks have minimal cockpit intrusion, allowing for the inclusion of retractable tray-tables and making it easier to enter/leave small cockpits.\n\nA yoke, unlike a side-stick, may be used comfortably with either hand. This can be useful if one needs to write or manipulate other controls in the cockpit. This advantage is shared with the centre-stick.\n\nThe yoke often incorporates other key functions such as housing thumb or finger buttons to enable the radio microphone, disengage the autopilot, and trim the aircraft. In addition, there may be a clipboard, checklist, or chronometer located in the yoke's centre.\n\nYokes are not used on all aircraft. Helicopters use a cyclic and the majority of military fighter aircraft use a centre or side-stick. Some light aircraft use a stick because some sport pilots prefer that control system. The latest Airbus family of passenger jets use a side-stick, similar to a joystick, to actuate control surfaces.\n\nThere are also computer input devices designed to simulate a yoke, intended for flight simulators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823945", "title": "Bay Area thrash metal", "text": "Bay Area thrash metal\n\nBay Area thrash metal (also known as Bay Area thrash) referred to a steady following of heavy metal bands in the 1980s who formed and gained international status in the San Francisco Bay Area in California. Along with South Florida, the scene was widely regarded as a starting point of American thrash metal and death metal.\n\nThe earliest documented roots of the Bay Area thrash scene date back to the formation of Exodus in 1979. By the time the group recorded their full-length album four years later, five different guitarists or bassists had already passed through the line-up, with some going on to join or form bands that were equally relevant to the area's burgeoning metal scene. In November 1982, Exodus opened a show at San Francisco's Old Waldorf venue for Metallica, a then-relatively unknown (and unsigned) band from Southern California who were recently discovered by Brian Slagel and had appeared on the first volume of his \"Metal Massacre\" compilation. Exodus (who were also unsigned at this time) had distributed an untitled demo the same year with a line-up that included guitarist Kirk Hammett.\n\nAlthough Metallica had initially formed in Los Angeles, it wasn't until their February 1983 relocation to the East Bay area that Cliff Burton and Kirk Hammett joined as bassist and lead guitarist, sealing the band's first, formative line-up. The group (which then consisted of Burton, James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich and Dave Mustaine) had moved into a Carlson Blvd. house in El Cerrito, near Albany Hill, which had been rented by Mark Whitaker, then-manager of Exodus. After Mustaine was removed from the line-up that same year, then-Exodus guitarist Hammett would replace him following Whitaker's recommendation; in turn, Mustaine would move back to Los Angeles to form Megadeth.\n\nMetallica's signing to Megaforce Records, the release of their first album and the songwriting process and rehearsals for \"Ride the Lightning\" and \"Master of Puppets\" had all taken place while the group resided at Whitaker's El Cerrito home.\n\nBurton and Hammett's friendship with other local acts, notably Oakland's Exodus and Testament, and later, San Francisco's Death Angel—among others—strongly vitalized the scene, leading to intensive touring and tape trading that would cross borders and seas, and eventually graduate to record signings.\n\nEl Sobrante's Possessed would bring a turning point to the genre with 1985's \"Seven Churches\", regarded as the first album to cross over from thrash metal to death metal for the largely \"growling vocals\" and subject matter dealing with horror and the occult. In addition to the inspiration of black metal, it would predate other albums, such as Los Angeles-based Slayer's \"Reign in Blood\" and Death's San Francisco Bay Area-written and rehearsed \"Scream Bloody Gore\", which had also been regarded as influential to thrash and death metal.\n\nMembers from Possessed had also maintained a strong network with other integral musicians of the Bay Area thrash scene: vocalist Jeff Becerra and then-guitarist Larry LaLonde had played in a short-lived speed metal band called Blizzard, which featured former Exodus bassist Carlton Melson and Desecration guitarist Danny Boland (then-Possessed drummer Mike Sus and former Possessed bassist Bob Yost had also played in Desecration, a Bay Area death/thrash band active between 1985 and 1989). Former Exodus bassist Geoff Andrews co-founded Possessed before Becerra replaced him in 1983, taking over both vocal and bass duties. Andrews went on to form the thrash band Sabertooth with Johnee McKelvey. \n\nAfter Possessed's first disbanding, LaLonde went on to join Blind Illusion, which featured former Exodus members Evan McCaskey and Tim Agnello, then-Heathen members Marc Biedermann and Dave Godfrey, and Blizzard drummer Mike Miner. Blind Illusion co-founder Les Claypool (who was a high school friend of Kirk Hammett at Richmond's DeAnza High School) would unsuccessfully audition as Metallica's bassist in 1986 after Burton's bus accident death in Sweden.\n\nHeavy metal in Southern California had spanned back to the 1970s, and in the 1980s, was the home base of Slayer and Megadeth, two of thrash's \"big four\". However, from the mid-1980s until the early 1990s, glam metal had been the pervading and popular subgenre within the boundaries of the Los Angeles scene.\n\nNotwithstanding, both Slayer and Megadeth would receive recognition early in their duration by playing at Bay Area venues, including Berkeley's Ruthie's Inn with Exodus between 1984–85, a time in which current Slayer guitarist Kerry King had played alongside Mustaine in Megadeth. Oakland native Jeff Hanneman was a founding Slayer member; Paul Bostaph (formerly of Forbidden, and later Exodus and Testament) had been Slayer's full-time drummer for the balance of the 1990s. Similarly, drummer Dave Lombardo played on Testament's \"The Gathering\" album before returning to Slayer in 2004.\n\nIn 1987, shortly after the release of \"Scream Bloody Gore\" and Schuldiner's move back to Florida, Reifert would form his own endeavor, Autopsy, which has also been regarded as an early inspiration of the death metal genre. Autopsy's 1989 debut, \"Severed Survival\", would feature bassist Steve DiGiorgio, founder of Antioch, California thrash metal band Sadus; Schuldiner had also met DiGiorgio while living in the Bay Area, who would play bass for Death on the albums \"Human\" and \"Individual Thought Patterns\".\n\nAs different thrash metal scenes developed around the world throughout the 1980s, each had their own distinct style and influence.\n\nSeveral early luminaries of the Bay Area scene borrowed heavily from the new wave of British heavy metal and early punk rock: Exodus guitarist Gary Wayne Holt mentioned discovering Tygers of Pan Tang, Diamond Head, Angel Witch, Venom and Budgie on a KUSF radio show hosted by Ian Kallen and Ron Quintana. Hammett, Hetfield and Ulrich have also cited Venom and Budgie as important influences, in addition to punk acts like the Misfits, Charged GBH and Discharge. Albums that very much reflected this era and inspiration include \"Kill Em All\" and \"Bonded By Blood\".\n\nOther bands, such as Attitude Adjustment, took the hardcore punk influence to a greater extent, with the aforementioned group involving former musicians from Agnostic Front, D.R.I., and Murphy's Law during their line-up history, in addition to show dates at 924 Gilman, a Berkeley venue more oriented to hardcore punk than heavy metal music.\n\nAttitude Adjustment's style, \"crossover thrash\", a grindcore precursor, would influence many bands of the latter subgenre, including chief innovator, the British band Napalm Death, who would cover Attitude Adjustment's \"Dope Fiend\" and Hirax's \"Hate, Fear, and Power\" on an (coincidentally, the Hirax track had featured Attitude Adjustment drummer Eric Brecht on the original 1986 recording). Hirax, while Orange County, CA-based, had many connections to bands of the Bay Area thrash scene, as the group had played at \"Ruthie's Inn\", and in past line-ups, featured Paul Baloff (formerly of Exodus and Heathen) and Ron McGovney (Metallica's first bassist).\n\nLong Island-born multi-instrumentalist Joe Satriani had relocated to Berkeley in 1978 to pursue a career teaching music; although he was mainly influenced by blues rock and had not specialized in heavy metal music initially, many of Satriani's students would go on to become progenital guitarists in the Bay Area metal scene, including Kirk Hammett of Metallica/Exodus, Larry LaLonde of Possessed, Alex Skolnick of Testament, Rick Hunolt of Exodus, Phil Kettner of Lȧȧz Rockit and Geoff Tyson of T-Ride. Satriani would also produce Possessed's 1987 \"The Eyes of Horror\" EP.\n\nJeff Becerra of Possessed cites early Exodus, Venom and Motörhead as his inspirations, calling bassist/vocalist Lemmy his greatest of influences. Although Allmusic attributed Slayer as being a musical influence for 1985's \"Seven Churches\", the first Slayer album \"Show No Mercy\" had not been released until December 1983, shortly after members of Possessed were already writing material for their demo and debut album. However, former Possessed member Brian Montana explained that guitarist Mike Torrao once wanted Possessed to have a \"Slayer-type outfit\" (which then consisted of make-up, leather, pentagrams and inverted crosses), something Montana rejected as being too derivative. Montana (who had played guitar on the first Possessed demo) also cited early Exodus as an influence, in addition to Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Yngwie Malmsteen and\nJoe Satriani.\n\nIn regards to heavy metal and image, Sadus co-founder Steve DiGiorgio explained:\n\n...in high school, if you were playing any kind of music that wasn’t dance, or just something that was really different—you know, rock, metal or hard rock, anything like that—then you needed to look like it. You needed to look like a bad dude, and we just looked like normal dudes...It wasn’t about trying to impress everybody, because we looked at those types of people as weenies trying to do that stuff ... We just wore our normal stuff and we didn’t really think about it. It just kind of happened that way and I think because we were searching for an extreme style, coupled with this no image, who-cares-what-we-look-like thing, then I think we fit in to that new movement that we discovered a little ways later, the whole Bay Area thrash scene.\n\nFor logos, many bands within the Bay Area scene had a more DIY-artistic approach compared to the older metal bands using an already established font. Conversely, professional illustrators (most notably Ed Repka on \"Beyond the Gates\", \"Eternal Nightmare\", \"Product of Society\", and \"Scream Bloody Gore\") were sometimes utilized to design album art.\n\nLyrical topics generally dealt in themes like the occult, horror, death, witchcraft, warfare, destruction, violence, apocalypse, rebellion and tyranny. However, some groups took on subjects more relevant to the day. Metallica's \"Master of Puppets\", from the 1986 album of the same name, deals with the issues of hard drugs, with some phrases in the song being references to cocaine use. The crack-cocaine epidemic had been an active problem at that time for many large U.S. cities, and particularly affected the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nDave Mustaine's association to the Bay Area scene was limited to his brief El Cerrito tenure with Metallica (in addition to the early Megadeth shows). However, the \"Megadeth\" namesake emanated from a pamphlet written by then–U.S. Senator Alan Cranston, a prominent politician from the South Bay. Cranston's text related to nuclear disarmament and the Cold War, two hot-button political issues during the 1980s which would become song topics on the second Megadeth album, \"Peace Sells... But Who's Buying?\"\n\nAt live shows, members of Exodus were forward in their disdain for the glam metal scene in Los Angeles, making the phrase \"kill the posers\" a common stage mantra; guitarist Gary Holt often recalled how both he and then-singer Paul Baloff would approach individuals wearing Ratt or Mötley Crüe T-shirts, cut the clothes up with pocket knives (either for or against the wearer's will) and then tied the mangled fabrics around their wrist as a \"badge of honor\". Despite Holt later conceding to being a Ratt fan himself (along with guitarist Lee Altus), he still criticized the image-driven mentality of glam metal, and described Exodus and other thrash metal bands as being more \"based on musicianship, chops, songwriting and performance\".\n\nWhile Vio-Lence had been signed to a major label (MCA Records) for their 1988 debut album, a rare feat for any 2nd wave thrash band, then-guitarist Robb Flynn described tour life:\n\n...we were all like nineteen ... our stuff was crammed into the van, no hotels, crashing out on people's floors and shit like that. (Then-Vio-Lence manager) Debbie (Abono) came out with us for a few dates and those ruled because we'd get to eat at Denny's. We'd just eat as much as humanly possible and hopefully we'd eat at the show, but we had absolutely no spending money. We weren't making anything, that's for sure, maybe we made $50 a night.\n\nBy the early 1990s, the scene had mostly died down, with many groups disbanding, going on hiatus or venturing to musical styles deemed more commercial or accessible at the time.\n\nOakland thrash metal band Vio-Lence would dissolve, leading guitarist Robb Flynn to form and front Machine Head, who would help popularize the groove metal genre. Flynn (who had also co-founded Forbidden) would be joined by drummer Chris Kontos (formerly of Attitude Adjustment) and later guitarist Phil Demmel, who played alongside Flynn in Vio-Lence.\n\nVocalist Steev Esquivel would take a similar direction to Flynn after the 1994 break-up of his thrash metal band, Defiance, when he formed groove metal/nu metal group, Skinlab, the following year.\n\nPossessed would disband in 1989 after vocalist/bassist Becerra was shot by 2 street thieves and left paralyzed from the waist down. In addition, personal and creative conflicts within the band had been described by former members. Mike Torrao would reform Possessed the following year with a different line-up; however, the group would fold once again in 1993.\n\nThe 2008 documentary film \"Get Thrashed\" attributed thrash's disintegration to grunge's rise after the \"Clash of the Titans\" tour.\nWhile every band touring the 1990 European segment were veterans of 1980s thrash, a then-unknown Alice in Chains was the opening band on the North American segment in 1991. Death Angel were originally intended by promoters as the supporting act (for their album, \"Act III\"); however, in the previous year, a vehicle accident in Arizona left drummer Andy Galeon critically injured, and Geffen Records had dropped the group from their roster after a disagreement on who to replace him; subsequently, the band would dissolve. The same year, Geffen created a subsidiary label, DGC Records, which was responsible for signing Nirvana, who—along with Alice In Chains, Pearl Jam and Soundgarden—epitomized the face of the Seattle grunge phenomena of the early 1990s. Nearly coinciding with \"Nevermind\"'s No. 1 spot on the Billboards, Exodus would be dropped from Capitol Records and the group would go on hiatus the same year.\n\nDespite line-up shifts and label changes, Testament managed to intercept thrash's slow period by touring Europe and building a new fan base abroad. Sadus bassist Steve DiGiorgio and Floridian guitarist James Murphy (both alums of Schuldiner's band Death) would join ranks with the band, in addition to former or session members of Forbidden, Exodus, and Slayer. However, Murphy would leave Testament after a brain tumor diagnosis in 1999. He had initially replaced founding guitarist Alex Skolnick, who had left Testament in 1993 to explore other musical styles.\n\nAlmost in tandem with grunge's receding vogue, and the increasing popularity of alternative rock, nu metal, rap rock, hip hop and boy bands, MTV's Headbangers Ball (which had showcased music videos of many Bay Area thrash groups in the late 1980s and early 1990s) would be taken off the air in 1995, limiting U.S. output of thrash (in addition to associated metal subgenres like death and black metal) to outlets such as radio shows, carrier current, mailorder, word of mouth or the internet.\n\nOut of all bands from the Bay Area metal scene, Metallica managed not only to stay active (despite alcoholism, internal conflicts and a turnover of bassists) but also branch out to the mainstream, even while thrash metal and other 1980s metal styles began to shrink from the public eye. Metallica was the only \"big 4 thrash group\" not on the \"Clash of the Titans\" tour; instead, after the \"Titans\" event ended, the band teamed up with Guns N' Roses and Faith No More on 2 consecutive tours in support of their self-titled 5th album, known colloquially as the \"Black Album\". The record was considered a musical departure from their thrash metal days, showing a direction reared toward modern hard rock, and was attributed (along with \"Load\" and \"ReLoad\") as alienating long-time fans. The April 2000 Napster file sharing lawsuits would bring the band further controversy from both the press and fans, considering the process of music trading was a factor in their early success. Since the beginning of the Soundscan era, the \"Black Album\" has held distinction as one of the best selling albums of all time; the accumulated Metallica discography currently makes the group the 3rd most financially successful heavy metal band of all time (after Led Zeppelin and AC/DC) and the best selling thrash metal band of all time. The band has sold a total of over 100 million records.\n\nIn August 2001, a small \"reunion\" of Bay Area thrash metal bands organized \"Thrash of the Titans\", promoted to help Testament vocalist Chuck Billy, who had been diagnosed with cancer, as well as Death's Chuck Schuldiner, who was ailing from a brain tumor. Although Death was based in Orlando, Florida, Schuldiner had relocated the group to the San Francisco Bay Area during the 1980s while pooling a line-up.\n\nThe classic Vio-Lence line-up (minus Machine Head's Robb Flynn), Death Angel, Heathen, Forbidden (going under their original name, Forbidden Evil), Anthrax, Sadus, Stormtroopers of Death and Exodus were among the performers. Schuldiner died from cancer four months later, and Exodus' singer Paul Baloff died from a stroke the following year. However, Testament's singer, Chuck Billy survived cancer.\n\nDeath Angel and Heathen would reform and record new albums as a result of their reunions for the benefit concert, and Exodus, who had been on semi-hiatus at the time, asked 1980s era singer Steve Souza to rejoin the band after Baloff's death, also leading to a new album.\n\nOn July 9, 2005, a \"sequel\" concert, \"Thrash Against Cancer\" took place, which featured Testament, Lȧȧz Rockit and Hirax, with Death Angel guitarist Ted Aguilar.\n\n\nMetallica, 03/15/1985 \n<br>Megadeth, 05/31/1985 \n\nAt Berkeley's Keystone: Megadeth & Slayer, 04/15/1984 \n\nOpen from 1984-1985, also called \"Rock on Broadway\", in the same building as Mabuhay Gardens, lower level of 435 Broadway. Hosted bands such as Attitude Adjustment, Blind Illusion, Control and Heathen.\n\nIn addition to bringing to light many punk rock groups, the club was an early local venue\nfor Metallica, Megadeth, Death, Slayer, Exodus, Possessed, Death Angel, Testament, Suicidal Tendencies, and D.R.I. from 1983–1987. Cliff Burton had also been a regular in the audience. The club was eventually converted into a restaurant, Rountree's, in 2002. On December 31, 2006, the venue's original founder, Wes Robinson, died at age 77.\n\nPrior and upon moving to California, the Texas-born Robinson was heavily involved in the jazz music collective, where he met musicians like Pharoah Sanders and John Coltrane. Disillusioned by the commercialism of jazz in the 1970s, Robinson's focus soon moved to hardcore punk (which had just started in the East Bay at that time) and a small San Pablo Avenue club called \"Ruthie's Inn\" would be used to front these bands. By the 1980s, Robinson then became interested in the thrash metal and early death metal bands in the area, and would promote highly influential bands of those subgenres as well. In a \"Berkeley Daily Planet\" op-ed, Robinson was remembered for focusing on \"\"freshness and originality of the music and passion of its artists rather than the commercial appeal.\"\"\n\nThe Stone is attributed for hosting Burton's first concert appearance with Metallica, and\nwould lead to repeat performances from other thrash acts, such as Megadeth.\n\nThe 1920s vaudeville theatre featured a myriad of thrash metal bands during the 1980s, and was the exclusive location for Slayer's \"War at the Warfield\" video in 2003.\n\nTestament and Vio-Lence, August 18, 1989\nDeath Angel, November 3, 1989\nDeath, March 30, 1990.\n"}
{"id": "1823948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823948", "title": "Cheese puffs", "text": "Cheese puffs\n\nCheese puffs, cheese curls, cheese balls, cheesy puffs, corn curls, or corn cheese are a puffed corn snack, coated with a mixture of cheese or cheese-flavored powders. They are manufactured by extruding heated corn dough through a die that forms the particular shape. They may be ball-shaped, curly (\"cheese curls\"), straight, or irregularly shaped. Puffcorn is a similar food, without cheese flavoring.\n\nCheese puffs were invented independently by two companies in the United States during the 1930s. \nAccording to one account, Edward Wilson noticed strings of puffed corn oozing from flaking machines in the mid 1930s at the Flakall Corporation of Beloit, Wisconsin, a producer of flaked, partially cooked animal feed. He experimented and developed it into a snack. Clarence J. Schwebke applied for an improved extruder patent in 1939 and the product, named \"Korn Kurls\", was commercialized in 1946 by the Adams Corporation, formed by one of the founders of Flakall and his sons. Adams was later bought by Beatrice Foods.\n\nAnother version was created by the Elmer Candy Corporation of New Orleans, Louisiana in 1936. The sales manager Morel M. Elmer, Sr., held a contest to name the new product \"CheeWees\". The trademark was lost when the candy company was sold in 1963, but the family's Elmer's Fine Foods continued to make the snack and repurchased the name in 1993.\n\nA fictitious brand of cheese puffs called \"Cheesy Poofs\" has appeared periodically in the animated television series \"South Park\". The Frito-Lay company produced a limited, promotional run of the snack in August 2011.\n\nA fictitious brand name, \"Cheezy Dibbles\", is a running joke in the 2014 film \"Penguins of Madagascar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1823950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823950", "title": "West Palm Beach Barracudas", "text": "West Palm Beach Barracudas\n\nThe West Palm Beach Barracudas were a professional minor league ice hockey team based in West Palm Beach, Florida. They played in the Sunshine Hockey League, later renamed the Southern Hockey League, from 1992–1996. They played their games at the West Palm Beach Auditorium.\n\nThe team was founded, by two Montana ranchers, Jim King and Bill Nyrop, formerly of the NHL Montreal Canadiens, as the Blaze in 1992. One of the inaugural franchises of the Sunshine Hockey League, a league with six teams mostly based in Florida. They dominated the Sunshine Hockey League, finishing with the best record and winning the championship in each year of the league's existence, defeating the Jacksonville Bullets each time in the finals.\n\nAfter the Sunshine Hockey League transformed into the Southern Hockey League, they were reformed as the West Palm Beach Barracudas but were unable to duplicate their success, finishing with a losing record. They folded along with the league after one season, when their home venue, the Coliseum was closed to the public and sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823951", "title": "Independent Institute", "text": "Independent Institute\n\nThe Independent Institute is an American think tank based in Oakland, California. Its stated mission is \"to boldly advance peaceful, prosperous, and free societies, grounded in a commitment to human worth and dignity.\" Founded in 1986 by David J. Theroux, the Institute focuses on political, social, economic, legal, environmental and foreign policy issues. It has more than 140 research fellows. The Institute was originally established in San Francisco, was re-located in 1989 to Oakland, and since 2006, has had an office in Washington, D.C. The Institute is organized into seven centers addressing a range of issues. According to the \"2014 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report\" (Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program, University of Pennsylvania), the Institute is ranked number 54 (of 60) in the \"Top Think Tanks in the United States\".\n\nThe results of the Institute's work are published as books and other publications and form the basis for conferences and media programs. Since 1996, the Institute has published the quarterly, scholarly journal, \"The Independent Review\", whose Founding Editor and Editor at Large is the economist and historian Robert Higgs and Co-Editors are Christopher Coyne, Michael Munger, and Robert Whaples (Wake Forest University). \"The Independent Review\" is peer-reviewed and includes articles in economics, political science, law, history, philosophy, and sociology.\n\nIn addition, the Institute conducts conference programs for scholars, business leaders, the media, policy makers and the general public. The Institute's Independent Policy Forum includes seminars by historians and economists including James M. Buchanan, legal scholars, foreign policy experts, criminologists, authors of such disparate personality and political temperament as Gore Vidal and P. J. O'Rourke, human rights leaders, scientists, jurists, journalists, and business leaders.\n\nIts program in criminal justice sponsored a series of televised debates on PBS-TV, \"Stopping Violent Crime: New Directions for Reduction and Prevention\", moderated by Harvard law professor Arthur R. Miller, and former U.S. Attorney General Richard Thornburgh, Federal Judge David Sentelle, civil libertarian writer Wendy Kaminer, and others.\n\nIn 2006 the Institute opened an office in Washington and expanded its media program, including a weekly column by Senior Fellow Álvaro Vargas Llosa in the \"Washington Post.\" In 2006 the Institute released an \"Open Letter on Immigration\", signed by more than 500 economists, including five Nobel laureates, and received editorial endorsements in the \"New York Times\" and \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nThe Institute operates programs for students including summer seminars for college students, student internships, and tuition assistance for disadvantaged families to send their children to private schools (Independent Scholarship Fund).\n\nIndependent Institute Senior Fellow Robert Higgs has written extensively on the expansion of the size and scope of the U.S. government. Beginning with his 1987 book \"Crisis and Leviathan\", he has argued that government expands during periods of perceived national emergency but doesn't fully retract after the crisis subsides, due to crisis-precipitated shifts in the political, institutional, and ideological landscape. These changes leave the government with greater powers that enable it to grow faster after the crisis period than it grew during the pre-crisis era. The subsequent “ratchet effect” can occur whether the national emergency is real, such as World War II and the Great Depression, or non-existent, such as the missile gap during the cold war.\n\nIndependent maintains MyGovCost.org, which focuses on the critical analysis of fiscal policy and government waste. It also features a calculator described as enabling Americans to estimate their lifetime federal tax liability and the hypothetical alternative investment return.\n\nThe Independent Institute has advocated free-market reforms for American healthcare since at least the early 1990s. In 1994 it published an open letter to President Bill Clinton, urging him to reject national healthcare legislation that would have used price controls to contain costs. The letter was signed by 565 economists and 76 scholars of other disciplines.\n\nIndependent Institute scholars have criticized the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on economic, legal, ethical, and privacy grounds. Senior Fellow John C. Goodman has argued that the ACA's architects could not have foreseen all of its negative consequences because healthcare is a complex system. For this reason he claimed the ACA exemplifies what Nobel laureate economist F. A. Hayek called “the fatal conceit.” Independent Institute scholars were critical of the pre-ACA system as well for problems they attributed to government policies that promoted third-party payment systems and removed market pricing from healthcare delivery. Goodman has proposed reforms replacing the ACA, most notably the adoption of a fixed-sum, refundable tax credit for the purchase of health insurance, a credit equal to the cost of new enrollees in Medicaid. Other major proposals include converting all medical savings accounts into Roth-style Health Savings Accounts that feature after-tax deposits and tax-free withdrawals; allowing anyone to buy into or exit from Medicaid; and denationalizing and deregulating health insurance exchanges but requiring exchanges to offer health-status insurance.\n\nIndependent Institute scholars have leveled several criticisms of Medicare. Senior Fellow John R. Graham has lamented the widespread indifference to the Medicare Trustees report's warnings of Medicare's mounting fiscal problems. He has, however, defended Medicare Advantage for giving seniors more choices than traditional Medicare. John C. Goodman has argued that healthcare inflation in the United States began with the creation of Medicare. To help curb Medicare spending, Graham has proposed incentivizing enrollees to seek less expensive medical treatment abroad. Craig Eyermann has also proposed giving Medicare enrollees a direct economic stake in lowering the costs. Goodman has called for the privatization of Medicare.\n\nThe Independent Institute has criticized the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, for what it sees as over-regulation as a result of political and bureaucratic incentives. Independent's website FDAReview.org cites numerous scholarly studies by academic economists that question the agency's safety, effectiveness, and incentives. Senior Fellow Robert Higgs has argued that the FDA's regulation of healthcare products is “hazardous to our health”.\n\nSenior Fellow Alexander Tabarrok has questioned the need for the FDA's pre-approval requirements for pharmaceuticals on the grounds that doctors successfully prescribe many drugs for off-label usage.\n\nIndependent Institute fellows have written on a variety of topics related to civil liberties and human rights. Historian Jonathan Bean anthologized and annotated numerous historical speeches, letters, and articles that show individualist perspectives that animated the American civil-rights era in his book \"Race and Liberty in America: The Essential Reader\". Since 2012, Bean has served on the Illinois State Advisory Committee, a federally appointed panel that advises the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and his experience led him to claim that the mainstream civil rights community was out of touch with the public's civil rights concerns.\n\nSecond Amendment legal scholar Stephen Halbrook, who has won three firearms cases before the U.S. Supreme Court, has argued in several Independent Institute books and articles that civil liberties are more secure when individuals have legal access to firearms. His 2003 book, \"The Founders’ Second Amendment\", traced the U.S. Constitution's guarantees of “the right of the people to keep and bear Arms” back to the American colonists’ fears of British oppression. His 2013 book, \"Gun Control in the Third Reich\", examined firearm registration and restrictions in pre-World War II Germany.\n\nEconomists Christopher Coyne and Abigail Hall have argued that interventionist militarism can lead to a “boomerang effect,” setting in motion political, institutional and ideological forces that contribute to the suppression of civil liberties in the aggressive country. Hall has also criticized asset forfeiture.\n\nIndependent has also criticized major aspects of the criminal justice system as antagonistic toward civil liberties. Senior Fellow Bruce L. Benson argued in \"The Enterprise of Law\" that before the British crown took over the courts, the legal system focused on restitution for victims, rather than punishment, corrections, and deterrence.\n\nIn \"The Power of Habeas Corpus in America\", winner of a 2013 PROSE Award in the category of Law and Legal Studies, Research Fellow Anthony Gregory put forth a revisionist view of the writ of \"habeas corpus\", arguing that rather than always promoting the cause of civil liberties, the legal idea has served “both as an engine and a curb on state power.”\n\nThe Independent Institute promotes a U.S. foreign policy of free trade and non-interventionism, and this perspective was apparent in a host of publications and events it sponsored during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001.\n\nEven before the United States led the 2003 airstrikes on Iraq, the Independent Institute's fellows and speakers voiced opposition to a U.S.-Iraq War. That opposition continued for the duration of the conflict. In a Reason magazine symposium marking the 10th anniversary of war's inception, Research Fellow Anthony Gregory called the Iraq war “the worst U.S. government project in my lifetime,” and Senior Fellow Robert Higgs said the sizable political and material benefits that accrued to the war's architects demonstrate that “Crime pays.”\n\nSenior Fellow Ivan Eland, who directs Independent's Center on Peace and Liberty, wrote extensively on the Iraq war and told an audience at the 2013 CPAC conference that the war helped illustrate why the America's Founders warned against foreign entanglements and were suspicious of standing armies. He has also argued that conservatives who seek a more limited government should celebrate Calvin Coolidge instead of the more interventionist Ronald Reagan.\n\nEland has argued that the best strategy for minimizing sectarian strife in post-Saddam Iraq is for Iraqis to peacefully partition their country along ethnic and religious lines, a view once also supported by then-Senator Joe Biden and former Ambassador Peter Galbraith.\n\nIn the aftermath of September 11 attacks, the Independent Institute was an early advocate of using privateers, (rather than a military invasion of Afghanistan) to bring the co-conspirators of the terrorist attacks to justice under international law, as authorized in Article I, Section 8, clause 11 of the United States Constitution.\n\nThe Independent Institute has published works by atmospheric physicist and professor emeritus of environmental science Fred Singer, who is an advocate of climate change attribution denial and impact denial. The works include \"Hot Talk, Cold Science: Climate Change's Unfinished Debate\" in 1999. It was co-authored with Frederick Seitz, another research fellow of the Institute. The book included Singer's 2004 essay, \"The Scientific Case against the Global Climate Treaty\". The Institute also published a 2003 policy report, \"New Perspectives in Climate Change: What the EPA Isn't Telling Us\", also by Singer. That report criticized the EPA's 2001 Climate Action Report.\n\nFor the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014, the Institute had total revenue of $2,775,869. From 2007 to 2011 the Institute took in $12,249,065 from gifts, grants, contributions, and membership fees; and $536,747 in gross income from interest, dividends, payments received on securities loans, rents, royalties, and income from similar sources.\n\nOn June 2, 1999, the Institute sponsored a full-page advertisement titled \"Open Letter on Antitrust Protectionism\" in the \"Washington Post\" and the \"New York Times\". The ads were signed by 240 economists and claimed \"headline-grabbing cases against Microsoft, Intel, Cisco Systems, Visa and MasterCard, along with a flurry of merger investigations now underway, would appear to demonstrate the need for a vigorously enforced antitrust policy that will create checks and balances to eliminate consumer harm. However, consumers did not ask for these antitrust actions—rival business firms did.\"\n\nIn September 1999, a controversy arose when \"New York Times\" reporter Joel Brinkley stated that the advertisements had been paid for by Microsoft. Based on internal Independent Institute documents \"provided to the New York Times by a Microsoft adversary associated with the computer industry who refused to be further identified\", Brinkley wrote that Microsoft \"has secretly served as the institute's largest outside financial benefactor in the last year.\" Independent Institute internal documents showed that Microsoft had contributed $203,217 in 1999, making it the single largest contributor. Brinkley calculated that Microsoft's contribution amounted to approximately 20% of the funds in 1999 from external sources, excluding $304,725 contributed by Theroux.\n\nThe day after Brinkley's article appeared, Theroux stated that \"our final year-end records do not agree with the numbers he had been provided by his source\" and claimed that at the media conference he had stated that the Microsoft funding amounted to 7%. \"It now appears the final figure is about 8%, a statistically insignificant difference, and far less than the 20% figure Mr. Brinkley claimed in his article,\" said Theroux.\n\nIn June 2000, \"Wall Street Journal\" staff reporters Glenn Simpson and Ted Bridis revealed that Oracle had hired Investigative Group International, as well as Chlopak, Leonard, Schechter & Associates, a Washington, D.C., public-relations agency, to distribute damaging information about Microsoft's allies to media outlets. Oracle admitted that this was the \"Microsoft adversary associated with the computer industry who refused to be further identified,\" which was the sole source for Brinkley's article.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823952", "title": "Diffusion capacitance", "text": "Diffusion capacitance\n\nDiffusion Capacitance is the capacitance due to transport of charge carriers between two terminals of a device, for example, the diffusion of carriers from anode to cathode in forward bias mode of a diode or from emitter to baseforward-biased junction for a transistor. In a semiconductor device with a current flowing through it (for example, an ongoing transport of charge by diffusion) at a particular moment there is necessarily some charge in the process of transit through the device. If the applied voltage changes to a different value and the current changes to a different value, a different amount of charge will be in transit in the new circumstances. The change in the amount of transiting charge divided by the change in the voltage causing it is the diffusion capacitance. The adjective \"diffusion\" is used because the original use of this term was for junction diodes, where the charge transport was via the diffusion mechanism. See Fick's laws of diffusion.\n\nTo implement this notion quantitatively, at a particular moment in time let the voltage across the device be formula_1. Now assume that the voltage changes with time slowly enough that at each moment the current is the same as the DC current that would flow at that voltage, say formula_2 (the \"quasistatic approximation\"). Suppose further that the time to cross the device is the forward transit time formula_3. In this case the amount of charge in transit through the device at this particular moment, denoted formula_4, is given by\n\nConsequently, the corresponding diffusion capacitance:formula_6. is\n\nIn the event the quasi-static approximation does not hold, that is, for very fast voltage changes occurring in times shorter than the transit time formula_8, the equations governing time-dependent transport in the device must be solved to find the charge in transit, for example the Boltzmann equation. That problem is a subject of continuing research under the topic of non-quasistatic effects. See Liu \n, and Gildenblat \"et al.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1823955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823955", "title": "Sussex Bonfire Societies", "text": "Sussex Bonfire Societies\n\nThe Sussex Bonfire Societies are responsible for the series of bonfire festivals concentrated on central and eastern Sussex, with further festivals in parts of Surrey and Kent from September to November each year.\n\nThe celebrations mark both Guy Fawkes Night and the burning of 17 Protestant martyrs in Lewes's High Street from 1555 to 1557, during the reign of Mary Tudor.\n\nThe Sussex Bonfire tradition is a uniquely local form of protest with several influences under the motto We Burn For Good. \n\nWhereas Guy Fawkes night in most parts of Great Britain is traditionally commemorated at large public fireworks displays or small family bonfires, towns in Sussex and Kent hold huge gala events with fires, parades and festivals. The tradition has remained strong for more than a century becoming the highlight of the year for many towns and villages in the Weald. The Bonfire Societies use the events to collect money for local charities.\n\nGuy Fawkes night was adopted by the early Lewes Bonfire gangs for convenience as this was the night that civil disobedience was tolerated when young men could let off steam which became riots. From the mid 18th century Guy Fawkes night celebrations began to take on an entirely different meaning as a rallying point to protest against authority, inequalities and for social justice. In 1785 the greatest riot perhaps ever known at Lewes began when a bonfire was started on School Hill in the centre of town. The Riot Act was read to the crowd which was extremely serious and the second battle of Lewes ensued between the state in the form of the Police and locals. Later many conscripted men returning from the Napoleonic Wars faced real hardship and added to this feeling of social injustice, forming themselves into gangs based around sea ports where they had connections and could operate with relative impunity. The French Marinière jumper was adopted as better equipment by the British sailors and as trophies of war. Additionally the Sailor suit was common dress for working class people at the time because of its ready availability at ports and as counter-fashion for the working class. It also provided cover for the gangs to operate as you could hide in plain site if other people are wearing the same thing. Different colour stripes differentiated the different gangs, much like is seen in their contemporaries Gangs of New York. Which is why the gang 'uniform' of the time is worn by the societies today.\n\nLater still the disenfranchised workers became increasingly politicised by radicals like the Lewes local Tom Paine and bonfire gangs or 'boys' began to organise, collecting subscriptions to finance them and building bonfires and burning effigies to show their dissent.\n\nThe radicals like Tom Paine began to form successful campaigns for political reform such as the Chartists and adopted lobbying and peaceful demonstration tactics and rejected those who continued with the street riots. Consequently there was a ban on assembly with burning torches and bonfires to quell the workers uprising. It was from this point that Guy Fawkes night became the special and local 'Bonfire' in Lewes as it adopted the right, nee duty, to have a bonfire and celebrate under the Observance of 5th November Act 1605.\n\nThe banning didnt stop the Bonfire celebrations in Lewes and they spread to other parts of East Sussex in uprising. From 1827 the Bonfire Boys became more organised and adopted blackfaces to prevent arrest. From 1832 blazing tar barrels were rolled down the narrow streets of the commercial and wealthy centre of Lewes with timber buildings on either side, openly threatening life and property of the ruling classes and elite. The Bonfire Boys showing their expert skills at working with fire from their trade or war they were followed by the Police all around the twisting streets of Lewes, cris-crossing different processions to foil and confuse the Police, but not stopped by the Police as they trusted the Bonfire Boys and their expertise but also that they had the equipment and knowledge to control and put out fire gained from their trades and at sea. In 1834 a huge bonfire was lit outside County Hall as the Bonfire Boys revelled in their untouchable status and was seen as reflecting the fracturing of society between the new liberal middle classes and haves, and the worker have nots.\n\nThe protests continued and in 1846 the local magistrate was knocked unconscious in a confrontation with the deliberately intimidating but causing no harm Bonfire Boys as he emerged from his house to warn them of arrest. The intention of the Bonfire Boys was to take-over the streets for one night and for the elite of the town to stay indoors. The Lewes establishment were outraged at this act of insubordination and in \"Observations on the Doings in Lewes of the 5th November 1846\", printed anonymously in the Sussex Weekly Advertiser and liberal press, called for the working class to be oppressed and the Bonfire Boys locked-up. The tory press, particularly The Express Newspapers suggested to compromise on free speech that the festivities be moved to a site out of town. The Bonfire Boys refused to negotiate with the authorities and pledged to continue their protests. In the middle of the night before the following 5 November a confrontation between some Bonfire Boys rebel rousers and the local constabulary showed they were woefully outnumbered for what everyone thought was going to be the biggest and most riotous Bonfire night yet. The Lewes Police called-in re-enforcements from London and by the next day a Police line surrounded County Hall. There was a long stand-off and by nightfall mock battle commenced with fireworks being thrown and the Police pushing back the crowds. The magistrate and local landowner Henry Pelham, 3rd Earl of Chichester read the Riot Act on the steps of County Hall behind the Police line and the Police dispersed the crowds with violence. The next morning was eerily quiet but the Bonfire Boys were buoyed by being undefeated in taking on the London Police. That night the Bonfire Boys celebrated back on the streets of Lewes and similar Bonfire festivities spread to other places across East Sussex for the rest of November. So local Bonfire societies were born. The enemies of the uprising such as the Police, Courts and Sussex Advertiser were targeted for intimidation. In a prophetic report and with contrition the paper noted that 'it shouldn't be ordinarily termed a riot, but is the keeping up of tradition'. As proposed by the Express and to keep the tradition burning strong it was agreed by all in 1848 that Wallands Park become the site of the festivities.\n\nHowever, in 1850 Lewes Bonfire festivities were influenced again. After the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 in 1850 the Pope restored Catholic bishops in England including the new Archbishop of Westminster. There was an enormous public backlash and the meaning of Guy Fawkes night took on new vigour. In fury the Bonfire Boys, never to be understated in their offence, burned an effigy of the Pope as well as Guy Fawkes, something that is unique to Lewes. New Bonfire Societies were formed where none existed and with an intensity not seen for a hundred years on numerous nights East Sussex burned with outrage with signs of No Popery Here. It must be noted that these signs were not connected with the No Popery march on Parliament. It was a phrase from history which had re-emerged, and whereas some local to Lewes may well have been in the Protestant association movement there is no evidence that the Bonfire Societies were involved, indeed they weren't created until a long time after. It is more likely to have been a sign to provoke others into joining them in general protest against authority, in this case and with irony, against Parliament which Guy Fawkes had tried to blow-up.\n\nWith the history of the Gordon Riots still in the mind of the authorities, the Police decided that 'forebearance on the part of the authorities is the better policy’. And so in Lewes, with the authorities grudgingly accepting it and the Police just watching, the Bonfire Boys marked the spot where the Lewes Martyrs had been burnt at the stake and marched with burning crosses to increase their notoriety and as a snub to the liberal elite. Out of this the tradition we know today was born and tacit permission was granted to make it a local custom so Lewes man could assert their liberties, whether as a Protestant under a Catholic throne or to protest authority, and as a protest for social justice and over inequalities. Later Mark Antony Lower, an anti-Catholic propagandist and schoolmaster from Lewes, tried to hijack the notoriety of the Lewes Bonfire Boys incorporating the Lewes Protestant Martyrs into their festivities for his own gain. People who do that should be aware that the Bonfire Boys Wunt be Druv.\n\nSome assert there is a Pagan connection with Bonfire. But apart from fire as one of Pagans five elements there is no evidence of any link. The fire in the case of Bonfire was because of the trades of the original Bonfire Boys as smithys see forge. Furthermore Paganism had become remote from most people from the early 18th century as towns industrialised and ways of life changed from working with seasons to working weeks. The Pagan revival of the early 20th century has seen Paganism co-opted into Bonfire.\n\nThe logistical set up required for the events often starts as early as February. This has led the Societies to pool resources and work together on each other's bonfires. This creates associated processions, with large festivals like Lewes and Hastings going on late into the night. Due to the size and number of events and mutual collaboration, it became impractical to hold all the bonfires on the traditional Fifth of November. This resulted in the \"bonfire season\" to be extended over ten weeks through September, October and November. \n\nThe first Sussex Bonfire Societies' event starts with the Uckfield Carnival on the first Saturday of September and concludes with Hawkhurst and Barcombe festivals on the third Saturday of November.\n\nThe Mayfield bonfire celebrations commemorate two of the Lewes Martyrs who were from the village and four more martyrs that were executed in the village, on a site opposite the current Colkins Mill Church in Station Road, on 24 September 1556. A stone monument to the Martyrs stands in the church's grounds. Mayfield's torchlit procession and carnival takes place on the Saturday nearest to 24 September.\n\nSocieties and processions can be broadly grouped into two main categories Carnival and Bonfire. Typically and not exclusively certain characteristics apply to each group. Carnival societies are generally much more family-oriented evenings where people turn out to have fun and make merry with music and laughter. Bonfire Societies are often the less family-oriented evenings typically with more drinking and debauchment occurring. However with ever increasing restrictions by Sussex Police this is reduced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823961", "title": "The Rise (DJ Sammy album)", "text": "The Rise (DJ Sammy album)\n\nThe Rise is the third studio album by Spanish DJ and producer DJ Sammy. \"The Rise\" is a trance album with chill out influences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823963", "title": "Le Petit Nicolas", "text": "Le Petit Nicolas\n\nLe Petit Nicolas (Little Nicholas) is a series of French children's books. It was created by René Goscinny and illustrated by Jean-Jacques Sempé and it was first published on March 29, 1959. The books depict an idealized version of childhood in 1950s France.\n\nThe work started out as a comic strip, which initially ran in \"Le Moustique\" between 1956 and 1958, drawn by Sempé and written by Goscinny.\n\nThe books are told from the point of view of Nicolas himself, which gives the book a distinct and personal sense of humor. The narration is a pastiche of childish storytelling, with run-on sentences and schoolyard slang used in abundance, and much of the humor derives from Nicolas' misunderstanding of adults' behavior. At the same time, adults are as much a target of the book's satire as children, as the straightforward and uncomplicated worldview of the child narrator exposes the flaws of adult perception. This subversive element in \"Le Petit Nicolas\" made it an early example of modern children's literature that is centered on the experience of the child's interpretation of the world, rather than an adult's.\n\nThe characters from the French edition include (with names from Anthea Bell's English translation in square brackets):\n\n\nOther characters include Nicolas's parents, as well as teachers and administrators in the school. The teacher is hard-working and loves the children, although they usually drive her crazy. The superintendent, Mr. Dubon (Mr Goodman), is known as \"le Bouillon\" (\"Old Spuds\").\n\nThe two main characters of another comic series by Goscinny, \"Iznogoud\", begin to take shape in the episode when Nicolas is in summer camp. He and the other children are forced to take a nap, so the conselor tells them a story about \"\"a caliph who was a very good man but who had a very evil vizier...\"\", then tells how the caliph dresses as a common man to find out what people think of him, and the evil vizier takes his place.\n\nAn English edition with the title \"Young Nicolas\" was completed by Stella Rodway for Hutchinson & Co. in 1961. It was published in the USA by Bobbs-Merrill in 1962. The characters' names retain the French form. The title page lists the authors simply as \"Sempé and Goscinny\".\n\nAn English edition of the series with anglicized character names was released in 1978, translated by Anthea Bell. This contained five volumes: \"Nicholas and the Gang at School\", \"Nicholas and the Gang Again\", \"Nicholas on Holiday\", \"Nicholas and the Gang\", and \"Nicholas at Large\". The first volume was republished with more complete illustrations in 2005 by Phaidon Press as \"Nicholas\". Four further volumes followed from Phaidon, as \"Nicholas Again\", \"Nicholas on Holiday\" (\"Nicholas on Vacation\" in North America), \"Nicholas and the Gang\", and finally \"Nicholas in Trouble\" in 2008.\n\nIn this version, M. Dubon (nicknamed \"le Bouillon\") becomes Mr. Goodman (nicknamed \"Old Spuds\"). He derives his nickname from his habit of repeating constantly: \"Look me in the eye.\" In French broth (bouillon) has eyes (blobs of fat on the surface), in the English version they become potato eyes. In the story 'Djodjo', the English exchange student becomes Flemish, and his nickname is changed from \"Djodjo\" to \"Djocky\".\n\nAnother English translation of \"Le petit Nicolas\", with the title \"The Chronicles of Little Nicholas\", was published in New York by Farrar, Straus Giroux in 1993. The translator is not named in this edition; the copyright page attributes copyright for the translation to Farrar, Straus & Giroux.\n\n\"Nicholas\" was the subject of a Mildred L. Batchelder \"Honour\" for translated children's books in 2006 given by the Association for Library Services to Children (ALSC), a division of the American Library Association, and \"Nicholas and the Gang\" received the same honour in 2008.\n\nFor Latin America, the books were published by Alfaguara.\nNames for this edition were:\nNicolas, Clotario,\nAlcestes,\nEudes, \nGodofredo,\nAgnan, \nJoaquín,\nMajencio,\nRufo,\nEduviges,\nLuisa,\nRex.\n\"Le Bouillon\" becomes \"el Caldo\", even though this expression is not commonly used in Latin America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823966", "title": "Zxx", "text": "Zxx\n\nZxx may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1823973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823973", "title": "Melissa (Mercyful Fate album)", "text": "Melissa (Mercyful Fate album)\n\nMelissa is the debut studio album by Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate, released on 30 October 1983. It was the first album released by Roadrunner Records. This was also the first Mercyful Fate effort to get an official release in the United States through Megaforce Records, as the self-titled EP was a highly sought after import, and the BBC sessions were only available on bootleg tapes.\n\nIn 2005, Roadrunner Records re-released this album with several bonus tracks and a bonus DVD. Music is credited to Hank Shermann and lyrics to King Diamond.\n\nSome of the material on the album had its roots in demos recorded when the musicians were members of the underground bands Black Rose and Brats: \"Curse of the Pharaohs\", which was originally titled \"Night Riders\" on an old Brats demo, was retitled after King Diamond changed the lyrics originally written by the Brats bassist; \"Love Criminals\", actually the first song Mercyful Fate ever wrote, was renamed \"Into the Coven\", which was originally meant to be the title of the album too. The album also contains \"Satan's Fall\" which, as Michael Denner recalls, took ages to learn and elicited an eerie feeling the few times he heard it. Hank Shermann wrote the music for this song, which was composed during many sleepless nights on his unplugged guitar in his living room. The band kept rehearsing the song for a long time in its unfinished form, as Shermann continuously added new parts. According to Denner, there are about sixteen different riffs in \"Satan's Fall\", which was the band's longest song with a running time over 11 minutes, until the band released \"Dead Again\", on which the title track is 13 minutes long.\n\nOn 18 July 1983, Mercyful Fate started recording at Easy Sounds Studios in Copenhagen with producer Henrik Lund, who was the co-owner of the studio along with his brother. The band spent 12 days in the studio to record and mix the album. The songs had been thoroughly arranged and rehearsed in advance to make the most of the limited time. Lund, who had never produced a metal band before, mixed the album on his own, but accepted comments from the musicians on his different takes. The band found this procedure very irritating but, in retrospect, Diamond understands \"that he didn't want a bunch of amateurs hanging over his shoulder.\" At that time, the label asked the band to do a cover song, so the band recorded Led Zeppelin's \"Immigrant Song\". The band skipped it because they felt it did not fit very well with the lyrics and feel of the album. According to Shermann, Diamond's performance was very surprising, because he sounded very close to Robert Plant's original vocals.\n\nIn December 1983, the \"Black Funeral\" single was released. It contained on the B-side the song \"Black Masses\", which was recorded during the \"Melissa\" sessions, but had been deleted from the album. It was the first song recorded in the initial session and the sound was not completely satisfying, so the track was reduced to a B-side only.\n\nOn 3 December 1983, Mercyful Fate were booked to support Ozzy Osbourne in Copenhagen, but due to an illness on Osbourne's part, the show was canceled. Later that same month, the band performed a headline show in Copenhagen as preparation for their upcoming European tour.\n\nThe European tour started in the Netherlands on 19 January 1984 at The Dynamo, in Eindhoven. The next day, they performed a set at The Countdown Cafe in Hilversum, which was broadcast live on Dutch national radio. On 21 January, they performed in Amsterdam, at The Paradiso Theatre, where the skull of Melissa was stolen from the altar on stage by a fan due to very incompetent local security. Then the band went touring Italy on February, where they performed 6 shows, and on the following 3 March, they started their UK tour supporting Manowar. Originally, 11 shows were booked, but it turned out that Mercyful Fate would only play one. That first and only show took place at St. Albans City Hall in Hertfordshire, where the main act crew did not leave Mercyful Fate time for a sound check and for properly set up their equipment. Manowar's sound engineer even tampered with Mercyful Fate's soundboard during their performance, which was reduced from 45 minutes to 25. Manowar refused to comply to Mercyful Fate and Roadrunner's request for better treatment, which forced the band to leave the tour with great financial loss to themselves, not to mention disappointment of their British fans.\n\nOn 5 April, the band played a sold out headline show at Saltlageret, in Copenhagen. There, for the first time, they were able to present their new chapel stage set. Then on 30 April, they began to work on the next release for the next 19 days, once again at Easy Sounds Studios. On 10 June, the band performed at the prestigious Heavy Sounds Festival in Poperinge, Belgium. Beside Mercyful Fate, the bill also featured Motörhead, Twisted Sister, Metallica, Barón Rojo, Lita Ford, H-Bomb and Faithful Breath.\n\nIn 1985, advocating the need for Parental Advisory labels on audio recordings, the Parents Music Resource Center cited \"Into the Coven\" among their Filthy Fifteen objectionable songs due to its perceived occult content.\n\nIt was in 1984 that Mercyful Fate first met the members of Metallica, whom they've stayed very good friends with since then. It all began when Metallica, while recording in Copenhagen, borrowed amplifiers from Mercyful Fate and various other equipment.\n\nA re-recorded version of \"Evil\" is featured in the video game \"\".\n\nIn 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Melissa\" as 17th on their list of 'The 100 Greatest Metal Albums of All Time.'\n\nLive at Dynamo, Eindhoven, Holland 1983\n\nMercyful Fate\n\nAdditional performers\nProduction\n\n2005 Reissue\n"}
{"id": "1823977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823977", "title": "Acts of John", "text": "Acts of John\n\nThe title \"Acts of John\" is used to refer to a set of stories about John the Apostle that began circulating in written form as early as the second century AD. Translations of the \"Acts of John\" in modern languages have been reconstructed by scholars from a number of manuscripts of later date. The \"Acts of John\" are generally classified as \"New Testament apocrypha.\"\n\nNumerous stories about John and other apostles began circulating in the second century CE. These stories trace to a variety of different authors and contexts, and were revised and retold in many different forms and languages over the centuries. Sometimes episodes that had originally circulated independently were combined with other stories to form collections about an apostle, and sometimes episodes that had originally been part of multi-episode collections were detached and circulated independently. Most extant manuscripts of such stories also date to a period considerably after they first began circulating. \n\nThese factors can make it difficult to reconstruct the earliest forms of stories about the apostle John, and scholars continue to debate about which episodes originally belonged together. One set of stories, in which John appears before Domitian in Rome and survives drinking deadly poison, appears in some old translations of the \"Acts of John,\" but is no longer considered to have the same origins as other episodes. It is now known as the \"\", and understood to be a separate tradition.\n\nMost current scholars agree that even the most recent versions of the \"Acts of John\" include episodes that trace to multiple different dates and origins. These versions contain roughly the following sections:\n\nA. Stories about John in Ephesus (ActsJohn 18-55, 58-86). These consist of the following sections:\n\n\nB. A long piece of text in which John recounts earlier experiences he had with Jesus before and during the cross event (ActsJohn 87-105).\n\nC. The Metastasis, an account of John’s death (ActsJohn 106–115).\n\nMany scholars consider the material that is conventionally labelled chs. 94–102 to be of a later origin than the episodes in sections A and C, and some assign all of section B to a separate origin. \n\nThe cycle of stories labelled section A above begins as John is approaching Ephesus with some travelling companions. He is met by Lycomedes, a notable and powerful figure within the city. Lycomedes recounts a vision he received from the God of John, telling him that a man from Miletus was coming to heal his wife, Cleopatra, who had died seven days before from illness. Upon arrival, Lycomedes curses his situation and, despite John's pleas to have faith that his wife will be brought back to life by the power of his god, dies of grief. The entire city of Ephesus is stirred by his death and comes to his house to see his body. John then asks Christ to raise both of them from the dead in order to prove Christ's own might, quoting in his request. Both Cleopatra and Lycomedes are resurrected, leaving the people of Ephesus in awe of the miracle that was performed before them.\n\nIn another scene, during a festival celebrating the birthday of the Greek goddess Artemis, the people of Ephesus attempt to kill John because he wears black, rather than white, to her temple. John rebukes them, threatening to have his god kill them if they are unable to convince their goddess to make him die on the spot with her divine power. Knowing that John has performed many miracles in their city, the people at the temple beg John not to destroy them. John then changes his mind, using the power of God instead to break the altar of Artemis in many pieces, damage the offerings and idols within the temple, and collapse half of the structure itself on top of its priest, killing him. Upon seeing this destruction, the people immediately see the error of their ways and acknowledge the God of John as the only true god.\n\nIn one comical episode, John and his companions stay overnight at an inn plagued with a bedbug infestation. Immediately after lying down, the author and the other men with him see that John is troubled by the bugs and hear him tell the insects, \"I say to you, you bugs, be considerate; leave your home for this night and go to rest in a place which is far away from the servants of God!\" The next morning, the narrator and two of his traveling companions, Verus and Andronicus, awake to find the bugs gathered in the doorway, waiting to return to their home in John's mattress. The three men wake John, who allows the creatures to return to the bed because of their obedience to the will of God.\n\nThe traveling party then journeys to the house of Andronicus in Ephesus. Here, the reader learns that Andronicus is married to Drusiana. Both are followers of John's god and remain chaste even in marriage out of piety. However, Drusiana's celibacy does not prevent the advances of Callimachus, a prominent member of the Ephesian community and \"a servant of Satan.\" Learning of Callimachus' lust, Drusiana falls sick and dies because she believes she has contributed to Callimachus's sin. While John is comforting Andronicus and many of the other inhabitants of Ephesus over the loss of Drusiana, Callimachus, determined to have Drusiana as his own, bribes Andronicus's steward, Fortunatus to help him gain access to her tomb and rape her corpse. A poisonous snake appears, which bites and kills Fortunatus and curls up on Callimachus, pinning him down. The latter sees a beautiful youth, a supernatural figure, who commands him to \"die, that you may live.\" The next day, John and Andronicus enter the tomb of Drusiana and are greeted by the beautiful youth, which the narrative later identifies with Christ, who tells John he is supposed to raise Drusiana back to life before ascending into Heaven. John does so, but not before resurrecting Callimachus in order to learn what had occurred the previous night. Callimachus recounts the events of the night and is repentant of his misgivings, surrendering to the will of Christ. After both Callimachus and Drusiana are resurrected, Drusiana, feeling sorry for the other aggressor involved in the conspiracy to molest her dead body, is granted the ability to raise Fortunatus back from the dead against the wishes of Callimachus. Fortunatus, unwilling to accept Christ, flees from the tomb and eventually dies due to blood poisoning brought about by the snake from the initial bite.\n\nIn Section B, which many scholars consider to come from a different source than the other episodes, John recounts earlier experiences he had with Jesus before and during the cross event. \n\nPart of this account includes a circular dance initiated by Jesus, who says, \"Before I am delivered to them, let us sing a hymn to the Father and so go to meet what lies before us\". Directed to form a circle around him, holding hands and dancing, the apostles cry \"Amen\" to the hymn of Jesus. Embedded in the text is a hymn (sections 94 – 96) that some consider to have originally been \"a liturgical song (with response) in some Johannine communities\" (Davis). In the summer of 1916 Gustav Holst set his own translation from the Greek (Head), influenced by G.R.S. Mead, as \"The Hymn of Jesus\" for two mixed choirs, a semi-chorus of female voices, and a large orchestra (Trippett).\n\nThe Transfiguration of Jesus is also featured in this Act. It is notable for its depiction of a nude Jesus. It contains the same main cast (John, Peter, James, and Jesus) but does not feature the appearance of Elijah or Moses, unlike the transfiguration scenes from the synoptic gospels (notably not featured in the actual Gospel of John). \n\nSection B also contains most of the docetic themes present in the Acts of John. Jesus is depicted in several chapters as having a constantly shifting form and an immaterial body. \n\nA docetic theme of Jesus' body as inhuman and unable to feel physical pain presents a problem with the idea of the suffering of christ in orthodox Christianity. Ideas about the nature of Jesus vary widely within different gnostic sects. Scholarship is divided on whether this depiction of the Passion should be interpreted as Jesus suffered spiritually and/or physically. Jesus speaks cryptically about this suffering on the cross in Chapter 101, saying: \n\nWhile the changing body of Jesus is used as evidence for its docetic (therefore gnostic) themes, it is argued by some scholars that this 'polymorphic christology' is part of the Johannine Christian literary tradition and not be understood as inherently gnostic. This motif developed in the second century and used by both \"proto-orthodox\" and non-orthodox (\"heretical\") Christian communities. For gnostic communities, the \"portrayal of a polymorphic Christ is used to denote transcendence over the material realm, whereas for the [proto-orthodox communities] they illustrate that Jesus is not constrained by the forces of mortality, but rather that he has entered a higher state of physical existence.\" Polymorphic themes appear in several other about apostles, such as Acts of Peter and Acts of Thecla. Origen, a third century Christian scholar from Alexandria, did not view the polymorphic nature of Jesus as problematic, saying \"although Jesus was one, he had several aspects, and to those who saw him he did not appear alike to all\". \n\nSection C recounts John's death by natural causes. \n\nMany scholars think that versions of the episode considered to belong to the \"Acts of John\" were already circulating in the second century. \n\nThe names of any authors involved in the project are unknown. One older tradition associated the texts with one Leucius Charinus, a companion of John, but his name does not appear in the text and modern scholars do not think he was involved in composing them. \n\nSome version of the \"Acts of John\" containing at least portions of Section B and the Lycomedes episode was rejected as heretical by the Second Council of Nicaea in 787 CE. The exact contents of the \"Acts of John\" known to participants in the Council is unknown. \n\nThe Stichometry of Nicephorus, a ninth century stichometry, gives the length of an \"Acts of John\" text as 2,500 lines.\n\nPolymorphic christology, seen in Section B, developed mostly during the second century, lending credence to the second century development date. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823994", "title": "Chicago Cultural Center", "text": "Chicago Cultural Center\n\nThe Chicago Cultural Center, opened in 1897, is a Chicago Landmark building operated by Chicago's Department of Cultural Affairs and Special Events that houses the city's official reception venue where the Mayor of Chicago has welcomed Presidents and royalty, diplomats and community leaders. It is located in the Loop, across Michigan Avenue from Millennium Park. Originally the central library building, it was converted in 1977 to an arts and culture center at the instigation of Commissioner of Cultural Affairs Lois Weisberg. The city's central library is now housed across the Loop in the spacious, postmodern Harold Washington Library Center opened in 1991.\n\nAs the nation's first free municipal cultural center, the Chicago Cultural Center is one of the city's most popular attractions and is considered one of the most comprehensive arts showcases in the United States. Each year, the Chicago Cultural Center features more than 1,000 programs and exhibitions covering a wide range of the performing, visual and literary arts. It also serves as headquarters for the Chicago Children's Choir. MB Real Estate provides events management for the center.\n\nThe building was designed by Boston architectural firm Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge for the city's central library, and Grand Army of the Republic (GAR) meeting hall and memorial in 1892. The land was donated by the GAR and the building was completed in 1897 at a cost of nearly $2 million (equivalent to $ million in ). It is organized as a 4-story north wing (77 East Randolph entrance) and a 5-story south wing (78 East Washington entrance), 104 feet tall, with masonry walls faced with Bedford Blue Limestone on a granite base, and designed in a generally neoclassical style with Italian Renaissance elements. It is capped with two stained-glass domes, set symmetrically atop the two wings. Key points of architectural interest are as follows:\n\n\n\"Crossroads: Modernism in Ukraine, 1910-1930\" was a display of art by Ukrainian artists, such as Sukher Ber Rybak, Vsevolod Maskymovych, and Oleksandr Bohomazov to name a few. \"Crossroads\" was organized by the Foundation for International Arts and Education with the National Art Museum of Ukraine. It is presented by the Chicago Department of Cultural Affairs and the Kyiv Committee of the Chicago Sister Cities International Program. The exhibition ran from July 22, 2006 - October 15, 2006.\n\nIn 2017, Kerry James Marshall was commissioned to produce the inaugural mural entitled “Rush More”. Located on the west façade of the cultural center, the piece was intended to be an homage to women who have contributed to the culture of Chicago.\n\nPortrayed are:\nWashington painted the mural on a scale rendering of the building. The piece was then transposed to the actual façade by the muralist Jeff Zimmerman. Financing for the project was made possible by the non-profit, Murals of Acceptance and through philanthropic donations from David Arquette, Patricia Arquette, Marc Benioff, and Lynne Benioff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824001", "title": "Darna", "text": "Darna\n\nDarna () is a fictional Filipino comics superhero created by writer Mars Ravelo and artist Nestor Redondo. The character's first appearance was in \"Pilipino Komiks\" (Ace Publications, Inc.) #77 on May 13, 1950. Darna is a retooling of Ravelo's earlier character, Varga, whose stories he wrote and illustrated himself. This character first appeared in \"Bulaklak Magazine\", Volume 4, #17 on July 23, 1947. Ravelo left \"Bulaklak\" due to differences with the publication's editors. One of the most popular Filipino superheroes, Darna has appeared in many films and several television series through the decades which have far overshadowed her actual comics tenure.\n\nThe origin of Darna relates that she is a deceased extraterrestrial warrior magically manifesting herself through a woman from Earth, named Narda. After Narda swallows a magic white stone and shouts \"Darna,\" she transforms into the mighty warrior Darna (Mango comics). As Darna, she stands up for those who cannot fend for themselves. She fights against both common criminals as well as greater forces of evil, most famously the snake-haired woman Valentina. She is often accompanied by her younger brother, Ding. Several alternate versions of Darna have been characterized over the years.\n\nDarna's appearance is distinctive and iconic: she usually wears a red bikini or shorts with a gold star in each brassiere cap; red helmet with ruby encrusted gold winged medallion; gold bracelets; golden medallion belt with a loincloth in the middle; and almost knee-high red boots. Darna is widely considered as a Filipino cultural icon, and is considered to be the most celebrated superhero character in the Philippines.\n\nThe character has been adapted extensively and portrayed in other forms of media as well, including films and television series. Several actresses have portrayed Darna in motion pictures and TV series including Rosa del Rosario, Liza Moreno, Eva Montes, Gina Pareño, Vilma Santos, Lorna Tolentino, Rio Locsin, Sharon Cuneta, Nanette Medved, Anjanette Abayari, Regine Velasquez, Angel Locsin, and Marian Rivera.\n\nMars Ravelo created the first images of Darna before World War II, as the character's predecessor Varga. Mars Ravelo (1916-1988), a then young pioneering illustrator from Tanza, Cavite, thought of creating a female counterpart for Superman because he believed in the concept that America is “male” and the Philippines, then a colony of the US, is \"female\". Ravelo's inspiration for Darna's heroic qualities came from his childhood fascination with Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster's Superman (first appearance on Action Comics, No. 1, June 30, 1938; debut as a newspaper comic strip on January 16, 1939). He didn’t want to use the term “Superwoman” so as not to plagiarize the Siegel and Shuster creation. So instead as inspired by Superman, Mars Ravelo originally referred to his superheroine as \"Kamangha-manghang Dilag\" (The Amazing Warrior Maiden) and combined the superhuman qualities of Superman with his own real life hero–his mother. The winged medallion on Darna's helmet is inspired by the emblem of the Philippine airforce as Mars Ravelo also dreamed of the opportunity to fly. The magic white stone concept is cultural iconography as Philippine folklore has many stories of brave young mortals whose courage and heart enable them to be worthy of magic amulets- the only thing in these stories that could even the odds against evil, supernatural forces./ref>\n\nMars, a young and struggling cartoonist then, brought his superheroine idea as the Philippines’ answer to Superman to various publications both in the Philippines and in the United States but was rejected because publishers kept telling him \"female superheroes will not sell\". So Ravelo shelved his concept for the duration of the war. Years after the war, Ravelo realized that the Filipinos were in need of a superhero so he again shopped his superheroine concept to publishers until one of them, Bulaklak Komiks (\"Flower Comics\") agreed to publish Ravelo's heroine that he now called \"Varga\" in 1947 (inspired by the Varga Girls series of illustrations) and the strip took off. Varga made her debut in \"Bulaklak Magazine\", Vol. 4, #17 on July 23, 1947, which Mars both wrote and drew himself. In an interview, Ravelo revealed that he offered his creation first to Liwayway Magazine and then to other publications but was rejected several times. Had Liwayway Magazine not turned down the offer, she would have been the Philippines’ first komiks superhero.\n\nContrary to popular belief, Darna was not named after the magical \"Ibong Adarna\" (Adarna bird), which appears in a Philippine epic of the same name. In \"Bulaklak Magazine\", Narda was already established as Varga's mortal identity. \"Darna\" was simply an anagram of \"Narda\". The concept and image of the character was based on the illustrations of Superman appearing on comic books brought by soldiers from the United States to the Philippines. It was the story of a mortal girl named Narda (named after one of Ravelo's childhood playmates), her brother Ding and their grandmother, Lola Asay, who lived in the town of Masambong when a falling star revealed itself to be a magic amulet that turns the little girl named Narda into the superheroine Varga.\n\nThe name Varga was under ownership of Bulaklak Magazine so when Ravelo left Bulaklak in 1949 after a falling out with its editor, Varga stayed behind. Ravelo took the concept to Pilipino Komiks and transformed it to \"Darna\". Although the concept remained the same, Ravelo assigned another artist, Nestor Redondo, to illustrate his creation. Darna's first adventure as DARNA was first serialized in the pages of \"Pilipino Komiks\" (Ace Publications, Inc.) #77 on May 13, 1950, where she was pitted against the sultry snake goddess, Valentina. Here, Narda, a young girl, swallows a stone, which has the word \"Darna\" on it, and transforms into Darna by shouting out the latter name. Likewise, Darna turns back into Narda by shouting her name. The stone, which was from the planet Marte, stays in her body. Her secret is known to her grandmother, and her brother Ding, who becomes her sidekick. The superheroine quickly gained popularity among Filipino comic book readers. The komik serial, written by Ravalo and illustrated by Redondo, ran for 28 issues.\n\nOn May 31, 1951, Darna made a crossover from comics to cinema even before the komiks serial was finished. Royal Publications under Fernando Poe Sr. produced the first Darna film starring Rosa Del Rosario as Narda/Darna. It was the last film directed by Fernando Poe, Sr. Since then, a number of actresses and actors have portrayed the superheroine on both cinema and television. Some made from 1973 onwards starred the future multi-awarded dramatic actress and politician Vilma Santos. In this incarnation, Darna's origin was changed. Narda herself became Darna, unlike the original in which she just \"channeled\" her. The stone came out of Narda's mouth every time she changes back and she had to swallow it every time she wanted to transform (a revision that became the standard for the following incarnations). Darna is not specified as coming from Marte and is mentioned simply as a \"Warrior of Light\". In this version, Narda was aged up from a child to her early teens, and only Ding was aware of her secret. This version of Darna became most people's idea of the character for about 3 decades. A catchphrase popularized by the films and said by Narda runs, \"\"Ding, ang bato!\"\" (\"Ding, [give me] the stone!\")\n\nA TV series was also produced in 1977. Created by Ketchie Benedicto and aired on KBS 9, \"Darna! The TV Series\" starred another future multi-awarded dramatic actress, Lorna Tolentino, as Darna/Narda. Darna also had her own cartoon series in 1986 by GMA 7.\n\nIn 2003, a National Book Award-winning Darna limited miniseries was published by Mango Comics, with major input from Ravelo's family. DARNA is a three-part 50th Anniversary Issue (36 pages per issue, full-color, in English). The first part of the series was released on February 28, 2003, the second part on May 7, 2003, and the last part on December 13, 2003. With an all-new storyline of Bobby Yonzon and each issue drawn by a different, world-class artist, every one of this series is guaranteed to satisfy.\n\nDARNA Issue #1: Darna finds herself faced with a familiar serpent-coiffed adversary who's sexier and deadlier than ever! Written by Boboy Yonzon, pencils by Ryan Orosco and inks by Gilbert Monsanto.\n\nDARNA Issue #2: The action continues as Darna finally confronts her old nemesis, Valentina, and her superhuman snake companions. Her friends' lives hang in the balance as she fights to prevent the evil Valentina from enslaving the human race! Written by Boboy Yonzon, pencils by Lan Medina and inks by Gilbert Monsanto.\n\nDARNA Issue #3: Written by Boboy Yonzon, pencils and inks by Gilbert Monsanto.\n\nThis version showed Narda as a college student who first found the stone 10 years before. However, the details of Darna's origin was changed again – Her race of \"Adarna Warriors\" originally came from the planet Tiamat, as did Valentina's the \"Serpent Queens\". Their respective peoples had warred for many years. On Tiamat, Darna's race used artificial wings. Because of the war between the Adarna Warriors and the Serpent Queens, they fled the planet Tiamat and went to the planet Nibiru, also known as Marte.\n\nHere, Darna (both the name and the character) is explicitly linked to the Adarna bird (\"Ibong Adarna\").\n\nThe story of Darna begins with a village girl named Narda who lives in the provincial town Barrio Masambong with his brother Ding. The siblings were orphaned and consequently adopted by their grandmother Lola Asay.\n\nNarda loves to sing while her younger brother, Ding, plays the harmonica very well. Sometimes, Narda and Ding go from house to house and sing for the money to help their grandmother to support their daily needs.\n\nWhile playing a game of \"Hide and Seek\" one night, Narda saw a shooting star in the night sky. The celestial object crashed into woods. Intrigued, Narda approached the site and came upon a gleaming white stone (revealed to be from the planet Marte, and containing the mystical essence of the Andranika inhabitants of same) with a strange name inscribed upon it. Impressed by its beauty, she picked it up and decided to keep it. When her playmates started looking for her, she immediately hid the white stone in her mouth to prevent her playmates from taking it from her.\nThe white stone came alive and went down her throat into her stomach. She began to experience psychic flashes that flooded her mind with alien images of worlds far away which caused her to fall unconscious. She was found by Lola Asay, who took her home and put her to bed.\n\nWhen Narda woke up, she was back at home with her grandmother and her brother, Ding. They asked her what happened and she related her bizarre experience. When her grandmother asked her what the inscription was on the white stone she swallowed, Narda yelled ... \"DARNA!\"\nHer grandmother and brother were both startled by a flash of light and smoke that filled the room. Where Narda once stood, there now was a tall, beautiful warrior woman. She explained to them that she was \"Darna of the Planet Marte\" and that she was sent to Earth to face the forces of darkness and hatred that afflicted the world. Narda was channeling the alien woman. After she assured them that she meant no harm, Darna changed back to Narda by saying the latter's name.\n\nFrom then on, Darna became a constant protector of the innocent and helpless from a variety of threats and villains, the greatest superhuman champion of the Philippines, and has remained so to this day.\n\nRegardless of its many incarnations, the story of Darna begins with a village girl named Narda who finds a small white stone, a tiny meteorite from outer space. Narda swallows the stone and shouts \"Darna,\" she becomes a mighty warrior ready to defend Earth from evil forces.\n\nMars Ravelo created a second alter-ego named Daria in \"Si Darna at Planetman\" serialized in Holiday Komiks in 1969. For the first time Darna transformed into Daria in the third issue of Si Darna at ang Planetman. Daria is a grown up version of Narda.\n\n\nDarna's original powers: enhanced levels of hand-to-hand fighting skills and excel in various forms of combat, flight, super strength, super speed and nigh-invulnerability. In the 2003 retcon, the latest releases of the comic, this is due to her psionic background. Thus a form of telekinesis enhances her speed and strength and allows her flight. Her skin has a high level of invulnerability because of her species. Her psionic abilities also allow her to exercise limited psionic influence or telepathy. For weapons, the ruby encrusted in the winged medallion on her helmet also augments her psionic abilities, allowing her to emit a powerful concussion blast and the medallions that make up her belt can be used like throwing stars (shuriken). In the 2005 TV series, she also has heat vision, lent by the ruby.\n\nNarda transforms into Darna, and vice versa, by shouting out their respective names (Darna to become Darna, Narda to become Narda). First, however, Narda has to swallow the white stone, which conveniently comes out of her mouth every time Darna changes back into herself. However, it was not so in her comic incarnations, it started in the 1973 film \"Lipad, Darna, Lipad!\" (\"Fly, Darna, Fly\"). Without the stone in her mouth she can say the name of whichever form she is not using without automatically changing.\n\nIn the 2009 version, Darna's bracers can produce flames when Darna focuses her energy enough and cause friction by brushing both braces against each other.\n\nThe white stone is a small stone mineral that contains unknown properties that grants numerous abilities to whoever wears or swallows it. Its appearance usually takes form of a small white pebble that occasionally glows. This can be theorized that the stone is also a sentient material capable of feeling and judgement.\n\nAlthough the original comicbook lore as written by Mars Ravelo himself does not go into detail about the origins of the magic white stone itself (other than the Darna entity contained within came from \"The Planet Marte), other iterations of Darna that came up decades later did their own spins of how the magic white stone came to be.\n\nLittle is known about Darna's origin, but the stone came from heaven like a meteorite until it is immediately found by a little girl named Narda.\n\nIn the 2009 version, whoever inherits the stone and don the helm of Darna will inherit the following abilities:\n\n\nDarna's costume has varied over time, although almost all of her costume incarnations have retained some form of red bikini with a gold star in each brassiere cap, red helmet with ruby encrusted gold winged medallion, gold bracelets, golden medallion belt with a loincloth in the middle, and almost knee-high red stiletto boots.\n\nDarna is a character that fused together the concept of the superhero with the traditions of Philippine folklore. The yellow/gold stars come from the Philippine flag, the loincloth (bahag) is a visual inspiration from native costuming, and the agimat concept come from Filipino traditions. Philippine folklore has a tradition of presenting humble, pure hearted mortals that are awarded amulets that allow them to (in a way) transform their virtues into superpowers that allow them to battle supernatural evil.\n\nIn \"Darna at ang Babaing Lawin\" (1952), Rosa Del Rosario wore a red bikini with white stars, white loincloth and boots, and gold belt, bracelets and helmet.\n\nIn \"Darna at Ang Babaing Tuod\" (1964) starring then newcomer Eva Montes was the first Darna version in gold bikini and red-trimmed costume (traditionally, Darna wears red bikini with gold stars and winged insignia). Darna sports a new much shorter hairdo.\n\nIn \"Darna at ang Planetman\" (1969), Gina Pareño wore a light blue bikini with red stars, gold belt with red loincloth, gold bracelets, and red helmet with ruby encrusted gold winged medallion. By then, Ravelo had added another character to his Darna universe, Daria.\n\nSine Pilipino got then hot young star Vilma Santos to essay the role of Darna in \"Lipad, Darna, Lipad!\". But the problem was, Vilma was hesitant to wear the two-piece costume. So, during their photo shoot for the publicity photos of the new Darna film, she wore the Darna costume on top of her body stocking. Directors told her if she did not take it off, they will give the role to someone else. Vilma was finally convinced by producers Douglas Quijano and William Leary to lose the body stocking and wear just the costume on the day of the press conference. The press people were surprised on seeing how sexy Vilma was in her Darna costume, which was back to the original red bikini with gold stars including the red helmet with gold winged medallion, and gold boots, bracelets and belt with red loincloth.\n\nIn 1977, Kitchie Benedicto of KBS-9 created Darna the TV Series with then young actress Lorna Tolentino as Darna/Narda. Also in this TV version, for the first time Darna wears a one-piece costume with gold stars instead of a two-piece, red helmet with a large star in the middle of the gold winged medallion, gold bracelets with red details, and gold belt with an even larger star in the middle.\n\nIn 1979, two Darna films were made. In the parody film \"Darna, Kuno?\" starring Dolphy, he wore an inflating red bikini with gold dots surrounding the gold stars, all gold helmet, belt and bracelets. Brenda Del Rio, a pregnant Darna, wore the two-piece costume as well. After giving, birth Darna came back with her baby also dressed up as Darna. Lotis Key also put on the costume minus the loincloth. In \"Bira, Darna, Bira!\" starring Rio Locsin, she wore the classic red bikini with gold stars, red helmet with an encircled star in the middle of the gold winged medallion, and gold star bracelets, boots and star-filled medallion belt with yellow loincloth, with the addition of a gold and red choker. This time, Ding also had his own superhero costume. He wore a red mask, long sleeve shirt and boots, and blue shorts.\n\nIn the film \"Darna\" (1991) produced by Viva Films, Nanette Medved wore a ruby encrusted winged medallion tiara instead of the classic helmet, red bikini with gold stars, ruby encrusted gold bracelets, ruby encrusted gold medallion belt with red loincloth, and red boots with ruby encrusted gold wing insignia. In \"Darna: Ang Pagbabalik\" (1994), Anjanette Abayari played Darna, instead of wings on the tiara, this Darna had two leaves entwined for a headpiece. The costume was still a red bikini with the gold stars adorned with red crystals in the middle. The bracelets remained gold, the gold belt was a bit different it had a large buckle but still with a red loincloth, and the boots had gold details in them. However, the Ravelos and majority of fans wish to preserve Darna's signature look with a few design tweaks here and there from time to time.\n\nIn a cameo role in Viva Films' \"Captain Barbell\" (1986) Sharon Cuneta appeared as Darna. She wore a red and blue one-piece costume (the top part was red while the bottom was blue and the stomach area had red and blue stripes) with gold stars, red helmet with ruby encrusted gold winged medallion, ruby encrusted gold medallion belt with red loincloth, ruby encrusted gold bracelets, and red boots. In the Premiere Productions remake of \"Captain Barbell\" (2003), Regine Velasquez made a cameo appearance as Darna. She wore a red and yellow one-piece costume (it looked like a gold-trimmed red bikini with the stomach part being yellow) with yellow stars, red helmet with white stone encrusted yellow winged medallion, white stone encrusted gold medallion belt with white loincloth, white stone encrusted gold bracelets, and red boots.\n\nLisa Macuja in Komiks CCP Ballet as Darna (1997) wore a red and turquoise sleeveless leotard (the stomach portion was white in color) with yellow stars, red helmet with yellow winged medallion, yellow belt with black loincloth, and yellow ballerina shoes while in Darna: The Ballet (2003) Kristine Crame and Kris Belle Paclibar who alternately played Darna wore the costume. There were two versions of the costume: (1) the traditional red bikini with gold stars, red helmet with gold winged medallion, red bracelet adorned with gold medallions, gold belt and loincloth, and red ballerina shoes adorned with gold medallions (the ballerina shoes looked like boots); and (2) red bra with gold dots surrounding the gold stars, yellow shorts, red helmet adorned with a seemingly large gold bird, red bracelets and belt both with gold embellishments, and red loincloth and boots.\n\nDarna made another cameo this time in a series of Toyota Tamaraw FX commercials in 1997, with Anjanette Abayari, portraying Darna.\n\nIn one of the issues by Super Action Komiks Darna was illustrated differently. This time she's wearing a chest and stomach-bearing red-trimmed blue one-piece with red shoulder pads, ruby encrusted gold winged medallion tiara, blue bracelets and belt, blue knee guards with yellow wings, and red boots.\n\nMango Comics 2003 miniseries/Angel Locsin's Darna look is also considered one of Darna's many 'official' costumes just as the original by Nestor Redondo is. Angel wore the traditional red bikini with gold stars, red helmet with the gold winged medallion, gold medallion bracelets, golden medallion belt with white loincloth in the middle, and gold-trimmed red boots. She had four helmets: (1) a1 red helmet with gold winged medallion for publicity photos of the TV series and Robitussin ad; (2) another red helmet with gold winged medallion for publicity photos of the TV series; (3) a red helmet with the ruby encrusted gold winged medallion for publicity photos of the TV series; and (4) another red helmet with the ruby encrusted gold winged medallion which she usually wore in the TV series. Angel wore the same costume in a 2006 Robitussin LiquiGel TV advertisement. In the 2005 TV series Katrina Halili also wore a Darna costume as the villain Black Darna. As the name implies, her costume was similar to Darna but in all black and gold.\n\nMarian Rivera's Darna costume was built by fashion designer Pepsi Herrera based on the style guide costume design created by artist Bong Leal. Marian wore the traditional red bikini with gold stars but now gold-trimmed, gold-trimmed red helmet with the ruby encrusted gold winged medallion, gold bracelets and now with gold arm cuffs, golden medallion belt with gold-trimmed yellow loincloth in the middle, and gold-trimmed red stiletto boots. Darna is currently sporting this incarnation of the costume.\n\nIn the 2010 Sinenovela: \"Mars Ravelo's Trudis Liit\" television series (episode 37), Jillian Ward (who also played Captain Barbell's sidekick, Lelay/Super Tiny, in the 2011 Captain Barbell TV series) wore the traditional Darna costume while Pauleen Luna wore a Valentina costume similar to the one worn by Alessandra De Rossi in the 2005 Darna TV series. In a dream sequence Jillian portrayed Darna and defeated Valentina portrayed by Pauleen.\n\nOver the years, Darna has appeared in many films. The superheroine’s popularity skyrocketed in 1951, when Royal Films produced a film version. Since then, a \"total of 14 films\" have been made portraying Darna and endless serialized stories in different comic books followed. Two Darna films were made by Royal Films, both starring Rosa del Rosario in \"Darna\" (1951) and \"Darna at ang Babaing Lawin\" (1952). A year after Darna was first serialized in 1950 in Bulaklak Komiks, Filipinos witnessed the first marvelous flight of Darna in the big screen. The Fernando Poe Sr. directorial starred Rosa Del Rosario as Darna and Cristina Aragon as the supervillain Valentina, while Mila Nimfa portrayed the young Narda and Manuel Ubaldo played the role of Ding, Narda’s little brother. The film was a huge box-office success. The 1952 film was based on \"Darna at ang Babaing Lawin\" (Pilipino Komiks No.120 January 5, 1952). In Eric Cueto's interview with Rosa in the Official Mars Ravelo Darna website, she revealed that in her flying scenes in Darna, she was actually flying over Quiapo with the aid of a helicopter. She was suspended in the air with help of cables attached to her body and the helicopter. All her flying scenes were shot at night to hide the cables. She nearly crashed on Quiapo church in one of her flying scenes.\n\nIn the early 1960s, two more Darna films were made, starring Liza Moreno as Darna with Danilo Jurado as Ding in \"Si Darna at ang Impakta\" (1963) produced by People's Pictures, Inc. It was very atmospheric and true to its comics serial roots. Darna's origin is once again retold on the big screen. The role of Roma was first played by Gina Alonzo who also played Lucy ang Babaeng Tuod in \"Si Darna at ang Babaing Tuod\" (1965) while Paquito Salcedo played the evil twin.\n\nA new Pinoy superhero was introduced in 1963, \"Ang Babaeng Isputnik\", portrayed by Nida Blanca and directed by Efren Reyes. It was immediately followed by Tagalog Ilang-Ilang Productions's \"Isputnik vs. Darna\" a year later. Liza Moreno starred again as Darna and was pitted against another superhero named Isputnik played by Nida Blanca.\n\nIn 1965, Cirio H. Santiago, who eventually became one of the most influential Filipino directors here and abroad, directed the first Darna film in full color produced by People's Pictures Inc., \"Si Darna at ang Babaing Tuod\" was shown to the public—this time then-newcomer Eva Montes was tapped for the role. Eva also played Dyesebel's daughter, Alona, in the 1964 film \"Anak ni Dyesebel\". This version was vastly different from Ravelo's original tale. This was also the only Darna film that focused more on the villain than on the hero; Darna appeared in the film only three times. In one of her later interviews, Eva revealed that this was because Gina Alonzo, who played the villain Lucilla, ang Babaing Tuod, was being groomed by People's Pictures, Inc. to be its next big star.\n\nGina Pareño portrayed the role in Vera Perez Productions' own version of Darna in \"Si\" \"Darna at ang Planetman\" (1969). In the film, Gina Pareño played both Darna and Daria, while Narda was played by the young Gina Alajar. Darna also fell in love for the first time in this film. She fell for a man who turned out to be the Planetman whom she had to defeat.\n\nIn the 1970s films with Vilma Santos as Darna are iconic, influencing people’s perception of the character for some 30 years afterwards. In these films, Darna is already a teenager and she has to swallow the stone each time she transforms, as it comes out of her mouth whenever she changes back to Narda. Her home planet was not named. \"Lipad, Darna, Lipad\"! (1973) is the first and only trilogy of the superheroine. On March 23, 1973, Darna breaks all box-office record. It was the highest-grossing Darna film in Philippine film history and considered a turning point in Vilma's career. On the opening day of the film, the cast gave away free Darna dolls. Coca-Cola also promoted the film by giving away Darna characters mask. It was also the first Darna film where Darna and Narda were played by the same actress. Unfortunately, there is no existing copy left of this classic film. The line “Ding, ang bato!” (“Ding, [give me] the stone!\") from the film \"Lipad, Darna, Lipad\", became a favorite catchphrase, though it was not in the original komiks. The film had three episodes: (1) \"Impakta\" directed by Maning Borlaza. It starred Gloria Romero as Miss Luna, a school teacher who has a dark secret. She is actually a flying flesh eater creature at night; (2) \"Babaing Ahas\" directed by Elwood Perez. It starred Celia Rodriguez as Valentina, a campy supermodel/gorgon. One scene has the actress naked in bed being caressed by a dozen snakes; and (3) \"Babaing Lawin\" (Hawk Woman) starring Liza Lorena as Babaing Lawin and Rod Dasco as Aguila directed by Joey Gosiengfiao.\n\nVilma starred in three more Darna films: \"Darna and the Giants\" (1974)\" and \"Darna vs. the Planetwomen\" (1975), which were both under Tagalog Ilang-Ilang Productions, and \"Darna and Ding\" (1980) with child wonder Niño Muhlach as Ding under Niño Muhlach's D'Wonder Films.\n\n\"Darna and the Giants\" was the continuation of Vilma's first Darna film and Darna again wore the red and gold bikini costume. The giants were played by Divina Valencia and Ike Lozada. Helen Gamboa played the villainess Alien Warrior Queen X3X. X3X together with her alien minions terrorizes Narda's village and captures several of the townsfolk and transforming them into mindless giants who go on a rampage across the countryside in the hopes of conquering the Earth.\n\n\"Darna vs. the Planetwomen\" was a rebooted version of the Darna origin, with Vilma's Narda this time portrayed as a crippled teenager who was given a magical stone by a mysterious source. The Planet Women, a band of bikini-clad space amazons who are each coded with a different shade of primary-hued body paint consisted on Noche, Elektra played by Rossana Ortiz (come armed with a shopping list of Earth scientists whom they plan to abduct, setting stage for the most of the film's action, which involves Darna's efforts to thwart those abductions), Orang played by Eva Linda, Maia and Kara.\n\n\"Darna and Ding\" was the last time Vilma played Darna. For the first time, Ding was mentioned in the title. The film begins with a pre-credit sequence recounting Darna's origin. Apparently the notion of Darna's alter-ego having a bum leg, introduced in \"Darna vs. the Planet Women\", has since been abandoned. In this film, Darna was joined by Ding who now has his own superpowers. Niño also played Darna in this film. Also, Lito Anzurez stole the magic stone and transformed into Darna. Dr. Irene Vontesberg played by Marissa Delgado in an eye-flashing performance addressing a past injustice by raising the recently dead and setting them upon the villagers. This provides for a lot of creepy moments. Veronica Jones played Babaeng Lawin. As is typical of the series, \"Darna and Ding\" shows Narda's tiny rural village to be the locus of every imaginable kind of extraterrestrial, criminal and paranormal activity—and shambling, green slime slobbering ghouls. Vilma displayed her faux kung fu skills, but then it takes a darker turn, with one of the cons gunning down an innocent bystander. Much as with Dr. Vontesberg, there seems to be a tragic dimension to Lei Ming, as she follows many of her acts of evil with extended crying jags. Darna and Ding's final episode sees the pair following a trail of missing children to the doorstep of Lei Ming, an evil Chinese sorceress played—in a yet another eye-flashing performance by Celia.\n\nChiquito was the first male Darna in Philippine films. In Vilma Santos' film \"Terribol Dobol\" (1974), he played the superhero in a short scene. He was considered the arch-rival of Comedy King Dolphy, who later on also played Darna and Captain Barbell. In 1979, Regal Films made a spoof of the Darna films titled \"Darna, Kuno?\". In this film, there were actually three Darnas: Dolphy, Brenda del Rio and Lotis Key. Brenda's part was first offered to Vilma Santos. The story is about a poor underdog man played by Dolphy. The real Darna played by '70s starlet Brenda Del Rio got pregnant by Japanese anime robots Mazinger Z and Voltes V. Because of the pregnancy someone had to take Darna’s place temporarily as the superheroine. Darna let the character of Dolphy borrow her magical stone and will take it back as soon as she gives birth. Dolphy as Darna Kuno also encountered different kinds of Filipino folklore characters like tikbalangs (half-man and half-horse creatures), aswangs and many more. Lotis Key as Annabel also put on the Darna costume minus the sash. She found out the truth about Darna Kuno's secret identity and stole the magical stone. At the end of the film, Dolphy and Lotis battled a group of aliens and defeated them. The real Darna came back with her baby also dressed up as Darna and took back her stone. A few months after Dolphy's Darna parody, MBM Productions presented its own Darna film, “Bira, Darna, Bira!” starring Rio Locsin. This is the only Darna film that did not do well in box-office. Narda also became a high-class model in this film.\n\nViva Films produced another film adaptation simply titled \"Darna\" (1991), and was directed by Joel Lamangan. Half-Russian, half-Filipina actress Nanette Medved played the Darna role. Then nine-year-old Francine Prieto (under her real name Anna Marie Falcon; she also starred in the 2009 Darna TV series as Babaeng Tuod) played the young Narda. Nanette portrayed Narda as a model working in Manila and Darna with reference to Wonder Woman's ability to block bullets with her bracelets. This started the accusation that Darna was a Wonder Woman rip-off. Darna's costume was also altered in this film. From the helmet that Darna used to wear in past films, she now wore a tiara with wings. She had two brothers in this film, Ding and Dong.\n\nAfter appearing in a TV commercial for an automobile company as Darna (with fellow beauty queens Alma Concepcion and Daisy Reyes, both also wearing Darna costumes), Filipina-American and dethroned Bb. Pilipinas-Universe 1991 Anjanette Abayari was chosen by Viva Films to play its latest version of Darna in \"Darna: Ang Pagbabalik\" (1994). Anjanette's Darna The DVD was released in Hong Kong and the rest of Asia and has English subtitles as well as Chinese subtitles, making it one of the most accessible of the Darna films (dialogue is still in the original Filipino). The film was also responsible for finally naming Narda's grandmother; Narda referred to her as \"Lola Isabel\" (Grandmother Isabel), and it is part of her continuity now. Although the grandmother was named Lola Asay in the early versions of the comics serial, she wasn't named in the previous film. Anjanette appeared again as Darna in a cameo in \"Ang Pagbabalik ni Pedro Penduko\" (1994) starring Janno Gibbs.\n\nIn a cameo role of Viva Films' \"Captain Barbell\" (1986) starring Herbert Bautista and Edu Manzano, Sharon Cuneta appeared as Darna. It was supposed to be Cuneta's promotion for her own full-length Darna film. However, she declined the project later due to the excessive requirements of the role. Back then, there were no invisible wires to lift Darna in the air, so an actress would need to lie down, head first, while a long piece of iron would hold her tight on both sides of her body.\n\nIn the Premiere Productions remake of \"Captain Barbell\" (2003), starring Ogie Alcasid and Bong Revilla, Asia's Songbird Regine Velasquez made a cameo appearance in a dream sequence as Darna which she reprised in her concert tour \"The Singer and the Songwriter\" the following year. The singer subsequently visited the U.S. as part of the tour, with one of the performance numbers had her wearing a two-piece Darna costume while singing the songs from the \"Captain Barbell\" film. Ogie Alcasid (who played Barbell's alter ego Enteng dubbed as the songwriter) accompanied her and wore the Captain Barbell costume during their song number. Like Cuneta, Velasquez was supposed to portray as Darna in her own full-length film but it was cancelled as well.\n\nThe comic book superheroine also found its way to the small screen. The first \"Darna\" TV series was created by Ketchie Benedicto and starred by Lorna Tolentino as Darna/Narda. It was aired on KBS 9 (RPN 9).\n\nIn 2004, executives of GMA Network and Hugo Yonzon, current license holder of Darna and head of Mango Comics, signed a licensing agreement for a new Darna television series. In 2005, they tapped Angel Locsin to play Darna after the success of the TV series Mulawin where she played one of the lead roles. Locsin had to learn wushu, kung fu and other fighting techniques even as she mastered the art of flying and display Darna's superpowers. The second Darna series premiered in both the Philippines and Japan on April 11, 2005, and garnered a 47.1% rating according to the data gathered by market research company AGB, making it one of the highest-rated pilot episode ever in Philippine television.\n\nDuring the fourth episode, Locsin's Darna portrayal made TV history when it garnered 52.1% overnight ratings according to AGB, the highest rating yet for the show because this was the episode when Narda transforms into Darna for the first time. The television series directed by Dominic Zapata and Eric Quizon ended on Friday, November 25, 2005. Captain Barbell (wearing a costume similar to Bong Revilla's Captain Barbell) guest-starred in the last episode of the Darna TV series. He played a significant role by helping Darna. But his face was not shown, rather, only the \"CB\" sign on his chest was focused since GMA 7 has not decided yet who will take the role, and they intentionally did it to drumbeat the promotions for the upcoming Captain Barbell TV series.\n\nA lot of changes and new material were added for this incarnation of Darna. The show follows the original version's storyline with Narda finding the stone as a child, but she only becomes Darna and discovers her powers at age eighteen. It also follows the 2003 Mango Comics version in making Darna part of an alien race (the Adranika of Marte) who fought another alien race of serpent people (called the Anomalka) and the first to acknowledge the origins of the stone as coming from the planet Marte, instead of simply hinting it was a \"gift from God\" or something an angel gave Narda. A new other-dimensional world has been introduced—\"Kanlungan Adran\" (Adran's Cradle), a mystical world in another dimension created by the Adranika race of Marte and known only to a very few. Many new allies and enemies were invented for the show, as well as more backstory. Notably, Narda and Valentina (the product of hybrid impregnation of an Earth woman by an Anomalkan creature sent by Braguda) are half-sisters while Ding has been killed. In the story, the Black Darna is a result of Narda's release of all her pent-up emotions. Another Mars Ravelo's creation \"Dyesebel\" (portrayed by Ara Mina) made a guest appearance in the series for the very first time.\n\nFour actresses who previously played Darna were involved in the TV series:\n\n\nAfter the success of the second Darna TV series in 2005 with Angel Locsin as the lead role, GMA Network confirms that the rights of Darna is still theirs along with Captain Barbell and Dyesebel. In January 2008, it was announced that GMA Network decided to make another version of the Darna TV series but this time, it will be along with Captain Barbell. But due to schedule conflicts of Richard Gutierrez, everything was shelved. Also, Locsin has already transferred to ABS-CBN (the rival station of GMA Network) in 2007. \"Captain Barbell Meets Darna\" was a supposed primetime series which would have been aired on GMA but was later split into two series: The return of \"Captain Barbell\" for a second season and the reimagined version of \"Darna\".\n\nGMA Network, along with the Ravelo's copyright holders of the character, has unanimously chosen Marian Rivera as Darna. It was said by Wilma Galvante, the SVP for Entertainment TV, in an interview that the new Darna should be a real star because it is a prime role. Mark Herras was considered for the lead male role of Eduardo, but Mark Anthony Fernandez won the part. Regine Velasquez (who previously portrayed Darna in the 2003 \"Captain Barbell\" film) was again involved in the series. Like the 2005 TV series, she also provided the voice clip of shouting \"Darna!\", and later played a villain called Elektra, the Planet Woman in the 2nd season.\n\nGMA Network announced that the new styled Darna would be a mirror to Marian Rivera's personality, possibly featuring more comedy flavor into the drama plot. Rivera is best known for her roles as the leads in the Philippine adaptation of MariMar and another Mars Ravelo creation, Dyesebel. Marian went through rigid physical and mental training for her role and also started to train in the Chinese martial art wushu. She was about to start her fighting routines with an expert and also to be trained on harness. Unfortunately, it was postponed due to conflicts on schedule. Also, Galvante confirmed that Captain Barbell, another Mars Ravelo's creation, is going to be shown in the series. However, it did not push through, so a new character named Pancho (Narda's childhood friend from orphanage and love interest played by Dennis Trillo) was introduced instead.\n\nThe rebooted superhero TV series directed by Dominic Zapata and Don Michael Perez premiered on August 10, 2009. Marian Rivera soared high as Darna. The series' 44.1 percent pilot rating is Rivera's second-highest primetime-series opening, after Dyesebel's 44.9%. But it cannot be denied that Locsin's version of Darna made history when it reached 52.1% on its fourth episode, where she appeared in a Darna costume for the first time. That figure was the highest rating achieved by any GMA-7 show at that time.\n\nIn 2011 comic book creators Gerry Alanguilan and Arnold Arre partnered to write a 9-page concept webcomic called “Darna Lives!”, which reimagined the life of Darna. Alanguilan wrote the story and Arre providing the art for the piece, which portrayed Darna’s alter-ego Narda having forgotten her superhero identity and moved on to a life of obscurity and poverty, until fate intervenes to bring back. Although short, it was notable for its significantly different portrayal of the character, since it was the first time the Narda alter-ego was portrayed as anything but a demure young woman.\n\nCommenting on the work in a Philippine Daily Inquirer interview, Alanguilan explained his motivations for coming out with the story:“\"I think Arnold and I were able to show that Darna, as a character, can stand to be interpreted differently to allow her to remain appealing and relevant to a new audience. I hope “Darna Lives” can push for this kind of change. I think Filipinos, as we have seen, are open too it, and comics creators and filmmakers do not need to keep relying on old tricks and gimmicks that have worked before. I hope it can push our storytellers in other media, especially TV and movies to be bolder. ‘Di mage-gets ng masa yan’ ('The masses won't understand that') is a stupid, cowardly statement that ensures nothing but stagnancy.\"”\n\n\nThe character of Darna was used in a series of Toyota Tamaraw FX commercials, with Anjanette Abayari, Alma Concepcion, and Daisy Reyes portraying Darna in 1997.\n\nAngel Locsin also appeared as Darna in a 2006 Robitussin LiquiGel TV advertisement wearing her Darna costume from the 2005 TV series. It was directed by Avid Liongoren. The story started with a giant monster attacking a village. Narda was about to transform into Darna but was interrupted by her cough so she shouted only half of the name (Dar ... ). She was then seen holding a LiquiGel capsule which she swallowed to transform into Darna. She rescued some bystander first before defeating the giant monster to death.\n\nDarna has also been portrayed in ballet productions by Ballet Philippines. In 1997 Prima ballerina Lisa Macuja-Elizalde first danced the part of Darna in Comics: The Ballet in celebration of Darna’s golden anniversary. Another ballet was produced in August 1–17, 2003 by the Cultural Center of the Philippines (CCP). In this version, entitled Darna: The Ballet, Kristine Crame and Kris Belle Paclibar alternately danced the part of Darna while the singing is done by Valentina (she has a haunting solo that, says Chin-Chin Gutierrez who plays the role alternating with Tex Ordoñez, speaks of loneliness and longing and shows that she’s not all bad) and her Boy Toys, the bad guys of the production. Mica Bernas played Narda.\n\nThe 50-year-old story of poor girl Narda transformed into super-heroine Darna gets a 21st-century shot in the arm, via not just updated production values but a new stage treatment.\n\n\"Why Darna? We need somebody that we can identify as our own, something that everyone can easily relate to,\" says director and librettist Chris Millado. \"This dance musical will re-introduce a 50-year-old super-heroine. Now she’s a contemporary character, still on the side of good. Most importantly, she’s Filipino.\"\n\nDe La Salle College of St. Benilde's Arts and Culture Cluster of the School of Design and Arts mounted yet another version entitled \"DING, ANG BATO!\" in May 14 to 21, 2018, at the SDA Theater on Pablo Ocampo St. In this dance musical <marketing collateral materials >redux of “Darna” the quintessential Filipina super heroine grapples with the irascible serpent queen Valentina who used to be her childhood friend. Darna’s encounter with Valentina flung the two friends, now arch-enemies, into fantastic realms of urban dystopia that make them confront their brightest and darkest selves. The story is told from the point of view of Darna’s brother Ding, born deaf, who accompanies her in the journey of empowerment. This millennial version of “Darna” put audiences right in the middle of a heady theatrical brew of original Pinoy pop culture, energetic physical theater, poetic syncretism of sign language and dance, and inventive digital multimedia.Choreographed by Denisa Reyes and Ernest Mandap, Filipino Sign Language was seamlessly interwoven into the choreography. In fact, the whole production used sign language and spoken dialog without the necessity of an interpreter so that both hearing and deaf audiences could experience the narrative.\n\nDirector and Librettist Chris Millado, Choreographers Denisa Reyes & Ernest Mandap and Music Composer Ejay Yatco & Jef Flores – all award-winning, led the collaboration between professional and student musical theater performers, dance majors, singers, and multimedia practitioners of the De La Salle-College of St. Benilde’s School of Design and Arts.\n\nThe production reunited the team with Benilde’s Dance Chair Christine Crame who deftly reprised the role of Darna from the production that first saw ‘flight’ at the Cultural Center of the Philippines Main Theater in 2003 and is now devised for contemporary audiences. Stage and TV actor Natasha Cabrera inhabits the role of Valentina. Olivia Bugayong alternates with Crame for Darna while Dani Idea alternates for Valentina.\n\nJoining the stellar creative team are renowned arts professionals Tuxqs Rutaquio as Production Designer, Jay Aranda as Lighting Designer and Technical Director, Joee Mejias as Projection Designer, Aji Manalo as Sound Designer, and Sunita S. Mukhi as dramaturg, and artistic producer<marketing collaterals written by Benilde's Arts and Culture Cluster>.\n\nDarna Komiks is a komiks magasin first published by Pilipino Komiks, Inc. and continued by Atlas Publishing Co., Inc. Its maiden issue appeared on February 3, 1968, with Ruben R. Marcelino as Editor. Its title was named after Darna, a komiks character created by the great Mars Ravelo.\n\nIn children’s literature, Edgar Samar wrote a story entitled “Uuwi na ang Nanay kong si Darna” which won the PBBY-Salanga Writer’s Prize in 2002 and was illustrated by Russell Molina, who won the PBBY Illustrator’s Prize.\n\nAs well as comics and films, Darna has also been the subject of a series of national stamps released in the Philippines. A number of great artists were included like Nestor Redondo. The Darna issue 3 cover that Gilbert Monsanto did for Mango comics was one of the images.\n\nRosa del Rosario was the first actress to play the first Filipino superheroine on screen. Vilma Santos and Marian Rivera are the only two actresses who played two of Mars Ravelo's komiks characters respectively, namely Darna and Dyesebel with Vilma having played Darna four times. Vilma made a total of four films in a span of seven years playing both Narda and Darna.\n\nOthers\n\nAccording to a news article in September 2004, GMA's Film division planned to produce a Darna film in addition to the 2005 TV series. Wilma Galvez of GMA 7 wanted a different actress for the film version and had reportedly offered the role to Regine Velasquez who previously portrayed Darna in \"Captain Barbell\" (2003). However, the production of the project did not come to fruition.\n\nAfter the end of the Captain Barbell 2006 TV series, GMA 7 aired a teaser hinting the coming of a joint series, \"Captain Barbell Meets Darna\". The Internet Movie Database website (www.imdb.com) posted the same title – \"Captain Barbell Meets Darna\" – which would supposedly led by Dingdong Dantes and Karylle sometime in late 2007, but it did not materialize. In January 2008, it was announced that GMA Network decided to make another version of the Darna TV series but this time, it would be along with Captain Barbell. It would have starred by Richard Gutierrez as Captain Barbell and either Rhian Ramos, Jackie Rice or Marian Rivera as Darna. But due to schedule conflicts of Richard Gutierrez who was busy with other projects, everything was shelved. Also, Angel Locsin has already transferred to the rival network ABS-CBN in 2007. It didn’t materialize as well. \"Captain Barbell Meets Darna\" was a supposed primetime series which would have been aired on GMA but was later split into two series: The return of Captain Barbell for a second season where Richard Gutierrez reprised the role of Captain Barbell and the reimagined version of Darna where Marian Rivera portrayed Darna.\n\nIn 2013, The Ravelo family gave ABS-CBN the rights to the characters created by Mars Ravelo in an agreement in 2013. ABS-CBN officially acquired the exclusive rights to 13 Mars Ravelo titles including Dyesebel, Darna, and Captain Barbell. Darna was first announced in 2013 by Star Cinema, and Erik Matti was revealed to direct the film. In October 2013, Star Cinema managing director Malou Santos confirmed that actress Angel Locsin, who portrayed Darna in the 2005 GMA teleserye, would be reprising the role of the iconic superhero in an upcoming Darna film produced by the ABS-CBN film outfit and Reality Entertainment, five months after the network earned the rights to Darna and 12 other Ravelo characters. During an interview with ABS-CBN, Angel said that the yet untitled Darna film was one of the biggest projects ever done by the film company.\n\nTwo years later, Locsin pulled out of the Darna project. On October 26, 2015, Locsin stated on her Instagram account that she could no longer play Darna. According to a press statement from ABS-CBN, the actress was dealing with health concerns. Angel developed a disc bulge in her spine due to strenuous training. On July 2016, Star Cinema has refrained in making any casting announcements. Matti has also opted to move on to a new project for the time being instead of pushing for \"Darna\" to continue production. On the photo posted on The Rodmagaru Show, it is confirmed that \"Darna\" has continued in production.\n\nAngel Locsin was supposed to reprise her role as Darna. However, Locsin developed a disc bulge in her spine and was soon considered a minor handicap because of her injury; as a result she chose to leave the project. Locsin also clarified on her Instagram account that ABS-CBN had already chosen the actress for Darna, but did not mention her name. On an interview with Spot.ph, Matti said that they have already found an actress for the role but still it isn't final. On September 1, on a dinner get-together hosted by ABS-CBN President-CEO Carlo Katigbak for the officer and members of Professional Artist Managers, Inc. (PAMI) and with other business unit heads of ABS-CBN network, Malou Santos officially confirmed that Locsin will reprise her role as Darna. ABS-CBN executives had been eyeing Locsin to reprise the role as they could not find any other suitable actress to replace her. Thus, they waited until Locsin was fully healed and given clearance for the role. However, in March 2017, Locsin stated that she will be unable to play the title role and had dropped out of the project due to health and safety reasons. Meanwhile, twelve actresses were considered as replacements for Locsin. Such included the likes of Liza Soberano, Nadine Lustre, Julia Montes, Sarah Geronimo, Maja Salvador, Pia Wurtzbach, Arci Muñoz, Jessy Mendiola, KC Concepcion, Yassi Pressman, Anne Curtis, Kathryn Bernardo and Ritz Azul. In May 2017, it was announced that Liza Soberano will replace Locsin. But, in April 2019, Soberano decided to withdraw the project due to a finger bone injury she acquired during production for the network's 2018 TV series \"Bagani\" Meanwhile, ABS-CBN had begun casting on a new actress. In July 2019, it was announced that Jane de Leon will replace Soberano.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824003", "title": "1993 Croatian Chamber of Counties election", "text": "1993 Croatian Chamber of Counties election\n\nChamber of Counties elections were held for the first time in Croatia on 7 February 1993. The result was a victory for the Croatian Democratic Union, which won 37 of the 63 elected seats.\n\nUnder the new constitution adopted in 1990, the Croatian Parliament was bicameral. The lower house had been elected in 1992 and its representatives had passed laws creating new territorial organisations of Croatia. This included counties that were to be represented by the upper house – the Chamber of Counties.\n\nEach county elected three members, while the President had the right to appoint five members, known as \"Virils\". The electoral law made each county a district that was to elect three representatives on the basis of proportional representation.\n\nIn practice, the use of proportional representation in such small districts led to a single party – the Croatian Democratic Union – being grossly overrepresented because sometimes even with less than third of the votes guaranteed two of the three seats.\n\nThe elections were marked by an uncharacteristically intense campaign directed towards single region – Istria. Government of Franjo Tuđman has invested great effort to defeat the Istrian Democratic Assembly, concerned about party's good result during 1992 elections. This effort backfired, resulting in record vote for the IDS.\n"}
{"id": "1824009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824009", "title": "Prarabdha karma", "text": "Prarabdha karma\n\nPrarabdha Karma are the part of sanchita karma, a collection of past karmas, which are ready to be experienced through the present body (incarnation).\n\nAccording to Sri Swami Sivananda: \"Prarabdha is that portion of the past karma which is responsible for the present body. That portion of the sanchita karma which influences human life in the present incarnation is called prarabdha. It is ripe for reaping. It cannot be avoided or changed. It is only exhausted by being experienced. You pay your past debts. Prarabdha karma is that which has begun and is actually bearing fruit. It is selected out of the mass of the sanchita karma.\"\n\nEach lifetime, a certain portion of the sanchita karma, most suited for the spiritual evolution at the time, is chosen to be worked out, during the course of the lifetime. Subsequently this Prarabdha Karma creates circumstances which we are destined to experience in our present lifetime, they also place certain limitations via our physical family, body or life circumstances we are born into, as charted in our birth chart or horoscope, collectively known as fate or destiny (determinism).\n\nThere are three kinds of Prarabdha karma: \"Ichha\" (personally desired), \"Anichha\" (without desire) and \"Parechha\" (due to others' desire). For a self realized person, a Jivan mukta, there is no Ichha-Prarabdha but the two others, Anichha and Parechha, remain, which even a jivan mukta has to undergo.\n\nIn Vedantic literature, there is an analogy. The bowman has already sent an arrow and it has left his hands. He cannot recall it. He is about to shoot another arrow. The bundle of arrows in the quiver on his back is the sanchita; the arrow he has shot is prarabdha; and the arrow which he is about to shoot from his bow is \"agami\". Of these, he has perfect control over the sanchita and the agami/Kriyamana, but he must surely work out his prarabdha. The past which has begun to take effect he has to experience.\n\nThere is another analogy also. The granary represents the sanchita karma; that portion taken from the granary and put in the shop for future daily sale corresponds to agami; that which is sold daily represents prarabdha.\n\n'Prarabdha' (Devanagari: प्रारब्ध) is employed in the \"Nada Bindu Upanishad\" verse 21 as follows in Devanagari for probity and as rendered in English by K. Narayanasvami Aiyar (1914):\n\nAccording to many sages and philosophers, Prarabdha karma end only after we have but experienced their consequences \n\nSage Ramana Maharshi presents another viewpoint when he says, \"If the agent, upon whom the Karma depends, namely the ego, which has come into existence between the body and the Self, merges in its source and loses its form, how can the Karma, which depends upon it, survive? When there is no ‘I’ there is no Karma.\", a point well reiterated by sage Vasistha in his classical work \"Yoga Vasistha\", wherein, when Lord Rama asks sage Vasistha about the way to transcend the two binding effects of past karmas, namely \"Vasanas\" or the effect of impressions left on the mind by past actions and one's fate created by Prarabdha Karma, to which he replies, through with Divine grace (Kripa), one can go beyond the influences of past actions.\n\nThe Bhakti Yoga theme within the Chapter seven of the Bhagavad Gita also talks eloquently about the concept of \"Kripa\", but its most important verse comes in the final eighteenth chapter, about Liberation, where Krishna finally makes a sweeping statement to Arjuna in \"Verse 18.66\", \"Setting aside all meritorious deeds (Dharma), just surrender completely to My will (with firm faith and loving contemplation). I shall liberate you from all sins. Do not fear.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824049", "title": "Michael Thrasher", "text": "Michael Thrasher\n\nMichael Thrasher is a British academic, Professor of Politics in the School of Sociology, Politics & Law at the University of Plymouth. He is also Sky News' election analyst. \n\nThrasher was born in Stoke-on-Trent in 1953. he received his BA in politics from the University of Liverpool in 1974. He remained in Liverpool to study for his doctoral thesis, \"The political theory of English local government, 1834-1972\". He was awarded his Ph.D. in 1981. He began lecturing at Plymouth in 1977, becoming Professor of Politics in 1997. He is Co-Director of the \"Local Government Chronicle\" Elections Centre. \n\nWith his colleague Colin Rallings, Thrasher has written extensively on electoral systems, results and British politics. He is Co-Director of the \"Local Government Chronicle\" Elections Centre. Thrasher appeared on Sky News' 2017 election coverage, and has appeared on the channel's election night coverage as a psephologist for every election since 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824050", "title": "Edmond Safra", "text": "Edmond Safra\n\nEdmond J. Safra (; 6 August 1932 – 3 December 1999) was a Lebanese Brazilian Jewish banker who continued the family tradition of banking in Syria, Lebanon, Brazil and Switzerland. He was married to Lily Watkins from 1976 until his death. He died in a fire that attracted wide media interest, and was judicially determined to be due to arson.\n\nThe Safra family came from Beirut, Lebanon and is of Sephardic jewish background originally from Lebanon and Aleppo. Edmond's father, Jacob Safra, had opened the J. E. Safra Bank in 1920 in Beirut. By the time when he was sixteen, Edmond Safra was working at his father's bank in Beirut, Lebanon, and was engaged in the precious metals and foreign exchange aspects of the business.\n\nIn 1949, the family moved from Lebanon to Italy, where he worked for a trading company in Milan. The family moved again in 1952, this time to Brazil, where Edmond Safra and his father founded their first Brazilian financial institution in 1955.\n\nIn 1956, Edmond Safra settled in Geneva to set up a private bank, the Trade Development Bank, which grew from an original US$1 million to US$5 billion during the 1980s. He extended his financial empire to satisfy his wealthy clients from around the world. He also founded the Republic National Bank of New York in 1966, and, later, Republic National Bank of New York (Suisse) in Geneva. The Republic bank operated 80 branches in the New York area, making it the number three branch network in the metropolitan region behind Citigroup and Chase Manhattan.\n\nThe sale of Trade Development Bank to American Express for more than US$450 million in 1983, turned into a legal battle between the two parties. The financier came out on top, winning a public apology from American Express for starting a smear campaign against him and US$8 million in damages, all of which he donated to charities.\n\nIn 1988, he also founded Safra Republic Holdings S.A., a Luxembourg bank holding company.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Safra's fortune was an estimated at US$2.5 billion. He was a major philanthropist during his lifetime, and he left his wealth to the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic Foundation which supports hundreds of projects in fifty countries around the world in the areas of education, science and medicine, religion, culture and humanitarian assistance.\n\nIn 1996 Safra co-founded Hermitage Capital Management with Beny Steinmetz and Bill Browder. The hedge fund became one of the most important investment companies in Russia and later became famous in connection with the Sergei Magnitsky affair.\n\nAs he approached his 60s, the financier divided his time between his homes in Monaco, Geneva, and New York City and the Villa Leopolda on the French Riviera. Weakened by Parkinson's disease, he required nursing care.\n\nIn December 1999, Safra and nurse Vivian Torrente were suffocated by fumes in a fire deliberately lit at the billionaire's Monaco home, where he apparently felt so safe that he did not have his bodyguards stay the night.\n\nAnother bodyguard and nurse, American Ted Maher, who was sharing the night shift with Torrente at the time, was arrested under suspicion of starting the fire, and was convicted of the crime in 2002 by the Monaco Court. He claims that he was attacked by two masked men and, unable to figure out how to trigger the Safra's complex security system, started the fire in an attempt to trigger the system. The prosecution argued he was attempting to carry out a daring rescue, and thus increase his standing in the Safra family's eyes, but lost control of the fire unintentionally.\n\nMaher's lawyer, Michael Griffith, said that Maher did indeed start the fire in order to gain acceptance from Safra and that \"It was a stupid, most insane thing a human being could do,” said Griffith. “He did not intend to kill Mr. Safra. He just wanted Mr. Safra to appreciate him more. He loved Mr. Safra. This was the best job of his life.” Safra left 50% of his assets to several charities. The details of Safra's death were discussed by media outlets including \"60 Minutes\", CBS \"48 Hours\", \"Dateline NBC\" and Dominick Dunne in \"Vanity Fair\".\n\nSafra supported educational, religious, medical, cultural, and humanitarian causes and organizations around the world, and the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic Foundation carries on this work today in his memory.\n\nCommitted to his Jewish faith, he believed that constructing and renovating synagogues was important in places where there was a potential for a Jewish community to flourish, and synagogues around the world bearing his father's name testify to this commitment. Many of these were built in the world's major Jewish centers, but he also helped to build synagogues in more remote communities such as Manila and Kinshasa.\n\n500 years after the last synagogue was built in Madrid he constructed a new one. He also helped to renovate and enlarge synagogues in Amsterdam, Istanbul, Naples, Budapest, Rhodes, and Vienna. He saved the oldest synagogue in France, in Clermont-Ferrand, from destruction by buying it for the community, and he contributed to the expansion of the Cannes synagogue and Synagogue Beth El in Paris. He also helped refurbish synagogues in many small French cities including Évian, Annemasse, and others. Among the synagogues is the Edmond J. Safra Synagogue in New York City.\n\nIn addition to supporting a number of synagogues in Israel, the tombs of Rabbi Meir Baal Haness and Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai (2nd century CE) were especially important to him, and he was a generous supporter of these pilgrimage sites. For many years on Shavuot eve, the anniversary of his father's death, he would pray at the tomb of Rabbi Meir until dawn.\n\nDuring his lifetime Safra donated millions of dollars to provide treatment for the sick. Hospitals across the globe – the Hôpital Cantonal de Genève, the Hôpitaux de France, and countless institutions in the United States, for example – benefited from his generosity. He was one of the founders of Albert Einstein Hospital in São Paulo, today one of South America’s major medical centers. In Israel, he initiated the construction of the Edmond and Lily Safra Children's Hospital at Tel Hashomer.\n\nIn the area of medical research, he was a significant supporter of the Institut Pasteur in Paris, the Weizmann Institute in Israel, the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research and a number of different centers studying specific diseases in France, the United States, and elsewhere around the world. He created the Edmond and Lily Safra Chair in Breast Cancer Research at Tulane University.\n\nSafra believed higher education was essential for every young person in the modern world, even though he himself never attended university. He provided university scholarship funds for tens of thousands of needy students through the International Sephardic Education Foundation (ISEF), an institution he and his wife established in 1977 to support deserving Israeli students.\n\nSafra also helped universities directly, often through the support of chairs and particular programs (such as Judaic Studies). For example, at Harvard University he endowed the Jacob E. Safra Professorship of Jewish History and Sephardic Civilization, and the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics; and he gave significant funds for the Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professorship in Latin American Studies. At the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, he created the Jacob E. Safra Professorship of International Banking and the Safra Business Research Center.\n\nHe was awarded Honorary Doctorates by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Yeshiva University (New York) (where he established the Jacob E. Safra Institute of Sephardic Studies) for his ongoing support of those institutions.\n\nWith respect to younger children's education, he was especially devoted to schools in the cities where he lived – for example, he founded Ecole Girsa, Geneva's first and largest Jewish school. He took great pride in founding the Beit Yaacov school in Bat Yam. He was also one of the world's most significant benefactors of yeshivot (religious schools training young men to be rabbis, Jewish teachers, and judges), assisting numerous institutions worldwide.\n\nIn France, the Edmond J. Safra Foundation financially supports Clinatec.\n\nRecognized for his philanthropy, Safra was named Commandeur de l'Ordre des Arts et Lettres and Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur by the French government, Commandeur de l’Ordre de Mérite by the Grand Duke of Luxembourg, and Commandeur de l’Ordre de Rio Branco by the government of Brazil. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824053", "title": "Colin Rallings", "text": "Colin Rallings\n\nColin Rallings is a British academic, Professor of Politics in the School of Sociology, Politics & Law at the University of Plymouth. Rallings’ first degree was in Politics and Modern History from the University of Manchester. Subsequently, he was awarded a master's degree in Politics by Strathclyde and, in 1979, a Ph.D. by the University of Essex for a thesis on electoral behaviour. He joined the then Plymouth Polytechnic in 1976, being appointed Professor of Politics in 1997. He has held visiting appointments at the University of Leiden, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Queensland, and the Australian National University, Canberra. He is a member of the Economic and Social Research Council's (ESRC) panel of assessors for Politics and International Relations, and of the Council's Research Resources Board.\n\nWith his colleague Michael Thrasher, Rallings has written extensively on electoral systems, results and British politics. He is Co-Director of the \"Local Government Chronicle\" Elections Centre. Rallings has also appeared on ITN's ITV News election coverage on numerous occasions since the start of the 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824063", "title": "Pietro Calendino", "text": "Pietro Calendino\n\nPietro Attilio Calendino is a Canadian provincial and municipal politician currently serving as a city councillor for Burnaby City Council.\n\nCalendino was born in Calabria, Italy but emigrated to Vancouver in 1959. He received an Honours B.A. and a M.A. (Languages) from the University of British Columbia. He received a teaching certificate from Simon Fraser University and has taught in secondary schools in Burnaby and Delta.\n\nHe helped found the BC Heritage Languages Association. He has served as president of the BC Association of Teachers of Modern Languages, director of the Burnaby Multicultural Society and vice-president of the National Congress of Italian Canadians.\n\nCalendino was elected as a Burnaby school trustee in 1987, and re-elected in 1990 and 1993. While on the school board he established language classes in Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Spanish and Punjabi. He also established a zero tolerance policy towards violence and bullying in schools which was later adopted province-wide. He served as school board chair in 1993 and 1994.\n\nIn the 1996 B.C. general election he was elected to the Provincial Legislature as a New Democratic Party of British Columbia candidate in the Burnaby North riding. In July 1999, he was appointed Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Small Business, Tourism and Culture. He was best known for establishing funds for the Burnaby School District's Children's Dental Clinic, the Heights Fountain Square project and the Elizabeth Fry Society for women in need.\n\nIn the 2001 B.C. general election, Calendino ran for re-election in the riding of Burnaby North but lost to Richard T. Lee, the BC Liberal candidate. Calendino placed second in a field of four candidate with 5,992 votes (29.45% of total valid votes).\n\nIn 2002, he was elected to the Burnaby City Council as a member of the Burnaby Citizens' Association. On council he strongly supported the Reduction of Cosmetic Pesticides Policy and opposed Richmond's acquisition of the Olympic Oval and the construction of Canada Line SkyTrain. He also chaired the Simon Fraser Liaison Committee and was involved with the Environment Committee and the Community Policing Committee.\n\nIn the 2005 B.C. general election Calendino ran as the NDP candidate in the Burnaby North riding. He narrowly lost to Richard T. Lee, the BC Liberal candidate. Calendino placed second in a field of four candidate with 10,356 votes (45.31%% of total valid votes).\n\nCalendino was elected to the Burnaby City Council as part of the Burnaby Citizens' Association slate during the 2005 election. He is a director of the GVRD Labour Relations Bureau and a member of the GVRD Parks Committee. He chairs the executive committee of council and the community policing committee. He is also vice chair of the environment committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824064", "title": "Overton Period", "text": "Overton Period\n\nThe Overton Period is the name given by archaeologists to a division of prehistory in Britain covering the period between 2000 BC and 1650 BC.\n\nIt follows the Mount Pleasant Period and precedes the Bedd Branwen Period and is named after the typesite of the West Overton barrow cemetery in Wiltshire.\n\nDuring the Overton Period the first signs of Bronze Age burial practices appear in the archaeological record; urned cremations and food vessel burials as well as the last stages of the use of Beaker pottery. Rich Wessex culture burials emerged during the period such as that at Bush Barrow near Stonehenge.\n\nCharacteristic metalworking types include the Amorico-British dagger and the Falkland industries which demonstrate influences from the continental Unetice culture.\n"}
{"id": "1824066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824066", "title": "Morley Pedals", "text": "Morley Pedals\n\nMorley Pedals is the name of a guitar effects pedal company, famous for manufacturing wah-wah pedals and other treadle type effects for guitar. Morley pedals use electro-optical circuitry rather than a potentiometer to control the effect. The foot treadle controls a shutter inside the pedal that in turn controls the amount of light reaching a photoresistor. The advantage to this system is that there are no potentiometers in the signal path to wear out and become \"scratchy sounding\" over time. Electro-optical circuitry is used throughout the classic Morley pedal line, which includes or has included volume pedals, delay pedals, chorus and phaser pedals, and many others.\n\nThe Morley company was started by two brothers, Raymond (died June 18, 2002 Los Angeles) and Marvin Lubow (born December 13, 1924; died June 2, 2010 Nine Mile Falls, Spokane County) in Los Angeles in the 1960s. Raymond designed a device that is usually referred to as an \"oil can delay\": an electro-mechanical echo unit that used a rotating disc coated with electrostatic fluid inside a small metal can. This echo unit made it possible for musical performers to re-create echo effects in a live performance without using echo chambers or unreliable tape devices. The Lubow brothers went into business as \"Tel-Ray Electronics\", manufacturing their new \"Adineko\" echo device for many companies including Fender and Gibson. Raymond also designed another device that simulated the sound of a Leslie rotating speaker cabinet in use by organists and other musicians. This device also used the rotating-disc/oil-can method. The Lubow brothers jokingly referred to this new invention as a \"Morley\" (\"More-Lee\" as opposed to \"Less-Lee\").\n\nShortly thereafter, Tel-Ray shifted their emphasis away from OEM manufacturing and began marketing their own line of pedals under the \"Morley\" name. A new treadle and case design consisting of a rather large and industrial-looking chrome-plated housing and rubber-covered treadle was used universally throughout the entire Morley line, which included volume pedals, wah pedals, a rotating sound pedal (the original \"Morley\"), and a pedal version of their echo device dubbed the Morley EVO-1. \n\nThe large chrome plated housing was used through the 1970s as the Morley line grew to include all kinds of effects, including distortion units, flangers, phasers, and some unique devices such as the \"PKW\" \"Pik-A-Wah\" pedal. Morley produced many multi-function pedals such as the \"PFV\" \"Phaser Volume\", the \"ECV\" \"Echo Chorus Vibrato\", the \"WVO\" \"Wah Volume\", the \"CFL\" \"Chorus Flanger\", and the \"PWF\" \"Power Wah Fuzz\".\n\nMorley pedals became renowned for their rugged (albeit bulky) construction and overall high quality design. Morley pedals from the 1970s were also unique in the fact that they were AC powered using a standard AC type power cord (no \"wall-wart\"). Even today, Morley pedals manufactured during the Tel-Ray/Lubow Brothers period are highly sought after by collectors. When, in the early sixties, Cliff Richard's backing band \"The Shadows\" became hit-makers in their own right playing superb instrumentals, their then-innovative and unique sound was due not only to the talent of lead guitar player Hank Marvin but also to his choice of Fender guitars, and a Morley echo unit.\n\nIn the 1980s Morley reduced the housing and treadle size of their pedals significantly and eventually changed the chassis to black. 9VDC battery power with an AC adapter jack (wall-wart jack) became standard as Morley pedals evolved in an effort to compete with the new compact pedals from companies like Boss, Ibanez, and DOD. Morley also manufactured some small non-treadle style effects for a while.\nMorley was sold to a Chicago based firm, Sound Enhancements, Inc., in 1989. The modern Morley company continues to use the electro-optical circuitry and basic pedal layout pioneered by Raymond and Marvin Lubow in the 1960s, albeit with some refinements. Original Morley pedals were strictly AC powered, whereas the current models are powered by a 9V battery with AC adapter capability. Tel-Ray Morleys used a small light-bulb to illuminate the photoresistor; modern Morleys use LEDs.\n\nAlthough there is no direct connection between the new Morley company and the now defunct Tel-Ray company, Morley graciously continues to provide documentation for the old product line (Owner's Manuals and schematics) through their website. Light bulbs and some parts for the old Tel-Ray pedals are still available through Morley.\n\nThe Reverb product line evolved from the Hammond Organ Company, where the Reverb was originally used in organs. The company later began marketing the unit to amplifier manufacturers. In 1962, Leo Fender, introduced what was then called the \"Hammond Reverb\", in Fender's, now legendary, \"Twin Reverb\" amp. This established reverb in guitar amps from that time forward. In 1971, Hammond Organ moved Reverb production to its Accutronics division located in Geneva IL. Slowly the \"Hammond Reverb\" became known as the \"Accutronics Reverb\". \n\nIn 1977, Accutronics became a member of the Marmon Group of companies. In 1982 all of Accutronics divisions were consolidated into one building located in Cary, IL. In 1986 the company acquired OC Electronics, thus becoming the only domestic manufacturer of Reverb units. In 1989, the company acquired the \"Morley\" trade name from Tel-Ray Electronics in Hollywood, CA. In January 1990, Accutronics, Inc. moved its Reverb and Morley divisions into a separate facility in Cary, IL. \n\nIn May 1991, the Reverb and Morley divisions of Accutronics were incorporated into the entity, Sound Enhancements, Inc. In 1999, Sound Enhancements became a member of the Stainless Industrial Company. In 2001, Sound Enhancements, Inc. acquired Ebtech. As of August 2005, the company name was changed to Sound Enhancement Products, Inc and is currently an independently owned company.\n\nSound Enhancement Products, Inc. (SEPI) manufactures O.E.M. electro-mechanical spring reverberation devices, primarily sold to guitar amplifier manufacturers. Commonly called \"reverb units\", these devices are sold under the \"Accutronics\" trade name. Reverb units provide electronic reverberation in an amplifier to produce a sound that is more natural to the human ear.\n\nSEPI also, manufactures foot-controlled pedals, effect boxes and footswitches that alter, enhance and/or control sounds created from an electronic musical instrument, primarily an electric guitar. These devices are sold under the \"Morley\" trade name. As of December 10, 2001, SEPI also manufactures audio solution devices sold under the \"Ebtech\" trade name. As of March 2007, SEPI also distributes Pedal Pad Brand products for MKS Profession Stage Products.\n\nThe modern Morley company has continued to release new models to this day. Many modern artists endorse and use their pedals. Artists known to use them include Steve Vai, who has three signature models: the Bad Horsie and Bad Horsie 2, and the Little Alligator volume pedal. Adam Darski (Nergal) from Behemoth and Mark Tremonti are also notable Morley artists; the latter has a signature wah-wah pedal. In addition, Metallica's early bass player, Cliff Burton, used an original Tel-Rey 'chrome' Morley Wah Boost along with an Ibanez Tube Screamer overdrive unit. It was similar to the company's current Morley Power Wah model. See Morley Pedals official site for more information.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824068", "title": "Mounted Memorial, Canberra", "text": "Mounted Memorial, Canberra\n\nThe Mounted Memorial, Canberra is on Anzac Parade, the principal ceremonial and memorial avenue in Canberra, the national capital city of Australia. It is a copy of a memorial that was originally constructed in Port Said in 1932 but removed in 1956; a second copy was erected at Mount Clarence, Western Australia. The memorial was sculpted by Melbourne born sculptor, Sir Edgar Bertram Mackennal (1863-1918) - it was his last piece before his death. \n\nThe memorial shows Australian Army and New Zealand Army horse riders in action. They are wearing the typical uniform of World War I including the slouch hat and the \"lemon squeezer\" campaign hat that are iconic of the 'Diggers' of Australia and New Zealand respectively. \n\nThe horse of the New Zealander on the right has been injured or shot, and the rider is falling to the ground; the rider on the left is supporting his mate.\n\nA plaque at the front of the memorial records as follows:\n\n<poem>\nThis statue is a copy of one originally forming part \nof a memorial which was erected at Port Said and \nunveiled on 23 November 1932 by the Rt. Hon. William Morris Hughes, K.C. MP.\n\nThe original memorial bore the inscription\n\nThe statue itself was irreparably damaged during \nthe Suez Crisis in 1956. The remnants were brought\nto Australia and a replica was constructed.\nTwo castings in bronze were made, the first of which\nwas erected on the original masonry base at Albany\nWestern Australia in 1964.\n\nUnveiled by the Rt. Hon. J.G. Gorton MP\nPrime Minister of Australia on 19 April 1968\n</poem>\n\nA second plaque nearby records:\n\n<poem>\nThis plaque records the service in the \nAustralian Imperial Force\nof\nGeneral Sir Henry (\"Harry\") George Chauvel\nG.C.M.G., K.C.B.\n1865 - 1945\n\nAustralian cavalry leader of 1914-1918 who commanded\nthe 1st Light Horse Brigade and the 1st Australian\nDivision on Gallipoli in 1915, then successively \ncommanded the ANZAC Mounted Division, the Desert \nColumn and the Desert Mounted Corps in operations \nin Egypt, Palestine and Syria 1916-1918\n</poem>\n\nOn Anzac Day 2005, as on previous similar commemorations, mounted members of the Australian Army or commemoration teams were at the memorial, as was obvious from copious amounts of horse droppings around the memorial; some can be seen in the photograph.\n\nCommemorations for the Battle of Beersheba typically occur at the memorial in Canberra every year on 31 October, with bigger gatherings on the 5-year dates.\n"}
{"id": "1824075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824075", "title": "Bedd Branwen Period", "text": "Bedd Branwen Period\n\nThe Bedd Branwen Period is the name given by Colin Burgess to a division of the early Bronze Age in Britain covering the period between 1650 BC and 1400 BC. It follows his Overton Period and is superseded by his Knighton Heath Period.\n\nIt covers the period after the end of the Beaker tradition and the early Wessex culture, and was a time when cremation became an almost universal burial rite in Britain. Earlier round barrows were re-used for cremation cemeteries although new barrows were also still being built.\n\nThe pottery of the Deverel-Rimbury culture appears alongside the earlier collared urns in the archaeological record during this period and metalworking developed through the Arreton Down and Acton Park industries.\n\nIn his 1986 article Burgess acknowledged that the Bedd Branwen site was wrongly dated. Most of the burials actually date from a new period, the Fargo Phase c. 1800 - 1600 bc, (which used to be incorporated in the Overton Period). Burgess renamed the Bedd Branwen period the Aldbourne-Edmondsham phase.\n\nBurgess, C., 1980. \"The Age of Stonehenge\". London, Dent & Sons\n\nBurgess, C., 1986. 'Urnes of no Small Variety': Collared Urns Reviewed \"Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society\" 52, 339-351\n"}
{"id": "1824090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824090", "title": "Martim Afonso de Sousa", "text": "Martim Afonso de Sousa\n\nMartim Afonso de Sousa (c. 1500 – 21 July 1564) was a Portuguese \"fidalgo\", explorer and colonial administrator.\n\nBorn in Vila Viçosa, he was commander of the first official Portuguese expedition into mainland of the colony of Brazil. Threatened by the presence of French ships along the coast of Brazil, the Portuguese crown in December 1530 sent a fleet with 400 people led by Martim Afonso de Sousa to establish control and explore. His mission was to place Portuguese markers as far south as the River Plate estuary, but he was shipwrecked there.\n\nUpon return to São Vicente and Santos, in 1532 he led troops guided by the native inhabitants and by earlier Portuguese settlers such as João Ramalho up the Serra do Mar mountains to the area near the future village of São Paulo. On the high plateau, he founded the town of Santo André. He also established a sugar mill near the coast at São Vicente, with sugarcane brought from the Portuguese Cape Verde islands. In both activities, Afonso de Sousa established a pattern followed by Portuguese colonizers and Brazilians for long afterward: the \"entradas\" and \"bandeiras\" – or explorations and raids into the interior – and the production of sugar along the coast for export.\n\nSousa was the first Royal Governor of Brazil. He settled in the north-east region of the modern country.\n\nAfonso de Sousa also acquired Diu, in India for Portugal in 1535. From 1542 to 1545 he was governor of Portuguese India.\n\nHe died in Lisbon in 1564.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824091", "title": "3,7cm KPÚV vz. 37", "text": "3,7cm KPÚV vz. 37\n\nThe 3,7 cm KPÚV vz. 37 () was an anti-tank gun produced by the Škoda Works that saw service in World War II. Originally designed for the Czechoslovak Army, some were also sold to Yugoslavia. A number were appropriated by the Germans after German occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1939 and used under the designations 3,7 cm PaK 37 (t). Captured Yugoslav guns were used under the designation of 3,7 cm Pak 156 (j). Slovakia acquired 158 when it declared independence from Czechoslovakia in March 1939.\n\nThe gun had a small shield and wooden-spoked wheels, although some were fitted with pneumatic wheels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824092", "title": "Antigone Rising", "text": "Antigone Rising\n\nAntigone Rising is an all-female rock band. The band's current line up is Cathy Henderson lead guitar, Kristen Henderson bass guitar and drums, and Nini Camps lead vocals and rhythm guitar.\n\nIn their early years Antigone Rising toured widely, and have shared stages with The Bangles, Joan Jett, The Rolling Stones, moe., Rob Thomas, Aerosmith, and The Allman Brothers. They performed at Lilith Fair in 1998 and at SXSW in 2005.\n\nKristen Ellis Henderson wrote a memoir about her same-sex marriage \"Times Two, Two Women in Love and the Happy Family They Made\" (Simon & Schuster) published on April 5, 2011. The book chronicles the journey she and her wife, Sarah Ellis-Henderson, took to start a family - eventually getting pregnant on exactly the same day and giving birth to their son and daughter. The book's success led to them being tapped by GLAAD as media spokeswomen advocating marriage equality, and the couple were featured on the cover of April 8, 2013 issue of Time Magazine - \"Gay Marriage Already Won.\"\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824094", "title": "Randal O'Toole", "text": "Randal O'Toole\n\nRandal O'Toole (born 1952) is an American public policy analyst. The majority of O'Toole's work has focused on public lands, land-use regulation, and transportation, particularly light rail.\n\nHe has been associated with the Cato Institute as an adjunct scholar since 1995 and a senior fellow since 2007. O'Toole was the \"McCluskey Visiting Fellowship for Conservation\" at Yale University in 1998, and has served as a visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley (1999) and Utah State University (2000). O'Toole studied economics at the University of Oregon, but did not receive a degree. O'Toole's private consultancy is known as the Thoreau Institute.\n\nEarly in his career, O'Toole worked with environmental groups to oppose the United States Forest Service's subsidized sales of public forest timber to the timber industry. His book \"Reforming the Forest Service\" built on his experience during this effort, and proposed a number of free-market solutions to management of U.S. public land and timber. He has written analyses of the usage and development plans of a number of U.S. national forests, working with state environmental agencies and other groups.\n\nIn the 1990s, O'Toole emerged as an outspoken critic of New Urbanist design and smart growth strategies after learning in 1995 of a county plan to rezone his neighborhood to allow higher density and mixed use development. O'Toole contends that these development strategies—in which regulatory measures and tax incentives are employed to encourage denser development, more efficient land use, and greater use of public transportation—ignore the desires and preferences of most housing consumers and ultimately waste public funds. He has campaigned against smart growth policies and light rail systems in several U.S. states as well as in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and Ottawa, Ontario.\n\nHis 2001 book, \"The Vanishing Automobile and Other Urban Myths\", was written as a detailed critique of these styles of planning. He continues to advocate for free market solutions to urban planning and design in his writing and teaching.\n\nO'Toole has written four books published by the Cato Institute. \"The Best-Laid Plans\" argues that long-range comprehensive government planning necessarily relies on fads and fails to account for current and future public desires and needs. \"Gridlock\" looks at the history of transportation in America and argues that the future is in autonomous personal vehicles, not rail transit or high-speed rail. \"American Nightmare\" examines the history of housing in America and argues that zoning and, more recently, growth-management planning represents efforts by the middle- and upper-classes to separate themselves from the working class. \"Romance of the Rails\" looks at the history of urban and intercity rail transit in the United States to show why they once worked but no longer work today.\n\nHe moved from Bandon, Oregon to Camp Sherman, Oregon, where he runs the \"Thoreau Institute.\"\n\nWhile critical of government subsidies to all forms of transportation, O'Toole is a fan of passenger trains and an amateur rail historian. He currently runs a web site, Streamliner Memories, to share scanned copies of his personal library of railroadiana.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824095", "title": "Knighton Heath Period", "text": "Knighton Heath Period\n\nThe Knighton Heath Period is the name given by Colin Burgess to a phase of the Bronze Age in Britain following the Bedd Branwen Period and spanning the period 1400 BC to 1200 BC. \nIt was succeeded by the Penard Period.\n\nThe \"Knighton Heath Period\" marks the end of the rich Wessex culture and the increasingly wider use of Deverel-Rimbury culture pottery. Cremation cemeteries remained the dominant burial rite and regional styles such as the Ardleigh urns of East Anglia and the Trevisker urns of Cornwall emerged. \n\nIn terms of metalworking, the period saw the end of the Acton Park phase of bronze tool manufacture and the rise of much more Continentally-influenced industries in what is called the Middle Bronze Age ornament horizon. These included the Taunton Phase in southern England, the Glentrool industries in Scotland and the Bishopsland industries in Ireland. All had links with mainland Europe, namely the Tumulus culture C stage in and the Frøjk-Osterfeld Group of Oscar Montelius' IIIb-c phase.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824097", "title": "Darren Powell", "text": "Darren Powell\n\nDarren David Powell (born 10 March 1976) is an English former footballer who played as a centre back. During his playing career, he appeared over 250 times in the Football League and Premier League. Powell was known as \"a tough-tackling centre-back\".\n\nFollowing his retirement, Powell moved to coaching and managing Hampton & Richmond Borough before taking over as an academy coach for Crystal Palace.\n\nPowell began his career with Hampton, where he quickly established himself in the starting eleven for the side. His performance attracted interests from Stevenage and Hayes before he joined Brentford for £15,000.\n\nPowell made his debut for Brentford, where he played the whole game, in a 3–0 win over Mansfield Town. He started well for the side at the beginning of the season, winning five out of the six matches by the end of August, including scoring his first goal for the side, in a 2–1 win over Rochdale. He was later in the squad for Brentford when he helped the club win the Division Two by four points. At the end of the 1998–99 season, Powell had made 37 appearances, scoring twice in all competitions. For his performances, he was named the club's Player of the Year.\n\nIn the 1999–00 season, Powell continued to be a first team regular. He then scored his first goal for the club, in a 2–0 win over Luton Town on 16 September 1999. A month later, on 16 October 1999, Powell scored again, in a 2–0 win over Oxford United. He spent the rest of the 1999–00 season, as a first team regular and went on to make 43 appearances, scoring three times in all competitions.\n\nHowever, in the 2000–01 season, Powell suffered a hamstring injury that saw him sidelined until January. On his return from injury, he was sent–off on his first appearance on 13 January 2001, in a 0–0 draw against Bristol Rovers. After returning, he regained his first team place for the side. On 21 March 2001, Powell was sent–off for the second time that season, in a 2–1 win over Southend United, which saw Brentford go through to the LDV Final following a 4–2 on aggregate. This was followed up by scoring his first goal of the season, in a 1–0 win over Wrexham on 31 March 2001. However, in the Football League Trophy Final against Port Vale, Powell played the whole game, in a 2–1 loss. At the end of the 2000–01 season, he had made 22 appearances, scoring once in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2001–02 season, Powell retained his first team place for the side despite being linked with a move away from the club. On 18 September 2001, he scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–2 draw against Bristol Rovers. Powell then captained Brentford for the first time in his career following the absence of Paul Evans, as the club lost 1–0 against Northampton Town. During a 0–0 draw against Chesterfield on 12 March 2002, he tore his hamstring early in the first half and was substituted as a result. Powell returned to the first team on 6 April 2002, in a 3–0 win over Huddersfield Town. On 1 May 2002, he scored his second goal of the season, in a 2–1 win over Huddersfield Town to help Brentford reach the Second Division play-off final at the Millennium Stadium, where they lost 2–0 to Stoke City. At the end of the 2001–02 season, Powell had made 48 appearances, scoring twice in all competitions.\n\nDuring his time at Brentford, Powell made 150 appearances and scored eight times in all competitions.\n\nIn the summer transfer window of 2002, it was expected that Powell would stay at Brentford for the 2002–03 season. However, in August, he signed for Crystal Palace for £400,000, having previously been targeted by Manager Trevor Francis.\n\nPowell made his Crystal Palace debut in the opening game of the season against Preston North End, starting and scoring the first goal, in a 2–1 win. From the start of the season, he established himself in the starting eleven. On 10 September 2002, Powell scored again in the first round of the League Cup, in a 2–1 win over Plymouth Argyle. Despite being sidelined on numerous occasions during the 2002–03 season, Powell went on to make 46 appearances, scoring twice in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2003–04 season, Powell was initially an integral part of the team, but was subsequently plagued with injuries. Powell was also suspended when he received a second bookable offence, in a 1–1 draw against Derby County on 14 October 2003. While on the sidelines, Powell was close to joining Palace's Division One rivals, Reading, but the transfer move broke down, citing a failed medical, as well as, manager Iain Dowie's desire to keep him. After seven months away from the first team, he returned to training. Powell made his first appearance from injury on 14 May 2004, where he came on as a late substitute, in a 3–2 win over Sunderland. Powell then scored in the dying seconds of Palace's Play-off semi-final second-leg game, at Sunderland taking the score on the night to a 2–1 defeat, but the aggregate score to 4–4. Palace won on penalties and were promoted to the Premiership, following a play-off final win over West Ham. At the end of the 2003–04 season, Powell had made 15 appearance, scoring once in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2004–05 season, however, Powell found himself dropping down the pecking order in the club's first team and having limited game time, only appearing three times in the League Cup. On 20 November 2004, he spent a month on loan to West Ham United. His debut came on 24 November 2004 against rivals' Millwall, where he played the whole game, in a 1–0 loss. In a follow up match against Watford, Powell scored his only goal for the club, in a 3–2 win. After the spell at West Ham United, Powell returned to his parent club, Crystal Palace.\n\nUpon returning to Crystal Palace, Powell made his first Premier League appearance, where he played the whole game, in a 2–0 win over Aston Villa on 3 January 2005. In a follow up match against Manchester City on 15 January 2005, he scored his first Premier League goal, in a 3–1 loss. However, injuries plagued him once again, as the club were relegated to the Championship at the end of the season. At the end of the 2004–05 season, Powell had made 10 appearances, scoring once in all competitions. However, Powell was released by the club.\n\nIn July 2005, he was out of contract and signed for Harry Redknapp at Southampton on a Bosman free transfer.\n\nPowell made his Southampton debut, where he played the whole game in a centre–back partnership with Tomasz Hajto, in a 0–0 draw against Wolverhampton Wanderers. He then helped the Saints keep three clean sheets during August against Sheffield Wednesday, Norwich City and Crewe Alexandra. On joining the club, he quickly became a first team regular. Powell's first goal for Southampton was against Ipswich Town on 13 September 2005. He started in every match until he was hit with a three match suspension following his foul on Reading's Kevin Doyle. It was not until 22 November 2005, that he returned to the starting lineup after a month away, in a 1–1 draw against Hull City. However, Powell soon lost his first team place following the appointment of George Burley, as well as, his own injury concerns. At the end of the 2005–06 season, Powell had made 26 appearances, scoring once in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2006–07 season, Powell, was sidelined until the end of the year. While on the sidelines, Powell was the subject of a transfer bid from Leeds United, which was rejected by the club. He did not make his return to the first team until 6 January 2007, where he played the whole game, in a 2–0 win over Torquay United in the first round of the FA Cup. This was followed by keeping another two clean sheets against Burnley and Queens Park Rangers. However, Powell was once again sidelined with another injury that kept him out throughout February. Once again, Powell helped the side keep two clean sheets in a row against Wolverhampton Wanderers and Luton Town between 31 March 2007 and 7 April 2007. Following this, Powell was incurred an injury that ultimately ruled him out for the rest of the season. At the end of the 2006–07 season, Powell had made ten appearances.\n\nIn the 2007–08 season, Powell missed the first three matches, due to suspension. His suspension came after he was sent–off for violent conduct after reacting angrily to a heavy challenge from Phil Mulryne, in the club's win at Bournemouth the previous month. After serving a three-match suspension, he made his return to the first team against Stoke City on 25 August 2007, in a 3–2 win. His return, was short–lived though, as he suffered an ankle injury during the match. After returning to training from injury in early–December, Powell did not make his return to the first team until 29 December 2007, where he came on as a second–half substitute, in a 2–2 draw against Barnsley. After being sidelined on three separate occasions throughout January, Powell scored his second goal for the club with a first minute tap in from Adam Hammill's cross in a 3–2 home defeat to Queens Park Rangers. However, Powell continued to be plagued with injuries towards the end of the season. At the end of the 2007–08 season, Powell had made thirteen appearances, scoring once in all competitions.\n\nAfter three years of failing to establish himself in the first team due to a run of minor injuries, returning chairman Rupert Lowe decided not to renew Powell's contract.\n\nHe trained with Charlton Athletic whilst searching for a club and was handed a trial at Derby County in November 2008. On 21 November 2008, Powell signed an initial two-month contract for Derby, and made his debut in the 2–0 defeat to Ipswich Town a day later.\n\nHowever, Powell was released by Derby on 21 January 2009, after new manager Nigel Clough decided against extending his contract, Powell played eight times for the club.\n\nOn 11 March 2009, Powell joined Leeds United on a trial basis. However, after making two reserve appearances, the club decided against offering him a contract. He re-signed for his first professional club, Brentford, on 21 March 2009 on a contract until the end of the season.\n\nPowell made his second Brentford debut on 28 March 2009, where he came on as a late substitute and received a positive reception from Brentford supporters, in a 1–1 draw against Gillingham. He managed only a handful of appearances before being sent–off on 14 April 2009, in a 1–0 win over Bournemouth following an altercation with teammate Karleigh Osborne. Powell never played for the side again; he had made four appearances and was released at the end of the season.\n\nOn 7 August 2009, Powell agreed a one-year contract with League One team Milton Keynes Dons.\n\nHe played his first game for the club in a 0–0 draw against Hartlepool United on 8 August 2009. Powell was involved in the next two matches against Swindon Town and Tranmere Rovers, where the team kept two clean sheets. He became a first team regular at the club, under the management of Paul Ince. Then, on 3 October 2009, Powell played a vital role when he set up the only goal of the game, in a 1–0 win over Brighton & Hove Albion. However, he was plagued by injuries during the season. At the end of the 2009–10 season, Powell had made twenty–seven appearances, scoring once in all competitions.\n\nAlong with three other players, he was released by MK Dons at the end of his contract on 30 June 2010.\n\nIn January 2012, Hampton & Richmond Borough Chairman Steve McPherson claimed that Powell was close to making a comeback with the club. a move which was confirmed on 27 January.\n\nHe made his second debut for the club the next day coming off the bench at half time in a 2–2 draw away to Havant & Waterlooville. However, he was plagued by injuries during his time at the club. He made 15 appearances for the side and subsequently announced his retirement from playing.\n\nIn April 2013, Powell and first-team coach Paul Barry took charge of Hampton & Richmond Borough, now in the Isthmian League Premier Division, on a caretaker basis until the end of the season after manager Mark Harper resigned his position. The pair were installed as the permanent management team in May 2013.\n\nThe pair helped the side go nine matches unbeaten between 3 December 2013 and 21 January 2014. At the end of the 2013–14 season, the side finished in twelfth place in the league. The club went on to win the Middlesex Senior Cup after beating Wealdstone 3–2.\n\nHowever, a poor start to the 2014–15 season saw Powell sacked along with Barry after Hampton & Richmond lost 3–2 to VCD Athletic in the FA Cup Qualifying Round on 13 September 2014. After leaving the club, Powell enrolled on the Elite Coaches Apprenticeship Scheme and acquired his A Licence.\n\nOn 24 February 2015, Powell joined the academy coaching team at Crystal Palace.\n\nBrentford\n\nCrystal Palace\n\nIndividual\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824098", "title": "Verdinaso", "text": "Verdinaso\n\nThe Verdinaso (\"Verbond van Dietsche Nationaal-Solidaristen\" - \"Union of Diets National Solidarists\"), sometimes seen as Dinaso, was an authoritarian and fascist-inspired political party in Belgium and the Netherlands during the 1930s. It was founded by Joris Van Severen, Jef François, Wies Moens, and Emiel Thiers on October 6, 1931 (at the Hôtel Richelieu in Ghent), and, in 1937, developed a paramilitary wing that wore green shirts (\"DINASO Militanten Orde\").\n\nThe party was against the parliamentary democracy and eventually advocated a corporative society ruled by the Belgian King. As such it never participated in elections, and never became a strong political pressure group.\n\nThe Verdinaso originally advocated Flemish and Dutch nationalism. It proposed the union of Flanders with the Netherlands and Luxembourg to form a \"Dietsland\" or \"Diets Rijk\" (\"Dutch Empire\" – \"see Greater Netherlands\"), justifying this on the basis of a common history of the three lands under the Burgundians, and the emblematic rule of Charles I. In 1932, two of its leaders, François and Van Severen, were elected to the Chamber of Deputies; the same year, the party was joined by Victor Leemans, who wrote the work \"Het nationaal-socialisme\", an apology for National Socialism.\n\nAfter 1934, Verdinaso shifted its focus towards a Belgian identity circa 1939, becoming a bilingual (French-Dutch) party, believing that the Belgian state should be founded on Roman Catholic corporatism – an economic model interpreted by Verdinaso from the Catholic social teaching, and akin to Integralism and the Action Française (an influence on Van Severen). The party virulently opposed Communism on the left and liberal capitalism on the right; it was also somewhat antisemitic, occasionally venting the opinion that Jews, as well as Freemasons constituted a hidden power working against the interests of Dietsland.\n\nIn the elections of May 24, 1936, Verdinaso ran on a common list with other Flemish nationalists under the common denominator Vlaams Nationaal Block, gaining 13% of the vote and 16 deputy seats; in 1939, it peaked at 15% of the vote and 17 seats. The \"DINASO Militanten Orde\" had around 3,000 members, grouped under the leadership of François, and edited the newspapers \"Recht en Trouw\" and \"De Vlag\" (placed under the leadership of Moens).\n\nWhen World War II broke out Van Severen was killed in Abbeville, France, suspected of being an agent of Nazi Germany, and as part of some executions of Rexists and Belgian communists (both groups were suspected of pro-German activism, justified by the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in the case of the latter). As a consequence, the Verdinaso lost a clear direction (despite Van Severen's replacement with François), and was eventually forced to join the Flemish National Union on May 5, 1941. Some of Verdinaso's members, who were advocating a strong Belgian authoritarian regime around King Leopold III, however joined the resistance against the German occupation.\n\nVerdinaso was based around the ideology of \"National-Solidarism\", which was a social doctrine that was strongly anti-Marxist and anti-capitalist. The party wished to reform society in an organic sense, that is to say, growing in a gradual, natural way with respect for its own nature, history and tradition. Verdinaso opposed both liberalism and parliamentary democracy. With the Verdinaso, Van Severen wanted to form a leading elite that would conquer power in the state through its style and action, rather than overthrow it. The Verdinaso leaned to the Conservative Revolution, more specifically with the Young Conservatives. There was also the influence of Charles Maurras's nationalist Action Française.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824111", "title": "Nine Songs", "text": "Nine Songs\n\nNine Songs or 9 Songs may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1824129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824129", "title": "Derby, Western Australia", "text": "Derby, Western Australia\n\nDerby ( ) is a town in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. At the 2016 census, Derby had a population of 3,325 with 47.2% of Aboriginal descent. Along with Broome and Kununurra, it is one of only three towns in the Kimberley to have a population over 2,000. Located on King Sound, Derby has the highest tides in Australia, with the peak differential between low and high tide reaching .\n\nDuring World War II, Derby was bombed by Japanese planes because of an air base and jetty that was used by Australian forces. More recently, refugees were housed at Royal Australian Air Force Base Curtin, however the detention center was closed in 2014.\n\nDerby was famous in the 1920s as the terminus of the first scheduled aviation service in Australia, West Australian Airways Ltd. Their service began with their first flight on 5 December 1921. At one time the Perth to Derby service was the world’s longest passenger airline route,\n\nIn 1968 the town had a population of approximately 1,500 many employed at the meatworks. A 900,000 beef road from Glenroy Station to Derby was completed the same year to assist with the development of beef processing. A 2 million steel and concrete jetty was built in 1965 to provide adequate port facilities for the shipment of live cattle.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 3,325 people in Derby.\n\nDerby is rich in cultural diversity, with the local Indigenous culture playing a large part in the community. The Mowanjum Festival is held annually at Mowanjum Community and features a showcase of traditional art.\n\nThe Boab festival is a week-long festival that includes traditional events such as mud football, watermelon seed spitting, the Mardi Gras and other festivities.\n\nHistorically, Derby has played a major role in the Australian Royal Flying Doctor Service for the Kimberley Region.\n\nThe Kimberley School of the Air is located in Derby. The school provides education to isolated Primary-aged children living on cattle stations and in remote Aboriginal communities scattered throughout the Kimberley region.\n\nDerby has two other schools, Holy Rosary School Derby and Derby District High School. Derby District High School follows Chris Sarra's vision of 'Stronger Smarter', which aims to raise the expectations of the school as a community.\n\nWharfinger’s House Museum tells the story of the aviation history of the town as well as the history of the Port.\n\nNorval Gallery is a popular tourist destination and showcases the work of award winning artist Mark Norval as well as a broad selection of indigenous artwork from across the Kimberley.\n\nThere is employment in the pastoral and mining industries, as well as administration and tourism. There is oil at Blina, diamond mining at Ellendale. Granite is quarried from the King Leopold Ranges and lead and zinc from Cadjebut and an Iron ore mine at Koolan Island. A major mineral sands mining project is being developed at Thunderbird 100 km west of Derby. In 1997 the Derby wharf, which was closed in the 1980s, was re-opened for barging operations for the export of lead and zinc. Tourism bolsters the local economy between the months of May and September.\n\nThe Derby Leprosarium on the outskirts of the town was one of two in Western Australia that helped to contain an epidemic of the disease from the 1930s to the 1960s.\n\nDerby has a hot semi-arid climate with a short, highly variable wet season lasting from late December to March. The wet season features hot, humid days and nights and erratic downpours. In some years, such as 1923–24 and 1951–52, there was no wet season; however, in other years, such as 1999–2000, more than the average annual rainfall fell in a month. Derby can be affected by severe tropical cyclones. The dry season lasts from April to November and features very little rain, warm to hot daytime temperatures, and mild to cool nights. Extremes of temperature range from on 17 November 1968 to on 21 July 1965, while the wettest month on record was January 1917, when of rain fell, including the wettest day, 7 January 1917, when was recorded.\n"}
{"id": "1824130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824130", "title": "Carsten Smith", "text": "Carsten Smith\n\nCarsten Smith (born 13 July 1932 in Oslo) is a Norwegian judge and lawyer.\n\nHe served as Dean of the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo (1977–1979) and as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Norway (1991–2002). After his retirement from the court, he continued to handle international arbitration cases, and worked with the United Nations.\n\nHe was appointed Reader in Law at the University of Oslo in 1960 and Professor of Law with a specialization in commercial and banking law in 1964. He also was the first chairman of the Sami Rights Commission.\n\nAmong his many published works is \"Kausjonsrett\". Carsten Smith was awarded the Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav on 13 May 2003. In 1985, he received the Fritt Ord Honorary Award. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. He also received honorary degrees from several institutions, including Uppsala University and Brigham Young University.\n\nIn 1958, he married fellow lawyer Lucy Smith, whom he survived. One of Norway's first female lawyers, she was also a law professor and the former rector of the University of Oslo. They have three daughters who became lawyers.\n\nSmith took his examen artium at Oslo Cathedral School in 1949 and began studying law at the University of Oslo that year.\n"}
{"id": "1824136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824136", "title": "Torstein Eckhoff", "text": "Torstein Eckhoff\n\nTorstein Einang Eckhoff (5 June 1916 – 17 April 1993) was a Norwegian civil servant and professor of law at the University of Oslo.\n\nHe was born in Vestre Slidre as the son of shipmaster Trygve Eckhoff (1884–1957) and his wife Sigrid Einang (1886–1971). He was a brother of designer Mathias Gerrard Eckhoff, a second cousin of jurist Ernst Fredrik Eckhoff and actor Johannes Eckhoff, and a grandnephew of architect Niels Stockfleth Darre Eckhoff. In 1941 he married psychologist Eva Bergliot Råness (1921–1991). They resided at Eiksmarka.\n\nEckhoff finished his secondary education in 1934, and enrolled in law studies at the University of Oslo. He graduated with the cand.jur. degree in 1938, and worked as a deputy judge on the island of Senja until 1940. He then became a lecturer of law, and released several books during World War II. His 1945 book \"Rettskraft\" earned him the dr.juris degree in 1947. In 1945 he was hired in the Ministry of Justice and the Police, where he was promoted to assistant secretary after one year. He spent a period from 1947 to 1948 in the United States; this resulted in the book \"Rettsvesen og rettsvitenskap i USA\" (1953).\n\nIn 1953 he left the Ministry of Justice, being appointed as a lecturer at the University of Oslo. He was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters from 1955, and was promoted to professor of jurisprudence in 1957. He retired in 1986. Among the books he wrote are \"Rettskildelære\" (1971) and \"Forvaltningsrett\" (1978). The latter has since his death been updated and edited by Eivind Smith, while the former is taken care of by Jan E. Helgesen. Both books are still important parts of the curriculum at the University of Oslo. Eckhoff was also known for cooperating with law sociologist Vilhelm Aubert and philosopher of law Nils Kristian Sundby. He held honorary degrees at the University of Bergen, the Stockholm University and the University of Turku, and a festschrift was issued for his seventieth birthday.\n\nRegarded as Norway's leading authority on European Community law, Eckhoff was known for his work outside of academica as an opponent of Norwegian membership in the community, later the European Union. He referred to the European Economic Area agreement as \"a constitutional catastrophe\", and played an important role in the debate leading up to the Norwegian rejection in the Norwegian European Union membership referendum of 1994. However, he did not live to see the result as he died in April 1993 in Copenhagen.\n"}
{"id": "1824137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824137", "title": "Penard Period", "text": "Penard Period\n\nThe Penard Period is a metalworking phase of the Bronze Age in Britain spanning the period c. 1275 BC to c. 1140 BC. \n\nIt is named after the typesite of Penard in West Glamorgan, where a hoard of bronze tools from the period was found in 1827.\n\nThe period is characterised by a flowering in experimentation in bronze working, spurred by increased contact with the Urnfield culture of Continental Europe from where early sword and shield imports came.\n\nChronologically it follows the Taunton Period metalworking phase, and precedes the Wilburton-Wallington Phase. There are links with Reinecke D and early Hallstatt A1 periods, and the French Rosnoën and the Montelius III phases.\n\nDevelopments included the invention of the cylinder sickle and leaf-shaped pegged spearheads, mirroring an increase in the use of sheet bronze. Clay moulds and new lead-rich alloys were also employed. \n"}
{"id": "1824145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824145", "title": "Battle of Timor", "text": "Battle of Timor\n\nThe Battle of Timor occurred in Portuguese Timor and Dutch Timor during the Second World War. Japanese forces invaded the island on 20 February 1942 and were resisted by a small, under-equipped force of Allied military personnel—known as Sparrow Force—predominantly from Australia, United Kingdom, and the Netherlands East Indies. Following a brief but stout resistance, the Japanese succeeded in forcing the surrender of the bulk of the Allied force after three days of fighting, although several hundred Australian commandos continued to wage an unconventional raiding campaign. They were resupplied by aircraft and vessels, based mostly in Darwin, Australia, about to the southeast, across the Timor Sea. During the subsequent fighting, the Japanese suffered heavy casualties, but they were eventually able to contain the Australians.\n\nThe campaign lasted until 10 February 1943, when the final remaining Australians were evacuated, making them the last Allied land forces to leave South East Asia following the Japanese offensives of 1941–1942. As a result, an entire Japanese division was tied up on Timor for more than six months, preventing its deployment elsewhere. Although Portugal was not a combatant, many East Timorese civilians and Portuguese European colonists fought with the Allies or provided them with food, shelter and other assistance. Some Timorese continued a resistance campaign following the Australian withdrawal. For this, they paid a heavy price and tens of thousands of Timorese civilians died as a result of the Japanese occupation, which lasted until the end of the war in 1945.\n\nBy late 1941, the island of Timor was divided politically between two colonial powers: the Portuguese in the east with a capital at Dili, and the Dutch in the west with an administrative centre at Kupang. A Portuguese enclave at Ocussi was also within the Dutch area. The Dutch defence included a force of 500 troops centred on Kupang, while the Portuguese force at Dili numbered just 150. In February, the Australian and Dutch governments had agreed that in the event Japan entered the Second World War on the Axis side, Australia would provide aircraft and troops to reinforce Dutch Timor. Portugal—under pressure from Japan—maintained its neutrality. As such, following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, a small Australian force—known as Sparrow Force—arrived at Kupang on 12 December 1941. Meanwhile, two similar forces, known as Gull Force and Lark Force, were sent by the Australians to reinforce Ambon and Rabaul.\n\nSparrow Force was initially commanded by Lieutenant Colonel William Leggatt, and included the 2/40th Battalion, a commando unit—the 2nd Independent Company—under Major Alexander Spence, and a battery of coastal artillery. There were in total around 1,400 men. The force reinforced Royal Netherlands East Indies Army troops under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Nico van Straten, including the Timor and Dependencies Garrison Battalion, a company from the VIII Infantry Battalion, a reserve infantry company, a machine-gun platoon from the XIII Infantry Battalion and an artillery battery. Air support consisted of 12 Lockheed Hudson light bombers of No. 2 Squadron, Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Sparrow Force was initially deployed around Kupang, and the strategic airfield of Penfui in the south-west corner of the island, although other units were based at Klapalima, Usapa Besar and Babau, while a supply base was also established further east at Champlong.\n\nUp to this point, the government of Portugal had declined to co-operate with the Allies, relying on its claim of neutrality and plans to send an 800-strong force from Mozambique to defend the territory in the event of any Japanese invasion. However, this refusal left the Allied flank severely exposed, and a 400-man combined Dutch-Australian force subsequently occupied Portuguese Timor on 17 December. In response, the Portuguese Prime-Minister, António de Oliveira Salazar, protested to the Allied governments, while the governor of Portuguese Timor declared himself a prisoner in order to preserve the appearance of neutrality. No resistance was offered by the small Portuguese garrison, however, and the local authorities tacitly co-operated, while the population itself generally welcomed the Allied force. Most of the Dutch troops and the whole of the 2/2nd Independent Company were subsequently transferred to Portuguese Timor and distributed in small detachments around the territory.\n\nNeutral Portuguese Timor had not been originally included among the Japanese war objectives, but after Allied occupation violated its neutrality the Japanese decided to invade.\n\nThe Portuguese and the British governments reached an agreement that established the withdrawal of the Allied forces from Portuguese Timor, in exchange for the sending, by Portugal, of a military force to replace them. The Portuguese force sailed from Lourenço Marques, Mozambique, heading for Timor on 28 January 1942, but the Japanese invasion occurred before they could arrive.\n\nIn January 1942, the Allied forces on Timor became a key link in the so-called \"Malay Barrier\", defended by the short-lived American-British-Dutch-Australian Command under the overall command of General Sir Archibald Wavell. Additional Australian support staff arrived at Kupang on 12 February, including Brigadier William Veale, who had been made the Allied commanding officer on Timor. By this time, many members of Sparrow Force—most of whom were unused to tropical conditions—were suffering from malaria and other illnesses. The airfield at Penfui in Dutch Timor also became a key air link between Australia and American forces fighting in the Philippines under General Douglas MacArthur. Penfui came under attack from Japanese aircraft on 26 and 30 January 1942, however the raids were hampered by the British anti-aircraft gunners and, to a lesser degree, by P-40 fighters of the 33rd Pursuit Squadron, United States Army Air Forces, 11 of which were based in Darwin. Later, another 500 Dutch troops and the British 79th Light Anti-Aircraft Battery arrived to reinforce Timor, while an additional Australian-American force was scheduled to arrive in February.\n\nMeanwhile, Rabaul fell to the Japanese on 23 January, followed by Ambon on 3 February, and both Gull Force and Lark Force were destroyed. Later, on 16 February, an Allied convoy carrying reinforcements and supplies to Kupang—escorted by the heavy cruiser , the destroyer , and the sloops and —came under intense Japanese air attack and was forced to return to Darwin without landing. The reinforcements had included an Australian pioneer battalion—the 2/4th Pioneer Battalion—and the 49th American Artillery Battalion. Sparrow Force could not be reinforced further and as the Japanese moved to complete their envelopment of the Netherlands East Indies, Timor was seemingly the next logical target.\n\nOn the night of 19/20 February 1,500 troops from the Imperial Japanese Army's 228th Regimental Group, 38th Division, XVI Army, under the command of Colonel Sadashichi Doi, began landing in Dili. Initially, the Japanese ships were mistaken for vessels carrying Portuguese reinforcements, and the Allies were caught by surprise. Nevertheless, they were well-prepared, and the garrison began an orderly withdrawal, covered by the 18-strong Australian Commando No. 2 Section stationed at the airfield. According to Australian accounts, the commandos killed an estimated 200 Japanese in the first hours of the battle; the Japanese army recorded its casualties as only seven men, but native accounts of the landings support the Australian claims.\n\nAnother group of Australian commandos, No. 7 Section, was less fortunate, driving into a Japanese roadblock by chance. Despite surrendering, according to military historian Brad Manera all but one were massacred by the Japanese. Outnumbered, the surviving Australians withdrew to the south and to the east, into the mountainous interior. Van Straten and 200 Dutch East Indies troops headed southwest toward the border.\n\nOn the same night, Allied forces in Dutch Timor also came under extremely intense air attacks, which had already caused the small RAAF force to be withdrawn to Australia. The bombing was followed up by the landing of the main body of the 228th Regimental Group—two battalions totalling around 4,000 men—on the undefended southwest side of the island, at the Paha River. Five Type 94 tankettes were landed to support the Japanese infantry, and the force advanced north, cutting off the Dutch positions in the west and attacking the 2/40th Battalion positions at Penfui. A Japanese company thrust north-east to Usua, aiming to cut off the Allied retreat. In response, Sparrow Force HQ was immediately moved further east, towards Champlong.\n\nLeggatt ordered the destruction of the airfield, but the Allied line of retreat towards Champlong had been cut off by the dropping of about 300 Japanese marine paratroopers, from the 3rd Yokosuka Special Naval Landing Force, near Usua, east of Kupang. Sparrow Force HQ moved further eastward, and Leggatt's men launched a sustained and devastating assault on the paratroopers, culminating in a bayonet charge. By the morning of 23 February, the 2/40th Battalion had killed all but 78 of the paratroopers but had been engaged from the rear by the main Japanese force once again. With his soldiers running low on ammunition, exhausted, and carrying many men with serious wounds, Leggatt accepted a Japanese invitation to surrender at Usua. The 2/40th Battalion had suffered 84 killed and 132 wounded in the fighting, while more than twice that number would die as prisoners of war during the next two-and-a-half years. Veale and the Sparrow Force HQ force—including about 290 Australian and Dutch troops—continued eastward across the border, to link up with the 2/2 Independent Company.\n\nBy the end of February, the Japanese controlled most of Dutch Timor and the area around Dili in the northeast. However, the Australians remained in the south and east of the island. The 2/2nd Independent Company was specially trained for commando-style, stay behind operations and it had its own engineers and signallers, although it lacked heavy weapons and vehicles. The commandos were hidden throughout the mountains of Portuguese Timor, and they commenced raids against the Japanese, assisted by Timorese guides, native carriers and mountain ponies. \n\nIn relatively small operations such as these, military folboats (collapsible kayaks, or folding boats) were deployed for use by Sparrow Force and the Independent Companies, as they could then better penetrate the dense coastal vegetation for surveillance, raids and rescue with minimum profile exposed to the enemy. This was the first ever use of folboats in Southeast Asia for wartime operations, being Australian built Hohn 'Kayak' type.\n\nAlthough Portuguese officials—under Governor Manuel de Abreu Ferreira de Carvalho—remained officially neutral and in charge of civil affairs, both the Portuguese and the indigenous East Timorese were usually sympathetic to the Allies, who were able to use the local telephone system to communicate among themselves and to gather intelligence on Japanese movements. However, the Allies initially did not have functioning radio equipment and were unable to contact Australia to inform them of their continued resistance.\n\nDoi sent the Australian honorary consul, David Ross, also the local Qantas agent, to find the commandos and pass on a demand to surrender. Spence responded: \"\"Surrender? Surrender be fucked!\"\" Ross gave the commandos information on the disposition of Japanese forces and also provided a note in Portuguese, stating that anyone supplying them would be later reimbursed by the Australian government. In early March, Veale and Van Straten's forces linked up with the 2/2nd Company. A replacement radio—nicknamed \"Winnie the War Winner\"—was cobbled together and contact was made with Darwin. By May, Australian aircraft were dropping supplies to the commandos and their allies.\n\nThe Japanese high command sent a highly regarded veteran of the Malayan campaign and the Battle of Singapore, a major known as the \"Tiger of Singapore\" (or \"Singapore Tiger\"; his real name is unknown), to Timor. On 22 May, the \"Tiger\"—mounted on a white horse—led a Japanese force towards Remexio. An Australian patrol, with Portuguese and Timorese assistance, staged an ambush and killed four or five of the Japanese soldiers. During a second ambush, an Australian sniper shot and killed the \"Tiger\". Another 24 Japanese soldiers were also killed, and the force retreated to Dili. On 24 May, Veale and Van Straten were evacuated from the southeast coast by an RAAF Catalina and Spence was appointed commanding officer, after being promoted to lieutenant colonel. On 27 May, Royal Australian Navy (RAN) launches successfully completed the first supply and evacuation missions to Timor.\nIn June, General Douglas MacArthur—now the Supreme Allied Commander in the South West Pacific Area—was advised by General Thomas Blamey—Allied land force commander—that a full-scale Allied offensive in Timor would require a major amphibious assault, including at least one infantry division (at least 10,000 personnel). Because of this requirement and the overall Allied strategy of recapturing areas to the east, in New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, Blamey recommended that the campaign in Timor should be sustained for as long as possible, but not expanded. This suggestion was ultimately adopted.\n\nRelations between Ferreira de Carvalho and the Japanese deteriorated. His telegraph link with the Portuguese Government in Lisbon was cut. In June 1942, a Japanese official complained that the Governor had rejected Japanese demands to punish Portuguese officials and Timorese civilians who had assisted the \"invading army\" (the Australians). On 24 June, the Japanese formally complained to Lisbon but did not take any action against Ferreira de Carvalho. complimenting Sparrow Force on its campaign so far, and again asking that it surrender. The Japanese commander drew a parallel with the efforts of Afrikaner commandos of the Second Boer War and said that he realized it would take a force 10 times that of the Allies to win. Nevertheless, Doi said he was receiving reinforcements, and would eventually assemble the necessary units. This time Ross did not return to Dili, and he was evacuated to Australia on 16 July.\n\nIn August, the Japanese 48th Division—commanded by Lieutenant General Yuitsu Tsuchihashi—began arriving from the Philippines and garrisoned Kupang, Dili and Malacca, relieving the Ito detachment. Tsuchihashi then launched a major counter-offensive in an attempt to push the Australians into a corner on the south coast of the island. Strong Japanese columns moved south—two from Dili and one from Manatuto on the northeast coast. Another moved eastward from Dutch Timor to attack Dutch positions in the central south of the island. The offensive ended on 19 August when the main Japanese force was withdrawn to Rabaul, but not before they secured the central town of Maubisse and the southern port of Beco. The Japanese were also recruiting significant numbers of Timorese civilians, who provided intelligence on Allied movements. Meanwhile, also in late-August, a parallel conflict began when the Maubisse rebelled against the Portuguese.\n\nDuring September the main body of the Japanese 48th Division began arriving to take over the campaign. The Australians also sent reinforcements, in the form of the 450-strong 2/4th Independent Company—known as \"Lancer Force\"—which arrived on 23 September. The destroyer ran aground at the southern port of Betano while landing the 2/4th, and had to be abandoned after it came under air attack. The ship's crew was safely evacuated by and on 25 September 1942 and the ship destroyed by demolition charges. On 27 September, the Japanese mounted a thrust from Dili towards the wreck of \"Voyager\", but without any significant success.\n\nBy October, the Japanese had succeeded in recruiting significant numbers of Timorese civilians, who suffered severe casualties when used in frontal assaults against the Allies. The Portuguese were also being pressured to assist the Japanese, and at least 26 Portuguese civilians were killed in the first six months of the occupation, including local officials and a Catholic priest. On 1 November, the Allied high command approved the issuing of weapons to Portuguese officials, a policy which had previously been carried out on an informal basis. At around the same time, the Japanese ordered all Portuguese civilians to move to a \"neutral zone\" by 15 November. Those who failed to comply were to be considered accomplices of the Allies. This succeeded only in encouraging the Portuguese to cooperate with the Allies, whom they lobbied to evacuate some 300 women and children.\nSpence was evacuated to Australia on 11 November, and the 2/2nd commander, Major Bernard Callinan was appointed Allied commander in Timor. On the night of 30 November / 1 December, the Royal Australian Navy mounted a major operation to land fresh Dutch troops at Betano, while evacuating 190 Dutch soldiers and 150 Portuguese civilians. The launch was used to ferry the passengers between the shore and two corvettes, and . However, \"Armidale\"—carrying the Dutch reinforcements—was sunk by Japanese aircraft and almost all of those on board were lost. Also during November, the Australian Army's public relations branch arranged to send the Academy Award-winning documentary filmmaker Damien Parer, and a war correspondent named Bill Marien, to Timor. Parer's film, \"Men of Timor\", was later greeted with enthusiasm by audiences in Allied countries.\n\nBy the end of 1942, the chances of the Allies re-taking Timor were remote, as there were now 12,000 Japanese troops on the island and the commandos were coming into increasing contact with the enemy. The Australian chiefs of staff estimated that it would take at least three Allied divisions, with strong air and naval support to recapture the island. Indeed, as the Japanese efforts to wear down the Australians and to separate them from their native support became more effective, the commandos had found their operations becoming increasingly untenable. Likewise, with the Australian Army fighting a number of costly battles against the Japanese beachheads around Buna in New Guinea, there were currently insufficient resources to continue operations in Timor. As such, from early December Australian operations on Timor would be progressively wound down.\n\nOn 11–12 December, the remainder of the original Sparrow Force—except for a few officers—was evacuated with Portuguese civilians, by the Dutch destroyer . Meanwhile, in the first week of January, the decision was made to withdraw Lancer Force. On the night of 9/10 January 1943, the bulk of the 2/4th and 50 Portuguese were evacuated by the destroyer . A small intelligence team known as S Force was left behind, but its presence was soon detected by the Japanese. Aided by folboats, with the remnants of Lancer Force, S Force made its way to the eastern tip of Timor, where the Australian-British Z Special Unit was also operating. They were evacuated by the American submarine on 10 February. Forty Australian commandos were killed during this phase of the fighting, while 1,500 Japanese were believed to have died.\n\nOverall, while the campaign on Timor had little strategic value, the Australian commandos had prevented an entire Japanese division from being used in the earlier phases of the New Guinea campaign while at the same time inflicting a disproportionate level of casualties on them. In contrast to those in Java, Ambon or Rabaul, Australian operations in Timor had been far more successful, even if it was also largely a token effort in the face of overwhelming Japanese strength. Likewise, they had proved that in favourable circumstances, unconventional operations could be both versatile and more economic than conventional operations, for which the resources were not available to the Allies at that time. Most civilian deaths were caused by Japanese reprisals against the civilian population. The civilian death toll is estimated at 40,000 to 70,000.\n\nUltimately, Japanese forces remained in control of Timor until their surrender in September 1945, following the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Soviet invasion of Manchuria. On 5 September 1945, the Japanese commanding officer met Portuguese Governor Manuel de Abreu Ferreira de Carvalho, effectively returning power to him and placing the Japanese forces under Portuguese authority. On 11 September, the Australian Timorforce arrived in Kupang harbour and accepted the surrender of all Japanese forces on Timor from the senior Japanese officer on Timor, Colonel Kaida Tatsuichi of the 4th Tank Regiment. The commander of the Timor force, Brigadier Lewis Dyke, a senior diplomat, W. D. Forsyth, and \"as many ships as possible\" were dispatched to Dili, arriving on 23 September. Ceremonies were then held with Australians, Portuguese and other local residents. Australian troops then supervised the disposal of arms by Japanese work parties before returning to West Timor for the surrender of the commander of the 48th Division, Lieutenant General Yamada Kunitaro. On 27 September, a Portuguese naval and military force of more than 2,000 troops arrived to an impressive ceremony of welcome by the Timorese people. These troops included three engineering companies along with substantial supplies of food and construction materials for the reconstruction of Timor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824147", "title": "Čiovo", "text": "Čiovo\n\nČiovo (pronounced ; ) is an island located off the Adriatic coast in Croatia with an area of (length , width up to ), population of 5,908 inhabitants (2011) and its highest peak is 218 m (Rudine).\n\nThe centre of the island has geographical coordinates , and the annual rainfall is about .\n\nČiovo is located in central Dalmatia, protecting the town of Trogir and Kaštela gulf. On its SE part it is only two km distant from the cape Marjan, on its northern part it is connected to the mainland with a small bascule bridge in the old centre of Trogir, and actually Trogir spread itself onto the island. Besides the portion of Trogir, on the island there are several villages: Arbanija, Žedno, Okrug Gornji, Okrug Donji, Slatine and Prizidnica.\n\nThe vegetation is typically Mediterranean, consisting mainly in understory (holm oak, myrtle, wormwood, juniper etc.). On the northern side (exposed to the wind \"bura\") are forests of pine and cypress. Major crops include olives, figs, almonds, vines and citrus fruit.\n\nSince 1964 the island was connected by a bridge to Trogir which is itself connected to the mainland by another bridge. The development of tourism though generated so much traffic that this connection suffered severe capacity shortages in high season. \n\nA construction of a new bridge which connects Čiovo directly with the mainland began in February 2015. It was opened to traffic on July 17th 2018. The new 546,34 m long bascule bridge is located in about 1 km East the old one. Its navigational clearance when spans are closed is 6 metres. \n\nIn the Middle Ages, Čiovo had many villages and it was a place for lepers. Remains of the pre-Romanesque church of St. Peter have been found near Slatine, in the \"Supetar\" cove. The medieval church of St. Maurice (\"Sv. Mavro\") has been preserved in Žedno and the pre-Romanesque church of Our Lady at the Sea (\"Gospa pokraj mora\"). The population of Čiovo increased in the 15th century through the settlement of refugees who fled from the Turks. Simultaneously, the suburban areas of Trogir also extended to Čiovo.\n"}
{"id": "1824150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824150", "title": "Armoured Brigade (Finland)", "text": "Armoured Brigade (Finland)\n\nThe Armoured Brigade () is a Finnish Army training unit located in Parolannummi, near Hämeenlinna, in southern Finland. The brigade specialises in training armoured and anti-aircraft troops. In case of mobilization, the Finnish Defence Forces would field one armoured brigade. The war-time armoured brigade has a strength of around 5,700 men, and fields 63 main battle tanks, 110 infantry fighting vehicles, circa 100 armoured personnel carriers, mainly of Soviet origin, and roughly 70 other armoured vehicles. However, the remaining war-time armoured brigade is being phased out and replaced by smaller mechanized battle groups. The new mechanized battle groups will field the Leopard 2 MBTs that are not included in the organization of the contemporary war-time armoured brigades.\n\nSince Finnish Defence Forces reform in 2015, the structure of the Armoured Brigade is the following:\n\n\nThe Armoured Band (\"Panssarisoittokunta\") was disbanded in 2013 as part of the FDF reform. After disbandment of Military Music School and Häme Regiment, the Conscript band was attached under Armored Brigade's command. Following the disbandment of Signals Regiment in 2014, the Center of Electronic Warfare was attached to the brigade. Armoured School, which trains reserve officers and career personnel was attached to Army Academy in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824152", "title": "The Harvey Girls (novel)", "text": "The Harvey Girls (novel)\n\nThe Harvey Girls is a novel published in 1942 by Samuel Hopkins Adams. In 1946, it was adapted by MGM into a musical film starring Judy Garland, eponymously titled The Harvey Girls.\n"}
{"id": "1824153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824153", "title": "Lucy Smith", "text": "Lucy Smith\n\nLucy Caroline Smith (born Dahl; 12 October 1934 – 27 August 2013) was a Norwegian legal scholar and professor of law at the University of Oslo. She served as rector of the university from 1993 to 1998.\n\nShe was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. In 1987 she became Norway's first female (full) professor of law. She has published the book \"Foreldremyndighet og barnerett\". Smith was a member of the U.N. Committee on the Rights of the Child. In the 1980s, Smith became well-known to the public as the principal judge of the popular quiz show \"Kvitt eller dobbelt\".\n\nSmith was the wife of Carsten Smith, the former Chief Justice of Norway's Supreme Court. Before that appointment, he was also a law professor at the University of Oslo.\n\nAfter attending Oslo Cathedral School, Smith studied law, graduating in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "1824155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824155", "title": "Thuluth", "text": "Thuluth\n\nThuluth (, \"sols\", Turkish: \"Sülüs\", from \"\" \"one-third\") is a script variety of Islamic calligraphy invented by Ibn Muqlah Shirazi. The straight angular forms of Kufic were replaced in the new script by curved and oblique lines. In \"Thuluth\", one-third of each letter slopes, from which the name (meaning \"a third\" in Arabic) comes. An alternative theory to the meaning is that the smallest width of the letter is one third of the widest part. It is an elegant, cursive script, used in medieval times on mosque decorations. Various calligraphic styles evolved from \"Thuluth\" through slight changes of form.\n\nThe greatest contributions to the evolution of the \"Thuluth\" script occurred in the Ottoman Empire in three successive steps that Ottoman art historians call \"calligraphical revolutions\":\n\n\nThe best known artist to write the \"Thuluth\" script at its zenith is said to be Mustafa Râkım Efendi (1757–1826), a painter who set a standard in Ottoman calligraphy which many believe has not been surpassed to this day.\n\"Thuluth\" was used to write the headings of surahs, Qur'anic chapters. Some of the oldest copies of the Qur'an were written in \"Thuluth\". Later copies were written in a combination of \"Thuluth\" and either Naskh or Muhaqqaq. After the 15th century Naskh came to be used exclusively.\n\nThe script is used in the Flag of Saudi Arabia where its text, \"Shahada al Tawhid\", is written in \"Thuluth\".\n\nAn important aspect of \"Thuluth\" script is the use of \"harakat\" (\"\"hareke\"\" in Turkish) to represent vowel sounds and of certain other stylistic marks to beautify the script. The rules governing the former are similar to the rules for any Arabic script. The stylistic marks have their own rules regarding placement and grouping which allow for great creativity as to shape and orientation. For example, one grouping technique is to separate the marks written below letters from those written above.\n\nSince its creation, \"Thuluth\" has given rise to a variety of scripts used in calligraphy and over time has allowed numerous modifications. \"Jeli\" \"Thuluth\" was developed for use in large panels, such as those on tombstones. \"Muhaqqaq\" script was developed by widening the horizontal sections of the letters in \"Thuluth\". \"Naskh\" script introduced a number of modifications resulting in smaller size and greater delicacy. \"Tawqi\" is a smaller version of Thuluth.\n\n\"Ruq'ah\" was probably derived from the \"Thuluth\" and Naskh styles, the latter itself having originated from \"Thuluth\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824158", "title": "Arafura Sea", "text": "Arafura Sea\n\nThe Arafura Sea (or Arafuru Sea) lies west of the Pacific Ocean, overlying the continental shelf between Australia and Indonesian New Guinea.\n\nThe Arafura Sea is bordered by the Torres Strait and through that the Coral Sea to the east, the Gulf of Carpentaria to the south, the Timor Sea to the west and the Banda and Ceram seas to the northwest. It is long and wide. The depth of the sea is mainly 50–80 metres (165–260 feet), with the depth increasing to the west. \n\nThe sea lies over the Arafura Shelf, part of the Sahul Shelf. When sea levels were low during the last glacial maximum, the Arafura Shelf, the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Torres Strait formed a large flat land bridge connecting Australia and New Guinea and easing migration of humans from Asia into Australia. The combined landmass formed the continent of Sahul.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) defines the Arafura Sea as being one of the waters of the East Indian Archipelago. The IHO defines its limits as follows:\n\n\"On the North.\" The Southeastern limit of the Ceram Sea [A line from Karoefa, New Guinea, to the Southeastern extreme of Adi Island, thence to Tg. Borang, the Northern point of Noehoe Tjoet <nowiki>[</nowiki>Kai Besar<nowiki>]</nowiki> ()] and the Eastern limit of the Banda Sea [From Tg Borang, the Northern point of Noehoe Tjoet, through this island to its Southern point, thence a line to the Northeast point of Fordata, through this island and across to the Northeast point of Larat, Tanimbar Islands (), down the East coast of Jamdena <nowiki>[</nowiki>Yamdena<nowiki>]</nowiki> Island to its Southern point, thence through Anggarmasa to the North point of Selaroe and through this island to Tg Aro Oesoe its Southern point ()].\n\n\"On the East.\" The Southwest coast of New Guinea from Karoefa (133°27'E) to the entrance to the Bensbak River (141°01'E), and thence a line to the Northwest extreme of York Peninsula, Australia ().\n\n\"On the South.\" By the North coast of Australia from the Northwest extreme of York Peninsula to Cape Don ().\n\n\"On the West.\" A line from Cape Don to Tanjong Aro Oesoe, the Southern point of Selaroe (Tanimbar Islands).\nThe sea's name appeared in George Windsor Earl's 1837 \"Sailing Directions for the Arafura Sea\", in which he compiled from the narratives of Lieuts. Kolff and Modera of the Royal Netherlands Navy.\n\nIt has been suggested that the name Arafura is of Portuguese origin, a corruption of the word \"Alfours\", meaning \"free men\", but recent research at the Dutch National Archives has revealed that AJ van der Aa's 1939 Toponymic Dictionary records \"the inhabitants of the Moluccas called themselves 'haraforas', translating 'Anak anak gunung' as 'children of the mountains'.\"\n\nEuropean recording of his name dates back to at least 1663 when Blaeu records in the texts on his wall map of the East Indies \"Archipelagus Orientalis, sive Asiaticus\", that the inland inhabitants of the Moluccas call themselves \"Alfores\".\n\nThe Arafura Sea name is from the indigenous name for \"the people of mountains\" in the Moluccas (part of Indonesia) as identified by Dutch Lieutenants Kolff and Modera in the 1830s.\n\nThomas Forrest sailed through the Moluccas (Maluku Islands) in 1775 and retailed reports of \"Harafora\" people living in the western end of New Guinea in subordination to the \"Papuas\", and mentioned them also in Magindano (Mindanao). The geographer Conrad Malte-Brun repeated Forrest's reports of a race of \"Haraforas\", in 1804, and added Borneo to the distribution. The ethnologist James C. Prichard described them as head-hunters. The form \"Horrafora\" was recorded by John Coulter, in his account of a sojourn in the interior of south-west New Guinea in 1835, and applied to the tribespeople there. Coulter concluded that Papuans and Horraforas were two distinct races in New Guinea.\n\nThe Arafura Sea is a rich fishery resource, particularly for shrimp and demersal fishing. Economically important species include Barramundi, grouper, Penaeid shrimp, Nemipteridae fishes, among other kinds of fish.\n\nIn a world where marine ecosystems and fish stocks are generally collapsing, the Arafura Sea stands out as among the richest marine fisheries in the world. However, the Arafura is coming under ever more intense pressure from illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities.\n\nEstablished in 2002, the Arafura and Timor Seas Expert Forum (ATSEF) seeks to promote economically and environmentally sustainable management of the seas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824161", "title": "Austria-Este", "text": "Austria-Este\n\nThe House of Habsburg-Este (; ), holders of the title of Archduke of Austria-Este (; ), is a cadet branch of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine and also descends from the House of Este. It was created in 1771 with the marriage between Ferdinand of Habsburg-Lorraine and Maria Beatrice d'Este, only daughter of the Duke of Modena, Ercole III d'Este. After the death of Ercole III in 1803, the Modena ruling branch of the Este family's male line ended, and the Habsburg-Estes inherited his possessions in Italy.\n\nErcole III d'Este, the last Este duke of Modena and Reggio in the direct male line, was deposed in 1796 by the French, and his Italian principality was incorporated into the Cisalpine Republic, later the Napoleonic Kingdom of Italy. In 1814, French rule in Italy ended. Modena was to be returned to his daughter Maria Beatrice and her son Francis of Austria-Este after Ercole's death. Previously, Ercole had been compensated with the duchy of Breisgau in south-western Germany; the Habsburgs ceded this province to him in anticipation of it falling eventually to the Habsburg family again, since Ercole's sole daughter was married to a cadet Habsburg, Archduke Ferdinand of Austria-Este. Ercole died in 1803 and Breisgau was indeed inherited by his daughter and her husband, but they lost it in 1805 to the expanding Grand Duchy of Baden.\n\nThe family, cognatically descended from the Estes, ruled the Duchy of Modena and Reggio again from 1814 to 1859, using the names Asburgo-Este (Habsburg-Este) and its variants, along with the subsidiary titles Duke of Reggio, of Mirandola, of Massa, Prince of Carrara and Lunigniana, and, since 1847, Duke of Guastalla. In 1859, the principality lost its independence and was incorporated into the newly united Kingdom of Italy, and Francis V, the last duke, was deposed. Francis V, Duke of Modena and Reggio (1846–59, died 1875) withdrew to his estates in Austria.\n\nAfter the death of his mother in 1840, Francis was considered the legitimate heir to the English and Scottish thrones by the Jacobites (with the regnal title King Francis I). When Francis died at Vienna on November 20, 1875, his family became extinct in the male line. His heir general and heir-of-the-blood was his niece, Archduchess Maria Theresa of Austria-Este (died 1919), who then was married with Prince Ludwig of Bavaria (they later became King and Queen of Bavaria). The heir-general of the Estes continues in their descendants, and the present heir is Franz, Duke of Bavaria.\n\nHowever, Francis V had decided to retain the Este name in the Habsburg family, and left most of his huge estate to his young cousin Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, with certain conditions, one of which is that the heir and future heirs use the name of Este. The non-territorial property of the Este family thus fell to the line of Archduke Charles Louis, younger brother to then Emperor Francis Joseph, Austria-Este then becoming a sort of \"secundogeniture\" title within the Austrian imperial family.\n\nAlthough the first heir, Archduke Franz Ferdinand (1863-1914), was not a descendant of the last Este duchess, Mary Beatrice of Modena), he took the name Austria-Este. In 1896 he became the heir presumptive of the Austrian Empire and, according to the terms of the secundogeniture, could not combine the Austria-Este inheritance with that of the main line of the House of Habsburg (i.e., the Austro-Hungarian Empire, but he was assassinated 28 June 1914 in Sarajevo before becoming emperor. Because Franz Ferdinand's children were born in morganatic marriage (see House of Hohenberg), on 16 April 1917 Emperor Charles I of Austria, as head of the House of Habsburg, issued letters patent conferring the name, arms and patrimony of Austria-Este on his son, Archduke Robert, and his future issue according to masculine primogeniture. Through his mother Zita of Bourbon-Parma, Robert happened to be a descendant of Duke Ercole III of Modena and Reggio as well, and thus the blood of the last Este dukes was joined with the name Austria-Este.\n\nOn Robert's death his eldest son, Archduke Lorenz, born 1955, by his wife, Princess Margherita of Savoy, succeeded him in that role. He is married to Princess Astrid of Belgium, the only daughter of King Albert II of Belgium. Since the throne of Belgium is heritable by females (and males no longer have precedence over females), Princess Astrid is an heir of Belgium immediately after the issue of King Philippe of Belgium. As such, her husband Archduke Lorenz of Austria-Este, was in 1995 elevated to the additional title of Prince of Belgium. The children of the couple are, since 1991, titled Archduke (Archduchess) of Austria-Este and Prince(ss) of Belgium. The eldest of these is Prince Amedeo of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este, born 1986.\n\n \"Maria Theresa, Queen of Hungary, Archduchess of Austria\" (1717–1780)\n\n Rinaldo III d'Este\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824177", "title": "David Ross", "text": "David Ross\n\nDavid or Dave Ross may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824180", "title": "Keyesville, California", "text": "Keyesville, California\n\nKeyesville (formerly, Keysville and Hogeye) is an unincorporated community in Kern County, California. It is located west of Lake Isabella and the Kern River Valley, at an elevation of . Keyesville, founded in 1854 is named for Richard M. Keyes, whose discovery of gold in 1853 started the Kern River Gold Rush.\n\nA petition to the commander of Camp Babbitt about the depredations of the local Native Americans led to the Keyesville Massacre nearby on 19 April 19, 1863. The community is registered as California Historical Landmark #98.\n\nKeyesville lies in the lower elevation Greenhorn Mountains. There are scattered trees and brushy chaparral slopes surrounding it. A number of wildflowers are in evidence in this part of the Greenhorn Mountains, including the yellow mariposa lily, \"Calochortus luteus\", which species is at the southern limit of its range within the Greenhorn Mountains.\n"}
{"id": "1824183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824183", "title": "Luís Romano de Madeira Melo", "text": "Luís Romano de Madeira Melo\n\nLuís Romano de Madeira Melo (10 June 1922 in Ponta do Sol on Santo Antão, Cabo Verde – 22 January 2010 in Brasil) was a bilingual poet, novelist, and folklorist who has written in Portuguese and the Capeverdean Crioulo of Santo Antão.\n\nBorn in the northernmost town of Ponta do Sol in the Capeverdean island of Santo Antão, he prefers to refer to the Capeverdean language as \"língua cabo-verdiana\". He collaborated along with additional publishers and founded the \"Morabeza\" review. An independent idealist, he edited local and international literary reviews.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Luís Romano joined the ideas of independence and became member of the PAIGC, captured by PIDE, he went to exile in Senegal, then Mauritania and Morocco where he travelled with an engineer from the salt industry, Algiers and Paris, Romano lived in Brazil for the remainder of his life. He visited his home country in Praia during the country's independence in 1975 and returned to Brazil.\n\nIn 1985, he wrote a historical book \"Cem Anos de Literatura Caboverdiana\" (\"Hundred Years of Cape Verdean Literature\") relating to the past hundred years of literature of his country, it included notable writers of the time such as Eugénio Tavares, Baltasar Lopes da Silva (Osvaldo Alcântara), Jorge Barbosa Manuel Lopes, Henrique Teixeira de Sousa, Sergio Frusoni, Francisco Xavier da Cruz (B. Leza) and Ovídio Martins as well as the \"Claridade\" review in which some of the greatest writers took part, as well as \"Certeza\" and \"Morabeza\".\n\nHe established the official linguistic material of \"Kriolander\" in the whole archipelago. He published his first novel \"Famintos\" (\"Famine\", \"Hunger\"), about the deaths of several Cape Verdeans during the drought of the 1940s, it was written in 1940, as it was censored at the time, it was published in Brazil in 1962. He also wrote poems especially \"Negrume\" (\"Lzimparim\") which was published in Rio de Janeiro in 1973.\n\nOne of his poems can be found on the CD \"Poesia de Cabo Verde e Sete Poemas de Sebastião da Gama\" (2007) by Afonso Dias.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824186", "title": "California Community Colleges System", "text": "California Community Colleges System\n\nCalifornia Community Colleges is \"a postsecondary education system\" in the U.S. state of California. The system includes the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges and 73 community college districts. The districts have established 114 community colleges, and recently proposed Calbright, the 115th all-new online community college. The California Community Colleges is the largest system of higher education in the United States, serving more than 2.1 million students. The California Community Colleges is often referred to as the California Community Colleges System (CCCS). \n\nUnder the California Master Plan for Higher Education, the California Community Colleges System is a part of the state's three-tier public higher education system, which also includes the University of California system and the California State University system. Like the two other systems, the CCCS is headed by an executive officer and a governing board. The 17-member Board of Governors (BOG) sets direction for the system and is in turn appointed by the California Governor. The board appoints the Chancellor, who is the chief executive officer of the system. Locally elected Boards of Trustees work on the district level with Presidents who run the individual college campuses.\n\nThe CCCS is a founding and charter member of CENIC, the Corporation for Education Network Initiatives in California, the nonprofit organization which provides extremely high-performance Internet-based networking to California's K-12 research and education community.\n\nIn 1907, the California State Legislature, seeing a benefit to society in education beyond high school but realizing the load could not be carried by existing colleges, authorized the state's high schools to create \"junior colleges\" to offer what were termed \"postgraduate courses of study\" similar to the courses offered in just the first two years of university studies. A collegiate \"department\" of Fresno High School was set up in the fall of 1910 that later developed into becoming Fresno City College, which is the oldest existing public community college in California and the second oldest existing public community college in the United States.\n\nThanks to the efforts of people such as Professor Alexis F. Lange, Dean of the School of Education at the University of California, Berkeley, the \"Junior College Act\" was passed in 1917, expanding the mission by adding trade studies such as mechanical and industrial arts, household economy, agriculture, and commerce. In the early 1920s, the Legislature authorized the creation of separate colleges, in addition to the programs offered in high schools. In 1921, California passed legislation which allowed for the creation of community college districts. In September 1921, Modesto Junior College (the 16th oldest community college) became the first ever community college district. That launched the current model of community colleges that continued to offer trade studies such as mechanical and industrial arts but now included general education. The first ever transfer student was from Modesto Junior College and transferred to Stanford in 1922.\n\nBy 1932 there were 38 junior colleges in the state. The 1944 GI Bill dramatically increased college enrollments, and by 1950 there were 50 junior colleges. By 1960 there were 56 districts in California offering junior college courses, and 28 of those districts were not high school districts but were \"junior college districts\" formed expressly for the governance of those schools.\n\nThe 1960 Master Plan for Higher Education and the resulting \"Donahoe Act\" was a turning point in higher education in California. The UC and CSU systems were to limit their enrollments, yet an overall goal was to \"provide an appropriate place in California public higher education for every student who is willing and able to benefit from attendance\", meaning the junior colleges were to fulfill this role. In 1967, the Governor and Legislature created the Board of Governors for the Community Colleges to oversee the community colleges and formally established the community college district system, requiring all areas of the state to be included within a community college district. The degree of local control in this system, a side effect of the origins of many colleges within high school districts, can be seen in that 52 of the 72 districts (72%) govern only a single college; only a few districts in major metropolitan areas control more than four colleges.\n\nThe Master Plan for Higher Education also banned tuition, as it was based on the ideal that public higher education should be free to students (just like K-12 primary and secondary education). As officially enacted, it states that public higher education \"shall be tuition free to all residents.\" Thus, California residents legally do not pay tuition.\n\nHowever, the state has suffered severe budget deficits ever since the enacting of Proposition 13 in 1978, which led to the imposition of per-unit enrollment fees for California residents (equivalent in all but name to tuition) at all community colleges and all CSU and UC campuses to get around the legal ban on tuition. Non-resident and international students, however, do pay tuition, which at community colleges is usually an additional $100 per unit (or credit) on top of the standard enrollment fee. Since no other American state bans tuition in public higher education, this issue is unique to California. In summer 2010, the state's public higher education systems began investigating the possibility of dropping the semantic confusion and switching to the more accurate term, tuition.\n\nIn the past decade, tuition and fees have fluctuated with the state's budget. For much of the 1990s and early 2000s, enrollment fees ranged between $11 and $13 per credit. However, with the state's budget deficits in the early-to-mid 2000s, fees rose to $18 per unit in 2003, and, by 2004, reached $26 per unit. Since then, fees dropped to $20 per unit, down $6 from January 2007. It was the lowest enrollment fee of any college or university in the United States. On July 28, 2009, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed AB2X (the education trailer bill to the 2009-10 state budget), setting the community college enrollment fee back at $26 per unit, effective for the fall 2009 term. In July 2011, per-unit fees at California's community colleges stood at $36 per unit. In summer 2012, fees were raised to $46 per unit.\n\nRecent additions to the California Community Colleges system include Moreno Valley College and Norco College, which became the 111th and 112th colleges of the CCC system in 2010, Clovis Community College as the 113th college in 2015, and the re-establishment of Compton College as the 114th college in 2017.\n\nThe CCCS is governed by the Board of Governors which, within the bounds of state law, sets systemwide policy. The 17 Board members, who represent the public, faculty, students, and classified employees, are appointed by the Governor of California as directed by Section 71000 of the California Education Code. The Board is also directed by the Education Code to allow local authority and control of the community college districts to the \"maximum degree permissible\" and AB 1725 in 1974 added a formal consultation process which has resulted in the formation of a Consultation Council to assure the Board of Governors and Chancellor's Office remain responsive in this respect.\n\nThe system is administered by the Chancellor's Office located in Sacramento, which is responsible for allocating state funding and provides leadership and technical assistance to the colleges. The Chancellor brings policy recommendations to the Board of Governors, and possesses the authority to implement the policies of the Board through his leadership of the Chancellor's Office. The Chancellor plays a key role in the consultation process.\n\nCalifornia Education Code § 76060 allows the governing board of a community college district to authorize the students of a college to organize a student body association. The student body association may conduct any activities, including fundraising activities, that is approved by the appropriate college officials. The governing board of the community college district may also authorize the students of a college to organize more than one student body association when the governing board finds that day students and evening students each need an association or geographic circumstances make the organization of only one student body association impractical or inconvenient.\n\nStudents have a right to participate. The BOG has established minimum standards governing procedures established by governing boards of community college districts to ensure faculty, staff, and students the right to participate effectively in district and college governance, and the opportunity to express their opinions at the campus level and to ensure that these opinions are given every reasonable consideration. The BOG standards state that the governing board of a community college district shall adopt policies and procedures that provide students the opportunity to participate effectively in district and college governance, including:\n\n\nDistrict and college policies and procedures that have or will have a \"significant effect on students\" includes:\n\n\nThe governing body of the association may order that an election be held for the purpose of establishing a student representation fee of $1 per semester, and a student may, for religious, political, financial, or moral reasons, refuse to pay the student representation fee in writing at the time the student pays other fees. Regulations in the California Code of Regulations (CCR) require district governing boards to include information pertaining to the representation fee in the materials given to each student at registration, including its purpose, amount, and their right to refuse to pay the fee for religious, political, moral or financial reasons.\n\nThe students of this largest system of education in the world are represented through a statewide students' union known as the Student Senate for California Community Colleges (SSCCC). The SSCCC has a General Assembly composed of Delegates. Meetings of the General Assembly are held twice in each academic year. The Delegates are selected by community college-associated student organizations. The SSCCC also has a Student Senate Council composed of 30 Senators. The SSCCC has 10 regional subdivisions and each subdivision or \"Region\" annually elects three Senators. Meetings of the Student Senate Council are held about 10 times during each academic year. The Student Senate Council may nominate students for appointment to seats on the Board of Governors and it may appoint two representatives to the Chancellor's Consultation Council.\n\nThe 2.4 million students within the CCCS serve as the basis for the economic revitalization of California's workforce. Through its vocational endeavors, the CCC system has played a pivotal role in preparing nurses, firefighters, police, welders, auto mechanics, airplane mechanics, and construction workers to help mold the society of California. Career technical education (CTE), also known as vocational training, connects students to these career opportunities by providing industry-based skills.\n\nIn 2017, California sought to eliminate the lingering stigma around CTE. The overall goal was to train and place one million workers in middle-skill jobs, meaning jobs requiring some education beyond a high school diploma which may include a college credential but not a four-year degree. A core barrier to the growth of CTE careers is the outdated view about the jobs being dirty and low paying. Annual events such as Manufacturing Day address these misperceptions of careers in the field by providing manufacturers an opportunity to bring middle and high school students into their facilities to show them what it is and isn't. According to the World Economic Forum, more than half of the current workforce will need to be reskilled by 2022.\n\nAll 114 CCCs are empowered to establish their own college transit programs as state legislation allows for the collection of transportation fees. A transportation fee and program can be created if a majority of students vote in favor of such a program in a publicly held campus election. There are now a handful of these transit programs at several colleges.\n\nThe California Community College system had a total employee headcount of 89,497 in fall 2006. While tenured and tenure tracked faculty were relatively well-compensated, they comprise a very small fraction of overall faculty compared to California's other two tertiary education systems. While 86% of CSU faculty members were tenured or tenure-tracked, only 30% of CCCS faculty were tenured or tenure-tracked. Temporary faculty, those who are not tenure tracked, earned an average of $62.86 per hour for those teaching for-credit courses, $47.46 for non-credit instruction, $54.93 for instructional support and $63.86 for \"overload\" instruction.\n\nStaff and faculty compensation varied greatly by district. The overall average salary for tenured and tenure tracked faculty was $78,498 as of Fall 2006, with 48.7% earning more than $80,001. Salaries ranged from $64,883 in Siskiyous to $90,704 in Santa Barbara. The average for educational administrators was $116,855, while classified administrators earned an average of $87,886, classified professional earned $62,161 and classified support staff earned an average of $43,773.\n\nIn 2006, Compton College in Compton, California lost its accreditation. Arrangements were made to have the college's governance transferred to El Camino College, a neighboring college. Its new name, as a division of El Camino College, was \"El Camino College Compton Center.\" Under El Camino College the \"Center\" was fully accredited. Plans were made to re-establish Compton College as a separate college, which occurred in 2017.\n\nIn July 2013, City College of San Francisco was notified by its accreditor, the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC), that its accreditation would be revoked in 2014 if the college failed an appeals process. Brice Harris, the systemwide chancellor of the California Community Colleges system, then appointed a \"special trustee with extraordinary powers,\" an individual granted unilateral powers, to attempt to bring the college back into compliance with the ACCJC's accreditation standards. In January 2017, CCSF was reaffirmed of its accreditation for the full seven year term by the ACCJC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824190", "title": "Bulgarian State Television Female Vocal Choir", "text": "Bulgarian State Television Female Vocal Choir\n\nThe Bulgarian State Television Female Vocal Choir is an internationally renowned world music ensemble that performs modern arrangements of traditional Bulgarian folk melodies. It is most recognized for its contribution to Marcel Cellier's Le Mystère des Voix Bulgares (The Mystery Of The Bulgarian Voices) project. First created in 1952 as the Ensemble for Folk Songs of the Bulgarian Radio by Georgi Boyadjiev, the choir is now under the direction of Dora Hristova. The choir was granted the name Le Mystère des Voix Bulgares by Marcel Cellier in 1997, in recognition of the fact that it had contributed most of the songs on the original compilations.\n\nSingers are chosen from country villages for the beauty and openness of their voices, and they undergo extensive training in the unique, centuries-old singing style. Influenced by Bulgaria's Thracian, Bulgarian, Ottoman and Byzantine history, their music is striking in its use of diaphonic singing and distinctive timbre, as well as its modal scales, unique rhythms (such as 7/8, 9/8, and 11/8) and dissonant harmonies (abundant second, seventh, and ninth intervals). All of these are characteristics of the Bulgarian folk music genre.\n\nIn 1951 Filip Kutev and Maria Kuteva founded the first professional national folk music ensemble in Bulgaria, the State Ensemble for Folk Song and Dance, now known as the Filip Kutev Ensemble. The State Television Choir followed in 1952. Though the latter choir became widely known when the trend-setting English alternative record label 4AD reissued a pair of anthology albums in 1986 and 1988 with the now famous title \"Le Mystère des Voix Bulgares,\" their recordings date as far back as 1957. The first pressing of the Voix Bulgares album was the result of fifteen years of work by Swiss ethnomusicologist and producer Marcel Cellier and was originally released in 1975 on his small Discs Cellier label. Ivo Watts-Russell, the founder of the 4AD Records label, was introduced to the choir from a third or fourth generation audio cassette lent to him by Peter Murphy, singer from the band Bauhaus. He became thoroughly entranced by the music, and tracked down and licensed the recordings from Cellier. They were one of four choirs who appeared on the album \"Le Mystère des Voix Bulgares, Volume Two,\" This album won Cellier a Grammy Award in 1989. The group has since performed extensively around the world to wide acclaim.\n\nThree prominent soloists of the group have also performed together as Trio Bulgarka, known in the West primarily for their singing on the Kate Bush albums \"The Sensual World\" and \"The Red Shoes.\" The trio also performed with the Italian rock band Elio e Le Storie Tese in the single \"Pipppero\" released from the album \"İtalyan, rum casusu çikti,\" and have released two albums of their own. The three women in the trio are Stoyanka Boneva from Pirin, Yanka Rupkina from Strandja and Eva Georgieva from Dobrudja.\n\nThe choir became best known in the United States for its contributions to the music of \",\" whose theme music Joseph LoDuca developed from \"\"Kaval sviri,\"\" one of the traditional Bulgarian folk songs that form the bulk of their known repertoire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824194", "title": "Kawaramachi Station", "text": "Kawaramachi Station\n\nKawaramachi Station may refer to any of the following railway stations in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824195", "title": "Valvetronic", "text": "Valvetronic\n\nThe Valvetronic system is a BMW variable valve lift system which, in combination with variable valve timing, allows infinite adjustment of the intake valve timing and duration. The system claims to improve fuel economy and emissions, and negates the need for a throttle body in regular use.\n\nFirst introduced by BMW on the 316ti compact in 2001, Valvetronic has since been added to many of BMW's engines. The first application of this technology in a turbocharged engine was the N55 engine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824196", "title": "Suzanne La Follette", "text": "Suzanne La Follette\n\nSuzanne Clara La Follette (June 24, 1893 – April 23, 1983) was an American journalist and author who advocated for libertarian feminism in the first half of the 20th century. As an editor she helped found several magazines. She was an early and ardent feminist and a vocal anticommunist.\n\nShe was born in Washington state into the politically prominent La Follette family. Her father was U.S. Congressman William La Follette; her brothers were politician William Leroy LaFollette Jr. and Chester La Follette, a painter. Author Mimi LaFollette Summerskill was her niece. While living in Washington, D.C. with her family, Suzanne worked in her father's Capitol Hill office as well as that of his cousin Senator Robert M. La Follette Sr. As a young woman still in college, she observed many of the great political and intellectual debates of the time at the home shared by the two LaFollette families.\n\nHer full-length book, \"Concerning Women\", published in 1926, broke ground in the 1920s, but went out of print for a second time after a 1972 reprint in the Arno Press \"American Women\" series. In 1973, an excerpt entitled \"Beware the State\" was included in \"The Feminist Papers,\" an anthology edited by Alice Rossi. A short biography of La Follette, based on interviews with her grandniece Maryly Rosner, her brother Chester La Follette, and her colleagues John Chamberlain, Priscilla Buckley (sister to conservative editor William F. Buckley Jr.) and Helen Tremaine, can be found in the article \"Suzanne La Follette: The Freewomen\" by Sharon Presley.\n\nLa Follette was active in the League of Equal Opportunity, a feminist organization that, unlike the larger National Women's Party, opposed not just sex-based minimum wage legislation, but all such legislation. She explained her opposition to such laws in \"Concerning Women.\" Her economic views, like those of her mentor Albert Jay Nock, were libertarian but influenced by Henry George.\n\nShe had been interested in Russia since the revolution of 1917 and had been in contact with many exiles, including former president, Alexander Kerensky In the 1930s, LaFollette served on the Committee for the Defense of Leon Trotsky, also known as the \"Dewey Commission\" as secretary to its chairman, philosopher John Dewey. La Follette wrote the summary of the Committee's findings after holding an investigative meeting in Mexico where Trotsky was in exile (and later murdered by an agent of Joseph Stalin). Many of the committee's members, like La Follette, Carlo Tresca and Dewey, were not Trotskyists, but consisted of anti-Stalinist socialists, progressives and liberals.\nShe worked on the literary journal \"The Freeman\" both as a contributor and as assistant to the editor, Albert Jay Nock, and she later founded a revival of the magazine, called \"The New Freeman\" in 1932 which lasted only fifteen months. In the early 1950s, she served as a managing editor of yet another revival of Nock's journal, the libertarian periodical \"The Freeman\", with John Chamberlain and Henry Hazlitt serving as executive editors. In that role, she came into periodic conflict with Hazlitt due to her \"sometimes strident way of expressing herself\" on behalf of Senator Joseph McCarthy. It is this magazine which is widely considered to be an important forerunner to the conservative \"National Review\", founded by William F. Buckley Jr., another journal for which she was also an early contributor and managing editor.\n\nHowever, La Follette was not a traditional conservative. In the 1950s, there was no outlet for libertarian thought so she joined forces with conservatives, who at that time were closer to libertarians than any other group. In the interview conducted by Presley in 1980, her colleague, John Chamberlain stated that she was a libertarian, not a conservative. Her feminist views in fact often clashed with the conservative point of view. Based on an interview with Buckley, as reported in the \"Freewoman\" profile, Presley states, for example, that \"in 1964, when the New York Conservative Party, of which she was a co-founder, came out in favor of anti-abortion laws, she demanded that her name be dropped from the Party's letterhead – and it was.\"\n\nLa Follette was born on a ranch in eastern Washington State, the fourth of seven children of a pioneer family that owned large wheat and fruit farms in the rolling hills of the Palouse and along the Snake River. She grew up in the wide open spaces of the American West. Her grandfather, John Tabor, was a 49er, having crossed the plains to California after service in the Mexican–American War.\n\nHer father, William La Follette, had first come to the Washington Territory as a 16-year-old from Indiana. By the turn of the 20th century, he was one of the largest growers and shippers of fruit in the Inland Empire.\n\nAlong with her older siblings, La Follette began her formal studies at Washington State University in Pullman, Washington where her family had moved into a large house her father had built near the college. When William La Follette was elected to Congress in 1910, she moved with her family to the nation's capital and finished her studies there, graduating from Trintity College (Trinity Washington University) in 1915.\n\nWhile completing her college education, La Follette was involved with many of the great events of the day. She worked in her father's congressional office as well as the office of their cousin, Senator Robert M. La Follette Sr.. For much of that period the two LaFollette families lived together in a large home that William La Follette had purchased in Mount Pleasant, Washington, D.C.. Debate and conversation were encouraged at the dinner table and a steady stream politicians, writers, labor leaders, professors and other opinion makers engaged in policy and political arguments late into the evening.\n\nAfter her father left Congress. she moved to New York City where she lived and worked for fifty years. She lived for most of this period in the Chelsea Hotel. Her brother, Chester La Follette's art studio was upstairs from her apartment on the tenth floor. During the 1920s she spent four years as an editor for the \"Freeman\" working as a deputy to Albert Jay Nock editing and writing. When the magazine folded, she turned her talents to writing, producing award-winning poetry as well as two books on very different subjects. In \"Concerning Women,\" she broke new ground as she analyzed feminism from the perspective of economic equality. Her former mentor, Nock, found the book to be brilliant and original. In \"Art in America\" she produced a monumental survey of American art from colonial times to the 20th century. The art historian, Walter Pach wrote the introduction.\nIn the 1930s she organized a new version of the \"Freeman,\" won a Guggenheim Fellowship for study of the fine arts, lectured at the Art Students League of New York, and traveled to Mexico as a member of the Dewey Commission. La Follette served as secretary to its chairman, the philosopher John Dewey and wrote the summary of the Commission's findings after conducting investigations in Mexico where Trotsky was in exile (soon after he was murdered by a Russian agent). In the 1940s and during World War II La Follette worked as director of foreign relief programs for the American Federation of Labor, focusing her efforts on keeping communists out of the American labor movement. She maintained her close relationship with Alexander Kerensky and other Russians she had befriended through the years.\n\nLa Follette returned to editing in the 1950s when she and a number of old colleagues, including John Chamberlain and Henry Hazlitt produced a new version of \"The Freeman\". In her final editorial effort she became the founding managing editor of the magazine William F. Buckley Jr. founded in 1955, \"The National Review.\" She retired from this post in 1959 at the age of sixty-six.\n\nStill politically active In the 1960s she was one of the founders of the New York Conservative Party. She ran for congress in 1964 and lost.\nIn her 2004 book, \"Notable American Women: A Biographical Dictionary: Completing the Twentieth Century,\" Susan Ware described the many intellectual gifts that made La Follette such a force among the New York intelligencia for so many decades. La Follette was \"a rigorous opponent of government intervention. She was a very beautiful woman, with a hilarious sense of humor, a grammatical stickler ... a feminist ... generous and warm-hearted, recalled William F. Buckley Jr., who knew her in later years.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, La Follette sold her Bucks County farm and left the Chelsea Hotel and New York City. She returned to the West Coast, settling in Palo Alto, not far from the Stanford University campus. She is interred in Colfax, Washington with other family members.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824197", "title": "Kufic", "text": "Kufic\n\nKufic script () is a style of Arabic script that gained prominence early on as a preferred script for Quran transcription and architectural decoration, and it has since become a reference and an archetype for a number of other Arabic scripts. It developed from the Nabataean alphabet in the city of Kufa, from which its name is derived. Kufic script is characterized by angular, rectilinear letterforms and its horizontal orientation. There are many different versions of Kufic script, such as square Kufic, floriated Kufic, knotted Kufic, and others.\n\nCalligraphers in the early Islamic period used a variety of methods to transcribe Qur’an manuscripts. Arabic calligraphy became one of the most important branches of Islamic Art. Calligraphers came out with the new style of writing called Kufic. Kufic is the oldest calligraphic form of the various Arabic scripts. It consists of a modified form of the old Nabataean script. The name of the script derives from Kufa, a city in southern Iraq which was considered as an intellectual center within the early Islamic period. Kufic is defined as a highly angular form of the Arabic alphabet originally used in early copies of the Qur’an. Sheila S. Blair suggests that \"the name Kufic was introduced to Western scholarship by Jacob George Christian Adler (1756-1834).\" Furthermore, the Kufic script plays an important role in the development of Islamic calligraphy. In fact, \"it is the first style of Islamic period’ writings in which the manifestation of art, delicacy and beauty are explicitly evident\" says Salwa Ibraheem Tawfeeq Al-Amin. The rule set for this writing was about the angular, linear shapes of the characters. In fact, \"the rules that were defined at the outset of the Kufic tradition essentially remained the same throughout its lifespan\" says Alain George.\n\nThe main characteristic of the Kufic script \"appears to be the transformation of the ancient cuneiform script into the Arabic letters\" according to Enis Timuçin Tan. Moreover, it was characterized by figural letters that were shaped in a way to be nicely written on parchment, building and decorative objects like lusterware and coins. Kufic script is composed of geometrical forms like straight lines and angles along with verticals and horizontals. Originally, Kufic did not have what is known as a differentiated consonant, which means, for example, that the letters \"t\", \"b\", and \"th\" were not distinguished by diacritical marks and looked the same. However, it is still used in Islamic countries. In later Kufic Qur'ans of the ninth and early tenth century, \"the sura headings were more often designed with the sura title as the main feature, often written in gold, with a palmette extending into the margin \" comments Marcus Fraser. Its use in transcribing manuscripts has been important in the development of Kufic Script. Earlier kufic was written on manuscripts with precision which contributed to its development. For instance, \"the precision achieved in practice is all more remarkable because Kufic manuscripts were not ruled\" says Alain George. Moreover, he explains that Kufic manuscripts were laid out with a stable number of lines per page, and these were strictly parallel and equidistant. One impressive example of an early Qur'an manuscript, known as the Blue Qur'an, features gold Kufic script on parchment dyed with indigo. It is commonly attributed to the early Fatimid or Abbasid court. The main text of this Qur'an is written in gold ink, thus the effect on looking at the manuscript is of gold on blue. There is a political and religious statement behind this Blue Qur'an. (what political and religious statement is behind the Blue Qur'an?) Nevertheless, \"the political and artistic sophistication and financial expense of the production of the blue Qur'an could only have been contemplated and achieved by a ruler of considerable power and wealth\" explains Marcus Fraser.\nThe Qur'an was first written in a plain, slanted, and uniform script but, when its content was formalized, a script that denoted authority emerged. This coalesced into what is now known as Primary Kufic script. Kufic was prevalent in manuscripts from the 7th to 10th centuries. Around the 8th century, it was the most important of several variants of Arabic scripts with its austere and fairly low vertical profile and a horizontal emphasis. Until about the 11th century it was the main script used to copy the Qur'an. Professional copyists employed a particular form of Kufic for reproducing the earliest surviving copies of the Qur'an, which were written on parchment and date from the 8th to 10th centuries. It is distinguished from Thuluth script in its use of decorative elements whereas the latter was designed to avoid decorative motifs. In place of the decorations in Kufic scripts, Thuluth used vowels.\n\nThe Kufic script is inscribed on textiles, coins, lusterware, building and so on. Coins were very important in the development of the Kufic script. In fact, \"the letter strokes on coins, had become perfectly straight, with curves tending toward geometrical circularity by 86\" observes Alain George. As an example, Kufic is commonly seen on Seljuk coins and monuments and on early Ottoman coins. Its decorative character led to its use as a decorative element in several public and domestic buildings constructed prior to the Republican period in Turkey. Also, the current flag of Iraq (2008) also includes a kufic rendition of the takbir.\nSimilarly, the flag of Iran (1980) has the takbir written in white square kufic script a total of 22 times on the fringe of both the green and red bands. Kufic inscriptions were important in the emergence of textiles too, often functioning as decoration in the form of tiraz bands. According to Maryam Ekhtiar, \"\"tiraz\" inscriptions were written in Kufic or floriated Kufic script, and later, in naskhi or throughout the islamic world\".\"\" Those inscriptions include the name of God or the ruler. As an example, the inscription inside the Dome of the Rock is written in Kufic. Throughout the text, we can notice the calligraphic line created by the reed pen which is usually a steady stroke with various thicknesses based on the changes in direction of the movement that has created it. There is square or geometric Kufic is a very simplified rectangular style of Kufic widely used for tiling. In Iran sometimes entire buildings are covered with tiles spelling sacred names like those of God, Muhammad and Ali in square Kufic, a technique known as \"banna'i\". Moreover, there is \"Pseudo-Kufic\", also \"Kufesque\" which refers to imitations of the Kufic script, made in a non-Arabic context, during the Middle Ages or the Renaissance: \"Imitations of Arabic in European art are often described as pseudo-Kufic, borrowing the term for an Arabic script that emphasizes straight and angular strokes, and is most commonly used in Islamic architectural decoration\".\n\nSquare Kufic (), also sometimes known as \"banna'i\" (, \"masonry\" script), is a bare Arabic writing form that developed in the 12th century. The calligrapher Mamoun Sakkal described its development as an \"exceptional step towards simplification in Kufic styles that evolved towards more complexity in the preceding centuries.\" Square Kufic was originally created in architecture with bricks and tiles functioning as pixels. Legibility is not a priority of this script. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824206", "title": "Barú District, Chiriquí", "text": "Barú District, Chiriquí\n\nBarú District is a district (\"distrito\") of Chiriquí Province in Panama. The population according to the 2000 census was 60,551. The district covers a total area of 589 km². The capital lies at the city of Puerto Armuelles.\n\nBarú District is divided administratively into the following \"corregimientos\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1824207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824207", "title": "Maidstone and The Weald (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Maidstone and The Weald (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMaidstone and The Weald is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Helen Grant, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Maidstone wards of Allington, Barming, Boughton Monchelsea, Bridge, Coxheath, East, Farleigh, Heath, High Street, Loose, Marden, North, South, Staplehurst, and Yalding, and the Borough of Tunbridge Wells wards of Benenden, Cranbrook, Frittenden & Sissinghurst, Hawkhurst, and Sandhurst.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Maidstone wards of Allington, Barming, Bridge, Coxheath & Hunton, East, Fant, Heath, High Street, Loose, Marden & Yalding, North, South, and Staplehurst, and the Borough of Tunbridge Wells wards of Benenden & Cranbrook and Frittenden & Sissinghurst.\n\nThe largest settlement is the central county town of Maidstone in Kent in south-east England with smaller settlements spread throughout agriculture-rich Maidstone borough and partly wooded Tunbridge Wells borough.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1997 general election, after the previous Maidstone constituency was split in two: its southeast wards of Shepway and Park Wood of the town itself and the rural wards east of the town joined Faversham in the new Faversham and Mid Kent constituency. The remaining two-thirds of the electorate in west/central Maidstone were reunited with the town wards that had been lost in 1983 to Mid Kent (which was abolished), and joined by a rural part of the Weald to the south of the town, previously in the Tunbridge Wells constituency.\n\nThe MP for the seat from its creation in 1997 was Ann Widdecombe of the Conservative Party. Widdecombe was MP for the former seat of Maidstone 1987–97, and served as a Home Office Minister (of State) in the government of John Major from 1995 to 1997, and as Shadow Home Secretary from 1999 to 2001. She stood down at the 2010 general election, to be succeeded by its winner, who was Helen Grant, also a Conservative.\n\nMost of the electorate live in urban Maidstone, which has some light industry but whose economy is increasingly dominated by the service sector (including care, hospitality and insurance). The south of the constituency is rural with significant orchards and market gardens. Many residents commute daily to London. To summarise this is an urban-rural seat in a prosperous part of Kent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824217", "title": "Thakur Deshraj", "text": "Thakur Deshraj\n\nThakur Deshraj (1903–1970) was a social worker, journalist, nationalist, freedom fighter and author. He was from Rajasthan state in India. He was revenue minister in the princely state of Bharatpur. He had six sons Shersingh, Sajjan Singh, Rajjan Singh, Uttam Singh, Shagun Singh, Jai Singh and a daughter Nirmala Devi. Out of his children only Rajjan Singh and Jai Singh are alive. His son Rajjan Singh and his grandson Jasveer Singh are currently popular Jat politician of Bharatpur.\n\nAfter successful Jhunjhunu adhiveshan in 1932, a deputation of Jats from Sikar district, under the leadership of Prithvi Singh Gothra met Thakur Deshraj and requested him to do a similar adhiveshan in Sikar also. After long discussions Thakur Deshraj proposed to have a yagya at Sikar. A meeting for discussing this issue was called in Palthana village in October 1933. This was attended by all activists from Shekhawati and one member was invited from each family in Sikar district. About 5000 people gathered in the meeting. The Sikar thikana wanted to make this meeting a failure. For this, the thikanedar sent hundreds of handcuffs loaded on camels along with the police force to terrorize the people taking part in the meeting. Thakur Deshraj addressed the people that \n\nThese words energised the audience to continue their struggle with the Jagirdars. A resolution was passed to conduct a seven-day \"Jat Prajapat Mahayagya\" (Prayer ceremony for the Lord of Universe) in Sikar on the next \"basant\" in 1934, to spread the principles of Arya Samaj and create awakening in Shekhawati.\n\nDeshraj was expelled from Jaipur State by the Jaipur Sarkar on 10 April 1935 due to which he could not guide the farmers of Shekhawati any more. After this in 1938 he joined Bharatpur Rajya Praja Mandal, Zamindar Kisan Sabha, Braj-jaya Pratinidhi Sabha. He joined Bharatpur state cabinet also as revenue minister. After Independence he left politics and concentrated on Jat history.\n\nDeshraj is author of the book on the History of the Jats in Hindi, \"Jat-Itihasa\" () published in 1934. He also published local newspapers to promote the farmers to fight for their rights and awakened them to realize the self-respect. He started a newspaper named \"Rajasthan Sandesh\" in 1931 for this purpose. He published a series of articles in \"Jatveer\" on the acts of oppression on farmers, which awakened them. Later \"Jatveer\" paper was also published from Jhunjhunu. The paper \"Ganesh\" was published by him from Agra. Deshraj along with Tarkeshwar Sharma circulated hand written newspaper called ‘Gram Samachar’ started in 1929. Later he also published newspaper \"Kisan\". All these papers created a revolutionary change in the farmers. He published History of Jats of Marwar in 1954 and 'Sikh Itihas' in 1954.\n\nAs a journalist he wrote about the oppressive measures of the Jagirdars in Shekhawati region in Rajasthan and the Nawabs of Loharu in Haryana. His voice through these news papers reached up to House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Questions were asked in the House of Commons about excesses by Jagirdars on farmers of Shekhawati.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824221", "title": "Muhaqqaq", "text": "Muhaqqaq\n\nMuhaqqaq is one of the main six types of calligraphic script in Arabic. The Arabic word \"muḥaqqaq\" () means \"consummate\" or \"clear\", and originally was used to denote any accomplished piece of calligraphy. \n\nOften used to copy \"maṣāḥif\" (singular \"muṣḥaf\", i.e. loose sheets of Quran texts), this majestic type of script was considered one of the most beautiful, as well as one of the most difficult to execute well. The script saw its greatest use in the Mameluk era (1250–1516/1517). In the Ottoman Empire, it was gradually displaced by \"Thuluth\" and \"Naskh\"; from the 18th century onward, its use was largely restricted to the \"Basmala\" in \"Hilyas\".\n\nThe earliest reference to \"muḥaqqaq\" writing is found in the \"Kitab al-Fihrist\" by Ibn al-Nadim, and the term was probably in use since the beginning of the Abbasid era to denote a specific writing style. Master calligraphers like Ibn Muqla and Ibn al-Bawwab contributed to the development of this and other scripts, and defined its rules and standards within Islamic calligraphy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824234", "title": "Peaked cap", "text": "Peaked cap\n\nThe peaked cap, service cap, forage cap, barracks cover or combination cap is a form of headgear worn by the armed forces of many nations, as well as many uniformed civilian organisations such as law enforcement agencies and fire departments. It derives its name from its short visor (American English, known as a peak in British English), which was historically made of polished leather but increasingly is made of a cheaper synthetic substitute.\n\nOther principal components are the crown, band and insignia, typically a cap badge and embroidery in proportion to rank. Piping is also often found, typically in contrast to the crown colour, which is usually white for navy, blue for air force and green for army. The band is typically a dark, contrasting colour, often black, but may be patterned or striped.\n\nIn the British Army, each regiment and corps has a different badge. In the United States Armed Forces, the cap device is uniform throughout service branch, though different variants are used by different rank classes.\n\nThe peaked cap originated in late 18th or early 19th-century Northern Europe, usually worn by working-class men. In the later years of the Napoleonic Wars, it began to appear in the senior ranks of the Russian and Prussian armies, being popular because of its comfort and light weight, as opposed to the cumbersome bicorns and shakos that were standard duty issue. During the Biedermeier period (1815–48), they became universal dress for German and Austrian civilian males of all classes, and for the entire 19th century, they were popular with the working classes all over Northern Europe, although in Britain the flat cap was preferred by civilians towards the end of the century.\n\nIn 1846, the United States Army adopted the peaked cap during the Mexican-American war due to the unsuitability of the shako in the hot Mexican climate. In 1856, a form of peaked cap was adopted by petty officers of Britain's Royal Navy, in imitation of an undress headdress worn by officers from as early as 1827. The British Army adopted peaked caps in 1902 for both the new khaki field dress and (in coloured form) as part of the \"walking out\" or off-duty wear for other ranks. A dark blue version was worn with dress blues by all ranks of the U.S. Army between 1902 and 1917.\nDuring the 20th century, the combination or peaked cap became common in the armies, navies, air forces and police forces of the world, forgone in combat by common soldiers in favour of more protective combat helmets.\n\nIn the Australian Army, the peaked cap is known as the service cap and is generally worn with the \"Patrol Blues\" order of dress by all ranks, with the cap colour being blue. Formerly, a khaki service cap could be worn by warrant officers, commissioned officers and officer/staff cadets with the service uniform on non-ceremonial occasions, until September 2010.\n\nIn the Royal Australian Air Force, the peaked cap is the standard headdress for all ranks, usually worn with service dress, ceremonial dress and tropical dress, among others.\n\nIn the Royal Australian Navy, the peaked cap is the standard headdress worn by all ranks above leading seaman, when wearing ceremonial uniform, regular day dress and informal evening dress, among others.\n\nThroughout the 19th century, the Austro-Hungarian army were issued with shakos, originally in black leather and later in pike grey wool. Gradually, the height of the shako decreased and the cardboard stiffening removed until, by 1908, it had evolved into the ski cap. This was worn by Austrian officers and enlisted personnel during both World Wars, but when the postwar Austrian Bundesheer was established in 1955 an olive drab peaked cap and American style uniform were introduced.\n\nThe cap was used in the early stages of the First World War as the primary headgear, but increased head injuries lead to their replacement with the Brodie helmet as primary combat head protection.\n\nIn the Canadian Forces, the peaked cap () is the primary headgear for men's Royal Canadian Navy service dress. It has been abandoned in the Royal Canadian Air Force in favour of the wedge cap. It has also been eliminated from the Canadian Army in favour of the beret, with two exceptions. General officers wearing army uniform can wear either a beret or a peaked cap with service dress. Royal Canadian Infantry Corps members of foot guards units such as the Canadian Grenadier Guards wear the bearskin cap with full dress but the peaked cap with undress and service dress.\n\nOn navy caps, the peak and chinstrap of the service cap are always black. The cap band is black with the exception of navy military police, who wear a scarlet cap band, and members of Canadian Special Operations Forces Command, who wear a tan cap band.\n\nOn both navy and army caps, the chinstrap is affixed to the cap via two small buttons, one roughly over each ear; these buttons are miniature versions of the buttons on the service dress tunic, and as such bear an RCN or regimental device.\n\nThe peak of the cap of non-commissioned members and subordinate officers is left plain, and officers' caps are adorned with one or more bands of braid (depending on rank) at the forward edge of the peak. The peak of the junior officer's cap has a gold band along the forward edge, that of the senior officer has a row of gold oak leaves across the forward edge, while that of the flag officer has two rows of gold oak leaves, one along the forward edge and one near the cap band. The same oak leaves are worn by the Governor General of Canada as Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Forces.\n\nThe service cap is theoretically unisex, although there exists a service hat () for women. The service hat does not have a crown top and has a stiff brim all around. The front of the brim is formed into a visor and the sides and back are folded upwards.\n\nThe Canadian Coast Guard shares a similar cap and colours with the Royal Canadian Navy.\n\nPolice forces across Canada also wear a peaked cap. The cap is basic black with colour cap band of either of red (municipal forces), blue (Ontario Provincial Police (OPP)) or yellow (Royal Canadian Mounted Police). The peaked cap of the Sûreté du Québec is green with a green band and yellow piping.\n\nUntil recently the OPP's front line officers wore a black Campaign hat, but has since reverted to the peaked cap. The RCMP only use the Campaign hat for formal dress uniform or by members of the Musical Ride.\n\nIn Denmark, the use of peaked cap has seen a gradual decline from official uniforms, but it is still used in the ceremonial uniforms the general corps of the Army, officers of the Airforce, officers of the Navy, the police and fire department.\n\nPeaked caps were first issued to German Landwehr troops during the Napoleonic Wars, since these were cheaper and easier to maintain than the heavy leather shakos and elaborate tailcoats worn by the British, French and Russian armies. The Prussian army was also the first to adopt the frock coat, so officers would not soil their dress uniforms on campaign.\n\nWhen the was introduced during the 1840s, enlisted German troops were issued with peakless forage caps resembling the sailor cap. Officers, however, continued to wear the peaked cap, or , to set themselves apart from the French, who wore the kepi. Initially, German peaked caps were in the uniform color, e.g., Prussian blue, cornflower blue, green, etc., but before the First World War a field grey hat was issued, with piping colour coded for infantry, artillery or cavalry. These caps, known as \"crushers\", could be worn beneath a or stuffed into a pocket or knapsak\n\nIn 1935, the Nazis introduced new uniforms designed for modern mechanised warfare. However, the basic design including the peaked cap remained the same as in the Weimar Republic's \"Reichsheer\". But the new national emblem featuring eagle clutching swastika, and Black-red-white roundel in oak wreath were introduced on the caps. Enlisted personnel and non-commissioned officers were issued with peaked caps with leather chincord. Officers received caps with metallic chincord. Both enlisted-NCO's caps and Officer's caps featured specially colored piping around the cap according to their service branch (White for infantry, pink for panzer and so on). Gestapo and SS men were issued with black featuring a silver death's head. On campaign, Wehrmacht officers often removed the wire stiffening so the cap would resemble the older First World War–era crusher.\n\nAfter the Second World War, both the West German Bundeswehr and East German National People's Army continued to be issued uniforms derived from the Second World War pattern. East German caps bore the DDR State Cockade with the Hammer and Compass design, while West German caps had a cockade in the German national colours, and a badge featuring a pair of crossed swords. After reunification, the remained part of the German army dress uniform.\n\nThe peaked cap and peaked hat are worn as formal dress by members of the Hong Kong Disciplined Services (police, fire, customs/excise, immigration, etc.) with influence from the British colonial services. All caps use black as base colour. The crown is flat and round in shape. Female police officers' caps have a coloured band, no crown top and front of the brim is flat with sides/back folded upwards.\n\nOnly members of the Hong Kong Police's Tactical units, Emergency unit, and motorcycle officers do not wear the peaked cap when on duty.\n\nMembers of the Hong Kong Sea Cadet Corps, Hong Kong Adventure Corps and Hong Kong Air Cadet Corps (including the Ceremonial Squadron) use the British-based cap.\n\nMembers of the People's Liberation Army Hong Kong Garrison also wear a peaked cap, but the design is more influenced from the former Soviet Union, and varies with those used in Hong Kong. However, since from 2007, PLA started to change to adapt the Type 07 Service Uniform, the new uniform retains peaked cap but the style is more like the US and Commonwealth peaked cap instead of the Soviet style caps.\n\nMembers of the armed and uniformed services in Indonesia wear the Peaked cap during ceremonial and operational duties. It is widely worn by the Indonesian National Police, the Indonesian Armed Forces and other uniformed institutions in the country.\n<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>\nIn the Israel Defense Forces, combination caps are used only by:\nMembers of the Public Security Police Force of Macau do not wear peaked caps (berets or ball caps), but Corpo de Bombeiros de Macau dress uniform utilises the cap.\n\nThe rogatywka is a 4-cornered type of peaked cap, related to the czapka and worn by members of the Polish Land Forces. \n\nNaval officers and air force personnel, however, wear conventional peaked caps.\n\nRussia was the first country to adopt the peaked cap. The official act of adopting the cap for military use was made by Alexander I of Russia in 1811. During the Napoleonic Wars, various early versions of the peaked cap were in use in the Russian army. Imperial Russia abandoned the cap for a short period in the second half of the 19th century for a forage cap similar to the one used by Americans during their civil war, but the peaked cap soon returned. Early soldiers' peaked caps were, in fact, peakless, hence the nickname (soldier's flapjack) for the headgear; officers' caps had peaks from the start and looked like modern peaked caps. The peakless version remained in use in the Russian navy under the name of (literally \"peakless one\") and is still worn by Russian seamen. Also during the Imperial period, peaked caps were introduced as part of government officials' uniforms. Serfs and peasants adopted an almost identical hat into their fashion after the Napoleonic Wars, known as a .\n\nIn 1914, peakless caps were abolished everywhere in Russian armed forces except the Navy, and modern peaked caps were issued to all soldiers. However, after the October Revolution of 1917, it was replaced in Red Army field uniforms by the budenovka, and later by the garrison cap. The dress uniforms, on the other hand, retained this headgear, and various paramilitary Soviet agencies like the NKVD or VOKhR kept using it in all uniforms. Agencies like railway workers, firemen, pilots, mining supervisors, foresters, customs officers in the Soviet Union also were organised along military lines and wore uniforms with peaked caps of various designs.\n\nIn 1990s, the Russian peaked cap was redesigned and widely issued to the armed forces and police. Caps of this shape are most associated with Russia among foreigners, since they are large and high. In 2012, after Sergey Shoygu was appointed Minister of Defence, the design of the peaked cap was changed again to a lower and more proportional style.\n\nDuring the Cold War, uniforms copied from the Russian pattern were issued to the armies of various Asian, Eastern European and African communist regimes. Particularly famous are the oversized caps worn by North Korean army officers, unchanged since the 1950s.\n\nRoyal Navy officers were first issued peaked caps in 1825 as a less formal alternative to the bicorne hat. From 1846, it was worn with a crown on the front, and later (from 1856), gold braid was added to the brim to ensure commissioned officers were instantly recognised by their subordinates. Commanders, captains and commodores had one gold wreath on their peaks, whereas flag officers had two. Before the Second World War, naval officers were required to possess two caps: one with a white cover for summer and one without for winter. However, flag officers often preferred the white-topped cap in order to stand out from their subordinates.\n\nBritish army officers wore blue peaked caps as early as the Crimean War to distinguish themselves from enlisted men who wore the pillbox hat. The peaked caps were widely worn on campaign during the First and Second World Wars, until the more practical beret was popularised by generals like Bernard Montgomery. After the war, officers continued to wear khaki caps as part of the Number 2 dress uniform, but by the 1990s these had been phased out in favour of the dark blue and red caps previously worn with the Number 1 dress uniform.\n\nPeaked caps were first issued to enlisted men in 1908 to replace the Glengarry caps and pillbox hats of the Boer War era. The new caps were made of khaki wool and sometimes had a neck flap to protect against the cold. Nicknamed the \"gor blimey\", these caps are associated with the First World War 'Tommy Atkins' and continued to be issued to members of the Home Guard and Territorial Army during the Second World War.\n\nRoyal Navy officers, Warrant officers, and Senior Rates today wear a framed cap with a white cover and a black band in Nos 1, 2 and 3 Dress; originally worn only in tropical climates, the white cover was adopted for all areas after the Second World War. Officers have an option of a cotton or plastic cover.\n\nRoyal Marines wear a cap with a white cover and a red band with 'Blues' uniform. The Royal Marines Band Service also wear this cap with the Lovat Uniform and Barrack Dress.\n\nMost regiments and corps of the British Army wear a forage cap in Numbers 1 and 2 Dress, the exceptions being:\n\n\nIt has a cap band which may be coloured (red for all Royal Regiments and Corps), a crown (formerly khaki, now dark blue, except for Military Police which has always been red, and the Rifles who wear Rifle Green) which may have coloured piping or a regimental/corps colour and a patent leather peak and chinstrap. The chinstrap is usually secured above and across the peak and secured at each end by a small (20 line) button of the appropriate regimental or corps pattern.\n\nOfficers in some regiments are also required to wear a khaki version of the cap, often called the \"Service Dress Cap\" with Service Dress (the Officers' No 2 Dress) or Barrack Dress; the design of this dates back to the cap worn in the field until replaced by the steel helmet during the First World War.\n\nAll ranks of the Royal Air Force wear a cap with a blue-grey crown and a black band, worn with the appropriate badge in No 1 dress, and sometimes in other types as well. The peak is:\n\n\n\"See also:\" Police uniforms and equipment in the United Kingdom#Uniform\n\nBasic headgear for male police officers in the UK is a peaked cap. This includes a cap badge and generally has a black and white diced band (called Sillitoe Tartan) around the hat. \n\nFull members of Royal Yacht Clubs wear a black doeskin cap with plain black leather peak and a black band, worn with the appropriate individual club's badge.\n\nFlag officers' caps are not distinguished by oak leaves or similar devices.\n\nIn the United States Marine Corps, these caps are also worn, in two forms. For all ranks, the device is the Eagle, Globe, and Anchor device. In addition, officers wear a lace cross on the top, called the quatrefoil, a traditional mark of distinction from the Marine Corps' foundation enabling sharpshooters aboard ships to identify friendly officers from foes. For blue dress uniforms, the cap is white with a gold device for enlisted, while the gold and silver device is for officers. Only the visor is black, and the chin strap is black for enlisted Marines; it is gold and scarlet for officers. For the service uniforms, an olive drab combination cap is available; the device is black, and the chin strap is black for all ranks. In both cases, field grade officers (majors, lieutenant colonels and colonels) have gold oak leaf motifs on the visor, similar to those worn by navy commanders and captains, while general officers' caps have a different, larger oak leaf motif on the visor. Additionally the blue dress cap of the Commandant of the Marine Corps (as well as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff if it is also a Marine) adds an additional gold oak leaf motif to the front of the band. In the Marine Corps, the combination cap is referred to as the \"barracks cover.\" Also referred as the dress cap or service cap in Marine Corps Orders.\n\nIn the United States Navy, midshipmen, chief petty officers, and commissioned officers wear combination covers, but there are differences between the three types. Midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy or in Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) units wear a combination cap with a gold chinstrap attached by gold buttons, with a gold fouled anchor device. A chief petty officer wears a combination cap with a black chinstrap attached with gold buttons, with a device consisting of a gold fouled anchor with silver block letters \"USN\" superimposed on the shank of the anchor, with the addition of one, two, or three stars at the top of the anchor if the wearer is a Senior Chief Petty Officer, a Master Chief Petty Officer, or the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy, respectively; while a commissioned officer wears a combination cap with a gold chinstrap attached by gold buttons, with an officer crest device, a silver federal shield over two crossed gold fouled anchors, surmounted by a silver eagle. Chief petty officer and junior commissioned officer visors are shiny black plastic without ornamentation. Officers O-5 (Commander) and above have gold embroidered oak leaves and acorns on a black felt-covered visor, with additional embroidery for flag officers (O-7, or rear admiral lower half, and above), referred to as \"scrambled eggs.\" A thin plastic crown and metal hoop provides structure, and the covering fabric come in khaki or in white (since 1963, the white combination cap is worn with both white and blue uniforms). The black band around the cap includes a black circle extending upward on the front of the crown as a backing behind the device. The gold buttons on the sides of the cover that fasten the chin strap are of a design to match the gold buttons on the service dress jacket and the snaps on officer shoulder boards. For the former female cap the brim was folded up on both sides whereas the men's cap has no brim but a visor at the front; the female cap was discontinued October 2018.\nIn the United States Army soldiers of ranks Specialist and below are not authorized to wear a combination cap and may only wear a beret with the blue service uniform. The combination cap for the blue service and blue dress uniforms of noncommissioned officers (Corporal and above) has a golden stripe on top of the cap band, black chinstrap; the device is the United States' coat of arms in front of a gold disk (the exception is the Sergeant Major of the Army whose device is a gold-colored rendering of the U.S coat of arms surrounded by a gold-coloured wreath). The version for warrant officers and company-grade officers (second lieutenants, first lieutenants, & captains) has a cap band with the branch-of-service color between two golden stripes, and a gold-colored chinstrap. Field-grade officers O-4 and Above (major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel) have oak leaves known unofficially as \"scrambled eggs\" on the visor. General officers' caps are similar to those of field-grade officers, but the cap band is dark blue and embroidered with gold oak leaf motifs. Warrant officers' cap device and all commissioned officers' cap device is a gold-color rendering of the United States' coat of arms, larger than that of soldiers and lacking the golden disk backing.\n\nIn the United States Air Force, all personnel have the option to wear service caps, but only field-grade (major through colonel) and general officers are required to own one. The service cap is issued without charge to enlisted airmen assigned to certain ceremonial units and details.\n\nWith the exception of enlisted airmen assigned to the Air Force Band and the Air Force Base Honor Guard, each of which has its own distinctive cap insignia and other uniform devices, Air Force combination caps bear a relief of the Great Seal of the United States rendered in silver-colored metal. For enlisted members, the arms are surrounded by a silver-colored metal circle. (The Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force has a wreath instead of the circle). Commissioned officers' insignia is larger and lacks the encompassing circle.\n\nThe chinstrap is secured to each side of the cap with a silver-colored, screw-in, metal button bearing an updated and simplified version of the \"Hap Arnold emblem\" first designed by James T. Rawls for use by the Air Force's predecessor, the Army Air Forces, in 1942. Apart from the screw-back, the buttons are of the same design as those used to secure the uniform coat's epaulets and pockets.\n\nEnlisted airmen's chinstraps and visors are of plain black leather or polymer material. All commissioned officers' chinstraps are also of plain black leather or polymer material. The visors of company-grade officers (second lieutenant through captain) are plain black leather or polymer material. Field-grade officers' visors have two pairs of clouds and lightning bolts, patterned after the oak leaf motifs used by the other services. General officers' caps add an extra pair of clouds and bolts on the visor, while the cap of the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force adds clouds and bolts around the entire cap band. The clouds and bolts are jokingly referred to in military slang as \"farts and darts\", much as the other services' oak leaf motifs are known as \"scrambled eggs\".\n\nThe USAF service cap is also worn by the Air Force's civilian auxiliary, the Civil Air Patrol. Senior members (those over the age of 18 who are not cadets and everyone over 21) may wear the service cap with the CAP-specific service cap device. Similar to the Air Force, company grade officers (and NCOs) wear the service cap with a plain brim, field-grade officers wear the service cap with two sets of clouds and bolts on the brim, and general officers wear the service cap with three sets of clouds and bolts. Cadet officers of the CAP also have the option to wear the service cap with the distinctive CAP cadet officer service cap device. The brim is always plain black leather or polymer, regardless of the cadet's rank. The service cap may also be worn by cadets of a CAP Honor Guard detail, even if they are not cadet officers. The manner of wearing is identical to that of a cadet officer.\n\nDuring World War II, the \"50 mission crush\" cap was popular among aircrews of the United States Army Air Forces. Bomber and fighter aircrews had to wear headsets over their service cap during flight, so they would remove the stiffening wire from the cap. The headset would then crush the cap, which would eventually retain its crushed appearance. Since it took a good many missions to properly achieve the look, a so-called \"50-mission crush\" cap was considered a sign of a seasoned combat veteran. Current US Air Force regulations prohibit the wearing of such caps.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard wears the combination cap, known as the combo cover, with the Service Dress Blue uniform (SDBs), the Tropical Blue uniform (Trops), and with all other formal dress uniforms. The cover is identical to that of the Navy with respect to the chinstrap and peak ornamentation. Its crown is white. The buttons securing the chin strap to the sides of the band are smaller versions of the buttons worn on the Coast Guard's uniform coats. The blue band around the cap includes blue fabric extending upward on the front of the crown to serve as a backing behind the device. In the case of enlisted personnel, this extension is a blue circle identical to that on the caps of naval officers and chief petty officers. In the case of commissioned officers, however, the extension is a more elaborate polygon to accommodate the officers' cap device.\n\nUnlike their naval counterparts, coast guardsmen below the rank of chief petty officer wear combination covers; their cap device is a golden representation of the Coast Guard emblem. Coast Guard chief petty officers' cap devices match those of the Navy, albeit with a shield on the front of the fouled anchor; like Navy chiefs, their cap devices are enlarged renderings of the rank insignia worn on their collars. Coast Guard officers' cap device is an eagle with wings outstretched, above an anchor grasped horizontally in its talons.\n\nThe Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps—the two small services, consisting only of officers, which are the two uniformed services that are not armed forces—wear uniforms and rank insignia adopted from the Navy. The combination covers of the two services are identical to those of the Navy with respect to colors, and peak ornamentation. The chinstrap of the PHS is gold with a burgundy stripe. The buttons securing the chin strap to the sides of the band are smaller versions of the buttons worn on the services' uniform coats. The cap device of NOAACC officers is similar to that of Navy officers with a globe in place of the shield; the cap device of PHSCC officers is similar to that of Navy officers but has a caduceus in place of one of the anchors.\n\nWhile the majority of American merchant mariners are employed by shipping businesses and accordingly wear either uniforms prescribed by their employers or civilian attire, some officers receive commissions in the United States Maritime Service for federal government duty, such as the faculty of the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the Military Sealift Command's civilian officers manning non-commissioned United States Naval Ships. These officers wear uniforms and rank insignia adopted from the U.S. Navy, albeit with United States Merchant Marine's own button design, cap device, awards, and decorations. The combination covers these officers are identical to those of naval officer with respect to colors, chinstrap and peak ornamentation. The buttons securing the chin strap to the sides of the band are smaller versions of the buttons worn on their coats. The USMS cap device is a rendering of the Merchant Marine device in gold- and silver-colored metal. Like the device worn by naval officers, it features a silver eagle, with wings outstretched, above a gold shield; the shield, however, is defaced with an anchor and surrounded by a wreath.\n\nPublic safety officers, such as those from the police, fire department, ambulance service, and customs, often wear peaked caps, especially on formal occasions. In the US, police forces use caps that have softer tops and are not round and rigid in form (notable are those worn in New York and San Francisco). British and Australian policemen have a checkerboard pattern on the cap band, and traffic wardens often have a reflective yellow strip.\n\nA number of civilian professions—the most notable modern examples being merchant marine and civil aviation—also wear peaked caps. In such civilian old traditional usage, only captains aboard ships and pilots in command (airline captains) in service aboard aircraft, have the golden oak leaf motifs (\"scrambled eggs\") on the visor; this is in contrast to the naval tradition, where it is also worn by commanders (one rank below captain) as well as by commodores and flag officers.\n\nThe original civilian variant of the peaked cap was widely worn by sailors and workers from the mid 19th century onwards. These were made of wool or canvas, and sometimes waterproofed with tar. During the 1960s, blue denim Greek fisherman's caps became an essential accessory for the counterculture due to their use by John Lennon of the Beatles. A black leather version, sometimes embellished with chains or metal studs, was worn by bikers, greasers imitating Marlon Brando in \"The Wild One\", and members of the 1970s Black Power movement.\n\nPeaked caps are also commonly worn around the world by some railway, or airport staff (baggage porters, but often wearing kepi type cap), bus drivers and Security guards.\n\nStudent caps in Northern and Central European countries are frequently peaked caps. The student caps in Nordic countries are traditionally white (summer uniform) or black (winter uniform) but the colors of the bands, lining, tassels and cockades differ, depending on the school or the faculty. In German-speaking countries and in Poland, Estonia and Latvia, student caps come in a variety of colors, depending on the colors of the student organization or the school, and can be decorated with its zirkel (a monogram).\n\nA typical peaked cap has a spring stiffening, often in the form of a wire grommet frame, to ensure the sides and rear of the fabric covering have the proper shape. A crusher cap removes the stiffener to allow headphones to be worn over the hat or use in confined spaces such as tanks and submarines, giving it a slouched and worn \"crushed\" appearance. Such modified caps were especially popular among US Army Air Forces combat pilots and German tank commanders and submariners in the Second World War.\n"}
{"id": "1824258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824258", "title": "Katy Manning", "text": "Katy Manning\n\nCatherine Ann \"Katy\" Manning (born 14 October 1946) is an English-Australian actress best known for her part as the companion Jo Grant in the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". She has also made many theatre appearances, and is now an Australian citizen. In 2009, Manning moved back to the UK to pursue new acting work and lives in London.\n\nManning was born in Guildford, Surrey, the younger daughter of sports columnist J. L. Manning OBE; her elder sister Jane Dressler, a fashion model, lived in Roanake, America. As a result of a car accident she spent a year in hospital at sixteen. Aged 18, she went to the U.S. where she was offered a five-year contract with MGM. Returning to the UK, Manning trained at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art, then joined a Wolverhampton repertory company, and made her TV debut in the BBC drama \"\", in the episode 'Standing Orders'.. Shortly after, she was seen in two episodes playing Julia Dungarvon, in ITV's \"Man At The Top\".\n\nShe played the part of Jo Grant (1971–73) alongside Jon Pertwee's incarnation of the Doctor. Manning struck up an immediate rapport with her co-stars Pertwee, Nicholas Courtney (The Brigadier), John Levene (Sergeant Benton), Richard Franklin (Captain Mike Yates) and Roger Delgado (the Master). Fans of \"Doctor Who\" often refer to these characters as the UNIT family — UNIT, the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce, being the fictional United Nations organisation that the Doctor worked for. Manning is the only surviving Doctor Who companion from Jon Pertwee's era.\n\nManning's connection with \"Doctor Who\" continues: she voices Jo Grant in the Companion Chronicles Audio Adventures, and she is also the voice of the Time Lord Iris Wildthyme in several of the Big Finish Productions audio plays. In 2005, Manning also appeared in \"Doctor Who — Inside The TARDIS\" with two of the Doctors, Sylvester McCoy and Colin Baker, who spoke of their experiences with the long-running show.\n\nShe is also involved with fan events and conventions, and she is the patron of the Doctor Who Club of Australia.\n\nIn October 2010, Manning reprised her role as Jo Jones (née Grant) in the fourth series of the \"Doctor Who\" spin-off \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" with Matt Smith as the Eleventh Doctor. The two-part story, entitled 'Death of the Doctor', was written by former executive producer of the programme Russell T Davies. She meets the Doctor again, and stars with her grandchild (one of twelve, soon to be thirteen) Santiago Jones. \n\nIn November 2013 she appeared as herself in the one-off 50th anniversary comedy homage \"The Five(ish) Doctors Reboot\".\n\nAfter leaving Doctor Who, Manning presented her own ten-part TV series for the BBC on crafts, entitled \"Serendipity\" shown in the daytime schedules. She was reunited with Jon Pertwee in 1975, when she appeared in \"Whodunnit?\" on ITV, at the time Pertwee was chairing the panel. In 1977, she appeared topless as a drug addict in the hard-hitting crime drama \"Target\", her last BBC drama role other than as Jo Jones in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" until \"Casualty\" in 2015. Manning wrote the TV series \"Private Wives\" and has been involved in other writing and directing projects.\n\nIn 1980, she toured in Peter Terson's 'VE Night' alongside Ian Cullen and Jane Goddard. In Australia she appeared in the play \"Run for Your Wife\" (1987–88), and the production toured the country. Other members of the cast in the production were Jack Smethurst, David McCallum and Eric Sykes. Her film career has included roles in the British comedies \"Don't Just Lie There, Say Something!\" (1973) and \"Eskimo Nell\" (1975), and the Australian films \"Melvin, Son of Alvin\" (1984) and \"The Quest\" (1986). She has also appeared in the low-budget film noir \"When Darkness Falls\" (2005) directed by Australian documentary filmmaker Rohan Spong.\n\nIn 2000 she voiced the main character Gloria in the Australian children's animated television series \"Gloria's House\", as well as Emma in a 2002 animated film from Burbank Animation Studios, \"Jungle Girl and the Lost Island of Dinosaurs\".\n\nIn June and July 2007, she appeared as Yvette in the stage show \"'Allo 'Allo!\" alongside Gorden Kaye as René Artois at Twelfth Night Theatre in Brisbane. Guy Siner and Sue Hodge also reprised their original roles from the television series, and the other characters were portrayed by Australian television actors including Steven Tandy and Jason Gann.\n\nIn 2011, she appeared as Blodwyn Morgan, a Welsh busybody and clairvoyant, in the touring stage play 'Death by Fatal Murder'. This was a Peter Gordon play, and part of the 'Inspector Pratt' trilogy. She also appeared as Susan Payne in the 2014 supernatural gangster film \"Evil Never Dies\" (originally titled \"The Haunting of Harry Payne\") starring Tony Scannell and Graham Cole.\n\nIn 2009 Manning returned to the UK as part of her one-woman show \"Me and Jezebel\". The play is based on a true 1985 story about Bette Davis inviting herself to a fan's house for a night and staying for a month, with Manning playing all the parts. It toured through March and April in England and also played at the 2009 Edinburgh Fringe at The Gilded Balloon Wine Bar in August. The show received a five-star review in the \"Edinburgh Evening News\", which described Manning as \"one of Britain's best actresses\". Manning also received two other four-star reviews and appeared on STV news promoting the show. \nShe returned to the Edinburgh Fringe in 2014 in the play 'Keeping up with the Joans' with Susan Penhaligon. The play also toured to The Customs House, South Shields & Greenwich Theatre London.\n\nManning was born with myopia, commonly known as \"nearsightedness\" or \"shortsightedness\", which caused numerous injuries during the filming of \"Doctor Who\". She has stated, \"Once I tried to take the wrong children home from school!\"\n\nManning has twins (a son Jonathan and a daughter Georgina) born in 1979 with partner Dean Harris. The children were born premature and suffered health issues, which caused her to move to Australia where she met her long-term partner Barry Crocker.\n\nIn a 2012 \"Radio Times\" interview, Manning said she had returned to London three years earlier, although there was no mention of any break-up in their relationship, and she referred to Crocker as her \"current partner\" in a 2017 interview with the \"Daily Express\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1824271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824271", "title": "Polin", "text": "Polin\n\nDocuments from the POLIN Museum of the History of Polish Jews state that the Hebrew word for 'Poland' is pronounced as \"Polania\" or \"Polin\" in Hebrew. As transliterated into Hebrew, these names for Poland were interpreted as \"good omens\" because \"Polania\" can be broken down into three Hebrew words: \"po\" (\"here\"), \"lan\" (\"dwells\"), \"ya\" (\"God\"), and \"Polin\" into two words of: \"po\" (\"here\") \"lin\" (\"[you should] dwell\"). The \"message\" was that Poland was meant to be a good place for the Jews. In later centuries up to 80% of the Jewish world population lived in Poland.\n\nPoland was for centuries the best place in Europe for the Jews. They were recruited by kings and nobles to help improve the economy of the country. They were offered a good deal of autonomy, allowed to live their social and religious lives according to their customs and beliefs. This continued so long as the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth lasted, til the partitions of the country in the late 18th century. The downside of all this was that the autonomy of the Jews and their connection with the ruling authorities prevented any real symbiosis with the masses of the Polish populations, and their economic role was eventually seen by the people as exploitative, one in the interests only of the nobility. In the end Jews lose their loyalty to the Polish crown during Swedish Deluge. \n\n"}
{"id": "1824276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824276", "title": "Ivan Eland", "text": "Ivan Eland\n\nIvan Eland (; born February 23, 1958) is an American defense analyst and writer. He is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute. Eland's writings generally propose libertarian and non-interventionist policies. Books that he has authored include \"Recarving Rushmore\".\n\nEland received an M.B.A. in Applied Economics and a Ph.D. in National Security Policy from George Washington University. He has previously served as Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, as Principal Defense Analyst at the Congressional Budget Office, as an investigator dealing with national security and intelligence for the Government Accountability Office, and on a House Committee on Foreign Affairs special investigation of allegations that the U.S. sold weapons to Iraq prior to 1991. He has testified before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.\n\nIvan Eland is the author of \"Putting \"Defense\" Back into U.S. Defense Policy\" (2001), \"The Empire Has No Clothes: U.S. Foreign Policy Exposed\" (2004), \"Recarving Rushmore: Ranking the Presidents on Peace, Prosperity, and Liberty\" (2008; updated edition 2014) and \"Partitioning for Peace: An Exit Strategy for Iraq\" (2009). He has also written essays, including forty-five in-depth studies on national security issues , and numerous popular articles. He addressed the subjects of foreign relations, defense policy, military readiness and threat analysis, Sino-American relations, the Taiwan issue, terrorism and its effects on civil liberties, the lessons of the Vietnam War, WMD proliferation, National Missile Defense, the National Security Agency, the ABM Treaty, submarines, special operations forces, NATO expansion, and U.S. policy towards Iraq and Iran.\n\nEland is a libertarian, generally supporting non-interventionism and limited government. In his 2008 book \"Recarving Rushmore\", Eland argued that historians' rankings of US presidents fail to reflect presidents' actual services to the country. In the book, he rated 40 US presidents on the basis of whether or not their policies promoted peace, prosperity, and liberty during their tenures; John Tyler and Grover Cleveland were ranked the two strongest, while Harry Truman and Woodrow Wilson came in last.\n\nEland once named Jimmy Carter \"the best modern president,\" praising Carter's restrained foreign policy and deregulation of several American industries. Eland continues to strongly oppose the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and called George W. Bush's presidency \"one of the worst of all time.\" Eland is the Assistant Editor of the \"Independent Review\", writes a regular column for the website Antiwar.com, contributes frequently at Consortium News Robert Parry's website of investigative journalism. Eland is on the Advisory Council of the Democracy Institute.\n\nEland supports the NRA; he is a critic of the Affordable Care Act and race-based affirmative action. Regarding global warming, Eland does not believe in climate change. He argues that the threats posed are sensationalized. Eland has appeared on RT, formerly known as Russia Today, a Russian state-sponsored cable television channel, from 2011 to the present.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824287", "title": "Jeli Thuluth", "text": "Jeli Thuluth\n\nJeli Thuluth () is a calligraphic variety of Arabic script. This term was applied to writings in Thuluth script when the point of the pen employed was at least one centimeter broad. Jeli Thuluth was used in large panels and for inscriptions carved in stone on buildings or tombstones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824296", "title": "Victorian Heritage Register", "text": "Victorian Heritage Register\n\nThe Victorian Heritage Register (VHR) lists places deemed to be of cultural heritage significance to the State of Victoria, Australia. It has statutory weight under the Heritage Act 1995 which established Heritage Victoria as the State Government listing and permit authority. Listing on the Victorian Heritage Register is separate from listing by a local Council or Shire, known as a Heritage Overlay. Heritage Victoria is currently part of the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning of the Government of Victoria, Australia. Heritage Victoria reports to the Heritage Council who approve recommendations to the Register and hear appeals when a registration is disputed. The Council also hears appeals by an owner to a permit issued by Heritage Victoria (third parties cannot appeal). The Minister for Planning is the responsible Minister for Heritage Victoria and the Heritage Act 1995. As of 2013, there were over 2,200 places and objects listed on the VHR.\n\nThe Act allows the registration of a wide range of cultural heritage places and objects, including: \n\nPlaces listed on the Victorian Heritage Register can be found on the Victorian Heritage Database, which also lists many places with a local level of protection. The database can be accessed here.\n\nA place listed on the Victorian Heritage Register does not mean a place cannot be demolished or altered; instead a permit from Heritage Victoria is required, which may or may not be granted, or granted with conditions. Information on permits can be found here. 'Delisting' a place occurs only if the place has been destroyed (for instance by fire), or a permit has been granted for total demolition or alterations so extensive the place no longer has State level significance. The Planning Minister may intervene in the process of listing or the granting of a permit, by not accepting the advice of Heritage Victoria or the Heritage Council, preventing a place from being listed, or allowing greater alteration or even total demolition.\n\nAll places and objects listed on the register are entitled to a Blue plaque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824305", "title": "Stokes Bay", "text": "Stokes Bay\n\nStokes Bay (grid ref.: ) is an area of the Solent that lies just south of Gosport, between Portsmouth and Lee-on-the-Solent, Hampshire. There is a shingle beach with views of Ryde and East Cowes on the Isle of Wight to the south and Fawley to the south west. The village of Alverstoke is close by.\n\nTo the east of Stokes Bay is Fort Gilkicker, which was built in 1871 to guard the headland and the western approaches to Portsmouth Harbour and housed 22 gun emplacements. It was used in both world wars to protect Portsmouth and air attacks and fell into disrepair shortly after 1945; it is on the Buildings at Risk Register and support is being sought for its conservation and for an alternative use.\n\nThere was also a pier, adjacent to Gosport and Fareham Inshore Rescue Lifeboat station, from which a ferry service ran which was the quickest crossing to the Isle of Wight. The pier had a railway station, opened 6 April 1863, which had a branch line (Stokes Bay Line) from the Fareham to Gosport Line. This railway stopped running services to the pier on 1 November 1915 and sold the land to the Admiralty in 1922. The line was not as popular as the Portsmouth to Ryde crossing although the journey from London was longer than from Portsmouth. Most of the railway line is a cycle path.\n\nThe Admiralty used the pier from 1922 to transport munitions and fuel and had a narrow gauge railway line which replaced the branch line. The pier was then used as a torpedo station and fell into disrepair before being demolished in the late 1970s. In June 1944, landing craft embarked from Stokes Bay for France as part of Operation Overlord, the Allied invasion of Normandy.\n\nThe Solent opposite Stokes Bay is often used by extremely large warships (e.g. US supercarriers) to anchor, as Portsmouth Harbour is not deep enough to berth them.\nIt has also been the site of many fleet reviews, the most recent being to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar in 2005.\n\nTo the east is the 9-hole Gosport and Stokes Bay Golf Club. This area of the bay also contains a number of fresh and salt-water margin lagoons and provides a unique habitat for rare flora, including several specimens of the Kermes Oak (A shrub of the Quercus family, native to the Mediterranean).\n\n"}
{"id": "1824310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824310", "title": "Anders Fryxell", "text": "Anders Fryxell\n\nAnders Fryxell (7 February 179521 March 1881) was a Swedish historian.\n\nFryxell was born at Edsleskog, Dalsland, (now part of Åmål Municipality, Västra Götaland County) on 7 February 1795. He was educated at Uppsala University, took holy orders in 1820, was made a Doctor of Philosophy in 1821, and in 1823 began to publish the great work of his life, the \"Stories from Swedish History\". He did not bring this labor to a close until, fifty-six years later, he published the forty-sixth and crowning volume of his vast enterprise.\n\nFryxell, as a historian, appealed to every class by the picturesqueness of his style and the breadth of his research; he had the gift of awakening to an extraordinary degree the national sense in his readers. In 1824 he published his \"Swedish Grammar\", which was long without a rival. In 1833 he received the title of professor, and in 1835 he was appointed to the incumbency of Sunne, in the diocese of Karlstad, where he resided for the remainder of his life. In 1840 he was elected to the Swedish Academy in succession to the poet Johan Olof Wallin (1779–1839). In 1847 Fryxell received from his bishop permission to withdraw from all the services of the Church, that he might devote himself without interruption to historical investigation.\n\nAmong his numerous minor writings are prominent his \"Characteristics of Sweden between 1592 and 1600\" (1830), his \"Origins of the Inaccuracy with which the History of Sweden in Catholic Times has been Treated\" (1847), and his \"Contributions to the Literary History of Sweden\".\n\nIt is now beginning to be seen that the abundant labors of Fryxell were rather of a popular than of a scientific order, and although their influence during his lifetime was unbounded, it is only fair to later and exacter historians to admit that they threaten to become obsolete in more than one direction.\n\nFryxell was the founder of the progressive pioneer school \"Wallinska skolan\", the first serious secondary education girl school in Stockholm, and was its principal in 1831-1834.\n\nOn the 21 March 1881 Anders Fryxell died at Stockholm, and in 1884 his daughter Eva Fryxell (born 1829) published from his MS. an interesting \"History of My History\", which was really a literary autobiography and displays the persistency and tirelessness of his industry.\n\nHe was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1847.\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "1824320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824320", "title": "Punjab and Haryana High Court", "text": "Punjab and Haryana High Court\n\nPunjab and Haryana High Court is the common High Court for the Indian states of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh based in Chandigarh, India. As of 28 November 2019, there are 56 Judges in the High Court, comprising 39 Permanent and 17 Additional Judges. Past judges include Jagdish Singh Khehar, Ranjan Gogoi who were elevated to the Supreme Court of India and became Chief Justice of India.\n\nThe court building is known as the Palace of Justice. Designed by Le Corbusier, it and several of his other works were inscribed as UNESCO World Heritage Sites in July 2016.\n\nPunjab and Haryana High Court was formerly known as Lahore High Court, which was established on 21 March 1919. The jurisdiction of that court covered undivided Punjab and Delhi. From 1920 to 1943, the Court was conferred with extraterritorial jurisdiction over that part of China that formed part of the British consular district of Kashgar, which had previously been under the jurisdiction of the British Supreme Court for China. This ceased upon the ratification of the British-Chinese Treaty for the Relinquishment of Extra-Territorial Rights in China.\n\nFollowing the independence of India and its Partition on 15 August 1947, a separate High Court of Punjab was created, based at historic Peterhoff building in Shimla. This had jurisdiction over the erstwhile territories of Patiala and East Punjab States Union and the Punjab Province of British India, which covers now areas of Indian Punjab, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana. From 17 January 1955, the Court was moved to its present location in Chandigarh. It was at Peterhoff where the trial of Nathuram Godse, who assassinated Mahatma Gandhi, took place in 1948–49. \n\nThe creation of Himachal Pradesh on 15 August 1948 led to a separate Court of Judicial Commissioner (similar to a High Court) being established for that state and thus the jurisdiction of the Punjab court was reduced. A separate High Court was constituted for the Union Territory of Delhi under the \"Delhi High Court Act, 1966\". Three Judges of the Punjab High Court were transferred to the Delhi High Court, which was constituted on 31 October 1966.\n\nThe \"States Reorganisation Act, 1956\" paved the way for the formation of Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh from 1 November 1966. Those formations also saw the renaming of the High Court of Punjab as the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. The Judges of the High Court of Punjab became Judges of the common High Court with all the powers and jurisdiction of the High Court of Punjab. However, the principal seat of the High Court remained at Chandigarh. Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh (also known simply as Chandigarh High Court) has original as well as appellate and supervisory jurisdiction over all matters pertaining to Chandigarh (a Union Territory and also capital of Punjab and Haryana), Punjab and Haryana..The High Court of Punjab and Haryana has operated since 1 November 1966 in its present form.\n\nLe Corbusier, a well-known, French architect, was chosen to execute the project of building the high court. India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, enthusiastically supported the project and took a sustained interest in its execution. When he visited the project on 2 April 1952, he declared \"Let this be a new town symbolic of the freedom of India, unfettered by the traditions of the past, an expression of the nation's faith in the future.\"\n\n\nList of Chief Justices.\n\nPunjab and Haryana high court is high court where entire record of the decision and pending cases have been digitized. Digitized record paved way for many unique applications such as\n\nThe figures of the work done are as under:\nVPN connection has been provided to honourable judges of high court for accessing DMS for scanned paper books from their camp office or from any other place.\ne-diary is a feature whereby account holders can manage their own case portfolio and view the cases filed or represented by them. Online status of the case along with interim and final orders/ judgments were made available through e-diary. All identified cases of different departments such as Income tax department, Insurance company, Union of India, Advocates general of Punjab and Haryana are automatically pushed in their online e-diary accounts. In addition to the e-diary system, the state governments are in develop court cases monitoring system(CCMS) through which they will monitor pending cases in the Supreme court of India.\nOnline web based e- filing module is functional for filing cases 24 X 7.e- filed cases expedite issuance of copies of orders, summons and is a step towards paperless court regime. It is made compulsory to file cases on online.\nIn the house, the software has been developed, which contains personal profile and service record of the judicial officer. Access to relevant information has been given at different levels such as Administrative judge, register general, registrar vigilance, district judge and the officer concerned.\nDecided cases are available on the website of the high court. On many occasions, the final order is reviewed/ modified or challenged by filing into court appeal. Status subsequent to final disposal of the matter is shown and when print out of final order is taken from the website. The printout carries a message showing the up-to-date status of the case.\n\nIn a case of cow-smuggling, the Punjab and Haryana High Court while treating animals as the \"legal person\" mandated that \"\"entire animal kingdom including avian and aquatic\"\" species has a \"\"distinct legal persona with corresponding rights, duties, and liabilities of a living person\"\" and humans are \"\"loco parentis\"\" while laying out the norms for animal welfare, veterinary treatment, fodder and shelter, e.g. animal drawn carriages must not have more than four humans, and load carrying animals must not be loaded beyond the specified limits and those limits must be halved when animals have to carry the load up a slope. \n\n"}
{"id": "1824372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824372", "title": "Josaia Tavaiqia", "text": "Josaia Tavaiqia\n\nRatu Sir Josaia Tavaiqia, KBE (1931 – 17 November 1997) was a Fijian chief and politician, who served as one of two Vice-Presidents of Fiji from 1990 until his death in 1997. (From 1990 to 1999, Fiji had two Vice-Presidents concurrently).\n\nTavaiqia, who held the chiefly title of \"Tui Vuda,\" or Paramount Chief of Vuda, one of the subdivisions of Ba Province, died on 17 November 1997 at the age of 66. He was succeeded, both as \"Tui Vuda\" and as Vice-President by Ratu Josefa Iloilo.\n\nTavaiqia was a civil servant before he ventured into politics, serving as a Cabinet Minister in the administration of Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara in the 1970s-1980s. He was well known for his efforts to improve the livelihood of the people of the Ba Province. During his tenure as Minister for Forests, Tavaiqia negotiated with landowners to lease marginal land with little use for any agricultural development to the Fiji Pine Commission and later Fiji Pine Limited.\n"}
{"id": "1824396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824396", "title": "Rainbow George Weiss", "text": "Rainbow George Weiss\n\nRainbow George Weiss (born 13 October 1940), son of a diamond merchant, is a fringe UK political candidate who stood in 13 constituencies in the 2005 General Election.\n\nHe founded his own parties from the proceeds of the sale of a house in Hampstead, North London which he moved into in 1969 but stopped paying rent in 1984; remaining there as a squatter. He made a profit of £710,000 on the sale of the house in 2004 after HM Land Registry awarded him ownership of the property. He is proposing a \"preferendum\" where voters choose individual policies from amongst those offered by each of the major parties.\n\nHe was for many years the neighbour of comedian Peter Cook, and released an album of some of his personal home recordings featuring Cook under the title \"Over at Rainbows\" after Cook died in 1995. The recordings feature a few of the phone conversations between LBC radio's Clive Bull and Peter Cook under the guise of a Norwegian fisherman called Sven, many of which were made from Weiss's home.\n\nIn July 2006, Weiss disclosed on the Clive Bull radio show that he had about £50,000 remaining from the windfall; however, by February 2007 he was giving the more ambiguous description of \"somewhere under £50,000\". Also during February of that year, Weiss announced he was standing as a candidate in the Belfast by-elections and was subsequently banned from appearing on the Clive Bull show until they were over.\n\nWeiss founded his own political party, the Vote For Yourself Rainbow Dream Ticket, and first stood for the European Parliament in 1994 in the London Central constituency. He stood in the 2001 General Election for the Belfast East constituency where he won a total of 91 votes (0.2% of those cast). Weiss has spent considerable time and money organising an unofficial postal referendum to ask the people of Belfast whether they would like the city to be renamed \"Best City\", a name inspired by the late Northern Ireland football player George Best. With the celebrity endorsement of former professional snooker player Alex Higgins, the referendum took place in 2006 at an estimated cost (to Weiss) of £100,000. Only 2000 votes were returned, which means Weiss effectively paid £50 for each vote he got.\n\nWeiss was a candidate at the Brent East by-election standing for the www.xat.org party in 2003, won by Liberal Democrat Sarah Teather, where he came bottom of a list of 16 candidates with just eleven votes. While this vote was considerably low, lower votes had previously been registered, for example in the 1988 by-election in Kensington a candidate had polled just five votes. The \"Vote for Yourself Rainbow Dream Ticket\" election record was also \"surpassed\" at the 2005 General election when British model Catherine Taylor-Dawson stood for the party in Cardiff North and achieved a single vote, though not from Taylor-Dawson herself, who was not eligible to vote in that constituency. Weiss himself set a new election record by simultaneously standing in 13 constituencies, beating Tom Keen of the Campaign for a More Prosperous Britain's previous record of 10.\n\nHe stood in all four Belfast constituencies during the 2007 Northern Ireland Assembly election. Standing for his Make Politicians History Party, he came third last in South Belfast and last in the three other constituencies with a total of 221 first preference votes.\n\nKnown as \"George from Hampstead\", or, in light of his Belfast referendum plans, \"George Looney\", Weiss is a regular caller to the Clive Bull show on London radio station LBC, promoting his latest political ideas. He also calls talkSPORT late at night. However, he is usually referred to as \"Rainbow George\" when calling that station.\n\nOn 13 August 2007, Weiss phoned in and revealed his plans for London in the year 2020, which included turning the M25 into a \"wonderwall\" and London becoming \"the party capital of the world\", financed by \"the bank of a zillion wonders\" in which everyone would be an account holder and \"the wonder\" would be the base currency with a rate of one hundred \"gasps\" to the \"wonder\".\n\nWeiss also calls BBC London 94.9. During 2012 and up to and including 2015, he has called the Nick Abbot show on LBC, using the pseudonym \"Sterling Silver\".\n\nIn October 2007, July 2008 and October 2008, Rainbow George appeared on \"The Russell Brand Show\" on Radio 2 in order to publicize his political agenda, inviting Brand to take leadership of the party (of which Brand was sceptical) and announcing an online petition requiring one million votes in order for the party to become recognized as a serious candidate in future elections.\n\nDuring his appearance on the show on 14 June 2008, he told Brand that he had placed a bet on space ships appearing at the closing ceremony of the Olympic games in China, and invited him to take a one-third share in the bet, as well as to join him for some 'Boris Dancing' (named after mayor of London Boris Johnson) on Hampstead Heath.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824401", "title": "1995 Austrian legislative election", "text": "1995 Austrian legislative election\n\nEarly parliamentary elections were held in Austria on 17 December 1995, after the Grand Coalition between the Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) and Austrian People's Party collapsed over disagreements about the budget. The SPÖ remained the largest party in the National Council and the Grand Coalition was reformed. Voter turnout was 86.0%.\n"}
{"id": "1824402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824402", "title": "Atlantic Avenue Elevated", "text": "Atlantic Avenue Elevated\n\nThe Atlantic Avenue Elevated was an elevated railway around the east side of Downtown Boston, Massachusetts, providing a second route for the Boston Elevated Railway's Main Line Elevated (now the MBTA's Orange Line) around the Washington Street tunnel. It was in use from 1901 to 1938, when it was closed due to low ridership, later being demolished.\n\nThe Atlantic Avenue El was conceived as a part of a greater mass transit proposal by the Boston Transit Commission in 1896. After the success of the Tremont Street subway (now the Green Line) the Commission began looking at options for a unified system that would serve all of downtown Boston and reach out into the growing suburbs. As conceived, there would be two corridors through which elevated trains would run: the Washington Street tunnel – the heart of today's MBTA Orange Line subway – under Washington Street from a portal at Oak Street to the then-existing subway portal north of Haymarket Square, and an all-elevated line which would run along Atlantic Avenue. At the time, Atlantic Avenue was the heart of the fishing and maritime industries in Boston, and home to ferry terminals. Both the Washington Street subway and Atlantic Avenue El would service trains from the Main Line El (the elevated section of the old Orange Line, now demolished). \n\nWhen the Atlantic Avenue El first opened–shortly after the Main Line itself–in August 1901, the Main Line went through the Tremont Street subway, changing between elevated and subway at the Pleasant Street Incline (in the south) and the Canal Street Incline (in the north). The low-level trolley platforms were altered with temporary high-level platforms to allow elevated trains to unload passengers. Where the original Washington Street Elevated (the south part of the Main Line) turned west from Washington Street onto Castle Street (now Herald Street), it had a full three-way junction (Tower D) with the Atlantic Avenue El, which began by heading east between Motte Street (also part of Herald Street) and the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad's approach tracks for South Station.\n\nThe El turned north after a block onto Harrison Avenue, continuing to Beach Street, where it turned east for its first station, Beach Street, on the block just east of Harrison Avenue. The El turned north on Atlantic Avenue, with its second station, South Station, located just north of East Street, with transfers to the South Station intercity and commuter terminal, and, beginning in 1916, to the Cambridge–Dorchester tunnel (now the Red Line). Next was Rowes Wharf, at Broad Street and High Street, with a transfer to the Boston, Revere Beach and Lynn Railroad via a ferry from Rowes Wharf to East Boston.\n\nContinuing along Atlantic Avenue, the next station, at State Street, was named State Street, and had, beginning in 1904, a transfer to the East Boston tunnel (now the Blue Line). After merging with Commercial Street, Battery Street Station, just north of Battery Street, provided access to Boston's North End. Just south of Battery Street, on the east side, was the Boston Elevated Railway's Lincoln Wharf Power Station. At Keany Square, the Atlantic Avenue Elevated met the Charlestown Elevated, the north part of the Main Line, at a full three-way junction (Tower C), with the Charlestown El heading west on Causeway Street and into the subway, on the one hand, and north over the Charlestown Bridge, on the other. The Union Freight Railroad ran underneath the El on Atlantic Avenue and Commercial Street, carrying freight between the lines terminating in North Station and South Station.\n\nIn 1908, the Washington Street tunnel opened, rerouting the Main Line. At this time, the Tremont Street subway was switched back to streetcar-only service. As a consequence, the southern junction (Tower D) was reconfigured, with the Main Line heading north from it on the east side of Washington Street to the Oak Street incline into the tunnel.\n\nService patterns originally included through service over the Main Line and additional Washington Street Elevated service looping via the tunnel one way and the El the other way. On January 4, 1919, the BERy increased service through the tunnel from three-minute to two-minute headways. Atlantic Avenue service was reduced to a North Station–South Station shuttle, with Beach Street station closed. North Station–Dudley service was later restored during peak hours, but Beach Street remained closed. In 1919, the Boston Molasses Disaster resulted in damage to the El in the area north of Battery Street. On July 22, 1928, a northbound train derailed on the tight curve at Harrison and Beach due to excessive speed and crashed into the abandoned Beach Street station. Two passengers were killed in the wreck - the first time that passengers were killed in an accident on the Main Line Elevated.\n\nBoston's waterfront lost importance during the 20th century. The 1904 opening of the East Boston tunnel cut heavily into East Boston ferry ridership, as did the 1934 opening of the Sumner Tunnel. Ferry ridership from elsewhere in Boston Harbor also declined sharply, and many maritime industries moved away from Atlantic Avenue. The last day of service on the Atlantic Avenue Elevated was September 30, 1938. It sat unused for several years and was torn down in 1942 for scrap metal for World War II.\n"}
{"id": "1824406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824406", "title": "Tawqi", "text": "Tawqi\n\nTawqi‘ () is a calligraphic variety of the Arabic script. It is a modified and smaller version of the \"thuluth\" script. Both scripts were developed by Ibn Muqlah. The \"tawqi‘\" script was further refined by Ibn al-Bawwab.\n\nIt was mostly employed in official state papers and documents in the Ottoman Empire, where the script was known as tevki.\n"}
{"id": "1824411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824411", "title": "The Applicators", "text": "The Applicators\n\nThe Applicators are an American pop punk band. Their music is influenced by classic punk bands such as The Misfits and The Cramps, as well as Motörhead. They formed in January 1999 in Austin, Texas with an all-female lineup: lead vocalist Sabrina, Erica on guitar, Rachel on bass and Katy on drums. The Applicators have toured nationally with Teen Idols, Fear, and Bad Religion. Bad Religion guitarist Greg Hetson produced their debut album after seeing one of their gigs in Texas while on tour. \n\nAlbums:\n\nSingles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824413", "title": "Yew Tee", "text": "Yew Tee\n\nYew Tee is a subzone and residential area within the town of Choa Chu Kang, in the West Region of Singapore. Yew Tee is a cluster of Housing and Development Board flats and private condominums, made up of three neighbourhoods in Choa Chu Kang New Town. As a relatively new estate, a large proportion of its residents are young families and middle income earners.\n\nYew Tee is the name of a village off Woodlands Road. It is also the location of an eponymous MRT station serving the area, which opened in 1996.\n\nYew Tee means \"oil pond\" in Teochew. The village was so named because oil was stored there during the Japanese Occupation. It was once a bustling village housing more than 300 families, mostly small-time farmers who grew vegetables and reared ducks and chickens. Many of the residents moved away when development of the land began in the 1980s.\n\nAs part of the Choa Chu Kang New Town, all the apartments are built after 1993. Yew Tee is divided into two towns - Limbang and Yew Tee. Limbang has a smaller land area than Yew Tee, Limbang Shopping Center serves Limbang residents.\n\nTo cater to the mainly young families population of three neighbourhoods, there are several primary and secondary schools in Yew Tee. Primary schools consist of De La Salle School, Singapore, Kranji Primary School, Unity Primary School and Yew Tee Primary School. Secondary schools consist of Kranji Secondary School, Regent Secondary School and Unity Secondary School.\n\nYew Tee has a MRT station, Yew Tee MRT station, built in 1996 as part of the 16-km Woodlands Extension. The town is served by public buses such as Service 302 and Service 307 from the Choa Chu Kang Bus Interchange. In Dec 2015, under the DTL2 Bukit Panjang Bus Service Enhancements, Service 979 was introduced to provide a vital link for Yew Tee residents to Bukit Panjang, the Downtown Line. There are also new short-haul buses added to bring residents from Choa Chu Kang/ Yew Tee to Bukit Panjang MRT Station.\n\nThere are 3 parks in Yew Tee, namely Limbang Park, Stagmont Park and Yew Tee Park. There is also a sports complex located within the vicinity of Yew Tee. In March 2009, a new shopping mall and condominium was opened. The shopping mall is known as Yew Tee Point and the condominium is known as Yew Tee Residences. The Pang Sua Canal park connector forms part of the Western Adventure Loop linking various parks in Yew Tee, Choa Chu Kang and Bukit Panjang.\n\nThe Kranji Camp was built in 1994 when Yew Tee was developed. Sooner, the military police and Kranji Detention Barracks was moved in from the Woodlands Camp in 2000. There was a growing need for the expansion of Kranji Camp, called Kranji Camp II which was built in 2004. The Mowbray Camp and Police Dog K9 Unit was shifted from Ulu Pandan in 2003 to Kranji. The Kranji Camp III was built in 2009 to replace Ayer Rajah Camp and Portsdown Camp due to the redevelopment of one-North area for chemical sciences and lifestyle hub.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824418", "title": "Jaeger Brigade", "text": "Jaeger Brigade\n\nThe Jaeger Brigade (\"Jääkäriprikaati\") is a unit of the Finnish Army. The unit is located in Sodankylä and Rovaniemi in Finnish Lapland, some north of the Arctic Circle. The brigade trains 1600 conscripts per year. The brigade has two main units: Lapland Jaeger Battalion in Sodankylä and Lapland Air Defence Battalion at Rovaniemi air base.\n\nThe Jaeger Brigade specialises in training soldiers for the harsh climate of Lapland. Brigade is also responsible for developing arctic warfare tactics and equipment in cooperation with Swedish and Norwegian arctic forces. Their expertise in cold-weather warfare is widely recognized; members of the U.S. and other militaries come to Sodankylä in winter to learn from them.\n\nTroops are motorized by all-terrain vehicles Sisu Nasu and Bandvagn 206 due their better movement on arctic conditions compared to heavy armed vehicles.\n\n\nThe Brigade follows the traditions of the 27th Prussian Jaeger Battalion, JR 27 (27th Infantry regiment) (which fought during the Finnish civil war) and the 6th Division (which fought during the Continuation War). In addition, the Brigade carries the traditions of Pohja Brigade, Ostrobothnia Jaeger Battalion () In addition to these, the Brigade carries the traditions of numerous other historical units that have either been its organisational predecessors or manned by the men of Lapland.\n\nThe Lapland Jaeger Battalion traces back its roots to the 1st Bicycle Battalion, founded in 1921. That unit later formed the 1st Jaeger Battalion which fought during the Winter War and the Continuation War.\n\nRovaniemi Air Defence Battalion traces its lineage to the 151st Light Air Defence Battery, founded in 1941. In 1944, following the Continuation War, this unit became the 1st Battalion of Air Defence Regiment 2. In 1967, the unit received the provincial name of Ostrobothnia Air Defence Battalion (), which was changed to the current name in 1974. During 1989-2014, the battalion was part of Lapland Air Defence Regiment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824420", "title": "1994 Austrian legislative election", "text": "1994 Austrian legislative election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Austria on 9 October 1994. The Social Democratic Party won the most seats, and retained the grand coalition with the Austrian People's Party. Voter turnout was 81.9%.\n"}
{"id": "1824424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824424", "title": "Tunbridge Wells (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tunbridge Wells (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTunbridge Wells is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Greg Clark, a Conservative who served as Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy from 2016 to 2019.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Royal Tunbridge Wells, the Urban District of Southborough, the Rural District of Cranbrook, and in the Rural District of Tonbridge the parishes of Bidborough, Brenchley, Capel, Horsmonden, Lamberhurst, Paddock Wood, Pembury, and Speldhurst.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Tunbridge Wells. \"The constituency boundaries remained unchanged.\"\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Tunbridge Wells wards of Brenchley, Capel, Culverden, Goudhurst, Horsmonden, Lamberhurst, Paddock Wood, Pantiles, Park, Pembury, Rusthall, St James', St John's, St Mark's, Sherwood, Southborough East, Southborough North, Southborough West, and Speldhurst and Bidborough.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Tunbridge Wells wards of Brenchley and Horsmonden, Broadwater, Capel, Culverden, Goudhurst and Lamberhurst, Hawkhurst and Sandhurst, Paddock Wood East, Paddock Wood West, Pantiles and St Mark's, Park, Pembury, Rusthall, St James', St John's, Sherwood, Southborough and High Brooms, Southborough North, and Speldhurst and Bidborough.\n\nThe current constituency includes the large town of Tunbridge Wells, and most of its borough to the east which is generally rural.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1974, and was originally named \"Royal Tunbridge Wells\". Except for Cranbrook Rural District (previously part of the Ashford constituency) the area had formed part of the constituency of Tonbridge prior to 1974. In 1983 the \"Royal\" prefix was removed from the seat's name.\n\nThe seat's results since its 1974 creation indicate a Conservative safe seat. In 1994, the Conservative group on the council lost control, but regained it in 1998.\n\nIn succession, from 1983 until 1997 Patrick Mayhew reached three leading positions: Solicitor General for England and Wales, Attorney General for England and Wales and for Northern Ireland (simultaneously) and Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2001, Archie Norman was the Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Transport and the Regions.\n\nThe present member, Greg Clark, was Minister for Decentralisation from the start of the Cameron ministry, and then two years later became Financial Secretary to the Treasury.\n\nThe area is still largely rural in character and landscape, enjoying a gently elevated position which is traversed by the High Weald Landscape Trail. The area has local service sector and financial sector employers, light engineering combined with being substantially a commuter belt town for London, and to an extent, businesses on the southern side of the M25, such as in the Gatwick Diamond.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.7% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824431", "title": "International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam", "text": "International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam\n\nThe International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam (IDFA) is the world's largest documentary film festival held annually since 1988 in Amsterdam. Over a period of twelve days, it has screened more than 300 films and sold more than 250,000 tickets. Visitors to the festival have increased from 65,000 in 2000 to 285,000 in 2018.\n\nThe festival is an independent, international meeting place for audiences and professionals to see a diverse (in form, content and cultural background) program of high-quality documentaries. IDFA selects creative and accessible documentaries, which offer new insights into society. In its mission statement, IDFA says it ‘strives to screen films with urgent social themes that reflect the spirit of the time in which they are made’.\n\nThe festival was initially held at the Leidseplein area in the centre of Amsterdam. It has since spread to a number of other locations, including Tuschinski Cinema and EYE Filmmuseum. Apart from its international film program, the variety of genres and the many European and world premieres featured each year, the festival also hosts debates, forums and workshops. Since 2007, the festival's New Media program IDFA DocLab showcases the best interactive non-fiction storytelling and explores how the digital revolution is reshaping documentary art.\n\nIn addition to the festival, IDFA has developed several professional activities, contributing to the development of filmmakers and their films at all stages. At co-financing and co-production market IDFA Forum filmmakers and producers pitch their plans to financiers; at Docs for Sale new documentaries are on offer to programmers and distributors; the IDFA Bertha Fund supports filmmakers and documentary projects in developing countries; and the IDFAcademy offers an international training programs for up-and-coming doc talents.\n\nIDFA was founded by Ally Derks, who remained at the helm from 1988 until 2017, when she stepped down. Barbara Visser oversaw the 2017 edition as interim director. In January 2018, Syrian film producer Orwa Nyrabia was appointed as the new artistic director of IDFA.\n\nThe best new documentaries of the year compete in IDFA's main competition programs:\n\nPrize: €15,000\nPrize: €10,000\nPrize: €5,000\nPrize: €10,000\nPrize: €5,000\nPrize: €7,500\n\nAlongside the competition programs, five awards are awarded during IDFA:\nPrize: €5,000\nPrize: €25,000\n\nIn addition to the competitions, IDFA presents several non-competitive film programs:\n\nIn this program section, the festival presents the latest documentaries by renowned documentary auteurs.\nIn Best of Fests, the festival presents films that have made an impact on the international festival circuit this year.\nIn this section, the festival presents films from all over the world, which are thought-provoking in their form and choice of theme.\nThe films in this section showcase what is going on beyond the frame of traditional documentary filmmaking, on the borders between film and art, truth and fiction, and narrative and design.\nScreenings of many films from this program are accompanied by live performances connected to the films.\n\nIn addition to the regular programs, each year the festival presents programs like the Queer Day, featuring new documentaries about LGBTQ related topics; Focus programs which zoom in on aspects like sound design, editing and cinematography or a topical theme; a themed program by DocLab, featuring live events and an interactive exhibition; and a retrospective of a filmmaker who also chooses a personal documentary Top 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824434", "title": "Mary Hayley Bell", "text": "Mary Hayley Bell\n\nMary Hayley Bell, Lady Mills (22 January 1911 – 1 December 2005) was an English actress and writer, married for 64 years to actor Sir John Mills. Her novel \"Whistle Down the Wind\" was adapted as a film, starring her teenaged daughter, actress Hayley Mills.\n\nMary Hayley Bell was born in Shanghai International Settlement, Shanghai, China, where her father, Colonel Francis Hayley Bell, served in the Chinese Maritime Customs Service with postings to various Treaty Ports. Her mother was Agnes (née McGowan). Her father, a Boer War veteran, served, from 1925 to 1928, as Customs Commissioner for Kowloon (within Hong Hong, although this position had no connection with the British colonial administration). During this period Mary attended school in Hong Kong and frequently spent weekends of leisure at the Commissioner's official country bungalow near Fan Ling Golf Club. The family later (1930) moved to Tianjin (then known as Tientsin). In the run-up to World War II, Francis Bell was the Defence Security Officer in Singapore in 1936 MI5; he is believed to have hunted down and executed Japanese spies by 'unorthodox methods', causing him to be sacked in 1939 despite penetrating a Japanese spy ring and learning of the Japanese plans to invade from Siam and Northern Malaya. \n\nMary Hayley Bell first appeared on Broadway on 9 April 1928, in the comedy \"Volpone\". In 1935 she appeared in the film \"Vintage Wine\". She subsequently played the part of \"Miss Wingate\" in the film \"The Shrike\" (1955), which starred José Ferrer and June Allyson. She recreated the same part on Broadway in 1958. She had a small uncredited role as a nursing home resident in the 1993 Eric Sykes film \"The Big Freeze\", opposite her husband. She appeared in her son's documentary \"Sir John Mills' Moving Memories\" (2000).\n\nMary Hayley Bell wrote four plays: \"Men in Shadow\" (1942), \"Angel\" (1947), \"Duet for Two Hands\" (1945), and \"The Uninvited Guest\" (1953). She also wrote the novel \"Whistle Down the Wind\" (1959), co-wrote the screenplay and story of \"Sky West and Crooked\" (1966) (released as \"Gypsy Girl\" in the United States), and wrote additional dialogue for \"Scott of the Antarctic\" (1948). \"Whistle Down the Wind\" was made into a film in 1961 (starring daughter Hayley Mills) and an Andrew Lloyd Webber musical in 1996. Its title is believed to have been inspired by the sound of the wind around the bow windows of The Wick, the family's home on Richmond Hill, London.\n\nHer 1962 novel, \"Far Morning\", was illustrated by John Mills's niece, Molly Blake.\n\nIt was while living at Tianjin, China, that she first met John Mills, who was on tour at the time. They next met when she was appearing in \"Tony Draws a Horse\" at the Comedy Theatre in London in 1939. She recalled an after-dinner party in Mills's dressing room after one of his performances as George in \"Of Mice and Men\" at the Apollo Theatre.\n\nMills and Hayley Bell married at Marylebone Registry Office in London on 16 January 1941. Mills had a 48-hour pass from the Royal Engineers, so their honeymoon at Duke's Hotel was one night. The Mills's first home was a 16th-century cottage named \"Misbourne\" which they purchased in 1942 and lived at until the autumn of 1945. The survival of the marriage for the 64 years until his death on 23 April 2005 is rare in show business. Mills said that he regretted that his divorce from his first wife prevented Hayley Bell from having a church wedding. They renewed their marriage vows, sixty years after they married, at St. Mary's Church in Denham, Buckinghamshire on 16 January 2001.\n\nThe Millses had three children: \n\nIn 1975, the Mills family bought Hills House, Denham, Buckinghamshire, a 17th-century house with a four-acre (16 000 m²) garden. By 2003, it was too big and the stairs were too challenging for both Sir John and Lady Mills. They moved to a bungalow in the village in 2003. Lady Mills suffered from Alzheimer's disease and used a wheelchair in her final years. Sir John died on 23 April 2005, aged 97, in Buckinghamshire. His widow died eight months later, on 1 December 2005, aged 94.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824450", "title": "Eurotunnel Shuttle", "text": "Eurotunnel Shuttle\n\nEurotunnel Le Shuttle (sometimes shortened to Le Shuttle or The Shuttle) is a railway shuttle service between Coquelles (near Calais) in Pas-de-Calais, France and Cheriton (near Folkestone) in Kent, United Kingdom. It conveys road vehicles (including bicycles and motorcycles) and passengers (including some animals) by rail through the Channel Tunnel. Freight vehicles are carried in separate shuttle trains hauled by the same locomotives along with a passenger carriage, known as the Club Car.\n\nThe service is owned and operated by Getlink, the owner of the Channel Tunnel.\n\nBoth the terminals are provided with vehicle check in booths and juxtaposed controls (where pre-boarding immigration and customs checks are carried out by the French Border Police, French Customs and the UK Border Force), a large convenience outlet, long loading platforms and a loop of track. Upon arrival at the terminal, having booked beforehand or not, vehicles can check in (in separate freight/passenger booths), make their way to the outlet (except freight) and go through the juxtaposed French and UK immigration and customs checks once the train has arrived and boarding has commenced. The train is unloaded and loaded again in just over half an hour. Various safety announcements are played and the train departs once the loading wagons are stowed. After a train comes out of the tunnel (after 22 minutes), it travels around the loop and stops at the terminal platform. It is then unloaded, and re-loaded with a new set of vehicles to go through the tunnel again. Once at the other end, vehicles can simply drive off of the train onto the French Autoroute or the British Motorway. The complete journey takes at least one and a half hours between the motorways, with the crossing being 35 minutes.\n\nThe rail loop at Folkestone is clockwise and is mostly in a cut and cover tunnel, while the loop at Coquelles is anti-clockwise and in the open. This evens the wear on the wheels of the shuttle locomotives and vehicles, as each set (left or right) spends only half the time at the outer edge of the line traversing the corners. Because of the land space available, the French loading platforms are designed so that they can be entered and exited in two directions and by both freight and passengers.\n\nA Eurotunnel Shuttle train is about long and is made from constructive stainless steel. The carriages used for the shuttle have a larger loading gauge than either British or French railways, so that they can accommodate vehicles and the stabilisation equipment used when loading. As a result, they cannot travel outside the tunnel and the two terminals onto the national railways. The carriages are open all the way down when loading but are closed off individually when the train sets off.\n\nPassenger vehicles, such as cars, minibuses and coaches are carried in a car shuttle train, made up of closed wagons. The rear half of the train carries cars and other low vehicles in double-deck wagons, with the first and last two carriages of the section containing the access ramps. Coaches, buses and other high vehicles travel in the single-deck rake at the front of the train. In busy times, cars can also use this section. Eurotunnel will occasionally run the double deck carriages at \"half full\", closing the top deck to reduce costs.\n\nDrivers and passengers can leave their vehicles and walk along the train to use the toilets, but there are currently no other services on board. Passengers must either stay in their cars or stand next to them, because the gradients in the tunnel mean that there is a dangerous possibility that vehicles could unexpectedly roll back and forth and hit someone, if their respective owners forget to turn on the parking brake. The toilets are provided in every third carriage in the double-deck section, and in the first and last carriages in the single-deck section.\n\nLarge goods vehicles are carried on semi-open wagons with an outer lattice frame, and the shuttle train has a separate passenger carriage at the front of the train for the drivers of the lorries to relax. After the lorry drivers board the train in their lorry, with the cab being enclosed in a metal frame and chocked in place, they are taken to the \"club car\" at the front of the train by bus. At the end of the journey, they are taken back to their lorries by bus once again and they can drive off the train to continue their journey.\n\nSafety regulations require two locomotives for all shuttle trains through the tunnel, one at the front and one at the back, and both must be staffed so that the train can be reversed out in case of a blockage. On shuttle trains, two Class 9 locomotives handle a single shuttle train. Each locomotive is capable of hauling the train on its own in the event that its partner fails. In the event that both locomotives fail, the next scheduled train and its two fully functioning locomotives has sufficient power to move both its own load and the disabled train through the tunnel. Diesel locomotives are also on hand at both terminals in case they are needed to help a train out. There are also attendants in shuttle trains that manage the vehicles, loading and interior functions. On freight vehicle shuttles, the attendants ride in the passenger carriage at the front of the train with the truck drivers; in the passenger vehicle shuttles, they patrol the train. The trains are also long enough so that no matter where in the tunnel, the length of the train spans two evacuation doors into the service tunnel adjacent to the rail tunnels.\n\nPassenger vehicle carriages are sealed off with fireproof doors and are pressurised. These doors are closed once all vehicles are loaded. They include smaller pedestrian doors that may be opened when the train is in motion to move from one carriage to the next but then close automatically.\n\nEurotunnel has been criticised for failing to implement measures to prevent or extinguish fires in the open-framed large-goods-vehicle-carrying wagons; recommendations made by the Fire Brigade Union in 1996 following a fire in the Channel Tunnel – that closed wagons should be used to prevent the spread of fire – were not acted upon.\n\nNewer safety regulations have been tightened and relaxed. For one, trains are no longer required to have a locomotive at each end, just a driving cab at each end, as a rescue locomotive could assist a stricken train and the train does not need to split into sections. On the other hand, to stop the spread of fires, the formerly full lattice steel freight shuttle wagons now only cover the cab, and checks are carried out at each end of the tunnel to stop the risk of another fire happening in the future.\n"}
{"id": "1824470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824470", "title": "1990 Austrian legislative election", "text": "1990 Austrian legislative election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Austria on 7 October 1990. The Social Democratic Party won the most seats, and retained the grand coalition with the Austrian People's Party. Voter turnout was 86.1%.\n"}
{"id": "1824471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824471", "title": "Jefferson College (Missouri)", "text": "Jefferson College (Missouri)\n\nJefferson College is a community college in Jefferson County, Missouri, in the city of Hillsboro. As of Fall 2019, Jefferson College enrollment includes 4,179 full and part-time college credit students.\n\nThe history of Jefferson College began in the spring of 1961 with the passage of Senate Bill Number Seven, presented by Senator Earl Blackwell of Hillsboro, made possible the formation and financing of public junior colleges in Missouri. Several Jefferson County citizens began to recognize the need for a public junior college in their community, they met, organized and petitioned the State Board of Education for the formation of a Junior College District. The Community College District of Jefferson County was voted into existence on April 2, 1963.\n\nClasses were first held at Hillsboro High School in 1964 until the following year (1965) when the college moved to its present 400+ acre campus on Highway 21 near Hillsboro. Jefferson College became the second junior college district in Missouri to be approved.\n\nJefferson College is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission, A Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nThe Main Campus is located in Jefferson County, with a portion in the city of Hillsboro and most of it in an unincorporated area. This campus is about south of St. Louis.\n\nIt includes the following features: the Library-Administration Building, Career & Technical Education Building, Fine Arts Building, Technology Center (established 1986), Arts and Sciences Building, Arts and Sciences II, Field House, Athletic Fields, Student Center, Area Technical School, and Student Housing [Viking Woods].\nJC Online, was formally established in 2010 as the college's virtual campus, providing a full range of classes and e-services to students who prefer this highly popular method of instruction.\n\nJefferson College Arnold is located in Arnold. This campus is about south of St. Louis.\n\nJefferson College Arnold was opened in 2007 to expand educational services to those in northern Jefferson County. The facility is located at 1687 Missouri State Road behind the Arnold Library and Recreation Center.\n\nJefferson College Imperial is in Imperial, near Arnold and approximately south of St. Louis.\n\nJefferson College Imperial opened in 2010. The building is located at 4400 Jeffco Boulevard and is home to the Law Enforcement Academy, EMT-Paramedic programs.\n\nJefferson Community College offers degree programs in the following programs.\n\nThe Area Technical School provides career programs to help area high school students develop:\n\nMultiple programs are available at the Area Technical School in careers such as Automotive Technology, Biomedical Sciences, Building Repair Technology, Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Culinary Arts, Digital Media Technology, Early Childhood and Elementary Education, Fire Science, Health Services, HVAC, Metal Fabrication, Residential Carpentry and Welding Technology\n\nJefferson College is a member of the National Junior College Athletic Association Division I, NJCAA Region XVI and the Midwest Community College Athletic Conference.\nThe college fields teams in men's baseball and soccer, and women's basketball, soccer, softball and volleyball. The teams are known as the Vikings.\n\nThe mission of the Jefferson College Foundation is to support the growth and development of Jefferson College in ways that are beneficial to its students, faculty, staff and campus facilities. Founded in 1991, the Foundation continues to build relationships within the community, and making a positive difference in the lives of others through learning and cultural enrichment. The Foundation supports the educational opportunities at Jefferson College by hosting fun and exciting events. Proceeds from the events help provide scholarships for talented and deserving students in need of assistance. The Foundation also provides quality entertainment for members of the community and their families.\n\nVictor the Viking is the Mascot of Jefferson College.\n\nJefferson College Student Newspaper \"The Harbinger\" is prepared by student journalists of Jefferson College and is published during the academic year. \"The Harbinger\" is a class project of Journalism I -- IV classes at Jefferson College, and has been the student newspaper of the college since 1964.\n\nJefferson College Television provides educational opportunities in broadcast journalism.\n\nThe Office of Student Development includes a variety of clubs and organizations on campus that provide students the opportunity to participate as members and/or take leadership roles. In addition, students are made aware of volunteer opportunities available within the community.\n\nThe Jefferson College Student Senate is a group of 16 students who are elected to represent the students of Jefferson College. Each senator serves a minimum of 2 hours each week in the Senate office in the Student Center.\n\nThe Xi Zeta Chapter of Jefferson College is the established chapter for Jefferson College graduates.\n\nActive Minds is an organization working to utilize the student voice to change the conversation about mental health on college campuses.\n\nA club for students who have an interest in the field of psychology.\n\nA club dedicated to Jefferson College students who are gamers.\n\nThe Jefferson College Library has a book collection of over 70,000 volumes. The library's collection includes print periodicals, best sellers, graphic novels, DVDs, music CDs, eBooks and audiobooks. The library is also home to the Jefferson County History Center, which serves as an archive for Jefferson County. The history center is used for genealogical research by residents of Jefferson County, Missouri. Jefferson College Library serves as a selective federal depository for Missouri's Third Congressional District through its participation in the Federal Depository Library Program. Many government publications are available in the library in either a paper or an electronic format.\n"}
{"id": "1824487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824487", "title": "John Hornby", "text": "John Hornby\n\nJohn Hornby (1880–1927) was an English explorer, best known for his expeditions in the Arctic region of northern Canada, notably in the \"Barren Lands\" in the Northwest Territories of Canada. Hornby was born to a wealthy family in England; his father, A. N. Hornby, twice captained England in Test cricket. John migrated to Canada in 1904.\n\nHornby's first trip to the Arctic was to the Great Bear Lake region in 1908 and he developed a strong fascination with the Canadian Arctic wilderness. Apart from occasional trips to Edmonton and service in World War I, Hornby spent the rest of his life in Canada's wilderness.\n\nHe became known as the \"hermit of the north\" for his efforts to live off the land with limited supplies. In 1923, Hornby teamed up with an Englishman James Charles Critchell Bullock (1898-1953) in efforts to spend an entire year in the Arctic near Hudson Bay living off the land without supplies except for weapons. The pair barely survived and Critchell Bullock's diaries formed the basis of Malcolm Waldron's book \"Snow Man: John Hornby in the Barren Lands\" first published in 1931. Findings in an archive in England revealed letters that Bullock compiled into a manuscript to tell the tale from his own perspective. His manuscript was the base for the book \"Letters from The Barren Lands\", published in 2020.\n\nIn 1926, Hornby tried to spend a year in a spot by the Thelon River with his 18-year-old cousin Edgar Christian and another young man Harold Adlard. Unfortunately, the trio missed the caribou migration southward and therefore lacked sufficient food to survive the winter. Hornby died of starvation along with his companions in 1927. The graves of the three men can be found by the Thelon River.\n\nHornby recommended in a report following his expedition with Critchell Bullock that the areas near the Thelon and Hanbury Rivers be created as a wildlife sanctuary. The Thelon Game Sanctuary was established in 1927, renamed Thelon Wildlife Sanctuary in 1956, and this area remains the heart of the largest area of wilderness in North America. The publication of Waldron's book proved successful and sparked further interest in the Northern wilderness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824495", "title": "Burgos Cathedral", "text": "Burgos Cathedral\n\nThe Cathedral of Saint Mary of Burgos () is a Catholic church dedicated to the Virgin Mary located in the historical center of the Spanish city of Burgos. Its official name is Santa Iglesia Catedral Basílica Metropolitana de Santa María de Burgos.\n\nIts construction began in 1221, in the style of French Gothic architecture and is based on a Latin Cross. After a hiatus of almost 200 years, it went through major embellishments of great splendor in the 15th and 16th centuries: the spires of the main facade, the Chapel of the Constable and dome of the transept. These are elements of the flamboyant Gothic which gives the cathedral its unmistakable profile. The last works of importance (the Sacristy or the Chapel of Saint Thecla) were performed in the 18th century, during which the Gothic portals of the main facade were also modified. The style of the cathedral is the Gothic, although it has several decorative Renaissance and Baroque elements as well. The construction and renovations were made with limestone extracted from the quarries of the nearby town of Hontoria de la Cantera.\n\nMany works of extraordinary artists are preserved in the cathedral, bearing testimony to the creative genius of architects and sculptors of the Colonia family (Juan, Simón and Francisco), the architect Juan de Vallejo, sculptors Gil de Siloé, Felipe Bigarny, Rodrigo de la Haya, Martín de la Haya, Juan de Ancheta and Juan Pascual de Mena, the sculptor and architect Diego de Siloé, the fencer Cristóbal de Andino, the glazier Arnao de Flandes and the painters Alonso de Sedano, Mateo Cerezo, Sebastiano del Piombo or Juan Ricci, among others.\n\nThe design of the main facade is related to the purest French Gothic style such as found in the contemporary great cathedrals of Paris and Reims, while the interior elevation refers to Bourges Cathedral. The facade consists of three stories topped by two lateral square bell towers. The spires, showing Germanic influence, were added in the 15th century by Juan de Colonia. The portals of Sarmental and la Coronería were constructed in 13th century Gothic style, while the portal de la Pellejería shows 16th century Plateresques-Renaissance influences.\n\nThe cathedral was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO on October 31, 1984. It is the only Spanish cathedral that has this distinction independently, without being joined to the historic center of a city (as in Salamanca, Santiago de Compostela, Ávila, Córdoba, Toledo, Alcalá de Henares or Cuenca) or in union with other buildings, as in Seville. It is similar in design to Brussels Cathedral.\n\nBurgos became a bishopric in 1075 by the king Alfonso VI of León and Castile \"the Brave\" on authority of Pope Gregory VII, giving it a canonical continuation with the episcopal tradition of the diocese of Oca, whose prelate was in 589 already recorded as a signatory to the Third Council of Toledo during the reign of the Visigoths.\n\nThe monarch dedicated the construction of a cathedral to the Virgin Mary . Its design is not known, but it is supposedly Romanesque and of the type of contemporary works (of the Abbey of Santo Domingo de Silos, of the Monastery of San Pedro de Arlanza of San Martín de Tours de Frómista or the Cathedral of Jaca). There is documentary evidence that the monarch donated the outdoor area of the royal palace that had belonged to his father Ferdinand I of León and a small church dedicated to Saint Mary that was under construction.\n\nIn 1096 the construction on this church was finished. But the church soon became too small for the needs of a city that was the symbolic capital of the kingdom, a powerful bishopric (the cathedral chapter had more than thirty canons already before 1200) and an increasingly dynamic business center. The decision to build a new cathedral was finally made in the 13th century. As was common at the time, the Romanesque building was destroyed (of which now only some sculptural elements remain), presumably during the second construction campaign of the new cathedral in the 1240s and the 1250s. And on this site, expanded through the demolition of neighboring houses, with donations by the Bishop Marino, rose a new Gothic cathedral.\n\nThe first stone of the new cathedral was laid on June 20, 1221 in the presence of the promoters of the cathedral: the king Ferdinand III of Castile \"the Saint\" and Bishop Maurice of Burgos, bishop of the Burgalese diocese since 1213. Pope Honorius III granted an indulgence to all contributors to the construction. Presumably, the first master builder was an anonymous French architect - although some researchers posit the name of the canon Johan de Champagne, cited in a document of 1227 -, most likely brought to Burgos by bishop Maurice himself, after his trip to France and Germany to arrange the marriage of the monarch with Elisabeth of Swabia. The bridal ceremony was held precisely in the old Romanesque cathedral.\n\nThe cathedral was located just at the point where the slope of the hill, presided over by the Castle of Burgos, begins to rise. The construction was initiated at the front and at the presbytery, where the founding bishop was buried. His remains were later transferred to the center of the chapter choir. By 1240 the so-called Master Enrique became the master-architect of the works. He would also be responsible for the construction of the Cathedral of León and was inspired definitely by the Cathedral of Reims, with whose facade the gable of the Cathedral of Burgos shows great similarities. The work progressed very quickly and in 1238, year of the death of the founder prelate, buried in the presbytary, the front and much of the transept and the naves were already almost completed. The consecration of the cathedral took place in 1260, although ecclesiastical services were already held from 1230.\n\nThe chapels of the aisles were completed between the second half of the 13th century and early 14th century and a new cloister was built. Master Enrique died in Burgos in 1277 and was succeeded by Master Juan Pérez. He was succeeded later by Aparicio Pérez, active in 1327, Pedro Sánchez de Molina and Martín Fernández, who died in 1396 and 1418 respectively.\n\nIn the 15th century the Colonia family, originally from Cologne, incorporated the open spires of the main facade (between 1442 and 1458), the dome over the transept and the Chapel of the Constables. In the 16th century, besides the modifications to several chapels, highlights the construction of a new dome by Juan de Vallejo (\"fl. c.\" 1518-1569) and Felipe Vigarny , who replaced the original \"cimborio\" (a domed crossing tower) constructed by Juan de Colonia (sunk after a hurricane). This \"cimborio\" is a pinnacled, two-storey octagonal richly decorated lantern. In the 18th century the construction began of the magnificent Churrigueresque Chapel of Saint Thecla (finished in 1734) (on the site of the original parish church), the Chapel of the Relics and the Sacristy.\n\nOne of the most famous bishops of Burgos was the 15th-century scholar and historian Alphonsus a Sancta Maria.\n\nBurgos Cathedral owes its many works of art of the 13th to 18th centuries, especially to the fact that during the 19th and 20th centuries \n\nOutside the scope of the new cloister only was essential way reformed, after 1800, the chapel of the Santo Cristo or of Our Lady of the Remedies, located in the west of the old cloister. The renovation began with the transfer of the highly revered crucifix of the Holy Christ from the Convento de San Agustín to the chapel, thereafter, was called chapel of the Santo Cristo de Burgos. In the 1890s Vicente Lampérez y Romea, master architect of the cathedral from 1887, undertook an extensive restoration of this chapel, removing the plaster added of the walls and vaults and completely renovated the cover that gives the nave. also date from this restoration the neo-Gothic tracery windows, the blind arcades of the walls and most of the remaining architectural elements.\n\nBetween 1899 and 1911 Lampérez also restored the called New cloister, getting essentially recover its original shape. In the cloister it had overbuilt a third level with small Baroque windows that this architect did eliminate, and, incidentally, he opened the original windows of the cloister that had been almost closed. The installation of ornamental windows following models and old techniques, represented the end of the restoration. While the upper body of the cloister hardly experienced any change, the lower cloister was remarkably restored. The forms of its rib, apparently late Gothic, are due to Lampérez. Before the restoration, the lower cloister was divided into several compartments and generally in poor state of conservation. It is likely that during the restoration of the cloister was removed the stairwell that had subsequently been added, situated in the inner southwest corner of the same cloister. Subsequently, the connection between the two levels of the cloister only is established through a wooden staircase beneath the chapel of Saint Jerome.\n\nThe most recent restoration of the cathedral, by architect Marcos Rico Santamaría, has replaced the roof by a light steel framing. Regarding the rib star freely suspended in the center tower of the transept, it has laid a glass surface that achieves the complete enlightenment of the fabric of the rib. Regardless of such measures, there have been few the recent attempts to modify the architectural and sculptural substance of the cathedral. On August 12, 1994, a statue of Saint Lawrence came off from the final stretch of the north tower of the main facade, which made public the immediate need to resume the protection and conservation measures of the monument.\n\nFinally, are noteworthy other contemporary interventions, without seeking any modification of the monument, have significantly contributed to the enhancement of the cathedral, as has been the elimination in the early 20th century of some buildings that had been attached to the temple, as the Archbishop's Palace.\n\nDescending the stairs to the Plaza de Santa María, one comes in front of the western facade of the cathedral, inspired by the facade of the cathedrals of Paris and Reims.\n\nThe Portal of Saint Mary consists of three pointed arches. The central portal is called the Royal Door, or the Door of Forgiveness.The lateral portals are dedicated to the Assumption and the Immaculate Conception. This portal was built in the 13th century and, with its iconography dedicated to the Virgin, it was considered the most important sculptural manifestation of Gothic art in Castile. The side portals were rebuilt, due to their serious deterioration, in 1663 by Juan de Pobes. In 1790 the central portal was rebuilt in Neoclassical style, with horizontal lintels and a triangular pediment. In the thympanums of the side portals reliefs were placed of the Conception and the Coronation, holding the hand of Juan de Pobes, and in the spandrels, two doubles side arches that shelter the respective statuettes.\nThe second part of the facade was also erected in the 13th century. It contains in its middle a rosette of Cistercian inspiration, with tracery of a six-pointed star, or of Solomon's seal.\n\nThe third part show an elegant gallery marked by spires and several pinnacles, and consists of two large windows with mullions and tracery of three quadrilobed oculi. Under the eight arches that form the mullions of both arches are placed the statues of the first eight kings of Castile from Ferdinand I of León \"the Magnus\" to Ferdinand III of Castile \"the Saint\". Above it stands a thin rail-cresting of pointed arches with a statue of the Virgin and Child, accompanied by the inscription \"Pulchra es et decora\" (\"Thou art fair and beautiful\"), alluding to the Mother of Christ. This final addition was made in the mid-15th century by Juan de Colonia.\n\nAbove the side doors of the first part were raised two almost identical towers in the 13th century. They consist of three stories, with pilasters decorated with pinnacles and statues at their corners, and with decorated openings pointed on each side of each story: one flared with mullion and tracery with an oculus, covered with stained glasses, in the first; two are arranged in pairs without mullion and without tracery, in the second; and two other are arranged in pairs with mullion and tracery, in the third.\n\nIn the middle of the 15th century, Juan de Colonia raised on these towers open pyramidal needles or spires with an octagonal base. Their fine fretwork definitely shaped the silhouette of the Burgos cathedral. He originated from Cologne (as Johan von Köln). His design matches the project of the Cologne Cathedral, which at that time only existed in drawings that he could have seen. The spires of the Cologne cathedral were only added much later. The spires of the Burgos cathedral were raised with the financial contributions of the bishop Alonso de Cartagena and of his successor at headquarters, Luis de Acuña, whose coats of arms, along with the Castilian-Leonese monarchy, appear in the parapets that connect to the tops of the towers. In these parapets master Juan also had the inscription \"pax vobis\" and the sculpture of Christ showing the footsteps of his Passion, in one, and the inscription \"ecce agnus dei\" and a sculpture of Saint John the Baptist, in the other.\n\nTwo polygonal turrets mark the facade, decorated with lobed arches, with statues and pinnacles and topped in pyramidal spires amounting to the start of the spires. Inside are spiral staircases ascending to the clerestory and the vaults of the naves.\n\nLess known as Sacramental Door, this door, opened in the southern transept and looking out to the Plaza del Rey San Fernando, which is accessed saving a steep staircase, was built approximately 1230 and 1240. This is one of the best Classicism Gothic sculptural set of the 13th century in Spain. It is dedicated to the archaic theme of Christ in Majesty, but using an innovative plastic.\n\nThe central element and artistically most refined is the tympanum, whose execution is attributed to a French artist referred to as the Master of the Beau Dieu of Amiens. What is certain is the influence of the sculpture of the Cathedral of Amiens in the masterly Burgalese door. In this almost triangular space representing to seated Jesus as Pantocrator showing the Book of the Law and, surrounding him, the Four Evangelists, in its case double way represented: iconically, themselves bent over their desks writing the Gospels, and symbolically, by the Tetramorph. Below, separated by a lintel, appears a full Apostolate in a seated pose, attributed to another French artist known as the Master of the Sarmental. The tympanum is surrounded by three archivolts occupying the 24 elders of the Apocalypse, playing or tuning medieval musical instruments, several choirs of angels and an allegory of the Arts. This iconographic set had to be carved by local sculptors led by the French masters.\nThe door is divided by a mullion in which it appears, covered by a canopy on which effigy the Lamb, which could also be carved by Master of the Sarmental) representing a bishop; is tradition identify the portrayed as D. Mauricio, although it may well be of D. Asterio or Saint Indaletius, first bishop of Almería, martyr and Christianizator of the province of Burgos. In the side jambs are carved six figures, after the rest of the portal, four of which represent Moses, Aaron, Saint Peter and Paul the Apostle; the other two are not easily identifiable.\n\nAlthough the portal concentrates all the interest, it can not be ignored the rest of the gable, escorting robust buttresses topped with pinnacles. It's later work, of the late-13th century. Its two upper sections, structured along the lines of the central body of the facade of Saint Mary, are occupied by a rosette and on it a set of open gallery with three arches with soffits openwork with triple quatrefoil and supported by mullions against the looming one statuary interpreted as the Divine Liturgy, which Christ administers the Eucharist flanked by twelve angels cerifers and thurifers.\n\nCurrently, tourist visits access the Cathedral by the Door of the Sarmental.\n\nIn the gable of the north transept, at the height of the calle Fernán González but at a level several meters higher than the floor of the temple, opens the Door of the Coronería, or Door of the Apostles, which from inside the Cathedral communicates with the nave through the Golden Staircase by Diego de Siloé. It is work done between 1250 and 1257 by local artists from the circle of master Enrique, sometimes called master of the Coronería. Fully Gothic, part of the sculptural themes however prolong the Romanesque tradition. In addition, the environment of the door was renovated in the 18th century, in 1786, with a semicircular arch of large voussoirs and of Baroque style, which replaced a Gothic mullion in which would be represented the figure of God the Father. Shortly undertake the remodeling, the Council decided to close this door by the excessive and annoying traffic of neighbors who descended into the lower part of the city with supplies and utensils. Thus ended another movement of people, this pious, since through the Coronería had access to the Cathedral the pilgrims that followed the Camino de Santiago.\nBelow and above the jambs, and extending through the surrounding wall, forming friezes, blind respectives series of ogival and trefoil pointed arches, that in the lower socket mounted on paired columns with vegetable capitals. This blind gallery of trefoils and columns underlies a complete Apostolate, consisting of statues in the round and almost life-size. Six are shown on each side, attached to the wall and separated by the jambs.\n\nThe three archivolts are garrisoned by reliefs of seraphims on the inside, thurifer angels in the middle, and scenes of the resurrection of the deads on the outside. The tympanum, divided into two parts, representing the Last Judgment. On the lintel justly above the door appears a long scene in relief chaired by Archangel Michael with a scale weighing the souls; around him, to the left, a demons trying to unlevel in their favor the weight of the sins as well as those convicted who are driven to Hell, and, to the right, a little house with the open door representing the entrance to paradise, where are already a nobles, a king, a queen, a monk with hood and a Franciscan friar, the blessed. This motif of psicostasis is an iconographic heritage of the Romanesque art. At the top of the tympanum appears another motif common to the Romanesque, the Deesis, with Christ enthroned as universal judge, with arms raised, showing the wounded of the side and flanked by the Virgin and St. John imploring mercy for souls of the poor. At the apex of the tympanum, on a clouds, an angels bearing the insignia of the Passion. The attempts at drama and grimacing expression that show various images of this facade away of the full French classicism and put in relation to a more naturalistic trend of clear Hispanic flavor.\n\nIt considers this facade akin to the Judgment of the western facade of the Cathedral of León and the iconographic theme of the cathedrals of Reims and Chartres, although its most obvious reference is the neighbor Door of the Sarmental, whose perfect balance, however, can not achieve.\n\nThe facade of the portal of the Coronería extends upwards with a large window of stepped triple bow and on it, needles by respectives marked spires, a gallery of three ogival arches, with mullions and tracery of three quadrilobulates circles. Attached to the mullions are twelve crowned statues alluding to the Castilian royalty and, attached to the spandrels of the arches, thurifer angels. Following seen on the facade of the Sarmental, the gable of the Coronería ends at the top with a handrail formed by arches.\n\nThere are numerous architectural, sculptural and pictorial treasures inside. Highlights include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824520", "title": "1999 Brandenburg state election", "text": "1999 Brandenburg state election\n\nThe 1999 Brandenburg state election was held on 5 September 1999 to elect the members of the 3rd Landtag of Brandenburg. The incumbent Social Democratic Party (SPD) majority government led by Minister-President Manfred Stolpe lost its majority. The SPD subsequently formed a grand coalition with the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), and Stolpe continued as Minister-President.\n\nThe table below lists parties represented in the 2nd Landtag of Brandenburg.\nSummary of the 5 September 1999 election results for the Landtag of Brandenburg\n! colspan=\"2\" | Party\n! Votes\n! +/-\n! Seats \n! Seats %\n! colspan=8|\n! align=right colspan=2| Total\n! align=right| 1,102,360\n! align=right| 100.0\n! align=right| \n! align=right| 89\n! align=right| 1\n! align=right| \n! align=right colspan=2| Voter turnout\n! align=right| \n! align=right| 54.3\n! align=right| 2.0\n! align=right| \n! align=right| \n! align=right| \n\n"}
{"id": "1824538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824538", "title": "Diepenheim", "text": "Diepenheim\n\nDiepenheim is a small city in the Dutch province of Overijssel. It is located in the municipality of Hof van Twente, about 5 km southwest of Goor.\n\nDiepenheim was a separate municipality until 2001, when it became a part of Hof van Twente.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824588", "title": "Vilém Slavata of Chlum", "text": "Vilém Slavata of Chlum\n\nVilém Slavata z Chlumu a Košumberka (; ) (1 December 1572 – 19 January 1652) was a Czech nobleman from old Bohemian family. As viceregent \"(místodržící)\" of Emperor Ferdinand II of Habsburg (from 1617) he became famous as co-victim, along with Jaroslav Borzita of Martinice, of the 1618 Defenestration of Prague.\n\nVilém was born at his family's estates in Čestín near Kutná Hora. His father Adam had been an administrator of Emperor Rudolf II of Habsburg, who in 1583 had taken up his residence at Prague Castle and had guaranteed freedom of religion to the Protestant Bohemian estates by his Letter of Majesty (\"Rudolfův Majestát\") issued in 1609. Though he was raised in the spirit of the Unity of the Brethren, Slavata converted to Catholicism in 1597 and became a fierce advocate of the older faith.\n\nLike his father he took service with Rudolf II who appointed him burgrave at Karlštejn. Under Rudolf's successor Matthias he became chamberlain of the Crown of Bohemia. Vilém supported the coronation of the devout Catholic Ferdinand of Inner Austria as Bohemian king against the resistance of the Protestant estates. In return Ferdinand vested him with the office of his representative at Prague, where he had to face the violent uprising of the nobles led by Jindřich Matyáš Thurn on 23 May 1618. Together with J. Bořita of Martinice he was thrown out of a window of the castle by an enraged Protestant multitude. He was subsequently arrested by the assailants after surviving the defenestration albeit with severe injuries.\n\nOne year later, he managed to escape to Saxony. However, Elector John George I, anxious for his neutral position, forced him to retire to Passau. After Ferdinand's victory at the Battle of White Mountain in 1621, Slavata returned to Bohemia. A leading figure in restoring Catholicism, he received the title of a \"Reichsgraf\" (\"Count of the Empire\") and in 1628 was appointed chancellor of Bohemia. He died at Jindřichův Hradec.\n\n\nThis monumental (14 large-scale books) reminiscence in which Vilém comprehensively describes the causes and initiation of the Bohemian Revolt and the first phase of the Thirty Years' War, has importance for understanding of that era. His great annals are focused especially on the events of the years 1608–1619 on the territory of the Czech lands.\n"}
{"id": "1824652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824652", "title": "Stag film", "text": "Stag film\n\nA stag film (also blue movie or smoker) is a type of pornographic film produced secretly in the first two-thirds of the 20th century. Typically, stag films had certain traits. They were brief in duration (about 12 minutes at most), were silent, depicted explicit or graphic sexual behavior intended to appeal to men, and were produced clandestinely due to censorship laws. Stag films were screened for all-male audiences in fraternities or similar locations; observers offered a raucous collective response to the film, exchanging sexual banter and achieving sexual arousal. In Europe, stag films were often screened in brothels.\n\nFilm historians describe stag films as a primitive form of cinema because they were produced by anonymous and amateur male artists who generally failed in achieving narrative coherence and continuity. Today many of these films have been archived by the Kinsey Institute; however, most stag films are in a state of decay and have no copyright, credits, or acknowledged authorship. The stag film era ended due to the beginnings of the sexual revolution in the 1950s, in combination with the new visual technologies of the post-war era, such as 16 mm, 8 mm, and Super 8 film. Scholars at the Kinsey Institute believe there are approximately 2000 films produced between 1915 and 1968.\n\nAmerican stag cinema in general has received scholarly attention first in the mid-seventies by mainstream male scholars, such as in Di Lauro and Gerald Rabkin's \"Dirty Movies\" (1976), and more recently by feminist and gay cultural historians, such as in Linda Williams' \"Hard Core: Power Pleasure, and the \"Frenzy of the Visible\"\" (1999) and Thomas Waugh's \"Homosociality in the Classical American Stag Film: Off-Screen, On-screen\" (2001).\n\nBefore the age of internet pornography and a general acceptance of the production of pornography, porn was an underground phenomenon. Stag films were made by men for men. The projections of such films were itinerant and were secret exhibitions in brothels or smoker houses. Stag films were an entirely clandestine phenomenon; not until the \"porn chic\" era of the 1970s would sexually explicit cinema gain any recognition or discussion in mainstream society. Unlike today, the on-screen display of satisfaction, such as male or female orgasm, was not a convention of stag cinema. Instead there was what Linda Williams called the \"meat shot\", which was a closeup, hardcore depiction of genital intercourse. As there are no direct quotes or oral histories by participants in this underground cinema, film scholars understand what they know of these stag films mainly through written accounts. Stag films persisted for such a great length of time, as Williams argues, simply because they were cut off from more public expressions of sexuality.\n\nThe German film \"In The Evening\", the Argentinian film \"El Satario\" and the American film \"A Free Ride\" (or \"A Grass Sandwich\"), produced between the years 1907 and 1915, are three of the earliest hardcore pornographic films that have been collected at the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender, and Reproduction.\n\nAccording to Williams, the American stag film demonstrates the obsession of patriarchal culture in a desperate search for what film scholar Linda Williams calls \"the unknowable 'truth' of sex\". In her chapter on the stag film, Williams focuses on highlighting the anonymous male filmmakers' obsession with the unknown wonder of female sexuality. Williams also argues that a female point-of-view is rarely shown within the stag film genre, resulting in the female body becoming an object. However, in her analysis she does take into account the flickers of female sexuality and points out that sexuality is not problematized, unlike 1970s hardcore pornography.\n\nEarly critics of the genre, Di Lauro and Rabkin, argued that the male performers in stag films are also objectified and that they are even less humanized than the women who are the focus of attention because \"as performers [men] are not visible in their full humanity.\" Williams describes this defense of pornography as sounding familiar saying \"like most such defenses, it ignores the larger power structure in which the presumably equalized dehumanization and objectification occur.\" Drawing from art critic John Berger's studies on traditions in European art of oil paintings of nudes, Williams argues that the real subject of stag films is in the eye of the beholder. The point of view always comes from the phallus in stag film, Williams contends, making the predominant address to men only, and Williams argues that is where the power lies. Moreover, it is argued, there are detectable misogynist elements established early in this genre which inflect the more idealizing and fetishizing representations of female genitalia. The act of collectively getting together to get aroused at the spectacles of these hard core representations of sexual acts, is what film theorist Thomas Waugh describes as \"re-enacting some of the basic structural dynamics of the patriarchy, namely, the male exchange in women, in this case the exchange in fantasies and images of women\".\n\nVoyeurism is an obvious theme and main fixture in the codes and conventions of stag cinema. Williams argues that many stag films, including \"Am Abend\" and \"A Free Ride\", \"incorporate voyeurism into their narratives as strategies both for arousing their characters and for matching the character's \"look\" with that of the spectator in their beginning sequences.\" She describes this as a way for the spectator to identify with the male who looks at the female's body within the unfolding narrative. William's theory on the discourse of the stag film is that \"it oscillates between the impossible direct relation between a spectator and the exhibitionist object he watches in close-up and the ideal voyeurism of a spectator who observes a sexual event in which a surrogate male acts for him.\"\n\nProfessor Thomas Waugh wrote about stag films in the context of homosociality (i.e., same-sex relationships that are not sexual or romantic). He argues that this phenomenon ultimately succeeds in illuminating masculinity through the \"symbolic phallus\". In his essay, Waugh argues that \"the stag films, both on-screen and off-screen, are tenaciously engaged with the homosocial core of masculinity as constructed within American society.\" Waugh points to the fact that in most cases, these anonymous male artists during the heyday of the stag film avoid showing male organs on-screen, yet off-screen is an all-male audiences with only male organs. In their history of the stag film, Di Lauro and Rabkin (1976) nostalgically speak of the stag film as a platform for social bonding and camaraderie between males. Both Williams and Waugh agree that there is a pressing need for the viewer to identify with the other men in the audience, to prove his masculinity through bonding with other male viewers, in order to escape the homosexual undertone of enjoying watching other men's penises. Waugh would argue that this mentality and this corpus of underground erotic film \"exposes the spectrum of male sociality, the experience of having a penis, and being white during the first two-thirds of the 20th century.\" According to Waugh, stag culture was an arena in which homosocial behaviour reinforced masculinity in men's sexual desires in American pop culture. Waugh also contends that there are a few subversions in this dynamic, describing one film, the cartoon \"Buried Treasure\" (c. 1928), as an \"overt interrogation of masculinity.\" Waugh also suggests that this behaviour is shaped by not only by censorship, but also through shame and disavowal.\n"}
{"id": "1824656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824656", "title": "Temple Entry Proclamation", "text": "Temple Entry Proclamation\n\nThe Temple Entry Proclamation was issued by Maharaja Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma in 1936 and abolished the ban on the so-called 'low caste people' or \"avarnas\" from entering Hindu temples in the Princely State of Travancore, now part of Kerala, India.\n\nThe proclamation was a milestone in the history of Travancore and Kerala. Today, Temple Entry Proclamation Day is considered to be a social reformation day by the Government of Kerala.\n\nFollowing the campaign to introduce social reform in Travancore inspired by the teachings of Narayana Guru and others, a deputation of six leaders appointed by the Harijan Sevak Sangh toured the princely state to obtain support from caste Hindus for so called untouchable people to be allowed to enter state-operated temples.\n\nAccording to historian Romila Thapar, protests in 1924–25 against the prohibition of untouchables using a public road near a temple in Vaikom were a significant precursor to the temple entry movement. Known as the Vaikom Satyagraha, the protests sought equal rights of access in areas previously restricted to members of upper castes. The protests expanded to become a movement seeking rights of access to the interior of the temples themselves. These peaceful protests inspired the future \"satyagrahas\" of Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nIn 1932, Chithira Thirunal appointed a committee to examine the question of temple entry. This opened the possibility of reversing the opposition to the practice that had been shown by his predecessors, Moolam Thirunal and Regent Maharani Sethu Lakshmi Bayi. Subsequent to a meeting with Gandhi, Bayi had released those who had been imprisoned by Moolam Thirunal for involvement with the Vaikom Satyagraha and had opened the north, south and west public roads that provided access to Vaikom Mahadeva Temple to all castes. She refused to open the eastern road to the temple because it was used by Brahmins. She avoided acting on Gandhi's advice by pointing out that she was a regent for her minor nephew, Chithira Thirunal and so had no power to do so.\n\nAnnoyed with this response Gandhi asked the 12-year-old prince, who immediately promised that it would happen during his reign. This incident was later quoted by K. R. Narayanan, the former President of India, in his speech referring to the progressive mind of Chithira Thirunal. \n\nThe Regent's refusal to act on temple entry rights attracted criticism from people such as Mannathu Padmanabhan, who accused her of being under the influence of the Brahmins and said that her excuse that she had no power to decide was a lie.\n\nChithira Thirunal signed the Proclamation on the eve of his 24th birthday in 1936. C. P. Ramaswami Iyer said of the decision that: \n\nIn an open letter addressed to the maharajah, Gandhi said: \n\nHistorians believe that it was Aiyar's legal skill that overcame the practical difficulties posed by the orthodox Hindus before the proclamation. He foresaw the objections that could be raised against temple entry and dealt with them one by one. He was also able to ensure that the actual declaration was known beforehand to few people.\n\nThe Universities of Andhra and Annamalai conferred D.Litt. degrees on the Maharajah, and life-size statues of him were erected in Trivandrum and Madras.\n\nSociologists believe that the Proclamation struck at the root of caste discrimination in Travancore and that by serving to unite Hindus it prevented further conversions to other religions. The Proclamation was the first of its kind in a princely state as well as in British India. Even though there were agitations in various parts of India as well as rest of Kerala for temple entry, none managed to achieve their aim.\n\nThe Travancore Temple Entry Proclamation did not have a serious influence in Cochin or British Malabar as the Maharajah of Cochin and the Zamorin were staunch opponents of temple entry for dalits. The Cochin Maharajah went to the extent of declaring the whole people of Travancore as untouchables and forbade any Travancore citizen from entering temples under the control of the Cochin government. The Cochin ruler even forbade rituals like \"Arattu\" (holy bathing) and \"Para\" (holy procession) in Tripunithura and Chottanikkara temples.Anyhow,temple entry proclamation was issued in Kochin on December 22,1947 which comes in force w.e.f April 14,1948.The people belong to Malabar region also got this privilege as per the Madras Temple entry proclamation issued on June 12,1947.\n\nEven when universal temple entry was granted in 1947 the Cochin maharajah made an exemption in the bill so as to keep his family temple, \"Sree Poornathrayeesha\", out of the purview of temple entry. The Zamorin of Malabar had no wish to change the existing customs and usages in temples; on hearing the news of the Travancore Temple Entry proclamation he said that the Travancore Maharajah had freedom to give temple entry right to his subjects but he was unable to do so as he was only a trustee of the temples which were under the supervision of Hindu Religions Endowment Board. He also sent a memorandum to the authorities claiming no one had the authority to take decisions regarding temple entry as they were private properties. Universal temple entry was only granted in Malabar region in 1947 after India's independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824680", "title": "Lake Seliger", "text": "Lake Seliger\n\nSeliger () is a lake in Ostashkovsky District of Tver Oblast and, in the extreme northern part, in Demyansky District of Novgorod Oblast of Russia, in the northwest of the Valdai Hills, a part of the Volga basin. It has the absolute height of , the area of , and the average depth of .\n\nLake Seliger is a large system of lakes linked by effluents, has many small islands and is surrounded by forests, including pine woods with many berries and mushrooms. It is one of the biggest natural lakes of Central Russia. The only outflow of the lake, the Selizharovka River, has its source at the southern end of the lake and drains into the Volga. The drainage basin of the lake includes the major part of Ostashkovsky District, south of Demyansky District, as well as minor areas in Firovsky District of Tver Oblast.\n\nSeliger is situated within a picturesque landscape of forests and hills. The lake is a protected nature reserve and is sometimes known as the \"European Baikal\" due to the diversity of its unique flora and fauna, similar to Lake Baikal. Valdaysky National Park covers the northern part of the lake.\n\nEvery Year, Seliger camp forums bring together young people to study and discuss issues in political science, economics, art, literature and culture.\n\nOstashkov is the only town on the lake and is one of the most popular resorts in central Russia. Nilo-Stolobensky Monastery is located on Stolobny Island. The closed urban-type settlement of Solnechny which is a military base occupies Gorodomlya Island.\n\nSeliger lakes offers a number of accommodations for tourists. Many places are surrounded by untouched nature. \n\n"}
{"id": "1824701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824701", "title": "Luigi Palma di Cesnola", "text": "Luigi Palma di Cesnola\n\nLuigi Palma di Cesnola (July 29, 1832 – November 20, 1904), an Italian-American soldier, diplomat and amateur archaeologist, was born in Rivarolo Canavese, near Turin. He received the Medal of Honor for his actions during the American Civil War. He was United States consul at Larnaca in Cyprus (1865–1877) and first Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York (1879–1904).\n\nLuigi Palma di Cesnola was born the second son of a count and military officer at Rivarolo Canavese, Piedmont, in the Kingdom of Sardinia, Italy. His uncle was Italian patriot Alerino Palma, and his brother was Alessandro Palma di Cesnola.\n\nIn 1848 Luigi joined the Sardinian army at the age of 15, and served in the First Italian War of Independence. During the battle of Novara on 23 March 1849, he was decorated for bravery and promoted to the rank of second lieutenant. He graduated from the Royal Military Academy at Cherasco in 1851. In 1854 he was dismissed for unknown reasons, and subsequently served with the British Army in the Crimean War as the aide-de-camp to General Enrico Fardella.\n\nIn 1858 he went to New York, where he first taught Italian and French. In February 1861 he married Mary Isabel Reid, the daughter of war hero Commodore Samuel Chester Reid. He then founded a private military school for officers, where in six months he trained over seven hundred students. Since 1862, he took part in the American Civil War as colonel of the 4th New York Cavalry Regiment, serving under the name Louis P. di Cesnola. Accused of sending stolen property North, Cesnola was threatened with dishonorable dismissal from the army. However, at the Battle of Aldie (June 1863), Colonel di Cesnola was wounded and taken prisoner. He received a Medal of Honor for his efforts during the battle. He was released from Libby Prison early in 1864 when the Union Agent for Prisoner Exchange offered a personal friend of Jefferson Davis as barter. He served in the Wilderness and Petersburg campaigns (1864–65) as a commander of a cavalry brigade but was not promoted to brigadier general. Although he was nominated for appointment to the brevet grade of brigadier general to rank from March 13, 1865 after the end of the war, the U.S. Senate never confirmed his appointment (contrary to the inscription on his grave stone).\nAfter the war, he was appointed United States consul at Larnaca in Cyprus (1865–1877). During his stay on Cyprus he carried out excavations (especially around the archaeological site of Kourion), which resulted in the discovery of a large number of antiquities. \nThe \"Napried\", one of the ships commissioned by di Cesnola to transport approximately 35,000 pieces of antiquities that he had collected from Cyprus, was lost at sea carrying about 5,000 pieces in its cargo.\nThe collection was purchased by the newly expanded Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1872, and Cesnola became the first director in 1879, until his death in 1904. Doubt having been thrown by the art critic Clarence Cook, and by Gaston L. Feuardent, in an article in the \"New York Herald\" (August 1880), upon the genuineness of his restorations, the matter was referred to a special committee, which pronounced in his favor. In Cyprus however, his actions are still considered to tantamount to looting. Researcher Ahmet Gazioğlu, citing excerpts from di Cesnola's own book, wrote that di Cesnola often excavated illegally using blackmail and that he was \"a problem to the Turkish authorities, both because of his contempt for the law and his misbehaviour towards the officials and the people\".\n\nCesnola was the author of \"Cyprus, its ancient Cities, Tombs and Temples\" (1877), a travel book of considerable service to the practical antiquary; and of a \"Descriptive Atlas of the Cesnola Collection of Cypriote Antiquities\" (3 volumes, 1884–1886). He received honorary degrees from Columbia and Princeton universities and a special knightly order from the king of Italy, and was a member of several learned societies in Europe and America.\n\nHe died in New York City on November 20, 1904. He was interred at Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla, NY. His funerals, on 23 November 1904 at St. Patrick's Cathedral (Manhattan), were attended by a crowd of more than 2000 dignitaries and mourners.\n\nRank and organization: Colonel, 4th New York Cavalry. Place and date: At Aldie, Va., June 17, 1863. Entered service at: New York, N.Y. Born: June 29, 1832, Rivarolo Canavese, Turin, Piedmont, Italy. Date of issue: Unknown.\n\nAt the start of the battle at Aldie, Cesnola was placed under arrest by his superior officer for protesting the promotion of a less experienced officer to brigadier general. He was stripped of his saber and sidearm. Without Cesnola the Fourth New York Cavalry balked repeatedly when asked to charge a hillside gun battery. The commanding general knew Cesnola was needed to rally the unit. He said, \"Colonel, you are a brave man. You are released from arrest. Here is my own sword. Take it and bring it back to me covered in the enemy's blood.\" When he entered the battle \"the regiment arrived on the scene of conflict, and by a gallant charge, turned apparent defeat into a glorious victory for our arms, completely routing the enemy and cutting off nearly 100 men, all of whom were captured.\" At the close of the battle Cesnola was found in a field lying under his own horse, wounded on the head by a saber and on the arm by a minie ball.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824702", "title": "Mounts Botanical Garden", "text": "Mounts Botanical Garden\n\nMounts Botanical Garden is a botanical garden located in West Palm Beach, Florida. It is Palm Beach County's oldest and largest public garden with over 2,000 species of tropical and subtropical plants from six continents, including plants native to Florida, exotic trees, tropical fruit, herbs, citrus and palms. Mounts is a component of the Palm Beach County Cooperative Extension Service and is affiliated with the University of Florida / IFAS.\n\nBotanical plantings began shortly after the Mounts Building was built and opened in 1954. Then Palm Beach County Cooperative Extension Director, Marvin Mounts, desired to create a tropical fruit tree arboretum on the adjacent three acres. This vision was never realized, but many tropical fruits were planted and a few remain to this day.\n\nIn 1975 Clayton Hutcheson, Palm Beach County Cooperative Extension Director, had a vision of creating a Horticultural Learning Center on the three acres surrounding the Mounts Building, which housed the Extension Service. This initiative was successfully supported by many local plant-focused organizations and volunteers and was created in 1983. Today’s Garden was formed by a public-private partnership of Palm Beach County and the Friends of Mounts Horticultural Learning Center in 1985. Ten additional acres were added to the property in 1985, bringing the total acreage to fourteen. In 1986, the Friends voted to officially change the name to Mounts Botanical Garden for a more clear understanding of the organization and its mission driven purpose.\n\nIn 2004, the Friends funded a research grant to the University of Florida to produce a Master Plan to guide the Garden’s future development. During 2004 and 2005 Hurricanes Frances, Jeanne and Wilma destroyed 70% of the property’s mature tree canopy and virtually shattered the original Garden. Since 2006, The Friends and Palm Beach County have restored both the lost tree canopy and the Garden.\n\nWindows on the Floating World – Blume Tropical Wetland Garden officially opened on June 18, 2017. Designed by artists Mags Harries and Lajos Héder, in collaboration with WGI’s landscape architecture division, Windows on the Floating World features open-gridded, 4-foot wide walkways on the surface of the wetlands to give visitors the feeling of “walking on water.” Within these walks are four “windows” planted with aquatics and changed out with rotating and seasonal botanical exhibits growing from submerged containers.\n\nThe Garden of Tranquility was opened in the Spring of 2018. This serene garden experience was created by natural elements of stone, wood (bamboo) and living plant materials in an artistic Asian inspired fashion. The garden simulates a Zen-like garden although it is not meant to be authentic or of strictly Japanese elements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824722", "title": "Alessandro Palma di Cesnola", "text": "Alessandro Palma di Cesnola\n\nAlessandro Palma di Cesnola (1839–1914) was an archaeologist who excavated in Cyprus. He worked at Paphos, where he was U.S. vice-consul, and Salamis on behalf of the British government. The results of these are described in \"Salaminia\" (1882). In 1878, Cesnola was arrested for conducting an illegal investigation in Cyprus.\n\nAlessandro was the brother of the better known archaeologist Luigi Palma Di Cesnola.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824738", "title": "Rene Rivkin", "text": "Rene Rivkin\n\nRene Walter Rivkin (6 June 1944 – 1 May 2005) was a Chinese-born Australian entrepreneur, investor, investment adviser, and stockbroker. He was convicted of insider trading in 2003 and sentenced to nine months of periodic detention.\n\nRene Walter Rivkin was born 6 June 1944 in Shanghai, China, in what was then Japanese-occupied China, to Russian-Jewish parents. His father, Walter, was a Georgian-born trader who had fled to China in the 1920s to escape the Bolsheviks. The elder Rivkin had also once been a champion boxer in Shanghai. The family emigrated to Australia in 1951. Rivkin attended the selective Sydney Boys High School in Moore Park. In accordance with his father's wishes, he studied law at the University of Sydney. He went on to become the youngest member ever of the Sydney Stock Exchange.\n\nRivkin was a well-known stockbroker and entrepreneur, whose career spanned over 30 years. In December 1985, he was voted \"Business Review Weekly\" magazine's Stockbroker of the Year. Later, he gained recognition with his publication of the \"Rivkin Report\", in which he would advise what stocks to buy and sell, and provide market analysis. He became famous in the Australian media for his entrepreneurial flair and wealth. He was associated with leading political, media and business figures in Australia from 1982 to 1999 and became a household name.\n\nRivkin sold his share of stockbroking firm Rivkin James Capel after an operation to remove a tumour and the 1987 stockmarket collapse. He was the chairman and chief investor in the printing plant that was destroyed in the Offset Alpine fire on 24 December 1993. This resulted in an insurance payout of $53 million. Rivkin owned and part-owned many businesses, including a half share of John Singleton Advertising between 1986 and 1991 with his friend John Singleton. He subsequently founded another stockbroking firm.\n\nIn April 2003, following a long-running investigation by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), Rivkin was found guilty of insider trading, having purchased Qantas shares after being made aware of information in relation to an impending merger of Qantas and Impulse Airlines. He was charged with using confidential and market-sensitive information, having purchased – on behalf of Rivkin Investments – 50,000 Qantas shares on 24 April 2001, just hours after speaking to the executive chairman of Impulse, Gerry McGowan. The trade resulted in a profit of $2,664.94.\n\nRivkin was convicted and sentenced to nine months' periodic detention on weekends. His sentence was delayed so he could undergo urgent surgery for a meningioma. His period of custody was punctuated with time served at Long Bay Psychiatric Hospital. After serving two days of his sentence at Sydney's Silverwater Correctional Complex, Rivkin collapsed and was hospitalised.\n\nBanned for life from having a stockbroking licence following the serving of his sentence, Rivkin retired from business life. During this time, he suffered from several conditions. Since 1986, Rivkin received treatment for benign brain tumours, a gangrenous gall bladder, deep vein thrombosis and bipolar disorder. During interviews Rivkin mentioned that he had contemplated suicide. In early September 2004 he attempted suicide. He later moved from his Point Piper home to the Darling Point home of his elderly mother, where he took his own life on 1 May 2005. His funeral was widely attended by many notable people from Sydney's business community at Eastern Suburbs Memorial Park where his body was cremated on 6 May 2005. He was survived by his wife and five children.\n\nFollowing Rivkin's death, a global investigation was launched to ascertain the location of funds associated with the deceased businessman's estate. The high-profile investigation revealed Rivkin had been trading in secret through complex offshore dealings, despite being banned, and led to the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) claiming A$18 million in unpaid taxes and penalties. This forced the executors of the estate to declare it bankrupt, and a lengthy international effort to recover the proceeds of Rivkin's illegal trading ensued. As of 16 April 2013, the ATO ceased the provision of legal funds for court cases in Switzerland, where a Swiss bank refused to disclose the details of Rivkin's financial records (Swiss authorities also refused to take action against the bank). A$11 million that was held in Swiss bank accounts remains outstanding upon the closure of the investigation in April 2013.\n\n\n"}
