{"id": "1912975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912975", "title": "Indian Civil Service", "text": "Indian Civil Service\n\nThe Indian Civil Service (ICS), for part of the 19th century officially known as the Imperial Civil Service, is the elite higher civil service of the British Empire in British India during British rule in the period between 1858 and 1947. \n\nIts members ruled over more than 200 million people in the British Raj. They were ultimately responsible for overseeing all government activity in the 250 districts that comprised British India. They were appointed under Section XXXII(32) of the Government of India Act 1858, enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The ICS was headed by the Secretary of State for India, a member of the British cabinet.\n\nAt first almost all the top thousand members of the ICS, known as \"Civilians\", were British, and had been educated in the \"best\" British schools. By 1905, five per cent were from Bengal. In 1947 there were 322 Indians and 688 British members; most of the latter left at the time of partition and independence.\n\nUntil the 1930s the Indians in the service were very few and were not given high posts by the British. Wainwright notes that by the mid-1880s, \"the basis of racial discrimination in the sub-continent had solidified\".\n\nAt the time of the birth of India and Pakistan in 1947, the outgoing Government of India's ICS was divided between India and Pakistan. Although these are now organised differently, the contemporary Civil Services of India, the Central Superior Services of Pakistan, Bangladesh Civil Service and Myanmar Civil Service are all descended from the old Indian Civil Service.\n\nHistorians often rate the ICS, together with the railway system, the legal system, and the Indian Army, as among the most important legacies of British rule in India.\n\nFrom 1858, after the demise of the East India Company's rule in India, the British civil service took on its administrative responsibilities. The change in governance came about due to the Indian Rebellion of 1857, which came close to toppling British rule in the country.\n\nUp to 1853, the Directors of the British East India Company made appointments of covenanted civil servants by nominations. This nomination system was abolished in 1853 by the Parliament in England and it was decided that the induction would be through competitive examinations of all British subjects, without distinction of race.\n\nThe examination for admission to the service was first held only in London in the month of August of each year. All candidate also had to pass a compulsory horse riding test.\nThe competitive examination for entry to the civil service was combined for the Diplomatic, the Home, the Indian, and the Colonial Services. Candidates had to be aged between 21 and 24, which gave everyone three chances for entry. The total marks possible in the examination were 1,900.\nSuccessful candidates underwent one or two years probation in England, according to whether they had taken the London or the Indian examination. This period was spent at the University of Oxford (Indian Institute), the University of Cambridge, colleges in the University of London (including School of Oriental Studies) or Trinity College, Dublin, where a candidate studied the law and institutions of India, including criminal law and the Law of Evidence, which together gave knowledge of the revenue system, as well as reading Indian history and learning the language of the province to which they had been assigned.\n\nThe Early Nationalists, also known as the Moderates, worked for several implementation of various social reforms such as the appointment of a Public Service Commission and a resolution of the House of Commons (1893) allowing for simultaneous examination for the Indian Civil Service in London and India.\n\nBy 1920, there were five methods of entry into the higher civil service: firstly, the open competitive examinations in London; secondly, separate competitive examinations in India; thirdly, nomination in India to satisfy provincial and communal representation; fourthly, promotion from the Provincial Civil Service and lastly, appointments from the bar (one-fourth of the posts in the ICS were to be filled from the bar).\n\nQueen Victoria had suggested that the civil servants in India should have an official dress uniform, as did their counterparts in the Colonial Service. However, the Council of India decided that prescribing a dress uniform would be an undue expense for their officials.\n\nAlthough no uniform was prescribed for the Indian Civil Service until the early twentieth century. The only civilians allowed a dress uniform by regulations were those who had distinct duties of a political kind to perform, and who are thereby brought into frequent and direct personal intercourse with native princes.\n\nThis uniform included a blue coat with gold embroidery, a black velvet lining, collar and cuffs, blue cloth trousers with gold and lace two inches wide, a beaver cocked hat with black silk cockade and ostrich feathers, and a sword.\n\nThe civil services were divided into two categories – covenanted and uncovenanted. The covenanted civil service consisted of only white British civil servants occupying the higher posts in the government. The uncovenanted civil service was solely introduced to facilitate the entry of Indians at the lower rung of the administration.\n\nAfter the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the pay scales were drawn up. Assistant Commissioners started out in their early twenties on around £300 a year. The governorship of a British province was the highest post an ICS officer could aspire for. The Governors at the top of the pyramid got £6,000 and allowances. All ICS officers retired on the same pension £1,000. In the first decades of the twentieth century, the imbalance in salaries and emoluments was so great that 8,000 British officers earned £13,930,554, while 130,000 Indians in government service were collectively paid a total of £3,284,163.\n\nThey served a minimum of twenty five and a maximum of thirty five years service.\n\nICS officers served as political officers in the Indian Political Department and also were given fifty percent judgeship in the state high court and rest were generally elevated from the high court bar. The tenure of ICS officers serving as judges of the high court and Supreme Court was determined by the retirement age fixed for judges.\n\n\nWith the passing of the Government of India Act 1909, the Imperial Services headed by the Secretary of State for India, were split into two – All India Services and Central Services.\n\nPrior to the First World War, 95% of ICS officers were Europeans; after the war, the British government faced growing difficulties in recruiting British candidates to the service. Fewer and fewer young men in Britain were interested in joining, mainly due to the decreased levels of compensation to be had compared to other careers. Confronted with numerous vacancies, the government resorted to direct appointments; between 1915 and 1924, 80% of new British ICS candidates entered the service in this way. During the same period, 44% of new appointments to the ICS were filled by Indians. \n\nIn 1922, Indian candidates were permitted to sit the ICS examinations in Delhi; in 1924, the Lee Commission, chaired by Arthur Lee, 1st Viscount Lee of Fareham (which eventually led to the foundation of the Federal Public Service Commission and Provincial Public Service Commission under the Government of India Act 1935) made several recommendations: ICS officers should receive increased and more comprehensive levels of compensation, future batches of ICS officers should be composed of 40% Europeans and 40% Indians, with the remaining 20% of appointments to be filled by direct promotion of Indians from the Provincial Civil Services (PCS) and the examinations in Delhi and London were to produce an equal number of ICS probationers. In addition, under-representation of candidates from Indian minority groups (Muslims, Burmese and so on) would be corrected by direct appointments of qualified candidates from those groups, while British candidates would continue to have priority over Indians for ICS appointments. While initially successful, the expansion of the Indian independence movement from the late 1920s resulted in a hardening of Indian attitudes against European officers, and furthered distrust of Indian ICS appointments amongst Indians. This resulted in a declining recruitment base in terms of quality and quantity. \n\nThe All India and class 1 Central Services were designated as Central Superior Services as early as 1924. From 1924 to 1934, Administration in India consisted of \"ten\" All India Services and five central departments, all under the control of Secretary of State for India, and 3 central departments under joint Provincial and Imperial Control.\n\nThe finances of India under British rule depended largely on land taxes, and these became problematic in the 1930s. Epstein argues that after 1919 it became harder and harder to collect the land revenue. The suppression of civil disobedience by the British after 1934 temporarily increased the power of the revenue agents, but after 1937 they were forced by the new Congress-controlled provincial governments to hand back confiscated land. The outbreak of the Second World War strengthened them again, but in the face of the Quit India movement the revenue collectors had to rely on military force, and by 1946–47 direct British control was rapidly disappearing in much of the countryside.\n\nThe outbreak of war in 1939 had immediate consequences for recruitment to the ICS. The examinations in London were suspended after that year's batch (12 British and eight Indian examinees) had qualified. In 1940 and 1941, 12 and four British candidates, respectively, were nominated to the ICS; the following year, the final London-nominated ICS candidates, both of whom were Indian, entered the service. Examinations continued to be held in Delhi for Indian candidates until 1943, when the last seven ICS officers (seven examinees, two nominated) joined. By this time, the British government felt it could no longer rely unambiguously on the complete loyalty of its Indian officers. During the period of the Interim Government of India (1946-1947), a few British candidates were given emergency appointments in the ICS, though ultimately none of them ever served in India.\n\nAt the time of the partition of India and departure of the British, in 1947, the Indian Civil Service was divided between the new Dominions of India and Pakistan. The part which went to India was named the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), while the part that went to Pakistan was named the \"Civil Service of Pakistan\" (CSP). In 1947, there were 980 ICS officers. 468 were Europeans, 352 Hindus, 101 Muslims, two depressed classes/Scheduled Castes, five domiciled Europeans and Anglo-Indians, 25 Indian Christians, 13 Parsis, 10 Sikhs and four other communities. Most European officers left India at Partition, while many Hindus and Muslims went to India and Pakistan respectively. This sudden loss of officer cadre caused major challenges in administering the nascent states.\n\nDespite offers from the new Indian and Pakistani governments, virtually all of the European former ICS officers left following partition, with the majority of those who did not opt for retirement continuing their careers either in the British Home Civil Service or in another British colonial civil service. A few British ex-ICS officers stayed on over the ensuing quarter-century, notably those who had selected the \"judicial side\" of the ICS. The last British former ICS officer from the \"judicial side\" still serving in the subcontinent, Justice Donald Falshaw (ICS 1928), retired as Chief Justice of the Punjab High Court (now the Punjab and Haryana High Court) in May 1966, receiving a knighthood in the British 1967 New Year Honours upon his return to England. J P L Gwynn (ICS 1939), the last former ICS officer holding British nationality and the last to serve in an executive capacity under the Indian government, ended his Indian service in 1968 as Second Member of the Board of Revenue, but continued to serve in the British Home Civil Service until his final retirement in 1976.\n\nJustice William Broome (ICS 1932), a district and sessions judge at the time of Independence in 1947, remained in Indian government service as a judge. Having married an Indian, Swarup Kumari Gaur, in 1937, with whom he raised a family, he eventually renounced his British citizenship in 1958 and became an Indian citizen with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, himself a former barrister who regarded Broome as a distinguished jurist and as \"much as Indian as anybody can be who is not born in India.\" Upon his retirement on 18 March 1972 from the Allahabad High Court as its seniormost puisne judge, Broome was the last former ICS officer of European origin serving in India. \n\nNirmal Kumar Mukarji (ICS 1943), a member of the final batch recruited to the ICS and who retired as Cabinet Secretary in April 1980, was the last Indian administrative officer who had originally joined as an ICS. The last former ICS officer to retire, Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (also a member of the final ICS batch of 1943), retired as Chairman of the Pakistan Board of Investment in 1994. V. K. Rao (born 1914; ICS 1937), the last living ICS officer to have joined the service in a regular pre-war intake, died in 2018. He was a retired Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh and was the oldest former ICS officer on record at the time of his death. As of 2020, only one ICS officer remains alive- V.M.M. Nair (ICS 1942), who transferred to the Indian Political Service in 1946 and then to the Indian Foreign Service after Independence.\n\nDewey has commented that \"in their heyday they [Indian Civil Service officers] were mostly run by Englishmen with a few notable sons of Hindus and even a fewer Muslims were the most powerful officials in the Empire, if not the world. A tiny cadre, a little over a thousand strong, ruled more than 300 million Indians. Each Civilian had an average 300,000 subjects, and each Civilian penetrated every corner of his subjects' lives, because the Indian Civil Service directed all the activities of the Anglo-Indian state.\"\n\nThe ICS had responsibility for maintaining law and order, and often were at loggerheads with the freedom fighters during the Independence movement. Jawaharlal Nehru often ridiculed the ICS for its support of British policies. He noted that someone had once defined the Indian Civil Service, \"with which we are unfortunately still afflicted in this country, as neither Indian, nor civil, nor a service\".\n\nAs Prime Minister, Nehru retained the organisation and its top people, albeit with a change of title to the \"Indian Administrative Service\". It continued its main roles. Nehru appointed long-time ICS officials Chintaman Deshmukh as his Finance Minister, and K. P. S. Menon as his Foreign Minister. Sardar Patel appreciated their role in keeping India united after Partition, and noted in Parliament that without them, the country would have collapsed.\n\n\n\"Notes\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1912979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912979", "title": "Mega Man (video game)", "text": "Mega Man (video game)\n\nMega Man, known as in Japan, is a 1987 action-platform video game developed and published by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). It was directed by Akira Kitamura, with Nobuyuki Matsushima as lead programmer, and is the first game of the \"Mega Man\" franchise and the original video game series. \"Mega Man\" was produced by a small team specifically for the home console market, a first for Capcom, who previously focused on arcade titles.\n\nThe game begins the struggle of the humanoid robot and player-character Mega Man against the mad scientist Dr. Wily and the six Robot Masters under his control. \"Mega Man\"s nonlinear gameplay lets the player choose the order in which to complete its initial six stages. Each culminates in a \"Robot Master\" boss battle that awards the player-character a unique weapon. Part of the strategy of the game consists of choosing the order to tackle the stages in order to earn the weapons that will be most useful for future stages.\n\nCritics praised \"Mega Man\" for its overall design, though the game was not a commercial success. \"Mega Man\" established many of the gameplay, story, and graphical conventions that define the ensuing sequels, subseries, and spin-offs. The game has since been included in game compilations, rereleased on mobile phones, and become a part of console emulation services. It received a full 3D remake titled \"Mega Man Powered Up\" in 2006.\n\nIn the year 200X, robots developed to assist mankind are commonplace thanks to the efforts of renowned robot designer Dr. Light. However, one day these robots go out of control and start attacking the populace, among them six advanced humanoid robots made by Dr. Light for industrial purposes: Cut Man, Guts Man, Ice Man, Bomb Man, Fire Man, and Elec Man. He realizes the culprit is his old rival Dr. Wily (who plots to take over the world), but is unsure of what to do. His helper robot Rock, having a strong sense of justice, offers to be converted into a fighting robot to stop Dr. Wily's plan, becoming Mega Man. In time, he defeats the six robots and recovers their central cores, then confronts Dr. Wily within his Pacific-based robot factory (which happens to be mass-producing Light's robots). After a final showdown, Wily is defeated and Mega Man returns to his family.\n\nThe initial Western release of the game, while keeping the basic plot the same, significantly changed some details from the original Japanese manual. In this version, Dr. Light and Dr. Wily (here Light's assistant turned disloyal) co-create the humanoid robot Mega Man alongside the six advanced robots, each of whom were designed for the benefit of Monsteropolis's citizens (no such place existed in the original plot). Dr. Wily grows disloyal of his partner and reprograms these six robots to aid himself in taking control of the world, creating the seven empires of Monsteropolis. Dr. Light sends Mega Man to destroy his fellow creations and stop Dr. Wily.\n\n\"Mega Man\" consists of six side-scrolling platformer levels freely chosen by the player. In each level, the player-character, Mega Man, fights through various enemies and obstacles before facing a \"Robot Master\" boss at the level's end. Upon defeating the boss, the player assimilates the Robot Master's signature attack, or \"Special Weapon\", into Mega Man's arsenal for the rest of the game. Unlike the standard \"Mega Buster\" (\"Rock Buster\" in Japan), the Robot Master powers have limited ammunition replenished by collecting ammunition cells dropped by defeated enemies at random. Enemies also drop energy cells that replenish Mega Man's health gauge. While the player is free to proceed through the game in any order, each Robot Master is especially vulnerable to a specific weapon, which encourages the player to complete certain stages before others. The player can also revisit cleared levels. Besides the weapons taken from the Robot Masters, the player is able to pick up a platform generator item known as the \"Magnet Beam\" in Elec Man's stage. \n\n\"Mega Man\" also features a scoring system where players score points for defeating enemies, and earn extra points for collecting power-ups from fallen enemies and for clearing each stage. Each robot master was worth a random number between 50,000 and 100,000 points whereas Dr. Wily was always worth 200,000 points. The scoring system was removed in later Mega Man games as it provided no benefit to the player. High scores did not earn extra lives, they were not recorded, etc. and were overall meaningless.\n\nWhen all six Robot Master stages are completed, the seventh and last stage appears in the middle of the stage select menu. This stage, in which the player traverses Dr. Wily's robot factory, is a chain of four regular stages linked together, each containing at least one new boss. During these final stages, the six Robot Masters must also be fought again in a predetermined order before the final confrontation against Dr. Wily.\n\nBefore \"Mega Man\", Capcom primarily made arcade games, and their console releases were mostly ports of these titles. In the mid-1980s, Capcom made plans to develop \"Mega Man\" specifically for the Japanese home console market. They decided to bring in fresh, young talent for the small team, including artist Keiji Inafune, a recent college graduate who started on the \"Street Fighter\" team. Inafune recalled that the \"Mega Man\" development team worked extremely hard to complete the final product, with a project supervisor and lead designer who sought perfection in every possible aspect of the game.\n\nThe development team for \"Mega Man\" consisted of only six people. Inafune (credited as \"Inafuking\") designed and illustrated nearly all of the game's characters and enemies, as well as the Japanese \"Rockman\" logo, box art, and instruction manual. He was also responsible for rendering these designs into graphical sprite form. \"We didn’t have [a lot of] people, so after drawing character designs, I was actually doing the dotting (pixelation) for the Nintendo,\" Inafune stated. \"Back then, people weren’t specialized and we had to do a lot of different things because there was so few people, so I really ended up doing all the characters.\" Inafune was influenced by the eponymous protagonist of Osamu Tezuka's manga \"Astro Boy\" in his Mega Man\" \"designs. Mega Man is colored blue due to the NES console's technical limitations: the color has the most shades in the console's limited 56-color palette, and the expanded selection was used to enhance Mega Man's detail. Although he is often credited for designing the character, Inafune insists that he \"only did half of the job in creating him\", as his mentor developed the basic character concept before Inafune's arrival. The basic sprites for Roll and Dr. Light were created before Inafune joined the project, and the designs for Cut Man, Ice Man, Fire Man, and Guts Man were in process. Aside from normal enemies, Inafune's first character was Elec Man, inspired by American comic book characters. The artist has commented that Elec Man has always been his favorite design. The designs for Dr. Light and Dr. Wily were based on Santa Claus and Albert Einstein, respectively; the latter character was meant to represent an archetypal \"mad scientist\".\n\nThe team had initially considered names such as \"Mighty Kid\", \"Knuckle Kid\", and \"Rainbow Man\" before settling on their final decisions. The name \"Rainbow\" name was considered because the character could change into seven colors based on the weapon selected. The production team chose a music motif when naming the main characters in \"Mega Man\". The protagonist's original name is Rock and his sister's name is Roll, a play on the term \"rock and roll\". This type of naming would later extended to many characters throughout the series. One of the original storylines considered by the team but not used in the final game was for the game was to have Roll be kidnapped, and Rock had to rescue her. Another idea had included a boss fight against a giant Roll near the end of the game.\n\nThe team decided to incorporate anime elements for the game's animation. Inafune explained, \"[Mega Man's] hand transforms into a gun and you can actually see it come out of his arm. We wanted to make sure that the animation and the motion was realistic and actually made sense. So with Mega Man, we had this perfect blending of game character with animation ideas.\" The gameplay for \"Mega Man\" was inspired by the game rock paper scissors. The project supervisor wanted a simple system that offered \"deep gameplay\". Each weapon deals a large amount of damage to one specific Robot Master, others have little to no effect against them, and there is no single weapon that dominates all the others. Mega Man was originally able to crouch, but the team decided against it since it made players' ability to determine the height of onscreen projectiles more difficult. Naoya Tomita (credited as \"Tom Pon\") began work on the \"Mega Man\"'s scenic backgrounds immediately after his Capcom training. Tomita proved himself amongst his peers by overcoming the challenges of the console's limited power through maximizing the use of background elements.\n\n\"Mega Man\" was scored by Manami Matsumae (credited as \"Chanchacorin Manami\"), who composed the music, created the sound effects, and programmed the data in three months, using a sound driver programmed by Yoshihiro Sakaguchi (credited as \"Yuukichan's Papa\"). The musical notes were translated one by one into the computer language. Matsumae was challenged by the creative limits of three notes available at any one time, and when she was unable to write songs, she created the sound effects. \n\nWhen the game was localized for distribution in America, Capcom changed the title of the game from \"Rockman\" to \"Mega Man\". This moniker was created by Capcom's then-Senior Vice President Joseph Marici, who claimed it was changed merely because he did not like the original name. \"That title was horrible,\" Marici said. \"So I came up with \"Mega Man\", and they liked it enough to keep using it for the U.S. games.\" 1UP.com's Nadia Oxford attributed this change to Capcom's belief that American children would be more interested in a game with the latter title.\n\nCritics received \"Mega Man\" well, though the game sold poorly. AllGame described the NES version of the game as a \"near-perfect blend of action, challenge and audio-visual excellence\" and awarded it five stars, their highest rating. Lucas M. Thomas of IGN described the game as an \"undeniable classic\" for the NES, noting its graphics, innovative weapon-based platform gameplay, and music. IGN editor Matt Casamassina proclaimed, \"\"Mega Man\" is one of the best examples of great graphics, amazing music and near-perfect gameplay rolled into one cartridge\". GameSpot writers Christian Nutt and Justin Speer identified the game as a \"winner in gameplay\" granted its \"low-key presentation\". Jeremy Parish of 1UP.com likewise outlined it as a \"charming (if slightly rough) start for the series\". Whether positive or negative, \"Mega Man\" has been commonly received as very difficult. IGN's Casamassina found the game the hardest in the franchise, and among the hardest titles on the NES. IGN's Thomas observed that its combination of high difficulty and short length hurt its replayability. According to 1UP.com, the \"Nintendo-hard\" \"Mega Man\" bosses set the game apart from its two immediate and more popular sequels. \"Total!\" retrospectively characterized the game as \"an overhard and unenjoyably frustrating platform nightmare\".\n\n\"Mega Man\" has additionally received various honors from video game journals and websites. IGN listed the game at number 30 on its \"Top 100 NES Games of All Time\". \"Nintendo Power\" ranked \"Mega Man\" at number 20 on its \"100 Best Nintendo Games of All Time\" in its September 1997 100th issue, then at number 61 in its \"Top 200 Games\" in its February 2006 200th issue. 1UP.com included it in their \"Top 5 Overlooked Videogame Prequels\" and as number 17 on its \"Top 25 NES Games\" list. British magazine \"The Games Machine\" awarded it the \"Star Player\" accolade after its launch in PAL regions.\n\nCapcom's sales department originally believed that the game would not sell, but after Japan had received limited quantities, it had been seen as successful enough to quickly commission an American localization. As part of the rushed localization, the president of Capcom U.S.A. told the marketing representative to have a cover done by the next day, so he had a friend draw it within about six hours. Inafune blamed the game's relatively poor North American performance on its region-specific cover art, which visualized elements not found in the game: Mega Man himself resembles a middle-aged man rather than a boy, his costume is colored yellow and blue instead of being entirely blue, and he is holding a handgun instead of having his arm cannon. Over the years, the cover art became infamous in the gaming community. It has been considered one of the worst game covers of all time by publications including GameSpy, \"Wired\", and \"OC Weekly\". The cancelled \"Mega Man Universe\" featured a \"Bad Box Art Mega Man\" playable character alongside the classic 8-bit Mega Man. \"Bad Box Art Mega Man\" has since become a playable character in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\".\n\nWith little overseas press coverage save for a full-page advertisement in \"Nintendo Fun Club News\", sales gained momentum over word of mouth, making the game a sleeper hit. While \"Mega Man\" was not a large commercial accomplishment for Capcom, the company decided to allow the development team to create a sequel, \"Mega Man 2\", for a 1988 Japanese release. Many of the design elements cut from the original \"Mega Man\" due to space limitations such as planned enemy characters were included in the follow-up game. \"Mega Man 2\", with greatly improved box art, although still repeating the 'pistol' error, unchanged in directions from Capcom America, to veteran game illustrator Marc Ericksen, ('Strider,\"Galaga,\"Bad Dudes'), proved to be such a success that it solidified \"Mega Man\" as one of Capcom's longest-running franchises. Due to \"overwhelming demand\", Capcom reissued the original \"Mega Man\" in North America in September 1991. Capcom carried the same 8-bit graphics and sprites present in the original \"Mega Man\" into the next five games in the main series. Even though the sequels feature more complex storylines, additional gameplay mechanics, and better graphics, the core elements initiated by \"Mega Man\" remain the same throughout the series. \"Mega Man 9\" and \"Mega Man 10\" would later revert to the familiar graphical style set forth by this title. The scoring system in \"Mega Man\" has not been present in any of its sequels.\n\nAccording to GamesRadar, \"Mega Man\" was the first game to feature a nonlinear \"level select\" option, as a stark contrast to linear games like \"Super Mario Bros.\" and open world games like \"The Legend of Zelda\" and \"Metroid\". GamesRadar credits the \"level select\" feature of \"Mega Man\" as the basis for the nonlinear mission structure found in most multi-mission, open world, sidequest-heavy games, such as \"Grand Theft Auto\", \"Red Dead Redemption,\" and \"\".\n\n\"Mega Man\" has been re-released several times since its 1987 debut. A version with enhanced graphics and arranged music was included alongside \"Mega Man 2\" and \"Mega Man 3\" in the Sega Mega Drive compilation \"\". Another adaptation of the game was released in Japan on the PlayStation as part of the \"Rockman Complete Works\" series in 1999. This version also features arranged music in addition to a special \"Navi Mode\" that directs the player in certain portions of the levels. \"Mega Man\" was compiled with nine other games in the series in the North American \"Mega Man Anniversary Collection\" released for the PlayStation 2 and GameCube in 2004 and the Xbox in 2005. A mobile phone rendition of \"Mega Man\" developed by Lavastorm was released for download in North America in 2004. A separate, 2007 Japanese mobile phone release received a 2008 update adding the option to play as Roll. \"Mega Man\" for the NES was reissued on the Virtual Console service for three different systems: the Wii in Europe in 2007 and in North America and Japan in 2008, the 3DS in 2012, and for the Wii U in 2013. The \"Complete Works\" version of the game was made available on the PlayStation Store in both Japan and North America.\n\nAn enhanced remake titled \"Mega Man Powered Up\" — known as in Japan — was released worldwide for the PSP in 2006. The game features a graphical overhaul with 3D chibi-style character models with large heads and small bodies. Inafune had originally planned to make \"Mega Man\" look this way, but could not due to the hardware constraints of the NES. Producer Tetsuya Kitabayashi stated that redesigning the character models was a result of the PSP's 16:9 widescreen ratio. The larger heads on the characters allowed the development team to create visible facial expressions. \"The concept for these designs was 'toys'. We wanted cute designs geared towards little kids ... the kinds of characters that you'd see hanging off of keychains and such,\" character designer Tatsuya Yoshikawa explained. \"Not only that, I made sure to tell the designers not to skimp on any of the original \"Mega Man\" details. We wanted their proportions and movements to be accurately reflected in these designs as well.\" As the size of the remake's stages are not proportional to those of the original, the widescreen ratio also presented the developers with more space to fill.\n\n\"Mega Man Powered Up\" features two styles of gameplay: \"Old Style\" is comparable to the NES version aside from the updated presentation, and \"New Style\" uses the PSP's entire widescreen and contains storyline cutscenes with voice acting, altered stage layouts, remixed music, and three difficulty modes for each stage. This mode also adds two new Robot Masters (Oil Man and Time Man). The NES version was originally intended to have a total of eight Robot Masters, but was cut down to six due to a tight schedule. Additionally, the remake lets players unlock and play through the game as the eight Robot Masters, Roll, and Protoman. The New Style stages differ in structure from that of Old Style, with some pathways only accessible to specific Robot Masters. \"Mega Man Powered Up\" also features a Challenge Mode with 100 challenges to complete, a level editor for creating custom stages, and an option to distribute fan-made levels to the PlayStation Network online service. \"Mega Man Powered Up\" received generally positive reviews, with aggregate scores of 83% on GameRankings and 82 out of 100 on Metacritic . The remake sold poorly at retail, and was later released as a paid download on the Japanese PlayStation Network digital store and as a bundled with \"Mega Man Maverick Hunter X\" in Japan and North America. Capcom additionally translated \"Mega Man Powered Up\" into Chinese for release in Asia in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1912985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912985", "title": "WCW Mayhem", "text": "WCW Mayhem\n\nMayhem was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in the month of November in 1999 and 2000. It replaced the promotion's November PPV event World War 3 which was held from 1995 to 1998 and is noted for being the first wrestling pay-per-view named after a video game, rather than the video game named after a pay-per-view.\n\nSince 2001, the rights to the event are owned by WWE. In 2015, all WCW pay-per-views were made available on the WWE Network.\n"}
{"id": "1912986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912986", "title": "Sparrowpit", "text": "Sparrowpit\n\nSparrowpit is a small village between Chapel-en-le-Frith and Peak Forest in the High Peak area of the Peak District, Derbyshire, England.\n\nThe name is derived from 'spar row pit' from the fluorspar mines.\n\nThe village has an active community, including a methodist chapel and village hall.\n\nIt is situated at a crossroads where the main road (A623) takes a right-angled bend at the Wanted Inn. From this junction, one minor road takes a different and hillier route to Chapel-en-le-Frith, and another heads for Mam Tor and Castleton by way of the Winnats Pass.\n\nThe watershed between rivers running east into the North Sea and west into the Irish Sea runs almost exactly through the village.\n"}
{"id": "1912988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912988", "title": "List of naval weapon systems", "text": "List of naval weapon systems\n\nThe list of naval weapon systems aims to provide reference about weapons mounted on surface combatant warships, and smaller craft and submarines found throughout the history of naval warfare. The list is sorted alpha-numerically by system service designation (i.e. Mk 15), or issue name if designation is unknown:\nNB: As this is an English language list, NATO codenames are used preferentially. Glossary of abbreviations at bottom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1912999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912999", "title": "Battle for Narva Bridgehead", "text": "Battle for Narva Bridgehead\n\n\"This is a sub-article to Battle of Narva.\"\n\nThe Battle of Narva Bridgehead (Estonian: \"Narva lahingud\"; German: \"Schlacht um den Brückenkopf von Narva\"; Russian: \"Битва за плацдарм Нарва\"; 2 February – 26 July 1944) was the campaign that stalled the Soviet Estonian Operation in the surroundings of the town of Narva for six months. It was the first phase of the Battle of Narva campaign fought at the Eastern Front during World War II, the second phase being the Battle of Tannenberg Line.\n\nA number of volunteer Waffen SS units from Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium fought on the German side. Several Western authors dealing with the foreign national units nickname the campaign as the \"Battle of the European SS\". The involved Estonian conscripts fought to defend their country against the looming Soviet reoccupation.\n\nThe Soviet Estonian Offensive was a follow-on of the Leningrad–Novgorod Offensive. Its aim was to reconquer Estonia, which was annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940. Although Narva was not the main direction of the Soviet offensives on the Eastern Front in 1944, the Baltic Sea seemed the quickest way to Joseph Stalin for taking the battles to the German ground and seizing control of Finland.\n\nThe Soviet Estonian offensive stalled after securing several bridgeheads over the Narva River and facing the Nazi German Wotan Line. The fierce fighting starting in February stopped at the end of April. With the Narva Offensive, 24–30 July 1944, the Red Army captured the town of Narva, as the German troops retreated 16 kilometres to the southwest to continue fighting at their prepared positions. The German forces managed to block the Soviet advance to the Baltic ports for nearly six months due to the nature of the terrain and the resistance of the international troops.\n\nBreaking through the Narva isthmus situated between the Gulf of Finland and Lake Peipus was of major strategic importance to the Soviet Armed Forces. The success of the Estonian Operation would have provided unobstructed advance along the coast to Tallinn, forcing Army Group North to escape from Estonia for fear of being besieged. For the Baltic Fleet trapped in an eastern bay of the Gulf of Finland, Tallinn was the closest exit to the Baltic Sea. The ejection of Army Group North from Estonia would have made southern Finland subject to air and amphibious attacks originating from Estonian bases.\n\nThe retreat of Army Group North from the surroundings of Leningrad made the commanders of Finland realise that soon it may be too late to start negotiations with the Soviet Union. On 31 January 1944, General Field Marshal Keitel sent a letter to the Finnish Commander-in-Chief Mannerheim, claiming that the retreat of Army Group North to the Panther Line constituted no danger whatsoever to Finland. Marshal Mannerheim did not share the optimism, expressing his concern that the road in Narva would be open not only to Estonia, but also to Finland. As the German condition worsened in the Narva front, President of Finland Juho Kusti Paasikivi was presented with Stalin's peace terms on 8 February. However, Finland stayed in the war. To separate Finland from Germany and make her defence hopeless, Stalin needed to conquer Estonia. Stalin hoped that a breakthrough at Narva would make Finland sign a peace treaty quickly. The perspective of an invasion to East Prussia through Estonia appealed even more to the Soviet Main Command, as it appeared bringing German resistance to a collapse. Stalin gave a short and clear order to the Leningrad Front on 14 February:\nWith the tactical success of Army Group Narwa in late February, March and April, Finland terminated the negotiations with the Soviet Union on 18 April.\n\nThe town of Narva is situated along the river of the same name. The river stretches from Lake Peipus northward to the Gulf of Finland. The corridor of land from Lake Peipus to the coast is about forty five kilometres wide, creating a natural choke-point for military operations. The terrain is predominately low-lying with the highest areas being around 100 meters in elevation. Much of the land is swamp and cut by numerous waterways, with other areas heavily forested. This combination of aspects meant the land was by and large well-suited for defence as the waterways, swamps, and forests tend to channelise an attacker's movements.\n\nOn 14 January 1944, the Soviet Volkhov and Leningrad Fronts launched operations aimed at forcing the German Field Marshal Georg von Küchler's Army Group North back from its positions near Oranienbaum. On the third day of the offensive, the Soviets broke through German lines and pushed westward. The 109th Rifle Corps had captured Kingisepp by 1 February. Obergruppenführer Felix Steiner's III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps fought a rearguard action until it reached the eastern bank of the Narva. Army Group Sponheimer blew up the ice on the southern 50 kilometre section of the Narva river from Lake Peipus to Krivasoo swamp. North of the town, the 4th Soviet Rifle Regiment reached the Narva river, establishing a small bridgehead across it on 2 February 1944. The fighting to the east of Narva had left a large number of German troops stranded on the wrong side of the front. Simultaneously, the 122nd Rifle Corps crossed the river south of the town in Vääska settlement, establishing a bridgehead in the Krivasoo swamp 10 kilometres south of Narva town.\n\nThe main brunt of the Soviet attack was where the Germans had least expected it – the III SS Panzer Corps, positioned east of the strategically important town of Narva and holding the German bridgehead on the opposite bank. The Corps were mostly made up of SS volunteer formations. The Dutchmen of the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade Nederland and the various nationalities of the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division Nordland began frantically digging in along what had become known as the Narva line. The defensive line ran for eleven kilometres, from the estate of Lilienbach two kilometres north-east from the highway bridge over Narva river, to the settlement of Dolgaya Niva three kilometres in the south, bulging eastwards from the river. The 4th SS Panzergrenadier Brigade \"Nederland\" defended the northern half of the bridgehead while the 11th SS Division \"Nordland\" held the southern flank. Attacking them along the highway and railway were the four Soviet divisions of the 43rd and the 109th Rifle Corps. The Nederland Brigade, the 1st battalion of the SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 24 \"Danmark\", and the German artillery inflicted heavy casualties on the Red Army, who failed to reach their operational goal of destroying the bridgehead.\n\nIn the Krivasoo swamp ten kilometres south of Narva, the Soviet 1078th Regiment and the ski battalion of the 314th Rifle Division crossed the river under a heavy German air and artillery attack in four hours. Despite the resistance of the 29th Estonian Police Battalion, the 314th Rifle Division approached the Auvere Railway Station 10 kilometres west of Narva, threatening to cut the railway behind the III SS Panzer Corps and the two division-sized units of Army Group Narwa. The Soviet author Fyodor Paulman depicts the battles for Auvere station as ferocious, causing serious casualties to the 314th Rifle Division. Two regiments of the 125th Rifle Division were sent to assist them. The renewed Soviet units captured the railway crossing near Auvere station on 6 February, losing it on the same day under the fire of the German coastal artillery. From then on, the Soviet forces remained passive in the direction of Auvere, giving Army Group Narwa valuable time to regain their strength.\n\nTwo Soviet platoons of the 147th Rifle Regiment volunteered to cross the river to the settlements of Omuti, Permisküla and Gorodenka forty kilometres south of Narva on 2 February. The bank was defended by the 30th Estonian Police Battalion. The defence was built as an array of small bridgeheads on the east bank, appearing to the Soviets as a carefully prepared defence system in front of the main defence line. Repelled for the first time, the Soviet headquarters took some hours to prepare the attack by the 219th and 320th Rifle Regiments. The Estonians pulled back to their bank during the Soviet attacks, stopping the advance of the Red Army and causing heavy losses. Despite the heroics of the Soviet commanders, only a small platoon commanded by Lieutenant Morozov fortified themselves on the west bank.\n\nThe Soviet operations were accompanied by major problems in supply, as the major transport connections had been largely destroyed by the Germans and the remaining poor roads were threatening to fall apart in the thaw closing in. Another failure was in intelligence, as all Soviet partisan troops that had been sent to Estonia were destroyed. In their report on 8 February, the War Council of the Leningrad Front saw the preparations for the landings across the Narva river as unsatisfactory:\n\nThe 98th and the 131st Soviet Armoured Divisions established a bridgehead on the west bank near the settlement of Siivertsi further north from Narva on 12 February. The bridgehead soon became the most critical position on the whole Narva front. If the Soviets succeeded there, Narva city would fall quickly and the Narva bridgehead on the east bank of the river would be cut off. All available units were thrown against Siivertsi bridgehead.\n\nUntil the second week of February, the two armies of the Leningrad Front had deployed only vanguard elements. Army General Leonid A. Govorov of Leningrad Front ordered the 2nd Shock Army to break through the German defence line north and south of Narva town, move the front fifty kilometres westwards and continue towards the town of Rakvere. The artillery of the 2nd Shock army opened fire on all German positions on 11 February. The 30th Guards Rifle Corps, an elite unit usually used in breaching defence lines, joined the Soviet units attempting to seize the Auvere station. The guards riflemen widened the bridgehead to ten kilometres along the front. The remains of the German 227th and 170th Divisions retreated. General Major Romancov ordered an assault at Auvere settlement by the Air Force and artillery on 13 February, with the 64th Guard Rifle Division seizing the village in a surprise attack. Half a kilometre westward from Auvere station, the 191st Guard Rifle Regiment cut through the railway two kilometres from the Tallinn highway, which was the last way out for Army Group Narwa, but was repelled by the 170th Infantry Division and the 502nd Tank Battalion.\n\nThe situation on the Narva front was turning into a catastrophe for the Wehrmacht in mid-February. The Leningrad Front had formed two bridgeheads north and south of Tallinn highway, the closest of them a few hundred metres away from the highway. Army Group Narwa was in direct danger of getting besieged. The defense of the highway was held only by small infantry units formed of the field divisions of the \"Luftwaffe\", supported by Panther tanks after every few hundred metres along the highway. They obscured direct observation of the highway by placing branches of spruce trees along it, however, this did not distract the Soviet artillery from keeping the highway under constant bombardment. The faith of the Army Group Narwa, that the defense could go on like this, started to diminish.\n\nSeeing the condition of the front, Hitler ordered the 20th Estonian SS-Volunteer Division to be replaced on the Nevel front and transported to the Narva front. The arrival of the Estonian Division coincided with the prepared landing operation by the left flank of the Leningrad Front to the west coast of Lake Peipus, 120 kilometres south of Narva. The Soviet 90th Rifle Division seized Piirissaar island in the middle of the lake on 12 February, with taking the Estonian city of Tartu as its goal. The Estonian Division was placed at the Yershovo bridgehead on the east coast of Lake Peipus. The 374th Soviet Rifle Regiment crossed Lake Peipus on 14 February, seized the coastal village of Meerapalu in a surprise attack, and formed a bridgehead. Additional Soviet units attacking across the lake were destroyed by 21 German Junkers Ju 87 dive bombers. On the next day, the Soviet units were expelled from the west coast by the I.Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 45 \"Estland\" and an East Prussian battalion of the 44th Grenadier Regiment. Estonian sources estimate the Soviet casualties to be in the thousands. A battalion of the 44th Grenadier Regiment regained Piirissaar island on 17 February.\n\nTo break the last resistance, simultaneously with preparing the Meerapalu landing operation, Govorov ordered the 260th Independent Naval Infantry Brigade to prepare for an amphibious attack to the German rear in Narva. This was an elite unit, specially trained for an amphibious assault. They were transported to the Narva front by a naval unit with 26 vessels. The troops were to assault from the Gulf of Finland, landing several miles behind the German lines near the coastal settlement of Mereküla. The first company were to destroy the railway and Auvere station, the second company to occupy the railway east from Auvere, and the third company to cover the left flank and to blow up the railway bridge east of Auvere. Estonian sources claim that as the instructions for later action, Major Maslov ordered the slaughter of civilians. Another amphibious unit was intended to land after them. However, Estonian counterintelligence had acquired data on an amphibious operation being prepared to land in Mereküla in 1939. Preparing the Panther Line in 1944, the Germans placed their artillery on the coastal battery built by the Military of Estonia specifically against such a landing. The 517 troops commenced their operation on 14 February, landing directly in front of the German coastal artillery. The Norge Regiment and the coastal guards, supported by three Tiger tanks quickly responded. While the 2nd Shock Army artillery placed near Auvere failed to begin their attack at the agreed time, in seven and a half hours of fierce fighting, the Soviet beachhead was annihilated.\n\nGeneral Ivan Fedyuninsky took the 13th Rifle Division from the reserve to support the 30th Guards Rifle Corps' offensive aimed at Auvere station on 15 February. Supported by heavy gunfire, the 45th Rifle Guard Division broke through to the railway again 500 metres to the west of Auvere station, but a powerful attack by German dive bombers pinned them down. The Tallinn railway, supplying the surroundings of Narva, was cut from two places, threatening to encircle the III SS Panzer Corps in the northeast. In the course of the action, the Soviet 30th Guards Rifle Corps lost 7773 troops and ceased to exist as a combat-ready unit. Units of Army Group Narwa, supported by tanks, went on to counterattack, stopping the Soviet rifle corps' advance.\n\nAs another reserve, Fedyuninsky brought in the 124th Rifle Corps on 20 February, reinforcing it by the artillery of the destroyed divisions. Despite heavy resistance from the German 61st Infantry Division, the rifle corps mounted a powerful strike behind the railway. Frießner hurried his forces southwards against the 124th Rifle Corps advance. The German 61st Infantry Division and the German Panzer Division Feldherrnhalle 1, supported by the 502nd Heavy Tank Battalion, drove the rifle corps back to the river in a pitched battle. After the offensive, the weakened Soviet 30th Guard Rifle Corps was replaced by the 10th Rifle Corps. The 214th Division and an Estonian battalion cut a rifle division off from the rest of their forces on 28 February. The 43rd Soviet Rifle Corps restored the situation.\n\nThe Estonian Division arrived at the week following 13 February, at the height of the fighting around Narva. To strengthen the German defense in the north, the division, reinforced by newly conscripted Estonians, were attached to the III SS Panzer Corps. They were to defend the line against the 378th Rifle Division, the 340th Machine-Gun Battalion, and the 803th Zenith Artillery Regiment at the Riigiküla bridgehead seven kilometres to the north of Narva town. Steiner threw the division into battle on 20 February. The Soviet units with ample experience from the Siege of Leningrad had a significant number of women within their ranks. Retreat was forbidden under the penalty of death. As this was the main Soviet direction of attack for the moment, the Estonians frantically fortified the line with mine fields, barbed wire, and a large number of artillery pieces across the river north of the bridgehead. The terrain was well known to some of the Estonians, as an army rifle practice field was located on the exact spot before the war. \nFor there first in Narva the Estonian Division had the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 45 and the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46 separate the Riigiküla bridgehead from the Siivertsi bridgehead on 21 February. The failure of their following attacks made it clear that direct attacks were impossible because of the batteries across the river. Instead, the \"rolling\" tactics were applied learned by the Estonian officers in the Estonian National Defence College before World War II. This meant piercing small shock platoons into the Soviet trenches which were impossible to spot by the artillery. It was considered a matter of national honour to annihilate the Soviet bridgehead by 24 February, the Estonian Independence Day. The Soviet bridgehead was reinforced with the 1078th Rifle Regiment increasing the number of the defenders to 776 with 14 assault guns. The Red Army command was convinced in the well-placed artillery fire hitting back every possible attack. The II.Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46 led by Hauptsturmführer Rudolf Bruus and the German artillery appeared as if committing a direct assault while a platoon of the 6th Company led by Rein Oskar Männik threw themselves into the Soviet trenches. At first, the Soviets resisted the assault but after running out of hand grenades, they were forced to retreat over the frozen river.\n\nThe next task was the destruction of Siivertsi–Vepsküla bridgehead four kilometres north of Narva defended by 1,100 troops of the 378th Rifle Division with 20 assault guns. The attack was commanded by Standartenführer Paul Vent. The Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 45 made a direct assault at the bridgehead on 29 February. Simultaneously, the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46 in their attempt to attack from the left flank ran into the Soviet fortifications and crossed a mine field. As the I.Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46 lost almost all of its officers, the Unterscharführer Harald Nugiseks stepped in as the leader of the attack. He immediately changed tactics, loading the supply of hand grenade onto sledges so the attackers would not have to crawl back for the supplies over the mine field. With the hand grenades being passed on along the trenches, the bridgehead was squeezed in from the north by the \"rolling\" tactics. The SS Panzergrenadier Regiment 24 \"Danmark\" took the Siivertsi cemetery attacking from the northern suburbs of Narva but could not destroy a Soviet machine-gun strong point inside a massive granite monument erected to the honour of the perished soldiers of the White Northwestern Army during the Estonian War of Independence. Eventually, the machine-gunners were killed by a flamethrower. Another machine-gun strong point was in the wreck of a Tiger tank, which was destroyed by Ago Loorpärg shooting at it from a trophy Soviet 45 mm gun.\n\nThe Soviet bridgehead was squeezed into a few hundred metres of river bank around the ruins of Vepsküla settlement by 5 March. In a surprise attack of the I.Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 45, the bridgehead was split into three parts and \"rolled\" down by hand grenades. A small Soviet bridgehead still left on the west bank was cleared by the II.Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46 on 6 March.\n\nThe setbacks on Narva front came as an unpleasant surprise for the leadership of the Leningrad Front blaming it on the arrival of the Estonian Division. Both sides rushed for reinforcements. The 59th Army was brought to Narva and the 8th Estonian Rifle Corps placed under command of the Leningrad Front.\n\nOn 1 March, the newly arrived Soviet 59th Army, supported by the fire of 2500 assault guns and more than 100 tanks, attacked the 214th Infantry Division from the Krivasoo bridgehead twenty kilometres south west of Narva. The goal of the attack was the nearest connecting road in Kuremäe village. After three days of fierce battle, the Soviet army broke through the defense and advanced towards the highway to Jõhvi. The 59th Army encircled the strong points of the 214th Infantry Division, and the Estonian 658th and 659th Eastern Battalions, which continued resisting. Lieutenant General Ivan Korvnikov in charge of the Soviet 59th Army delayed the advance, referring to the lack of artillery support and scarcity of manpower. This gave time for Frießner to move in all available forces and stop the Soviet advance. German losses in these battles were in thousands.\nA Soviet regiment of the 2nd Rifle Division attempted a surprise assault over Lake Peipus to seize the road along the north shore of the lake on 2 March. Up to 500 of them were killed by the 225th Infantry Division, with a large number of weapons, including seven assault guns gained as trophies. Units of the 59th Army attacked from the Krivasoo bridgehead on 4 March. \n\nOn 6 March, the new Soviet Narva Offensive began with the air raid at Narva and the nine kilometre segment of Tallinn highway connected to the town. The explosives, attached to the main target, the bridge over Narva river were hit and blown up. The baroque style Old Town was levelled by 200 aircraft dropping 3600 bombs, with no buildings left intact. On the next night, another air raid followed at Ivangorod bridgehead on the opposite bank of the river. As the local inhabitants had been transported from the two towns, virtually no civilian casualties occurred. Instead, the German units remained in the towns were heavily hit and a great deal of military equipment lost.\nIn the morning of 8 March, the Soviet air force and the artillery of the 2nd Shock Army fired 100,000 shells and grenades at the three weakened German regiments defending the town. The operation continued with the assault of the 30th Guards Rifle Division and numerous tanks, focusing on the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade \"Nederland\" Govorov realised that the Narva line could not be breached before the German bridgehead on the eastern side of the river was annihilated. On 11 March, a heavy assault was ordered at the ruins of the Lilienbach estate two kilometres to the north east from Narva, defended by the SS Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\". After an artillery duel between the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade \"Netherland\" and the advancing Soviet units, the attack disintegrated into fierce hand-to-hand fighting between Soviet infantry and outnumbered SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\". After several hours of fierce combat, the 30th Guard Rifle Corps had suffered enough losses to fall back. Govorov decided to shift the focus of the Narva Offensive to the north of Narva.\n\nOn 8 March, three Divisions of the 14th Rifle Corps attacked the positions of the Estonian Division in Siivertsi, five kilometres north of Narva. The artillery of the Estonian Rifle Corps was placed under their command. For the first time, Estonians were facing Estonians in combat over Narva river. Loudspeakers were set up on the Soviet side, calling the Estonians on the German side to swap side. On 17 March, after massive bombardment of the positions of the Estonian Division, and 500 deaths from the Soviet 1256th Rifle Regiment, the Soviets managed to establish a bridgehead on the west bank of the river eight kilometres north of Narva. Assisted by the artillery of the III Germanic SS Panzer Corps, the Estonian machine-gunners, placed along the bank, cleared the bridgehead by the following night. The three Divisions of the 14th Rifle Corps were destroyed and the remains reformed in the rear.\n\nThe Soviet Long Range Aviation, subordinated directly to the Headquarters of Soviet Armed Forces, was committed to the task of bombing key Estonian towns of Petseri, Tartu, and the national capital Tallinn.\n\nThe heaviest of the air assaults was at Tallinn, on 9 March. A week before, the Mayor of Tallinn had given an order to the city dwellers to leave the town, but the evacuation failed. The extent of the attack was beyond the expectations of the local people and the headquarters of the Army Group North. A bombing run consisting of 300 IL-4 planes throwing 3068 bombs, 1725 of them explosive and 1300 incendiary, inflicted heavy damage to the city. The fire brigades were scarce on water, as Soviet saboteurs had blown up the city pumping station before the air raid. Military damage was minor, with a few military installations and supply stores destroyed. The major military loss was the burning of a million litres of fuel in the fuel depot. Of the enterprises with some military importance, the \"Luther\" plywood factory and the \"Urania-Werke\"-run cable factory were destroyed. Most of the bombs fell on the dwellings and public buildings, including the Estonia Theatre, St. Nicholas Church, the city synagogue, four cinemas, and the Tallinn City Archives with their collection of medieval documents. A large part of the wooden suburbs burnt down and the city centre suffered major damage. According to the official report, 757 people were killed, of whom 586 were civilians, 50 were military personnel, and 121 were prisoners-of-war. 213 had serious injuries, 446 had minor injuries. Amongst the injured were 65 military servicemen and 75 prisoners-of-war. Later, more victims were found, with the number of deaths estimated at up to 800. More than 20,000 people were left without a shelter in the spring thaw, while the military objects were almost untouched.\n\nA bombing raid against Tartu conducted on the night before 26 March destroyed dwellings and public buildings in the city centre and killed 67 citizens. Petseri was bombed throughout the night before 1 April, causing severe damage to the town and the Holy Dormition monastery, and killing hieroconfessor Macarius, schema-bishop of Malovishery, who was declared a martyr by the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nRegarding the high number of civilian casualties and low damage to military and strategic installations in the cities, the Soviet bombing raids were conducted primarily to destroy the resistance morale of the local civilians. Regardless of Soviet intentions, the high civilian casualty toll of the raids had significantly increased the hostility of the Estonian public towards the Soviet army. On 27 February, a Soviet air raid had hit children playing in the school yard of Luunja Parish, killing four. The date of their burial was turned into a national memorial day, accompanied by the poem \"\"Uus Heroodes\"\" (\"Modern Herod\") published by Henrik Visnapuu. More Estonians felt an urge to fight against the Soviet advance. A slogan was written on the ruins of the Estonia Theatre, saying:\n\nThe slogan became the title of the newspaper of the Estonian Division.\n\nOn 17 March, the six divisions, armoured vehicles and artillery of the Soviet 109th Rifle Corps and the newly brought 6th Rifle Corps continued the Soviet offensive, attacking the weakened 61st Infantry Division in the defense of Auvere railway station. The goal of the offensive was the Corps headquarters on the Lastekodumägi by the Tallinn highway fifteen kilometres west of Narva. The defense by the 162nd Grenadier Regiment, having built up as an array of posts between the hills and the railway, was shaken by the massive preparatory gunfire and air attack. The Soviet 930th Regiment broke through the thinned defense line of the 61st Infantry Division to the railway, pushing towards the German headquarters. The six Soviet T-34 tanks were destroyed by the two \"Tiger\" tanks of Lieutenant Carius, forcing the Soviet infantry into withdrawal. On 22 March, the 61st Infantry Division repelled ten Soviet assaults. On the same day in Ivangorod, the Red Army troops annihilated the SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\", 5th Company and broke in the regiment's rear. SS regimental headquarters troops assaulted the 150-man Soviet force, destroying them in heavy fighting, and retaking the regiment's trenches. \nBy the end of the Narva Offensive on 24 March, the 2nd Shock Army had lost its combat-readiness for larger operations. According to an Estonian estimate, it had also suffered a toll of around 150,000 troops in dead and wounded. On 24 March, Govorov asked the Stavka for permission to switch the mode on Narva front from offense to defense. Army Group Narwa had suffered the loss of around 30,000 men.\n\nThe High Command of the German Armed Forces were designing an offensive after a long while at the Eastern Front, choosing Narva as the location. Exploiting the favourable situation, commanders of Army Group Narwa regrouped, planning to destroy the Krivasoo bridgehead. On 26 March, the Strachwitz Battle Group (the German 170th, 11th, and 227th Infantry Divisions and tanks) targeted the flanks of the Soviet 109th Rifle Corps south of the Tallinn railway. The assault was supported by an air strike. Tank commander Hyacinth Graf Strachwitz von Groß-Zauche und Camminetz considered the heavy Tigers useless for operating in the swamp, exploiting the lighter Panther tanks instead. The East-Prussian grenadiers followed, penetrating the fortified positions of the Soviet Rifle Corps. The \"Armoured Count\" was out cheering the attackers on personally, driving his offroad vehicle to decorate the bravest with Iron Crosses, chocolate and cognac in the middle of the heaviest combat. By the end of the day, the Soviet 72nd and parts of the 109th Rifle Corps in the \"west sack\" of the bridgehead were encircled.\n\nAs Strachwitz had predicted, the Rifle Corps counterattacked on the following day. It was repelled by the 23rd East Prussian Grenadier Regiment, inflicting heavy casualties on the Soviet Rifle Corps. Small tank units in two groups broke through the lines of the Rifle Corps in several places, splitting the bridgeheads in two-halves. Fierce air combat followed, with 41 German dive bombers shot down. Attacking in small platoons the west half of the bridgehead was destroyed by 31 March, claiming 6,000 Soviet riflemen dead.\n\nThe \"east sack\" defenders of the Krivasoo bridgehead, defended by the Soviet 6th and the 117th Rifle Corps, were confused by Strachwitz Battle Group's deception attack on 6 April, intending to leave an impression of aiming to cut them out from the west flank. The actual assault came directly at the 59th Army from Auvere station, starting with heavy bombardment. The forest in the positions of the 59th Army was ignited and bombed by dive bombers. At the same time, the 61st Infantry Division and the Strachwitz tank squadron pierced deep into the 59th Army defense, separating the two rifle corps from each other and forcing them to retreat to their fortifications. Govorov was outraged by the news, sending in the freshly re-deployed 8th Army. Their attempt to cut out the Tiger I tanks from their rear was repelled by Lieutenant Günther Famula keeping the road to the supplies open. On 7 April, Govorov ordered to switch the mode on Narva front to defensive. The 59th Army, having lost another 5,700 troops for all purposes, was removed from the bridgehead. Strachwitz received the Knight's Cross with Oak Leaves, Swords, and Diamonds as the eleventh man in the history of the award on 15 April.\n\nThe 8th Army repelled the German attack, lasting from 19–24 April. The Germans lost 2,235 troops as dead and captured in the offensive, while the total of German casualties in April was 13,274, all causes. The Soviet casualties in April are unknown, but are estimated by Mart Laar to at least 30,000 men for all purposes. The losses exhausted the strengths of the both sides. For May and June, the front stagnated with the exception of the artillery, air, sniper activity and clashes between reconnaissance platoons.\n\nOn 12 May, a battle was fought near Auvere. The German 112th Infantry Division counted 272 fallen Red Army soldiers on the battlefield. On 7 June, hundreds of Soviet guns opened up all across the seven-mile Narva front. The 13th Air Army encountered minimal Luftwaffe opposition. Special attention was paid to the positions of the Danmark Regiment. As the smoke from the bombardment cleared, the Soviet infantry attacked in human waves. The Nederland Brigade's artillery opened up, tearing holes in the advancing Red Army soldiers. Pushing through the fire, the Soviet troops made it to the Danmark Regiment's positions and began heavy fighting. Over the next days, the Danes held their positions against the Red Army. On 12 June, the 2nd Shock Army used larger units to attack German positions in the sector of the III SS Panzer Corps, XXVI and XXXXIII Army Corps in Ivangorod. On this day at the \"Sunshine\" outpost to the southeast of the Narva bridgehead, the Danish NCO Egon Christophersen literally saved the main front, when with a small assault troop he counterattacked German trenches that had been seized by the Russians and regained them in hand-to-hand combat. Christophersen and his men then defended the positions against all attackers, enabling the broken German lines to reconsolidate and hold. Christophersen was awarded the Knight's Cross. The attack was repulsed in 800 Soviet deaths.\n\nFighting went on for two more weeks with no substantial advance by either side. On 16 July, the Red Army forces found their way in the trenches of the SS Panzergrenadier Regiment 24 \"Danmark\". The attack was repulsed by nightfall. On the afternoon of 20 July, the Soviet air force carried out a five-wave attack on Mustvee harbour, wounding 40–50 personnel of the German flotilla on the west coast of Lake Peipus.\n\nWhile continuing attacks on the Narva front, the Stavka had begun to look elsewhere for their breakthrough. A new offensive, codenamed Bagration after the Napoleonic-era Russian field marshal, was launched on 22 June against Army Group Centre.\n\nFor the commencement of the Soviet Narva Offensive Operation on 24 July, most of the Soviet units and artillery were concentrated in the Krivasoo bridgehead in the south. The Soviet operational goals were the Auvere railway station defended by the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian), and the Sirgala settlement defended by the East Prussian 11th Infantry Division north west from the Soviet bridgehead. The first attack by the 8th Army was to be conducted by the 117th and the 122nd Rifle Corps. The rest of the 8th Army included the 124th and 112th Rifle Corps. Their goal was to break through the German defense of the station, while the 2nd Shock Army was to break through the defense of the III SS Panzer Corps stationed on the river north of Narva. The 2nd Shock Army included the 131st and the 191st Rifle Divisions, the 109th Rifle Corps, the 8th Estonian Rifle Corps, two artillery brigades, the 328th Separate Heavy Artillery Division, four Rocket Artillery Launcher Regiments, the 760th Anti-Tank Regiment, and 62 armoured vehicles. The two armies were to encircle and destroy the III SS Panzer Corps. In the prepared assault, the Soviet artillery had an eightfold superiority over its German counterpart. The Soviet air force consisted of 546 bombers against 49 German dive bombers. The standing manpower in the Krivasoo bridgehead was 46,385 Soviets against the 17,100 German troops at the defense of Auvere station. However, the Soviet force was unaware of the recently constructed Tannenberg line, granting the German side an element of surprise.\n\nThe Soviet success in Belorussia and Ukraine brought the High Command of the German Armed Forces to propose a withdrawal of the Army Group Narwa and the 18th Army to the line between Riga and Daugavpils 400 kilometres south of Narva. The aim of the officers was to keep the battle front as short as possible and to use the available troops in the Ukraine. On 12 July, the commander of the army detachment Infantry General Johannes Frießner proposed the plan to Hitler, whose reaction was to stand or die at the Narva line. Simultaneously, the German Headquarters had intelligence data on the Leningrad Front preparing for the Narva Offensive. The Army Group North were out of reserves. Disregarding Hitler's order, Frießner ordered a new defensive line built, the Tannenberg Line (\"Tannenbergstellung\"), with the main defenses located on the three Sinimäed Hills fifteen kilometres to the west of Narva. On 21 July, Frießner asked permission to withdraw to the prepared positions. As Hitler was afraid, the Finnish will of resistance would suffer from it, he informed the Finnish High Command about his plans. Finding out, that the withdrawal to a new line was not considered a problem by the Finnish side, Hitler gave the order to retreat.\n\nIn the morning of 24 July, the Soviet assault commenced with 30–50 batteries firing 17,000 shells and grenades (2,000 tons), inflicting significant casualties to the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 45 \"Estland\" in Auvere estate and 44th East Prussian Regiment in Sirgala settlement. After two hours of preparatory artillery fire, the two regiments were attacked from the air. Three German and eight Soviet bombers were shot down in air combat. Under artillery cover, the Soviet 122nd Rifle Corps and a tank brigade pierced into the East Prussian positions, while the 117th Rifle Corps encircled the Estonian regiment, who reformed themselves in a circular defense. Relieved by a company of Panther tanks and three Nebelwerfer rocket artillery launchers, the Estonians went on a counterattack. The East Prussians were saved by the swift movement of artillery behind them clearing their previous positions from the Soviets. Forces of the 117th Rifle Corps reached the headquarters of the 1st Battalion, Waffen Grenadier Regiment of the SS 45 \"Estland\" who resisted by heavy machine-gun fire in circular defense. The support by the anti-tank weapons of the 14th Company and the aid of the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division \"Nordland\" helped to seize the main front line back to the control of the Estonian Regiment. Subsequent attempts by the 117th and 122nd Rifle Corps to break through were repelled in a similar way, causing them to lose 3,000 men, compared to the loss of 800 troops of Army Group Narwa.\n\nThe Soviet attack at Auvere and Sirgala forced the III SS Panzer Corps to a hasty withdrawal from their positions in the Ivangorod bridgehead on the opposite bank of Narva. The Soviet 8th Army threatened to reach the Tannenberg Line before the Germans.\n\nOn the morning of 25 July 1944 Soviet assault guns fired 280,000 shells and grenades at the positions of the Estonian Division across Narva river, who were covering the right flank of the III SS Panzer Corps. The density of the assault guns was 160 per kilometre of front line. The shock made the trenches collapse on both sides of the front line. After the artillery strike, the bombers and assault guns moved in to destroy the remaining strong points. Regiments of the 131st and the 191st Rifle Corps were ordered to cross the river on boats and rafts, accompanied by \"Svyaschennaya Voyna\" and the anthem of the Soviet Union playing from the loudspeakers. The assault guns and the machine-guns of the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) along with the dive bombers destroyed the first attempts of the 2nd Shock Army, until the Estonians ran out of ammunition. The focus of the Soviet attack drifted to the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46, causing it to lose co-ordination and retreat to the Peeterristi crossroads on the highway nine kilometres outside Narva. The retreat opened access to the Soviets behind the retreating Army Corps. The 131st Rifle Division advanced towards the highway, as the 191st Rifle Division turned south towards Narva to cut the Germans out.\n\nThe Soviet advance along the river to Narva was faced by the 2nd Battalion, Waffen Grenadier Regiment of the SS 47. Major Alfons Rebane had saved the detachment from the Soviet bombardment by ordering them to dig into new trenches the night before. Aiming at the 2nd Battalion's positions according to their data, the artillery of the 2nd Shock Army had hit empty trenches. Inflicting heavy casualties to the 191st Rifle Division, the battalion stopped the Soviet from getting to Narva. As the 131st Rifle Division threatened to cut between Rebane's battalion and the 46th SS Regiment five kilometres to the west, Rebane shifted his front segment a kilometre towards the left. The assaults by the 556th and 546th Rifle Regiments were repulsed with great casualties by the Estonians rounded up to defend the highway by the Olgina estate.\n\nIn Peeterristi estate nine kilometres from Narva, Major Friedrich Kurg reassembled the 180 troops remained of the 2nd Battalion, Waffen Grenadier Regiment of the SS 46 to keep the 131st Rifle Division away from the highway and counterattacked. \"Luftflotte 1\" was sent into the air to provide cover for the withdrawing III SS Panzer Corps. Despite their efforts, the 137 German aircraft were overwhelmed by the 800-plus Thirteenth Air Army. Suffering the near destruction of the Waffen-Grenadier Regiment der SS 46, the joint Estonian defense line with the 2nd Battalion, Waffen-Grenadier Regiment of the SS 47 some four kilometres to the west held the Soviet attack, while the III SS Panzer Corps withdrew across the Narva bridge to the Tannenberg Line. Behind them, the Corps destroyed the highway with road destruction machinery.\n\nThe German units that failed to retreat exactly on the agreed timetable, immediately faced heavy Soviet assaults. The main German casualty of the retreat to the Tannenberg Line were the 700 troops of the SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 48 \"General Seyffardt\". In the night before 26 July, the regiment was the last to leave Narva, while the Soviets were already gaining control of the highway behind them and Soviet armoured vehicles were crossing the Narva bridge. The Dutchmen of the 2nd Battalion, SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\"; covering the retreat of SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 48 \"General Seyffardt\", were rescued from encirclement by the 1st Battalion, SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\". Encircled in the swamps between the highway and the railway, the withdrawing \"General Seyffardt\" were pinned down by the fighter-bombers of the Red Air Force and annihilated by the 191st Rifle Division.\n\nIn general, the withdrawal was completed according to the German plans. The SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Regiment 49 \"De Ruyter\" started digging in on the left (north) flank of the Tannenberg Line, the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) in the centre, and the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division Nordland on the right (south) flank. The Red Army captured Narva, ending the six-month struggle for the town. While the Soviets celebrated victory, their main goal – the encirclement of the III SS Panzer Corps and the destruction of Army Group North – remained unreached.\n\nAccording to the data of the Headquarters of Soviet Armed Forces, the casualties of the Leningrad Front in January and February 1944 were 56,564 dead or missing and 170,876 wounded or sick. The Leningrad Front also lost 462 armoured vehicles and 260 bombers during the period. The share of the battles around Narva is unknown. Estonian historian Mart Laar believes that, considering the length of the operation, roughly half of the losses can be accounted for the battle of Narva. According to his account, from 1 March to 14 September, the Leningrad Front lost 76,301 troops as dead or missing and 303,291 as wounded or sick in the Narva campaign. An estimated half of them account for March and April. Excluding the losses in the Narva Operation, 24–30 July 1944 (accounted within the losses in the Battle of Tannenberg Line), Laar's estimates of the Soviet losses in the Battle for Narva Bridgehead total at approximately 65,000 dead or missing and 235,000 wounded or sick. This is in accordance with the estimation of the Soviet researcher F.I. Paulman, stating that the 2nd Shock Army lost more than 30,000 troops in February. Major General Rodin provided a different account, proposing 6033 dead or missing and 7144 as wounded or sick for the Leningrad Front in the Narva campaign but Laar disputes these numbers, insisting that they make no sense because the ratio of the dead to the wounded generally ranges from 1 / 3 to 1 / 4.\n\nThe German Army Group Narwa lost 23,963 troops as dead, wounded and missing in action in February 1944. During the following months until 30 July 1944, additional 34,159 German soldiers were lost, 5,748 of them dead and 1,179 missing in action. The total of the German casualties in the Battle for Narva Bridgehead is estimated at 12,000 dead, missing or captured and 46,000 wounded or sick.\n\nAs of 1 March 1944\n\nLeningrad Front – \"Army General Leonid Govorov\"\n\nSeparate corps and divisions:\n\nMilitary formations subordinated to the Army Group Narwa (as of 1 March 1944)\n\nSeparate detachments:\n\nOther military units\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913003", "title": "Tha Doggfather", "text": "Tha Doggfather\n\nTha Doggfather is the second studio album by American rapper Snoop Doggy Dogg. It was released on November 12, 1996, by Death Row Records and Interscope Records. After the success of his debut album \"Doggystyle\" (1993), Snoop was charged with murder and in 1995, spent time preparing for the case that went to trial. In February 1996, he was cleared of all charges and began working on his second album without Dr. Dre providing work as a record producer. This was Snoop's final album on Death Row Records under his name of \"Snoop Doggy Dogg\". Recording sessions took place from February 1996 to October 1996, with Suge Knight filling in as the executive producer on the album, alongside the additional production from several record producers such as DJ Pooh, Daz Dillinger, Soopafly and L.T. Hutton; as well as guest appearances from Charlie Wilson, Kurupt tha Kingpin, Tray Dee and Warren G, among others.\n\nThe album debuted at number one during the week of November 12, 1996, selling over 420,000 copies, but it failed to match the commercial success of \"Doggystyle\". Dr. Dre had left Death Row to his partner Suge Knight, who was indicted for racketeering by the end of 1996. \"Tha Doggfather\" was also released only one week after another Death Row release, the first posthumous album by 2Pac, \"\", which debuted at number one. Consequently, Snoop's second album stalled at sales of two million copies.\n\nIn 1992, Snoop Dogg featured on the album \"The Chronic\" by close friend Dr. Dre, which was a great success.\n\nIn 1993, Snoop and Dr. Dre began work on \"Doggystyle\" which was also very popular and acclaimed. During the recording of \"Doggystyle\" Snoop became a defendant in a murder case which saw his acquittal shortly before this album was released, which led him to no longer live the \"gangsta\" lifestyle he portrayed in his records.\n\nDr. Dre, who was Death Row Records' in-house producer, had left earlier in 1996 to start his own label, which led Snoop's first cousin Daz Dillinger to become Death Row's head producer; he worked on this record. The murder of Snoop's close friend and fellow rapper, label-mate Tupac Shakur in September 1996 also weighed on him heavily; Shakur appears on the closing track \"Outro\", under the name \"Makaveli\", which he began using a short while before his death. \n\n\"Tha Doggfather\" charted at number one on both the US \"Billboard\" 200 and Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums charts. To date, the album sold two million copies in the United States and sold better internationally than its predecessor, \"Doggystyle\" (1993).\n\nDuring the departure of Dr. Dre from Death Row Records, the majority of this album was produced and mixed by DJ Pooh. In addition to DJ Pooh, Daz Dillinger and several other producers contributed to this album. In 1996, in an interview with Rap City, Snoop Dogg revealed that he had been working with Dr. Dre for this album; however, he had been prevented from doing so by Suge Knight. The album samples songs such as \"It's Like That\" performed by Run-D.M.C., \"Vapors\" performed by Biz Markie, \"More Bounce to the Ounce\" performed by Zapp & Roger, and \"Oops Up Side Your Head\" performed by The Gap Band. The Doggfather also marked the debut of Snoop Dogg as a record producer on the track \"(O.J.) Wake Up\". Snoop Dogg also was beginning to be acknowledged on how to play keyboard by a high-profile producer named L.T. Hutton, who led a hand providing some production on that track as well.\n\nThe illustration on the back cover of the CD was done by Joe Cool, the same artist who did the front cover of Snoop's previous album \"Doggystyle\".\n\nCompared to Doggystyle, the lyrics are much less violent and controversial. On \"Tha Doggfather\", Snoop Dogg wanted to present a more positive image in his lyrics, a reflection of his maturation as an artist and as a new father. On December 3, 2006, in an interview with Vh1, Snoop Dogg revealed the differences between \"Doggystyle\" and \"Tha Doggfather\", stating, \"I think \"Tha Doggfather\" was a rebirth of me, as far as me being more positive on what I was tryin' to say and, you know, tryin' to live the life through my music, instead of me just livin' my life, tryin' to show people that my life... wasn't like my music...I'm not gonna glorify none of this negativity that Death Row wanted me to do. I'm gonna bring a positive side of music.\" Although his new lyrical direction was met with mixed feelings from fans and critics alike, Snoop Dogg still thinks of the album as a success: \"I enjoyed it and everywhere I go around the world people, you know, I sign more Doggfather records than any other record I put out. That's the one I sign the most and I'm proud at the thang I did and the thang is... sometimes you can outgrow your fans\".\n\nThe album received generally moderate reviews from critics and fans at the time of its release. In a February issue of Spin magazine, Dr. Dre stated his feelings on the album and said \"But to be perfectly honest, I don't like Snoop's new album. And it has nothing to do with me not working him, because I'm just like everybody else: I like it, or I don't. The first time I heard the single, I was grooving to it, but then I really started to get into the production and how it was sounding, you know? The first time you hear some shit, you just listen to it to get your groove on, but after that, I start breaking songs down. There's really nothing that was said on there that hasn't been said 50 times before.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the album stating that \"Even without Dr. Dre behind the board, Snoop and his studio team concoct an intoxicating blend of old-school funk and gangsta cool\", but also noted that \"There's not much to love in the album's attitude toward sex, drugs, and first-degree murder.\" Muzik said, \"...a more angular, spiky, old school-influenced vehicle for the Dogg Father to strut his matter-of-act rhymes over... you [are taken in] by the strength of the rhyming...\". Melody Maker ranked it #49 on Melody Maker's list of 1996's 'Albums Of The Year'. The Los Angeles Times reported that \"Snoop still is one of rap's most electrifying performers. But unlike \"Doggystyle\" and the \"Murder Was the Case\" soundtrack, few of the beats on this album rival his rapping prowess.\" They complimented some of the tracks, calling 'Doggfather' \"... the epitome of cool smoothness. Over a slow-rolling Daz and DJ Pooh track\" 'Freestyle Conversation' \"...an Outkast-style exercise in which Snoop speaks a mile a minute, but still manages to maintain a funky rhythm\", 'Gold Rush' a \"funky pistolero track\" and the Biz Markie remake 'Vapors' \"the album's real gem\". The review went on to conclude that \"Tha Doggfather may not be Doggystyle, but Snoop shows that he has the prowess and the talent to survive.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" predicted that the album would chart in the top ten due to his presence in the music industry. They also stated that \"The album has a few obligatory mentions of sexual exploits and gun-toting, usually delegated to guest rappers. But most of the raps are about his position as a hit-maker. He still has one of the most distinctive deliveries in rap: a casual, nasal, conversational tone that sounds leisurely even when he's barreling forward. His producers are a little less slick than Dr. Dre was, but they have supplied swampy bass riffs and catchy backup choruses, drawing heavily (like Dr. Dre) on George Clinton's P-Funk. Snoop Doggy Dogg insists, and \"Tha Doggfather\" does that, maintaining a party atmosphere. Yet while it insists that gangsta rap isn't dead, it plays down tough-guy tales in favor of a star's pronouncements.\" AllMusic reviewer Stephen Thomas Erlewine noted that the album runs on too long at over 70 minutes and \"Though it works the same G-funk territory, the bass is less elastic and there is considerably less sonic detail\". But also praised the album by stating \"Though the music isn't original, and the lyrics break no new territory, the execution is strong -- Snoop's rapping and rhyming continue to improve, while the bass-heavy funk is often intoxicating.\" He ended the review stating \"...the album is a fine follow-up to one of the most successful hip-hop albums in history.\"\n\nBefore the release of the album many were questioning if the album would become lost in the turmoil and tragedy of the label, or even to be bypassed in the rush of Tupac's . However retailers thought differently such as Violet Brown, urban music buyer for the Wherehouse music chain. \"Customer anticipation has been huge. As soon as record executives found out they were opening against Snoop [this week], they shifted the release dates of some rival rap albums to avoid the Snoop sales rush.\" The album debuted at number one with strong first week sales of 479,000 copies, with Tupac at number two with second week sales of 250,000 (proving that Death Row still had a strong hold on the pop charts). While falling short of Doggystyle's 803,000 in the first week sold (the record at the time for a rap album), the album still was the third-highest rap debut of that year behind Shakur's \"All Eyez on Me\" (566,000 first-week copies) and \"Killuminati\" (664,000 copies), and it ranks fourth overall on the year's list of top debuts, which is headed by Metallica's \"Load\" (680,000 copies). The album has sold over two million copies in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913008", "title": "Jim Allchin", "text": "Jim Allchin\n\nJames Edward Allchin (born 1951, Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States) is an American guitarist, computer scientist, and philanthropist. He is a former Microsoft executive.\n\nHe assisted Microsoft in creating many of the system platform components including Microsoft Windows, Windows Server, server products such as SQL Server, and developer technologies. He is best known for building Microsoft's server business. He is also known for his leading role in the architecture and development of the directory services technology Banyan VINES. He has won numerous awards in his career such as the Technical Excellence Person of the Year in 2001. Jim Allchin led the Platforms division at Microsoft, overseeing the development of Windows client from Windows 98 to Windows Vista, Windows Server from NT Server 4.0 to Windows Server 2008, as well as several releases of Microsoft server products as well as Windows CE and Windows Embedded line of products. After serving sixteen years at Microsoft, Allchin retired in early 2007 when Microsoft officially released the Windows Vista operating system to consumers. He is now a professional musician.\n\nAllchin was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, in 1951. While he was still an infant, the Allchin family moved to Keysville, Florida, where his parents worked on a farm. Allchin grew up in a tin-roof house built by his father. Later, Allchin and his older brother Keith also worked on the farm to support the family financially.\n\nWhile fixing equipment on the farm, Allchin developed an interest in engineering. He studied Electrical engineering at the University of Florida, but dropped out to play in a number of bands. He later returned to the university and graduated with BS in Computer Science in 1973.\n\nAfter receiving his degree, Allchin joined Texas Instruments, where he helped build a new operating system. Afterwards, he followed a former lecturer, Dick Kiger, to Wyoming, where he helped him to start a new company offering computer services nationwide, before moving on to another company in Dallas, Texas.\n\nAllchin returned to his studies, earning the degree of MS in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1980. Allchin wrote a language-independent, portable file system while at Stanford. While pursuing his PhD in Computer Science at Georgia Institute of Technology in the early eighties, he was the primary architect of the Clouds distributed object-oriented operating system; his PhD thesis was entitled \"An Architecture for Reliable Decentralized Systems\".\n\nIn 1983, Allchin was recruited to Banyan by founder Dave Mahoney, eventually being Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. During his seven years at Banyan, he created the VINES distributed operating system, including the StreetTalk directory protocol.\n\nBill Gates tried to recruit a reluctant Allchin to join Microsoft for a year and successfully convinced him in 1990. Gates told him that whatever he created would have a wider customer base through Microsoft than anyone else.\n\nAllchin is known as a prolific computer programmer/engineer. Allchin is also known for debugging systems remotely by having the person on the phone toggle in hexadecimal via front panel switches of early computers to correct problems.\n\nInitially, Gates put Allchin in charge of revamping LAN Manager, using his networking expertise. However, Allchin scrapped the project, citing the need to start fresh.\n\nAllchin's first high-profile project at Microsoft was the Cairo technology, which was intended to add on to Windows NT to create the next version of the operating system. At the NT Developer Conference in July 1992, Allchin gave a presentation about the future Microsoft operating system. One of the main goals for Cairo was the ability for users to locate files based on their content as opposed to their name. Users would also have access to files stored on other machines on a network as easily as they had access to files on their own hard drives. Cairo was scheduled to ship as a single package in 1994. After several delays, it was finally released in pieces; the technology was shipped in successive operating system releases. The Cairo and Windows NT groups were combined, and Allchin created a new client and server organization focused on business and IT users. Allchin replaced Dave Cutler as the lead developer on Windows NT version 3.5 onwards. This led to conflict with Vice President Brad Silverberg, who was in charge of the development of Windows 95, the operating system which was aimed at the personal computer market as opposed to Windows NT's business computer market.\n\nIn 1999, Microsoft re-organized its corporate structure. The Consumer Division, which maintained versions of Windows for home users and the Business & Enterprise Division, which maintained Windows NT, were combined into a single operating system division: the Platform Group. Allchin became the vice president of the new combined group. This promotion put him in charge of the development of both the home and business versions of Windows. With the release of Windows XP in 2001, both business and client versions of the operating system utilized the same code base. The server business grew substantially during this period of time.\n\nAllchin was diagnosed with cancer in late 2002 and took a leave of absence for part of 2003. Gates suggested that Allchin stay for a while.\n\nOn September 20, 2005, Microsoft announced that Allchin would become co-president of a new Platform Products and Services Group, which combined the old Platform Group, Server and Tools Group, and the MSN Group. Microsoft also announced that Allchin would retire after Windows Vista shipped, leaving Kevin Johnson as the president.\n\nAllchin was a member of the Senior Leadership Team at Microsoft – a small group responsible for developing Microsoft's core direction along with Steve Ballmer and Bill Gates. He was claimed to be blunt, technical, and \"straightforward.\" Bill Gates complimented him: \n\nRunning the most profitable product areas within Microsoft caused Allchin to be dragged in many controversies and disputes along with his business and technical leadership responsibilities.\n\nBrad Silverberg, the Microsoft executive, who had been responsible for Windows 95, emailed several people in Microsoft September 27, 1991: Jim Allchin replied: \n\nDuring the United States v. Microsoft antitrust trial, emails sent by Allchin to other Microsoft executives were considered as an evidence by the government lawyers to back up their claim that the integration of Internet Explorer and Windows had more to do with their competition with Netscape Communications Corporation than innovation.\n\nDuring the Caldera v. Microsoft case, emails from Allchin to Bill Gates were introduced as an evidence. One email, from September 1991, included Allchin telling Gates that \"We need to slaughter Novell before they get stronger.\"\n\nIn August 1998, Allchin asked an engineer named Vinod Valloppillil to analyse the open source movement and the Linux operating system. Valloppillil wrote two memos which were intended for Senior Vice-President Paul Maritz who was the most senior executive at that time after Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer. Both memos were leaked and popularly known as the Halloween documents.\n\nOn September 29, 1998, Allchin was deposed to respond to the testimony of Professor Edward Felten. Later he testified in court from February 1 to 4, 1999. Some of his testimony were centered on the possibilities of removing Internet Explorer as stated by Felten. While Allchin proved his written testimony was correct in court, a video-taped demonstration created by Microsoft attorneys, which supposedly illustrated Allchin's points, was shown to be misleading. David Boies believed it was an avoidable mistake made by the Microsoft attorneys.\n\nIn May 2002, Allchin testified before Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly during the settlement hearing between Microsoft and the nine states (as well as the District of Columbia) involved in the United States v. Microsoft antitrust trial. Allchin was called to testify on two issues, the first of which gained the most publicity. In relation to the issue of sharing technical API and protocol information used throughout Microsoft products, which the states were seeking, Allchin's testimony discussed how releasing certain information could increase the security risk to consumers.\n\nAccording to exhibits filed in 2006 by the plaintiff in the case of Comes v. Microsoft, Allchin wrote a memo to Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer in January 2004, one which was critical of Microsoft and Longhorn. The letter said that Gates and Ballmer had lost their way and compared them to Apple who he believed had not.\n\nAllchin was also critical of Microsoft relaxing its requirements for computers to carry the 'Vista Capable' badge. The seal, designed to inform customers of a computer's ability to run the Windows Vista operating system, was not initially intended for computers running Intel's 915 chipset. This was overturned, however, after Intel voiced their dissatisfaction with the decision. In an email to Microsoft's Steve Ballmer, Allchin wrote:\n\nToday, Allchin devotes his time to music, technology, and charity work. He released his first album, \"Enigma\", in 2009 calling the album a beta test. Then in September 2011, Allchin released his first widely distributed blues-themed album: \"Overclocked\". The album \"Q.E.D.\" was released in September 2013 and \"Decisions\" followed in June 2017. \"Prime Blues\", his latest album is scheduled to be released September 2018. \"Overclocked\", \"Q.E.D.\", and \"Decisions\" all received widespread acclaim especially for Allchin's guitar work. \"Overclocked\", \"Q.E.D.\", and \"Decisions\" were featured on iTunes as New and Noteworthy and all reached in the top 10 on Internet Blues Radio. \"Decisions\" was the #1 Blues Album in Washington State for 18 weeks starting in June, 2017. And \"Decisions\" was in the 10 top Blues Rocks album nationally for 14 weeks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913018", "title": "Commander Steel", "text": "Commander Steel\n\nCommander Steel (also known as Captain Steel) is the name of three comic book superheroes appearing in publications by the American publisher DC Comics, all members of the same family. The first Steel appeared in \"Steel, The Indestructible Man\" #1 (1978), and was created by Gerry Conway and Don Heck. His stories were set in World War II. The two later characters called Steel are his grandsons.\n\nNate Heywood / Steel appears in the Arrowverse show \"Legends of Tomorrow\", starting from the second season, portrayed by Nick Zano, while his grandfather Henry Heywood / Commander Steel was portrayed by Matthew MacCaull. Nate’s father Hank Heywood was portrayed by Tom Wilson.\n\nSteel first appeared in a series set in 1939, \"Steel: The Indestructible Man\", written by Captain America writer Gerry Conway. The series was canceled after five issues, and Steel later made a guest-appearance in \"Justice League of America\". Steel was also a member of the World War II era \"All-Star Squadron\" team. He made a prominent appearance many years later in four issues of the \"Eclipso\" ongoing series, where he was killed. After this, he appeared in issue #2 of the 2010 series, \"DC Universe: Legacies\", which chronicled the superheroes of the 1940s.\n\nStarting in 1984, the second Steel appeared as one of the lead characters in \"Justice League of America\", until its cancellation during the \"Legends\" crossover in 1987. He made a single appearance several years later in issue #38 of \"Justice League America\", a continuation of \"Justice League International\", where he was killed. In 2006, he played a leading posthumous role in a single story arc of \"JLA Classified\", which chronicled a previously unrevealed adventure of the Detroit-era JLA. In 2010, he played a major role in the two-issue \"Justice League of America\" vol. 2 tie-in to \"Blackest Night\", where he was temporarily resurrected.\n\nThe third Steel made his debut in the 2007 relaunch of \"Justice Society of America\", where he appeared for several years until the team was split into two separate groups by writers Bill Willingham and Matt Sturges, where he appeared as one of the lead characters in \"JSA All-Stars\". In 2011's The New 52 reboot of DC's continuity, he is shown to exist on Earth 2, under the name \"Captain Steel\".\n\nThe World War II version of the character, Henry Heywood, enlisted in the United States Marine Corps prior to the United States involvement in the war, but was injured when saboteurs, spearheaded by the man who would become Baron Blitzkrieg, attacked his base. Heywood had been a biology student under the tutelage of Doctor Gilbert Giles, and his former professor performed extensive surgery on him, enhancing his damaged body with mechanized steel devices that gave him superhuman strength, speed, and durability. At the request of Doctor Giles, Heywood kept his newfound gifts a secret, and was returned to service in a desk position. Frustrated at his inability to help more directly, Heywood adopted the masked-hero persona \"Steel\", and was attempting to steal armaments from the military base where he worked—to send to those more directly in the war's fray—when some fifth columnist saboteurs broke into the base. Heywood defeated the saboteurs, and embarked on a career fighting foreign threats and other criminals before America went to war.\n\nHeywood entered more directly into World War II as a secret weapon before he allied himself with the All-Star Squadron. In that time he was commissioned Commander Steel by British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. His membership in the Squadron was only for a brief period as \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" caused him to shift from his native Earth-Two to Earth-One, which later became the Post-Crisis Earth. Hank retired from his superhero career, as there were no active costumed heroes at that time on his new home.\n\nYears later, as a wealthy industrialist, he incorporated the same mechanized components into his grandson, Hank Haywood III. He financed the Detroit version of the Justice League and gave them his best worker, Dale Gunn, to serve as this version of the JLA's all purpose man. When he realized that this new League didn't adhere to his now narrow beliefs, he enlisted Infinity Inc. to help him defeat them so that he could \"straighten Hank out.\" The plan failed, and Hank suffered the indignity of being beaten by his grandson in hand-to-hand combat. They were estranged from that point on. He was there, however, to try to save young Hank's life after a vicious attack by Dr. Ivo left him broken. He couldn't save his grandson though; all he could do was be with him when they turned off his life support.\n\nAfter his grandson's death, Heywood resumed the mantle of Commander Steel and died battling the supervillain Eclipso, while a member of the Shadow Fighters. He did come to a heroic end - detonating the Sunburst 300 (a device meant to destroy Eclipso) as his teammate Nemesis escaped.\n\nDuring the \"Heroes in Crisis\" storyline, Commander Steel checked into Sanctuary to deal with the trauma of deaths. He was among the heroes who was killed in a blast. While doing an autopsy, Batman found Joker Teeth in his throat.\n\nThe second Steel was the late Henry \"Hank\" Heywood III. Commander Steel, a wealthy industrialist, incorporated the same mechanized components into his grandson, much to his grandson's disapproval. Heywood III was a \"Justice League Detroit\" team member, and was mortally wounded in battle against an android belonging to one of the team's classic foes, Professor Ivo. His body remained preserved in the JLA Bunker until it was discovered and destroyed by Despero.\n\nAlthough it was originally stated that Heywood performed unnecessary surgeries on his grandson, it was later revealed in \"Justice League of America\" #260 that if he hadn't made his grandson into Steel, \"Hank would have been dead... years ago.\" Hank later remarked that his grandfather may have been driven insane by the metal in his skull.\n\nIn a \"Justice League of America\" tie-in to the \"Blackest Night\" crossover, Steel was reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps in the Hall of Justice. Alongside the Black Lantern Vibe, Steel attacked his former teammates, Gypsy and Vixen, until Doctor Light destroyed him. During a later battle between the Justice League and Crime Syndicate of America at the Hall of Justice, Steel's remains were destroyed by Superwoman. The villainess even went so far as to use one of Steel's severed legs as a club, which she proceeded to use to bludgeon Donna Troy.\n\nThe relaunched \"Justice Society of America\" features another member of the Heywood family. During an interview to Newsarama, new series writer Geoff Johns announced him as a brand new character with new powers. He debuted in \"Justice Society of America\" #2 with the name of Nathan \"Buckeye\" Heywood.\n\nNathan is the grandson of Henry Heywood and cousin of Henry Heywood III. Formerly a football star at the Ohio State University, Nathan retired after shattering his kneecap and having his leg amputated due to an undiagnosed infection. The incident left Nathan addicted to painkillers.\n\nWhile attending a Heywood family reunion, he is attacked by the Fourth Reich, a team of metahuman Neo-Nazis ordered by Vandal Savage to wipe out the bloodlines of Golden Age heroes. The Fourth Reich fails to completely destroy the Heywood bloodline, as both Nathan and a few children manage to survive. Both Nathan's brother and mother are turned to metal statues by the villain Reichsmark. Nathan jams his crutch into Reichsmark's mouth, causing him to spit liquid metal blood onto Nathan. Hawkman takes him to Dr. Mid-Nite, who notes that the metal is being absorbed by Nathan's skin. Nathan's brother and mother, in their metal forms, are moved to the rooftop of the JSA brownstone.\n\nLater, it is revealed that the metal has grown out from where Nathan's amputated leg once was, forming metallic bone, muscles, and flesh. Waking in his hospital room, Nathan is shown to have superhuman strength. Dr. Mid-Nite informs Nathan that he is now a being of living steel, due to an unknown reaction to Reichsmark's blood. However, the steel tissues do not give Nathan tactile response, meaning he cannot feel textures or temperatures, nor gauge exerted pressures, and his weight has greatly increased, causing his footsteps to crack the ground. He is given a costume, a \"second skin\" of a stainless steel alloy developed by Dr. Mid-Nite and Mr. Terrific specifically to restrict his movements and reduce his strength to a more manageable level. They chose the costume's colors because of Heywood's heritage. He then joins the Justice Society to defeat the Fourth Reich. Afterwards, the press asks if he is the new Commander Steel. Nathan denies it, saying that he is just an ordinary citizen, so he is called \"Citizen Steel\" by Power Girl.\n\nWhen the Third World survivor Gog appears, Nathan is one of the JSA members who sides with him, hoping that Gog can restore his sense of touch. It is later revealed that Gog is rooting himself into the Earth, which would cause its destruction if he ever left, and when the unconverted JSAers battle him, they are blown away by winds created by Gog. Nathan alone is able to withstand the winds. Gog offers Nathan his greatest wishes fulfilled if he sides with him and worships him, but Nathan refuses, and joins the fight against him. For this act, Gog induces excruciating pain in Nathan. Nathan then tears off his suit and unleashes his full strength against Gog, actually managing to topple the giant, which gives Gog's former herald Magog the chance to cut off his head and send him to the Source Wall.\n\nFollowing Gog's defeat, Nathan takes time off from the JSA to be with his family. This consists of survivors of the attack on the reunion, various children, most of whom call him 'Uncle Nathan' or 'Uncle Nate'.\n\nDuring the events of \"Blackest Night\", Nathan helps fight off the hordes of Black Lanterns attacking Manhattan. He tries to help Power Girl during her battle with the newly reanimated Kal-L, but is knocked aside by the hero, who mockingly refers to him as a \"paperweight\" compared to him.\n\nFollowing the split in the Justice Society, Nathan opted to join Power Girl's more youth-oriented team of \"JSA All-Stars\".\n\nIn September 2011, DC Comics cancelled and relaunched its entire line of monthly comics, in an initiative called The New 52, and in so doing, rebooted the continuity the DC Universe. In this new timeline, Hank Heywood Jr. appears as Captain Steel in title, \"Earth-2\". The modern version of Hank is revealed to be a young Filipino man. It is stated that Hank was originally a young boy born with a degenerative bone disorder that would have killed him by his 18th birthday, and that his father replaced all of his bones with an experimental metal to save his life (although it also made him unable to feel emotion). During Darkseid's invasion of Earth-2, Hank's father killed himself and destroyed his research in order to prevent the Parademons from getting their hands on it.\n\nHe is among those who managed to escaped the Apokolips Invasion in the following series \"Earth-2: World's End\" and found sanctuary in a newly terraformed Earth-like planet (nicknamed Earth 2) following some of their Wonders actions during the \"Convergence\" event. In \"Earth 2: Society\", he is a member of the World Army cabinet working to maintain peace amongst the new cities of Earth 2. In hopes of preventing war from happening between two cities, Erebus and Ark Home, Hank is granted full military suppression by Commander Sato to any hostiles of both parties. Steel is blocked by The Flash, Power Girl, and Huntress. Following a small argument, the conflict is ended as Green Lantern re-purposes his power ring to become Earth 2's energy supply. Steel is among those who come into conflict with Fury and Aquawoman following the Amazonian's suggestion to use an artifact known as the Pandora Vessel to recreate the Earth back to its original state.\n\nThe World Army cabinet is attacked by Ultra-Humanite's soldiers and Steel is gravely injured by a metahuman named Scalpel. Flash rescues Steel and sends him to a nearby medical team, however upon the speedsters's return to his friends, he announces Hank's nearing death, upsetting the group.\n\nFollowing a brief encounter with Ultra-Humanite, Fury opens the Pandora Vessel as a last resort in saving the Wonders with Earth-2 being recreated once again. Following the completion of the recreation, Earth 2 returns to its original state, however it never had a history of Wonders protecting it and Sandmen soldiers keeping everything in check 24/7. An unidentified man sporting Steel's color appears before Huntress, Batman, and John Grayson.\n\nThis man is identified as Sergeant Steel and is the first and last member of a super soldier program called Americommando. He is the leader of an underground movement of concerned citizens and ex-servicemen hoping to build up strength to fight back. He takes in the three Wonders in hopes that The Movement can finally strike. After the Ultra-Humanite incident, Sergeant Steel joins the Wonders in protecting their new Earth.\n\nOriginally Commander Steel could lift 1,000 pounds, but when he appeared in the pages of the \"All-Star Squadron\", he was attributed 'super-human' strength without an exact limit.\n\nCitizen Steel's metallic body grants him superhuman strength and allows him to take direct blows from opponents as powerful as Gog, and remain standing, and in turn knocking him to the ground—the only one in the JSA able to do so—but at the cost of reducing his sense of touch so that he cannot really feel anything he comes in contact with, making it hard for him to judge how much effort he should put into doing things. His alloy suit limits his strength to controllable levels but at a cost of slowing him down, as well as making him so heavy that he has been shown cracking pavements just by walking. Upon removing his suit, he is able to unleash his full strength without a speed penalty.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913023", "title": "Mamzer", "text": "Mamzer\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible and Jewish religious law, a mamzer (, \"estranged person\", plural \"mamzerim\") is a person born from certain forbidden relationships or from incest (as defined by the Bible), or the descendant of such a person. Mamzer status () is not synonymous with illegitimacy, since it does not include children whose mothers were unmarried.\n\nSome have explained the word \"mamzer\" as the masculine noun form derived from the root \"m-z-r\", having a meaning of spoilt/corrupt.\n\nAccording to \"Strong's Concordance\": \"from an unused root meaning 'to alienate'; a mongrel, i.e., born of a Jewish father and a heathen mother\".\n\nThe Talmud explains the term homiletically as consisting of the words \"mum\" (defect) and \"zar\" (strange/alien), a euphemism for an illicit union in the person's lineage.\n\nThe term occurs twice in the Hebrew Bible. The first time is (23:2 in non-Hebrew versions). The Septuagint translates the term \"mamzer\" as son \"of a prostitute\" (Greek: '), and the Latin Vulgate translates it as ' (\"born of a prostitute\"). In English, it is translated as \"bastard\".\n\nThe other occasion is in : \"And a bastard (\"mamzer\") shall dwell in Ashdod\", a sea port.\n\nIn the Talmud the term \"mamzer\" is applied to the descendants of specific illicit unions. According to the Mishnah, a \"mamzer\" is the offspring of a biblically forbidden union for which his progenitors are liable to extirpation at the hands of heaven. An exception to this rule is when a Jewish man cohabits with a menstruant woman, which although he is liable thereby to extirpation, the child born from such union is not a \"mamzer\". The practical bearing of this ruling is that it excludes from such defamation a child born outside of wedlock, and which child is often wrongly called \"bastard\" under common law. According to the \"Shulchan Aruch\", a \"mamzer\" can only be produced by two Jews.\n\nThere are two categories of \"mamzerim\". A child born of incest as defined by the Bible is a \"mamzer\". Note, however, that an incestuous relationship between one or two non-Jews cannot produce a \"mamzer\", and if the product of such a union were to convert he or she would be the equal of any Jew.\nA child born of a married woman's adultery is a \"mamzer\". The child of a single woman and a man she could lawfully have married is not a \"mamzer\". It is irrelevant if the man is married or not. If one of the parents is not Jewish the child is not a \"mamzer\". Any child born to a married woman, even if she is known to have been unfaithful, is presumed to be her husband's, unless she is so promiscuous that such a presumption becomes unsupportable, or if she enters a public relationship with another man.\n\nA child born within 12 months of a woman's most recent meeting with her husband is presumed to be legitimate, since Jewish law believes that in rare cases a pregnancy can last that long. However, if more than 9 months have elapsed and she is known to have been unfaithful then the presumption does not apply. Modern assisted reproductive technology has complicated the issue. Moshe Feinstein ruled that if a married woman is inseminated by sperm from another man the child is not a \"mamzer\", since it did not result from an act of adultery; Joel Teitelbaum (2005) disagreed, and ruled that since the child is known to be that of a man other than her husband it is a \"mamzer\".\n\nThe status of an abandoned child (Hebrew: \"asufi\") was determined by the state in which it was found. If there were indications that the foundling had been abandoned due to the parents being unable to support it, then Halakhically the child would not be a \"mamzer\". However, if the unknown parents could have supported the child, it was regarded as potentially being a mamzer. A child whose mother is known, but not the father, was known as \"silent one\" (Hebrew: \"shetuki\"), and fell into the same category as a foundling; this status, however, could be changed if the mother knew and revealed the identity of the father.\n\nThe \"mamzer\" status is hereditary – a child of a \"mamzer\" (whether mother or father) is also a \"mamzer\". However, since these rules are regarded as applying only to Jews, and since traditional Rabbinical law regards Jewish status as only transmitted through the mother, the child of a male \"mamzer\" and a non-Jewish woman cannot be a \"mamzer\". However, the child of a female \"mamzer\" and a non-Jewish man is a \"mamzer\".\n\nThe biblical rule against certain people becoming part of the \"congregation of the Lord\" was interpreted in the Talmud as a prohibition against ordinary Jews marrying such people. Although the biblical passage includes in this up to the tenth generation of the descendants of a \"mamzer\", classical rabbis interpreted this as an idiom meaning \"forever\". Thus, in traditional Jewish law, a \"mamzer\" and his or her descendants are not allowed to marry an ordinary (non-\"mamzer\") Jewish spouse.\n\nThe restriction does not prevent a \"mamzer\" from marrying another \"mamzer\", nor from marrying a convert to Judaism, or a non-Jewish slave. However, foundlings suspected of being \"mamzerim\" were not so free; they were neither permitted to marry a \"mamzer\", nor even to marry another foundling.\n\nAlthough in many historical societies, illegitimacy of birth was a quality which could make a person somewhat of an outcast, this was not the official attitude of Judaism; apart from the marriage restrictions, a \"mamzer\" is not officially considered a second-class citizen, and is supposed to be treated with as much respect as other Jews. For example, the Mishnah teaches that a learned \"mamzer\" should \"take precedence\" over an ignorant High Priest of Israel; the meaning of \"take precedence\" is not explicitly explained by the Mishnah, nor by the Talmud in general, although the preceding part of the Mishnah uses it to refer to the priority in which people should be rescued from danger, while other bits of the Mishnah use the phrase to refer to the priority in which people should receive aliyot.\n\nRabbis in the Talmud, and those in the Middle Ages, saw fit to spell out that, aside from in questions of marriage, a \"mamzer\" should be treated as an ordinary Jew. The Talmud insists that a \"mamzer\" should be considered as an ordinary relative for the purpose of inheritance, including levirate marriage. Maimonides and Joseph ben Ephraim Karo see fit to repeat this, and confirm that a \"mamzer\" can serve as a judge. Similarly, a \"tosafa\" insists that it is permissible for a \"mamzer\" to become a king.\n\nThe principal approach in Orthodox Judaism is to require strict evidentiary standards for \"mamzer\" status, sufficiently strict that proof of the existence of \"mamzer\" status is hard to develop and generally does not arise. Typically it is impossible to prove either that a prior marriage ever existed, or that a child was born of relations outside that marriage. Rabbis always allow the suspect child the benefit of the doubt in this matter. This usually leads to the conclusion that at the time of a person's birth, their parents were married or that the person is the child of a man and woman who were married to each other when the child was conceived.\n\nAn example is a contemporary responsum by Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, establishing the impossibility to prove \"mamzer\" status in a case where the evidence might appear to be clear-cut. The case involved the daughter of an \"aguna\" who had been married by a Haredi rabbi to a husband who subsequently converted to Christianity and refused to participate in a Jewish divorce. The mother eventually divorced and remarried civilly and had the daughter years later. The daughter, who had been raised as an Orthodox Jew and attended a Haredi day school, brought up the question of her status herself prior to an impending marriage. Rabbi Yosef proceeded systematically to disqualify evidence that a prior marriage had ever taken place. The mother's evidence was immediately disqualified as an interested party. The ketubah (Jewish marriage contract/certificate) was never found. The rabbi who performed the marriage was contacted, but Rabbi Yosef wrote that his testimony could not be accepted without the ketubah, and in any event required corroboration by a second witness. Attempts to contact the husband were abandoned after an adversarial conversation with his new, non-Jewish wife. Thus, Rabbi Yosef concluded there was insufficient evidence that a valid prior marriage had ever taken place. Rabbi Yosef then proceeded to establish the possibility that the former husband might be the daughter's father. The mother testified that her former husband occasionally brought alimony payments and came for visitation in person and hence the two were sometimes at least momentarily alone together. Applying an ancient rule that when a husband and wife are known to be alone together behind a closed door the law presumes sexual intercourse may well have taken place, Rabbi Yosef concluded that it was possible the former husband was the daughter's father and hence Jewish law, which very strongly construes all evidence in favour of birth within marriage, had to presume that he was. Thus, Rabbi Yosef concluded that there was insufficient evidence of either a former marriage or that the new husband was the father, and hence he concluded that no evidence of \"mamzerut\" had occurred.\n\nConservative rabbi Daniel S. Nevins, commenting on this case, noted that the box of traditional tools Rabbi Yosef used to discredit evidence of \"mamzer\" status may be sufficiently robust as to cover virtually all cases of inquiry in the types of situations a congregation rabbi would be likely to experience. Nonetheless, Orthodox authorities hold that while contemporary rabbis have authority to refine procedural rules such as rules of evidence, they do not have the authority to abolish biblically mandated categories or procedures entirely.\n\nIsraeli law tries to prevent the conferring of mamzer status by refusing to allow men other than the husband or recent ex-husband from registering as a child's father without a court order. However, paternity tests have the potential to reveal mamzer status by removing the protection of the presumption of paternity on the part of a married woman's actual husband.\n\nThe Committee on Jewish Law and Standards (CJLS) of the Rabbinical Assembly of Conservative Judaism has declared that Conservative Rabbis should not inquire into or accept evidence of \"mamzer\" status under any circumstances, rendering the category inoperative. In doing so, the CJLS distinguished the Conservative approach to Jewish law from the Orthodox approach, noting that Conservative Judaism regards Biblical law as only the beginning of a relationship rather than a final word, and that the Conservative movement regards it as its role and responsibility to revise Biblical law from time to time when such law conflicts with evolving concepts of morality.\n\nIn Zechariah 9:6, \"\"mamzer\"\" is referenced similar to that of the nations of Ammon, Moab, Edom, Egypt, Tyre, Zidon, Ashkelon, Gaza, Philistia, etc. From such, Karaites have come to consider the most logical understanding of the Hebrew to actually refer to a nation of people. Karaites believe that such an understanding fits perfectly into the context of both Deuteronomy 23 and Zechariah 9, and several Medieval rabbinical Jewish sages felt it necessary to debate this topic with medieval Karaite Jewish sages.\n\nIn the modern State of Israel, the law concerning matters of marriage, divorce, and personal status, is partially under the jurisdiction of religious courts. For example, there is no civil marriage in Israel. The Jewish religious regulations concerning \"mamzerim\" are thus also the national laws imposed on Jews living in Israel, including secular Jews. Because of the severe impediments to marriage which \"mamzer\" status accords in Jewish law, Israeli civil law has taken the position that the paternity of a child born within a marriage cannot legally be challenged in civil courts, in order to avoid creating a body of evidence that might be used to declare the child a \"mamzer\", or create difficulties for a future marriage.\n\nThe existence of \"mamzer\" status as a category in Israeli family law has been criticized. An extensive review and opinion advocating the adoption of civil marriage in Israel, written by Prof. Pinhas Shifman and published in July 2001 by the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, mentions \"Mamzer\" among the categories of Israelis which, Professor Shifman believes, should have the right to marry spouses of their choice and, he argues, current Israeli law interferes with and denies this right. Professor Shifman and ACRI advocate ending the religious monopoly over marriage in Israel and cite the existence and difficulties of \"mamzer\" status as an argument against the use of religious law in marriage cases.\n\nIsraeli religious courts resolve \"mamzer\" status by generally ruling that the child was born within the marriage despite the existence of evidence to the contrary. This convenient formula sometimes causes difficulties for lovers or subsequent spouses who wish to assert paternity over a child which may be biologically theirs. A 2006 case, in which a child born eight months and two weeks after a divorce, was declared the former husband's child rather than the child of the wife's subsequent husband, and this was reported as causing a dilemma for the subsequent couple.\n\nNonetheless, the existence of the category of \"Mamzer\", and the marital impediments inherent to it, is one of the arguments frequently used by Israeli secularists in calling for separation of religion and state and for the institution of civil marriage. In 2014 the Center for Women's Justice announced it would petition the Israeli Supreme Court to bar secret blacklists of \"mamzerim\" by Orthodox rabbinical courts, claiming they are an invasion of privacy.\n\nA persistent etymology of the surname Manser is connected to Hebrew \"mamzer\". Supposedly Ebalus of Aquitaine (Count of Poitou and Duke of Aquitaine, c. 870 – 935) had the nickname \"Manzer\" or \"Manser\". As he is known to have been a bastard and reputed to have had a Jewish mother, this nickname is considered to be derived from \"mamzer\". A similar explanation is offered also for the same nickname as used by another prince from Occitania: , a 10th-century count of Angoulême who also was a bastard. William the Conqueror may have been referred to as \"Bastardus\" and \"Mamzer\".\n"}
{"id": "1913027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913027", "title": "Beach Blast", "text": "Beach Blast\n\nBeach Blast was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event promoted by World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and held in the summers of 1992 and 1993. The 1992 WCW Beach Blast PPV event was held in June on a Saturday while the 1993 WCW Beach Blast PPV event was held in July on a Sunday. It was replaced by Bash at the Beach in 1994. WCW closed in 2001 and all rights to their television and PPV shows was bought by WWE, including the Beach Blast shows. With the launch of the WWE Network in 2014 the 1992 and 1993 Beach Blast shows became available on demand for network subscribers.\n"}
{"id": "1913053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913053", "title": "William Hurley (carpenter)", "text": "William Hurley (carpenter)\n\nWilliam Hurley (known works 1319–1354) held the title of king's master carpenter for King Edward III of England.\n\nHurley came from Hurley in Berkshire. He was in charge of timber works for all royal buildings, including the Tower of London, Windsor Castle, the Palace of Westminster and St Stephen's Chapel. He is best known for the lantern tower on top of the octagon at Ely Cathedral. The tower was started in 1334.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913061", "title": "Chateaubelair", "text": "Chateaubelair\n\nChateaubelair is a large fishing village on the Leeward (west) coast of the Caribbean island of Saint Vincent, the main island of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. It is located just south of the volcano of Soufrière. Commonly referred to as just \"Chateau\", it is the focus and largest community in the North Leeward constituency of St. Vincent, and the fourth largest town in the country.\n\nLocal attractions include trinity falls, darkview falls, and rock carvings which are an archaeological find and are believed to have been left by Carib Indians.\n\nMany activities are available year-round, spearfishing is now illegal in all of the Grenadines, more common to the caribbean as a whole, dominoes, basketball, soccer and cricket.\n\nThe local economy is mainly supported by farming.\n\nChateaubelair is not a developed area, and though it has much appeal for tourists, it does not have much support. However, anyone looking to experience true Caribbean culture instead of a manufactured offering, should consider the natural environmental beauty and friendly, genuine people of Chateaubelair.\n\nIn the 1790s, Chateaubelair was the scene of some parts of the anti-British rebellion led by Joseph Chatoyer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913065", "title": "Donald G. Keller", "text": "Donald G. Keller\n\nDonald G. Keller (born 1951) is a science fiction and fantasy editor and critic. He was the co-founder of Serconia Press and was Managing Editor and a frequent contributor to \"The New York Review of Science Fiction\" (1990-1995), where his seminal essay on Fantasy of Manners, 'The Manner of Fantasy', appeared in 1991.\n\nHe co-edited the fantasy anthology \"The Horns of Elfland\" (1997) with Ellen Kushner and Delia Sherman. He is a contributor to John Clute's \"The Encyclopedia of Fantasy\" and is a member of the editorial board of \"Slayage\", the online \"Encyclopedia of Buffy Studies.\"\n\nKeller was active in science fiction and fantasy fandom from the 1970s-1990s as coeditor with Jeffrey D. Smith of the fanzine \"Phantasmicom\", editor of the journal \"The Eildon Tree\", and a frequent contributor to the monthly newsletter \"Fantasiae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1913074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913074", "title": "Jalandhara", "text": "Jalandhara\n\nJalandhara (Sanskrit: जलन्धर, lit. \"he who holds water\"), also known as chalantarana (Sanskrit: चलन्तरण, lit. \"he who walks and swims\") was the Asura Creation of Lord Shiva and a disciple of Shukracharya (Guru of Asuras)\n\nIn the Shiva Purana, when Indra and Brihaspati were going towards Mount Kailash to meet Shiva their way was blocked by a yogi with matted hair and a radiant face. The yogi was Shiva himself, who had taken the form to test the knowledge of Indra and Brihaspati. Indra did not recognize the yogi and was infuriated at the fact that the man was not moving out of their way. Indra asked him to move but the man did not budge. After not getting any reply Indra became enraged and threatened him with his thunderbolt. Upon this action Indra's arm became paralyzed and Shiva neutralized the thunderbolt. Shiva became angry upon this action of Indra and his eyes turned red, frightening Indra. The anger caused Third eye to open, nearly killing Indra. Brihaspati recognized Shiva and prayed to him, requesting him to pardon Indra. To avoid killing Indra, Shiva sent the fire from his eye towards the ocean and upon meeting with the ocean it assumed the form of a boy. The boy cried terribly which caused Brahma to descend from heaven. The ocean told Brahma that he did not know where the boy came from. Brahma then told him that the boy will one day become the emperor of Asuras, he could only be killed by Shiva and after his death he would return to Third eye.\n\nJalandhara's childhood was full of wonders. Borne up by the wind, he flew over the ocean; his pets were lions which he had caught; and the largest birds and fishes were subject to him. Jalandhara grew up to be a handsome man and was made the emperor of Asuras by Shukra, their guru. Jalandhara was exceedingly powerful and is considered to be one of the mightiest asuras of all time. He married Vrinda, the daughter of the Asura Kalanemi. Jalandhara ruled with justice and nobility. One day sage Bhrigu came to meet Jalandhara. He narrated the tales of Hiranyakashipu and Virochana. He also tells him how Vishnu severed Rahu's head and about the Samudra manthan. Jalandhara resented the Samudra manthan. He believed that the Devas had treacherously taken his father, Varuna's treasures. He sent one of his messengers, Ghasmar, to Indra to ask him to return his father's treasures. However Indra refused to do so. A fierce battle took place between the Devas and Asuras. Many warriors were killed on both sides. Shukra revived the Asuras using his Mritsanjivani vidya. Brihaspati revived the dead Devas by using the medicinal herbs from the Drongiri mountain. Shukra ordered Jalandhara to submerge the mountain so Brihaspati cannot use the medicinal herbs to revive the Devas. Jalandhara obeyed the command and submerged Drongiri mountain. Demoralized, the Devas requested Vishnu for his aid. Vishnu agreed but promised Lakshmi that he would not kill Jalandhara since he was born out of the ocean and Lakshmi considered him as her brother. A fierce battle was fought between Jalandhara during which Lord Vishnu overpowered Jalandhar and was about to behead Jalandhar with his divine sword, Nandak when Lakshmi intervened and prohibited Lord Vishnu from killing him. Vishnu was impressed by Jalandhara's valiance in battle and told him about Lakshmi's relationship with him. Vishnu then asked him to demand any boon he desired. Jalandhara asked Vishnu to make Ksheera Sagara his home. He agreed and started living there along with Lakshmi. Without his help the Devas were defeated by Asuras and Jalandhara became the emperor of the three worlds (heaven, earth and hell).\n\nThe Devas were unhappy about their defeat. They did not wish to be ruled by Jalandhara despite the fact that he was the creation of Shiva. The sage Narada upon consulting with the Devas went to see Jalandhara. On being asked the purpose of his visit by Jalandhara he described the beauty of Kailash where Shiva lived and that he wondered whether any other place matched its beauty. In response, Jalandhara showed off his riches to Narada who commented that he did not have the most beautiful woman as his wife. Narada then continued to describe Shiva's residence and also described to him about Parvati's beauty.\n\nJalandhara sends his messenger Rahu to Shiva and accuses him of hypocrisy, pointing out that Shiva claims to be an ascetic but keeps a wife, Parvati. He proposes that Shiva hand over Parvati to him:\nHow can you live on alms and yet keep the beautiful Parvati? Give her to me, and wander from house to house with your alms bowl. You have fallen from your vow. You are a yogi, what need have you for the gem of wives? You live in the woods attended by goblins and ghosts; being a naked yogi, you should give your wife to one who will appreciate her better than you do.\n\nUpon hearing these insults, Shiva became so angry that a fearsome creature (Kīrttimukha) sprang from his brow and nearly killed Rahu, the messenger who had delivered the demand. War being determined on, Jalandhara marched first to Kailash; but finding that Shiva had forsaken it and taken up a position on a mountain near Lake Manasa, he surrounded the mountain with his troops. Nandi marched against them, and spread destruction; however, the army of the gods suffered many losses. Parvati then urged Shiva to enter the war. Shiva carefully warned Parvati to be on her guard during his absence, as it was possible asuras in some disguise might visit her; after this, accompanied by Virabhadra and Manibhadra, two forms of his anger, Shiva went to the battlefield. Kartikeya came to fight with him, but was defeated. After his defeat, Ganesha tried to dominate over him, but was badly defeated by him and was left unconscious on the battlefield. Upon seeing Shiva and his avatars dominate the battlefield, Jalandhara created an illusion of beautiful apsaras singing and dancing. This distracted his army but not himself. Meanwhile, Jalandhara disguised himself as Shiva and went to Parvati in order to trick her. Parvati recognized him and became very angry. Puranas states that on recognizing this deception, Parvati was so enraged that her eyes turned blood red and her face, pitch black indicating her assumption of her form of Kali. She attempted to attack him but Jalandhara escaped knowing he was no match for the goddess's anger. Parvati then went to Vishnu and requested him to trick Vrinda just like Jalandhara tried to trick her.\n\nJalandhara's wife Vrinda was very pious. First, Vishnu created an illusion that Jalandhara had been killed by Shiva and is then restored to life by him. Vrinda then embraces Jalandhara who is actually Vishnu in disguise. Vrinda realizes that it is Vishnu in disguise and curses him that someday someone would trick his own wife (which becomes true when Sita is kidnapped by Ravana) just like how he had tricked her as a result of which the world will raise a finger on his wife's purity and he would be helpless against the onslaught, for having ruined her chastity. She adds that he will bear the pain of separation from his wife, similar to her husband. She also admonishes him for being stone-hearted and curses that one day he will turn to stone itself. Saying so, she enters the fire to immolate herself. The curses come true aeons later when Sita gets kidnapped by Ravana, consequently, she is to give the test of purity by fire. Regardless, she is sent into exile once again, where she raises twins, Luv and Kusha. After entrusting their care to Rama, Sita beckons her mother, Bhūmi to grant her solace and release from a life of unhappiness, as testament to her purity, chastity and innocence, leaving Rama heartbroken. \n\nJalandhara, hearing of his wife's deception and death, was mad with rage and left Mount Kailash, and returned to the battlefield. The illusion by this time had ended and Shiva's army realized the truth. No illusion can be cast on Shiva. Shiva engaged Sumbha and Nisumbha in battle but they fled. They were later killed by Parvati. Jalandhara then engaged Shiva in battle, who killed him by thrusting his Trishula into his chest and cutting his head off with a chakra (discus) created from his toe. Upon his death his soul merged with Shiva just like Vrinda's soul had merged with Lord Vishnu.\n"}
{"id": "1913083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913083", "title": "Battlebowl", "text": "Battlebowl\n\nBattleBowl was a one-time professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event and produced by World Championship Wrestling (WCW). The show took place on November 20, 1993, at the Pensacola Civic Center in Pensacola, Florida. The event featured only the \"BattleBowl Tournament\", where the first round consisted of eight tag team matches where the teams were drawn at random in a \"Lethal Lottery\". Members of the winning teams would advance to the BattleBowl battle royal main event. Vader, who was already the WCW World Heavyweight Champion at the time of the show, received a ring for winning the tournament.\n\nWCW had previously used the Battlebowl concept at Starrcade 1991 and Starrcade 1992, opting to make it a stand-alone show in 1993 as they expanded the number of PPV shows they held that year. The BattleBowl concept would not be used again until the 1996 Slamboree show. WCW closed in 2001 and all rights to their television and PPV shows were bought by WWE, including BattleBowl. When the WWE Network launched in 2014 this show became available \"on demand\" to network subscribers along with the majority of all WCW PPVs.\n\nThe Lethal Lottery/BattleBowl concept was originally introduced for professional wrestling promotion World Championship Wrestling's (WCW) 1991 Starrcade pay-per-view (PPV) show held on December 29, 1991. The concept of the \"Lethal Lottery\" would see names drawn at random to form tag teams, although as with all professional wrestling this was all staged to appear random. The teams, sometimes consisting of two people who were involved in a storyline feud with each other, would compete against other random teams to see which team would move on to the BattleBowl portion of the tournament. The \"BattleBowl\" itself was an over-the-top-rope elimination battle royal between all the winning tag teams. In 1991 WCW used the BattleBowl to further a storyline between then WCW World Heavyweight Champion Lex Luger and Sting. WCW held another \"Lethal Lottery\"/\"BattleBowl\" tournament at their 1992 Starrcade show. That event was won by The Great Muta, but the tournament win did not result in further storylines.\n\nWCW held a total of six PPVs in the continental United States in 1992, but in 1993 they expanded their schedule to seven, adding BattleBowl to their schedule for November, holding the tournament separately from the 1993 Starrcade show.\n\nThe event featured wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds and storylines. Wrestlers portrayed villains, heroes, or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nTony Schiavone provided the play-by-play commentary for the show, while Jesse Ventura provided the color commentary, providing a counter-point by often siding with the heel wrestlers (those that portray the bad guys). Prior to each match Gene Okerlund and Fifi stood by a large lottery drum, supposedly pulling names at random, though the names were never displayed to the viewers. As the names were announced WCW showed two side-by-side live feeds, one from the heel locker room and one from the face (those that portray the good guys) locker room.\n\nThe first team announced consisted of Big Van Vader, WCW World Heavyweight Champion and Cactus Jack. Vader and Cactus Jack had been on opposite sides in the main event of WCW's last PPV Halloween Havoc, thus pairing rivals together for the first match. Okerlund announced that Harlem Heat member Kole was part of the opposite team, but instead of Kole leaving the locker room his brother Kane left the locker room and came to the ring. Kane helped Vader attack Cactus Jack, during which Schiavone commented that it was the wrong brother and then stated, \"I guess it doesn't really matter\". Moments later the last participant, Charlie Norris, came to the ring and the match started. Initially, Vader and Cactus Jack would occasionally hit each other during the match but later started to get along enough to double team their opponents. In the end, Vader pinned Charlie Norris to advance to the BattleBowl main event.\n\nFor the second match one-half of the WCW World Tag Team Championship team the Nasty Boys, Brian Knobbs was paired up with Johnny B. Badd for a match against Erik Watts and Paul Roma, who were both faces leading up to the match. After almost 13 minutes of wrestling Brian Knobbs pinned Eric Watts by holding onto Watts' tights for extra leverage to win the match. For the third match of the night long-time rivals Ricky Steamboat and Lord Steven Regal were forced to team together, much to the dismay of Regal who was very vocal in his displeasure with Steamboat. While their opponents, Paul Orndorff and The Shockmaster, were not on friendly terms they worked better together than Regal and Steamboat, allowing the Shockmaster to pin Regal.\n\nAfter the third match WCW showed a segment announcing that Starrcade would take place in Charlotte, North Carolina. During the segment Ric Flair approached WCW World Heavyweight Champion Vader with a contract. First Vader refused to sign it, but when Flair revealed he would risk his career and retire if he lost the match, Vader agreed to the match, signing the contract for the main event of Starrcade. For the next match Dustin Rhodes was teamed up with King Kong to take on King Kong's regular partner Awesome Kong and The Equalizer, leaving Rhodes as the lone face against three heels. During the match all three heels attacked Dustin throughout the match, leaving Rhodes at a disadvantage throughout. In the end Awesome Kong accidentally landed on both King Kong and the Equalizer, leaving him vulnerable to Dustin Rhodes' Running bulldog move, which led to Rhodes pinning Awesome King. For the fifth match of the night rivals Sting and Jerry Sags were teamed up to take on Ron Simmons and Keith Cole. During the match Simmons started to get a little rougher in the ring, beating Sting down repeatedly. When he tagged in his partner Cole would wrestle a more basic match, opting for arm locks and holds, frustrating Simmons throughout the match. Near the end of the match, Sags tagged Sting on the back, taking over the match to pin Keith Cole. After the match Ron Simmons completed his heel turn by attacking Keith Cole.\n\nTo start the sixth match of the night, Steve Austin got in the face of his tag team partner Ric Flair, telling Flair that Austin was in charge of the match and Flair needed to follow his lead. As a result, Flair simply stepped to the apron and watched as Austin faced off against Maxx Payne (and partner 2 Cold Scorpio). When Payne was able to overpower Austin he tried to tag out to Flair but Flair walked down the apron, out of range. Flair did tag in later on and generally got along with Austin on the way to defeating Payne and Scorpio to earn their way to the main event. In the next match regular tag team partners Shanghai Pierce and Tex Slazenger found themselves on opposite sides of the ring, initially refusing to fight. The refusal angered Pierce's partner Rick Rude who tagged himself in while Slazenger tagged in Marcus Bagwell. Near the end of the match Slazenger and Pierce finally fought each other, leaving Slazinger open to Rick Rude sneaking int the ring to get a pinfall for his team. Afterward Pierce and Slazenger showed their unity by attacking Marcus Bagwell.\n\nRoad Warrior Hawk was the first competitor drawn for the last match and moments later his partner was announced as low card wrestler Rip Rogers. While Rogers was excited to be called for the match Hawk showed his displeasure by punching Rogers in the face during their introduction. Moments later both opponents, Davey Boy Smith and Kole, both hit Rip Rogers while he was on the ground. Hawk proceeded to wrestle the match on his own as Rogers slowly crawled towards the ring. After a short time in the ring with Hawk, Davey Boy Smith tagged out and left Kole to fight the remainder of the match. Near the end of the match, Rip Rogers finally got to ringside, only for Hawk to pull him into the ring, press him up over his head and throw him on top of Kole, enabling Rogers to win the match without performing a single move.\n\nAfter the \"fluke\" win by Rogers, he was quickly eliminated from the BattleBowl as he was tossed out of the ring moments after the bell rang. Austin ended up eliminating Dustin Rhodes, who hit his head on the ring post, and then \"bladed\" to cause his forehead to bleed for dramatic effect. The final four wrestlers were Sting, Steve Austin, Ric Flair and Vader, with Sting and Vader facing off and Flair and Austin pairing up. During the match, Vader's manager Harley Race pulled Ric Flair out of the ring onto the ramp. Race tried to suplex Flair, but Flair countered it and suplexed Race instead. While Flair was still on the ramp Vader left the ring and attacked Flair dropping his considerable weight on him twice. Moments later it was announced that the referee had deemed Flair physically unable to compete and thus was eliminated from the match. Later on, Sting managed to eliminate Austin, but was in turn thrown out of the ring by Vader, giving Vader the victory.\n\nWith a victory of Vader at Clash of the Champions XXV, and their interaction in the main event, Ric Flair challenged Vader to defend the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. Flair defeated Vader in the main event of the 1993 Starrcade show to win the championship.\n\nAfter Regal attacked Steamboat during their match, Steamboat challenged Lord Steven Regal for the WCW World Television Championship at Starrcade, with the match ending in a 15-minute time limit draw. Due to the draw Regal retained the championship.\n\nWCW abandoned the BattleBowl concept for a number of years, bringing it back one last time for the 1996 Slamboree event. Diamond Dallas Page won the 1996 BattleBowl, using the win as a way to increase Page's profile in the company, starting an ascent that would eventually lead to Page winning the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. In 2001 WWE bought out WCW, gaining ownership of all television and PPV programming produced by WCW, including the BattleBowl show. When the WWE Network launched in 2014 this show became available \"on demand\" to network subscribers along with the majority of all WCW PPVs.\n\nOther promotions have used a similar concept to the \"Lethal Lottery\" / \"BattleBowl\" tournament after WCW created the concept in 1991. \"Chikara\" held \"La Lotería Letal\" in 2008 which adopted the \"Lethal Lottery\" portion of the tournament by drawing random names for a tag team tournament. In early 2013 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling adopted the \"Lethal Lottery\"/\"BattleBowl\" concept with their first ever Joker's Wild tournament, held as part of their \"One Night Only\" PPV series. The \"Joker's Wild\" tournament included both the Lethal Lottery portion and the BattleBowl portion, with the winners being given a cash prize as a reward for winning the tournament.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913091", "title": "Peruvian cuisine", "text": "Peruvian cuisine\n\nPeruvian cuisine reflects local practices and ingredients including influences mainly from the indigenous population, including the Inca, and cuisines brought d immigrants from Europe (Spanish cuisine, cuisine, German cuisine); Asia (Japanese cuisine and Chinese cuisine); and Africa. Without the familiar ingredients from their home countries, immigrants modified their traditional cuisines by using ingredients available in Peru. \n\nThe four traditional staples of Peruvian cuisine are corn, potatoes and other tubers, and Amaranthaceaes (quinoa, kañiwa and kiwicha) and legumes (beans and lupins). Staples brought by the Spanish include rice, wheat and meats (beef, pork and chicken). \n\nMany traditional foods—such as quinoa, kiwicha, chili peppers, and several roots and tubers—have increased in popularity in recent decades, reflecting a revival of interest in native Peruvian foods and culinary techniques. Chef Gaston Acurio has become well known for raising awareness of local ingredients. The most important ingredient in all Peruvian cuisine is the potato, as Peru has the widest variety of potatoes in the world. \n\nThe US food critic Eric Asimov has described it as one of the world's most important cuisines and as an exemplar of fusion cuisine, due to its long multicultural history.\n\nPeru is considered an important center for the genetic diversity of the world's crop's:\n\n\nThe sweet potato is native to America and was domesticated there at least 5,000 years ago. The much lower molecular diversity found in Peru and Ecuador. Only two varieties of sweet potato are commonly available for sale in the markets, but there are more varieties around the country. One has dry orange flesh and light tan skin and tastes sweet. The other has purple skin, is white and brown inside, and is only moderately sweet. Occasionally another variety, characterized by small tubers and dark skin, is available. Peru has around more than 5000 varieties of potatoes, the biggest in the world. The two most common potatoes are a white-flesh type and a more expensive yellow-flesh type. The only commercially available native fruits native to the Andes region in general (Peru, Bolivia) are lucuma, camu camu, prickly pear, cape gooseberry, cocona, pacay (technically a legume but used as a fruit), guanabana, dragon fruit, pepino, papaya, ciruela, mammee apple, banana passionfruit, cherimoya, granadilla, moriche palm fruit, and tamarillo. Yacon, although an underground tuber, is also used as a fruit. None of the other native fruits are commercially available.\n\nFrom Peru, the Spanish brought back to Europe several foods that would become staples for many peoples around the world.\n\n\nThe varieties of chili peppers, potatoes, tomatoes and maize that the Spanish brought back to Europe, however, were native to Peru:\n\n\nMany foods from Spain are now considered Peruvian staples, including wheat, barley, oats, rice, lentils, chickpeas (garbanzo beans), broad beans, garlic, cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, artichokes, onions, cucumbers, carrots, celery, lettuce, eggplant, wine, vinegar, olives, beef, pork, chicken, numerous spices (including coriander, cumin, parsley, cilantro (green coriander), laurel, mint, thyme, marjoram, turmeric, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, anise (fennel), black pepper and oregano), bananas, quince, apples, oranges, limes, apricots, peaches, plums, cherries, melons, figs, pomegranates, honey, white sugar, almonds, walnuts, cheese, hen eggs, cow's milk, etc. Many food plants popular in Europe, however, were imported to Peru.\n\nDuring the colonial period, and continuing up until the time of the Second World War, Peruvian cuisine focused on Spanish models and virtually ignored anything that could be regarded as native or Peruvian. Traditional food plants, which the indigenous people continued to eat, were regarded as \"peasant food\" to be avoided. These colonial attitudes took a long time to fade. Since the 1970s, there has been an effort to bring these native food plants out of obscurity.\n\nSome plants cultivated by ancient societies of Peru have been rediscovered by modern Peruvians, and are carefully studied by scientists. Due to the characteristics of its land and climate and the nutritional quality of its products, some Peruvian plants may play a vital role in future nutrition. Examples include quinoa (an excellent source of essential amino acids) and kañiwa, which look and cook like cereals but are pseudocereals. Nutritionists are also studying root vegetables, such as maca, and cereals like kiwicha.\n\nFor many of Peru's inhabitants, these food stocks allow for adequate nutrition, even though living standards are poor. Abandoning many of these staples during the Spanish domination and republican eras lowered nutritional levels. Since 1985, NASA has used some of these foods—quinoa, kiwicha and maca—for astronaut meals.\n\nPeruvian cuisine is often made spicy with \"ají\" pepper, a basic ingredient. Peruvian chili peppers are not spicy but serve to give taste and color to dishes. Rice often accompanies dishes in Peruvian cuisine, and the regional sources of foods and traditions give rise to countless varieties of preparation and dishes.\n\nPeru is a country that holds not just a variety of ethnic mixes since times ranging from the Inca Empire, the Viceroyalty and the Republic, but also a climatic variety of 28 individual climates. The mixing of cultures and the variety of climates differ from city to city so geography, climate, culture and ethnic mix determine the variety of local cuisine.\n\nThe Pacific Ocean is the principal source of aquatic resources for Peru. Peru is one of the world's top two producers and exporters of unusually high-protein for use in livestock/aquaculture feed. Its richness in fish and other aquatic life is enormous, and many oceanic plant and animal species can only be found in Peru. As important as the Pacific is to Peru's biodiversity, freshwater biomes such as the Amazon River and Lake Titicaca also play a large role in the ecological make-up of the country.\n\nEvery coastal region, being distinct in flora and fauna populations, adapts its cuisine in accordance to the resources available in its waters.\n\nCeviche, a South American dish of marinated raw fish or seafood typically garnished with herbs and served as an appetizer, with many variations (pure, combination, or mixed with fish and shellfish), provides a good example of regional adaptation. Ceviche is found in almost all Peruvian restaurants on the coast, typically served with camote (sweet potato). Often spelled \"cebiche\" in Peru, it is the flagship dish of coastal cuisine, and one of the most popular dishes among Peruvians. It consists of Andean chili peppers, onions and acidic aromatic lime, a variety brought by the Spaniards. A spicy dish, it consists generally of bite-size pieces of white fish (such as \"corvina\" or white sea bass), marinated raw in lime juice mixed with chilis. Ceviche is served with raw onions, boiled sweet potatoes (\"camote\"), toasted corn (\"cancha\").\n\nMany Peruvians believe that ceviche is an aphrodisiac and hangover cure, the latter possibly due to the fact that it is traditionally consumed with beer. Unlike ceviche from Mexico and Ecuador, in Peru it does not have tomatoes. Also popular is Leche de tigre (tiger's milk), which is the Peruvian colloquial name for the juice produced from the ingredients of ceviche. It has a light spicy flavor.\n\n\"Chupe de camarones\" (shrimp cioppino) is one of the most popular dishes of Peruvian coastal cuisine. It is made from a thick freshwater shrimp (crayfish) stock soup, potatoes, milk and chili pepper. It is regularly found in Peruvian restaurants specializing in Arequipan cuisine.\n\nA center of immigration and centers of the Spanish Viceroyalty, Lima and Trujillo have incorporated unique dishes brought from the arrival of the Spanish Conquistadors and the subsequent waves of immigrants. Besides international immigration—a large portion of which happened in Lima—there has been, since the second half of the 20th century, a strong internal flow from rural areas to cities, in particular to Lima. This has strongly influenced Lima's cuisine with the incorporation of the immigrants' ingredients and techniques.\n\nCreole cuisine is the most widespread in this city. Lima hosts a wide variety of international cuisines, with Italian and Chinese (known locally as \"chifa\", a Chinese-Peruvian fusion) being the most popular. Japanese food, especially sushi, is also very popular, and many chain restaurants from the United States have a significant presence as well. Offerings of Arabic, Thai, Mexican, French, English, Argentine, Brazilian, and Indian cuisine can also be found in multiple locations throughout the city of Lima.\n\nThe city's bakeries are quite popular with Peruvians. One may find Peruvians standing in line in almost every bakery waiting for freshly baked white bread from 6 to 9 am and from 4 to 6 pm. The majority of Peruvians tend to eat bread for breakfast along with coffee or tea. Almost all bread in Peru, with the exception of baguettes, is fortified with added fats, such as lard. Whole wheat bread is extremely hard to find in the major cities, but more common (and often cheaper) in rural towns. Many bakeries sell white bread sprinkled with bran for health conscious customers as whole wheat flour is extremely hard to find. However, even this bread is often heavily fortified with lard, shortening or butter. Authentic whole wheat bread is imported from Europe and sold at upscale grocery stores. A few coastal cities bakeries produce \"bollos,\" which are loaves of bread baked in stone and wood-ovens from the Andes.\n\nAnticuchos are brochettes made from beef heart marinated in a various Peruvian spices and grilled, often with a side of boiled potato or corn. They are commonly sold by street vendors, but one may find them in creole food restaurants.\n\nAlso frequently sold by street vendors are tamales: boiled corn with meat or cheese and wrapped in a banana leaf. They are similar to \"humitas\", which consist of corn mixed with spices, sugar, onions, filled with pork and olives and finally wrapped in the leaves of corn husks. Tamales are a common breakfast food, often served with lime and \"Salsa Criolla\" which is a mixture of thinnly sliced raw red onion, ají peppers, cilantro and lime juice.\n\nAnother favorite food found in many restaurants is Papa a la huancaina (Huancayo-style potatoes), a dish consisting of sliced boiled potatoes, served on a bed of lettuce with a slightly spicy cheese sauce with olives. The dish is cheap to make and uses ingredients that are readily available in Peru, yet it has complex flavours and textures so is very popular with chefs in restaurants in Peru. This combination of being cheap to make, yet favored by chefs, has helped Papa a la Huancaina become popular across all classes of Peruvian society. The name of the dish it is from Huancayo.\n\nTacu-tacu: Mixture of beans, rice and a fried egg, on top of breaded or pan-fried steak and an Salsa Criolla.\n\nPapa rellena (stuffed potato): mashed potatoes stuffed with ground (minced) meat, eggs, olives and various spices and then deep fried.\n\nArroz tapado (covered rice): uses the same stuffing of papa rellena, but rather than used as a stuffing, it is accompanied by rice.\n\nPollo a la Brasa (Peruvian-flavored rotisserie or roaster chicken): is one of the most consumed foods in Peru. It is roasted chicken marinated in a marinade that includes various Peruvian ingredients, baked in hot ashes or on a spit-roast. The origins of the recipe for this dish date back to Lima, the capital of Peru, during the 1950s. Two Swiss citizens who were Peruvian residents, Roger Shuler and Franz Ulrich, invented and registered the patent (1950) for the machine to cook the chicken on the grill, a mechanical system of planetary rotation in that the chickens rotating on its axis and over a central axis, simultaneously. The dish comes with French fried potatoes, salad and various creams (Peruvian mayonnaise, ketchup, olive sauce, chimichurri and aji (chili) sauces of all kinds). There are many famous brands of \"Pollo a la Brasa\" restaurants in Peru and particularly in Lima, the most famous and popular being Hikari, Norky's, Roky's, Pardo's, and La Leña.\n\n\"Sancochado\" is a hearty beef and vegetable broth that includes \"yuca\" (cassava) and potatoes.\n\nA local staple is Lomo Saltado, also known as saltadito. Sliced beef (tenderloin or in Spanish \"lomo\") is stir-fried with, garlic, cumin powder, tomato and Spanish onion and fried-mixed with already fried French cut potatoes, coriander and parsley and accompanied with white rice. Salt and black pepper is also added to taste.\n\nLima has an abundance of Peruvian-style Chinese restaurants or \"chifas\" as they are known locally; indeed, arroz chaufa or Chinese style rice is one of the frequently sampled dishes that has found its way into Peruvian cuisine.\n\n\"Arroz con pollo\", or rice with chicken, is enjoyed for its rich-flavored rice combined with chicken.\n\n\"Chupe de pescado\" or fish cioppino is popular in Lima and along the coast.\n\n\"Lima butter bean salad\" is a salad made with Lima butter beans (called \"pallares\" in Perú), cooked whole, cooled, and mixed with a mixture of onion, tomato, and green ají, marinated in lime juice, oil, salt, and vinegar. Lima butter beans (\"pallares\") have been part of the Peruvian cuisine for at least 6,000 years.\n\n\"Butifarras\", also known as \"Jamon del Pais\", is a sandwich with \"Peruvian ham\", sliced onions, sliced chili peppers, lime, salt, pepper, oil, in a white bread roll.\n\n\"Causa\", in its basic form, is a mashed yellow potato dumpling mixed with key lime, onion, chili and oil. Varieties can have avocado, chicken, tuna or even shellfish added to the mixture. Also, causa is popular in Lima, where it is distinguished by the name \"Causa Limeña\". Causa is usually served cold with hard boiled eggs and olives.\n\n\"Carapulcra\" is an appetizing stewed dish of pork and chicken, dried potatoes, red chilis, peanuts and cumin. The version from the Afro-Peruvian Ica region uses fresh potatoes.\n\n\"Empanadas\" (meat turnovers) were introduced by the Spanish during the colonial period, and later modified, possibly due to lack of Spanish ingredients (olive oil, codfish, smoked paprika, etc.). In Peru, they are filled either with chicken, beef, or cheese. Olives, and sometimes hard boiled eggs and raisins gives them a unique taste.\n\n\"Ají de gallina\" (chili chicken or Peruvian creamed chicken) consists of thin strips of chicken served with a creamy yellow and spicy sauce, made with \"ají amarillo\" (Peruvian yellow chilis), cheese, milk, bread. Occasionally walnuts are added on special occasions or at upscale restaurants due to its prohibitive cost in Peru. Traditionally the meat is from non-laying hens, but today almost exclusively made from more tender chickens.\n\n\"Escabeche criollo\" (pickled fish): \"Escabeche\" when the word is used alone normally refers to fish escabeche. Other varieties can use duck or chicken. The escabeche dishes rely in the cooking on the heavy use of vinegar and onions together with other spices and chili.\n\nCau cau is a meal consisting of \"mondongo\" or tripe stew and accompanied by rice. There are a number of versions of Cau-Cau, as it is a style of cooking a choice protein. Two noteworthy styles are the creole style simply called Tripe Cau-Cau, and the Italian-Peruvian style. Creole style is made with strips of previously cooked tripe, seasoned with a mixture of sauteed onions, garlic, yellow aji, a pinch of turmeric, salt and pepper and cubes of boiled potatoes. The mixture is cooked together to blend the flavors and acquire consistency. It is then sprinkled with mint. Some add vinegar for added flavor before serving. The other common version is the Italian-Peruvian style. It consists of strips of precooked tripe sauteed with red onions, peeled tomatoes, tomato paste and dried mushrooms, usually Porcini. After the flavors combine, it is seasoned with parsley and mixed with fried potato just prior to serving. Some chefs add a few tablespoons of wine or pisco following the sauteeing.\n\n\"Chicharrones\" is salted pork deep-fried in its own fat. There are at least two kinds of chicharrones: pork skins, a country style ribs that are first boiled, then rendered in their own fat until they brown into chicharrones. Other types of chicharrones including deep fried squid, and other seafoods. They can be served at any time of day, including breakfast.\n\nOne of the most popular dishes on the coast is called Lomo Saltado. It is a steak dish which is fried in a wok along with peppers, tomato, garlic, onions, coriander and soy sauce. It is accompanied by french fries and rice. This dish dates back to the 19th century and is a clear exponent of Chinese-Cantonese influence on local cuisine. It is a relatively recent dish because cow meat used to be very expensive. It was not until beef was mass produced that it became widely available and used in local cuisine.\n\nThe cuisine of the \"northern coast\" offers a difference in style from the central and southern varieties. This is not only due to the coastal native Indian influence (less Andean), the Spanish influence, and the African; but also to the warmer coastal seas, hotter climate and immense geographical latitude variety.\n\nThe widely different climates between Tumbes, Piura, Lambayeque, La Libertad, Cajamarca and San Martin contributes to the variety of dishes in these areas.\n\nNorthern style dishes:\n\nSeco de Cabrito (goat stew, often substituted by lamb, chicken, or beef) is made in a pot after marinating in chicha de jora (corn beer) and spices including cilantro and garlic. This dish is most popular in the northern coast especially in Cajamarca and Lambayeque.\n\nSeco de Chavelo (typically from Catacaos - Piura) is a type of seco that is made of cecina stewed and dried meat that has been clotted and dried along with bananas, yuca, aji panca (Capsicum chinense) and Clarito (from Chicha de Jora the Piurano style).\n\nCebiche de Conchas Negras (\"ceviche\" with black shells) is a dish of Piura and Tumbes is also popular along the southern coast of Ecuador due to Peruvian influence. In this version of ceviche, the seafood used in the dish should be black clams accompanied by toasted corn.\n\nIn the valleys and plains of the Andes, the diet is still a traditional one based on corn (\"maíz\"), potatoes, and an assortment of tubers. Meat comes from indigenous animals like alpacas and guinea pigs, but also from imported livestock like sheep, cattle and swine.\n\nAs with many rural cultures, most of the more elaborate dishes were reserved for festivities, while daily meals were simple affairs. Nowadays, festive dishes are consumed every day by urban dwellers, while rural diets tend to be light on meat and heavy on \"lahua\" gruel.\n\nThe pachamanca is a distinctive Peruvian dish. Cooked all over the Andean region of Peru, it is made from a variety of meats (including pork and beef), herbs and a variety of vegetables that are slowly cooked underground on a bed of heated stones. Because of its tedious preparation it is normally only made for celebrations or festivals in the Andes, though recent years have seen the appearance of many \"campestre\" restaurants in rural areas outside Lima, such as in Cieneguilla.\n\nAndean cooking's main freshwater fish is the trout, raised in fisheries in the region.\n\n\"Cuy chactado\": A dish more popular in the highlands is this meal of fried guinea pig. Often the indigenous women of the Peruvian Andes will raise the guinea pigs in their huts. Besides the use of guinea pigs as separate meals, they are often cooked in a Pachamanca with other meats and vegetables.\n\n\"Olluquito con charqui\" is another traditional Andean dish. Olluco is a yellowish tuber (\"Ullucus tuberosus\") domesticated by pre-Inca populations, and is visually similar to colorful small Andean potatoes, but with a distinct crunchy texture when cooked. \"Charqui\" is the technique employed in the Andean highlands to cure meat by salting, then dehydration (the word \"jerky\" in English is derived from this Andean (Quechuan) word). The dish is a stew of finely diced ollucos with charqui pieces (traditionally alpaca, or less frequently llama meat, though today it is also very commonly made from sheep), served with white rice.\n\n\"Rocoto relleno\": Arequipa dish made from stuffed rocoto chilis. Rocotos are one of the very hot (spicy) chilis of Peru. In this dish they are stuffed with spiced beef or pork, onions, olives, and egg white, then cooked in the oven with potatoes covered with cheese and milk.\n\n\"Tocosh\" or \"Togosh\" is a traditional Quechua food prepared from fermented potato pulp.\n\n\"Puka Pikanti\": Ayacucho dish made from white potatoes, beets, yellow chili pepper, mint, and peanuts.\n\nIn Peruvian restaurants, steak is commonly served with rice rather than fries.\n\nNaturally, Amazonian cuisine is made using the products local to the Amazon rainforest. Although many animal species are hunted for food in the biologically diverse jungle, standouts are the paiche (one of the world's largest freshwater fish), prepared in variety of dishes; many other types of fish like gamitana, sabalo (\"Salminus hilarii\", see \"Salminus\"), tucunare, boquichico, palometa, bagre, and many others including the piranha, that are prepared in variety of dishes such as \"timbuche\" (soup) or \"patarashca\" (grilled in vegetables); many types of turtles like the motelo (land turtle), and the charapa and taricaya (river turtles). Hunting turtles is prohibited in Peru, therefore turtle-based dishes are scarce and expensive and not sold \"à la carte\" in restaurants. Other animals include the majas, the sajino, the agouti and jungle mammals, which are called collectively \"carne de monte\". The Black Caiman is also considered a delicacy; but its hunt is forbidden under Peruvian law.\n\nAmong the fruits of Peru's jungle is the camu camu, which contains 40 times more vitamin C than the kiwifruit. Non-native fruits such as mango and pineapple and star apple are also in abundance, as well as other jungle fruits like, mammee apple, cherimoya, guanabana, taperiva, copoazu, dry fruits like the aguaje and the hungurahui.\n\nJuane is rice seasoned with turmeric, and chicken wrapped with \"bijao\" leaves.\n\nChapo is a beverage made with sweet plantain.\n\n\"Chalona\" or \"Charqui\" is a cured dried meat originally obtained from alpaca. It is also eaten in Bolivia, and was eaten by the Indians in the coast and highlands of Peru before the arrival of the Spanish. Today lamb is often substituted for alpaca meat. It is used as an ingredient in a variety of dishes of the Puno region, Cusco, and Arequipa. It is prepared using recently cured lamb, in which furrows are made with a knife so the salt can penetrate. Salt penetration is important, because it determines how long the cured meat lasts. The meat is left to dry in the sun and cold nights for almost one month.\n\n\"Chairo\": A traditional soup of the Puno and Arequipa regions. It origins have been traced to the Collan Indians who live in the Andes of Bolivia and southern Peru. The soup consists of black chuño, aji panca (red chili pepper), sweet potatoes, sheep tripe and \"chalona\".\n\"Ocopa\": A dish with some similarities to Papas a la Huancaina. It consists of boiled and sliced yellow potatoes covered with a sauce of made of aji (chili pepper), the Peruvian herb \"Tagetes minuta\", (called \"huacatay\"; the herb gives it a vivid green color), ground peanuts, and fresh or white cheese, with sides of lettuce, boiled eggs and olives. At expensive restaurants walnuts are often added, but this is seldom done in Peruvian homes due to the prohibitive cost of walnuts in Peru. The name \"ocopa\" is also used to refer to the hot sauce by itself.\n\n\"Copús\" is one of the best known dishes of Piura. Its ingredients are ripe fried bananas, \"camotes\" (sweet potatoes), and seasoned hen, turkey, goat, and mutton. The meat is cooked in a furnace under the ground; this method is different from using a pachamanca since the furnace is covered with blankets and clay.\n\n\"Yuca chupe\" or cassava soup is one of the variations in which the Peruvians enjoy cassava.\n\nCurrently, ostrich meat is being raised on farms in Arequipa, although its consumption is not widespread and limited to urban areas.\n\nSangrecita: A dish of cooked chicken blood seasoned with garlic, onion, chilli and herbs and commonly served with potatoes, sweet potatoes or cassava.\n\n\"Crema de tarwi\" (tarwi soup): Tarwi is a vegetable native to the mountains of Bolivia, Ecuador, and Peru. In addition to its use in soup, tarwi is used in much of Peruvian cuisine, including \"sancochado\". Fresh tarwi can be used in stews, purees, sauces, desserts and in a variation of cebiche. In some areas, locals call it \"chocho\". Its cultivation has recently expanded to all the countries of the Andean region. In Peru, it is principally grown in the areas of Cajamarca, Ancash, the Mantaro Valley, Ayacucho, Cusco, and Puno.\n\nTarwi can also be found in beverages (such as papaya juice with tarwi flour). Tarwi has been shown to have a higher vegetable protein content than soy. In pre-Incan and Incan times, it was an important part of the mostly vegetarian diet of the region. It was consumed with small quantities of meat and dried fish, providing an abundant source of protein for the population. Tarwi seeds have been found in Nazca tombs and in representations of Tiahuanaco ceramics.\n\n\"Chifa\" (from the Mandarin words 吃饭 \"chi1 fan4\", meaning \"to eat rice\") is the Peruvian term for Peruvian–Chinese food (or for a Peruvian-Chinese fusion restaurant). Because many Chinese ingredients are hard to find in Peru, the Chinese modified their cuisine and incorporated many Peruvian elements (mainly Spanish, native and African) into their cuisine. Even today, it is difficult to find authentic Chinese cuisine in Peru. This is mainly due to popularity of the hybridization of Chinese food, which is commonly called \"Chifa,\" and a lack of many Chinese ingredients.\n\n\"Alfajores\": a dessert found in virtually all of Spain's former colonies. It is derived from the versions popular in Spain during the colonial period. The original Spanish recipes, however, have been modified because the original ingredients are expensive in Peru (almonds, honey) or even unobtainable (hazelnuts, lemon rind, coriander seed, etc.). The basic recipe uses a base mix of flour, margarine, and powdered sugar, which is oven-baked. Alfajores consist of two or more layers of this baked pastry, and is usually filled with manjar blanco (a caramel-colored, sweet, creamy filling made with milk and sugar)\n\n\"Turrones\" (or nougat) is another originally Spanish dessert. The original Spanish recipe, which contained ingredients that were rare or expensive in Peru (such as almonds, rose water, orange blossom water, honey) were modified in a variety of ways. One common variety found in Lima is Turrón de Doña Pepa, an anise and honey nougat that is traditionally prepared for the Señor de los Milagros (or Lord of Miracles) religious procession, during October.\n\nAlmost exclusive to the Andes region is the fruit known as \"lúcuma.\" Lúcuma juice, ice cream, and corresponding lúcuma shakes are very popular throughout Peru. Lúcuma ice cream can normally only be found in large US cities (typically in Peruvian restaurants). One popular brand of ice cream in Peru is D'Onofrio, which is owned by \"Nestlé.\"\n\n\"Arroz con leche\" (rice pudding): Another dessert originally from Spain that can be found in various varieties throughout Latin America. Arroz con leche is one of the more common desserts found in homes and restaurants of modern-day Peru. It consists primarily of cooked rice, cinnamon/nutmeg, raisins, and milk. Rice pudding never has lemon rind as is traditional in the Spanish version. Arroz con leche is usually eaten with Peruvian Mazamorra (jelly-like clove-flavored dessert).\n\n\"Helados\" (ice cream): The most common ice cream flavors found in Peru are lucuma, chocolate, vanilla and strawberry. Some more exotic flavors such as \"camu camu\", \"guaraná\" and prickly pear can occasionally be found. For other commonly available flavors, however, one needs to purchase imported ice-cream as many of the ingredients are not available in Peru. Peru is one of few countries in the world where the third most popular ice-cream (after vanilla and chocolate) is not strawberry, it is in fact the \"nutty\" flavored, orange colored \"lúcuma,\" which is an exotic fruit grown in quantity only in Peru, and only in recent years being exported in very limited quantities as an exotic flavor (for ice cream and savory sauces) to the USA, and available in Europe essentially in food shows.\n\n\"Mazamorra morada\": Is a jelly-like clove-flavored dessert. It takes on the color of one of its main ingredients: purple maize. A variety of purple corn (maíz morado) that only grows in Peru adds color to the water it's boiled in, along with cinnamon cloves. When the water cools, chopped fruit, key lime and sugar are added. The mixture is served as a beverage called \"chicha morada\".\n\n\"Picarones\": a sweet, ring-shaped fritter with a pumpkin base; often served with a molasses syrup. Picarones were created during the colonial period to replace the Spanish dessert Buñuelos, as buñuelos were too expensive to make (They had an egg custard filling) and some ingredients were unavailable (lemon rinds). Peruvian Picarones are made of squash or pumpkin dough and sweetened with chancaca, raw cane sugar melted into a syrup.\n\n\"Tejas\": another modified Spanish dessert. The original Spanish version contained ingredients that were prohibitively expensive in Peru, such as almonds. The Peruvian version of this candy is filled with manjar blanco and coated with a fondant-like shell. Some are also made with a chocolate shell (chocoteja).\n\nKing Kong: is made of cookies (made from flour, butter, eggs and milk), filled with milk candy, some pineapple sweet and in some cases peanuts, with cookies within its layers. It is sold in one-half and one kilogram sizes. It is known as part of the culture of Lambayeque Region.\n\n\"Suspiro a la Limeña\": Is another Spanish-influenced dessert that uses dulce de leche, which derives from the Spanish Blancmange. The bottom layer is made of dulce de leche enriched with egg yolks. The top layer consists of meringue made with port wine. This classic criollo dessert is said to have been named by the famous Peruvian poet and author José Gálvez whose wife doña Amparo Ayarez was famous for her cooking. When asked what inspired the name, he reportedly replied, \"Because it is soft and sweet, like the sigh of a woman.\" In this case, it would be a woman from Lima, a \"Limeña\".\n\nPanetón: is a type of sweet bread with dried fruit. It is usually served for breakfast around Christmas with a cup of hot chocolate. They used to come in big boxes only with huge panetóns inside but now they also sell personal portions. Chocotón is variety of panetón that replaces the fruit with chocolate bits. The bread is very light and sweet. Because Christmas is the hottest time of year, people often replace the hot chocolate with coffee or a drink that's served cold.\n\nFlan de leche is also a very popular dish.\n\nThe most commonly encountered soft drinks in Peru are:\n\nLess common are:\n\n\"Pisco\", a type of brandy, is the national drink of Peru. It originated during the colonial period as a cheaper substitute for the Spanish liquor known as orujo. Nevertheless, orujo is a product made from the spoils of wine production. Pisco uses fresh grapes like wine-making. This distilled beverage made from grapes is produced in various regions of the country. Pisco Sour is a cocktail made from \"pisco\" combined with lime juice, egg white and simple syrup. Chilcano is also made with Pisco.\nWines come from many different regions of the country, most notably from the Ica Region.\n\nBeer, as in many countries, is popular at all levels of society. Local brands include Pilsen Callao and Cristal. Other regional beers are Arequipeña, Cusqueña and Pilsen Trujillo from Arequipa, Cuzco and Trujillo respectively; though Cuzqueña is popular nationwide and is exported worldwide. A common beer-drinking ritual among many Peruvian men involves a group sharing one glass. The party holding the bottle waits for the prior person to drink from the glass before receiving that glass, filling it and passing the bottle on to the next in line. While this custom is more common among men of lower classes of society, people of higher social status, particularly youth and occasionally women, take part in this custom for fun.\n\nChicha de jora is another well-known drink, based on different varieties of fermented maize and different aromatic herbs, depending on the region of the country. Its consumption is mostly limited to the Andes area.\n\n\nhttps://www.nytimes.com/1999/05/26/dining/peruvian-cuisine-takes-on-the-world.html\n\n"}
{"id": "1913095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913095", "title": "Shirosato, Ibaraki", "text": "Shirosato, Ibaraki\n\nLocated in central-west Ibaraki Prefecture, Shinsato is bordered by Tochigi Prefecture to the west. The Naka River passes through the town.\n\n\nShirosato was formed on February 1, 2005, from the merger of the town of Jōhoku, the village of Katsura, both from Higashiibaraki District, and the village of Nanakai, from Nishiibaraki District.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913096", "title": "Lycium barbarum", "text": "Lycium barbarum\n\nLycium barbarum is a shrub native to China, with present-day range across Asia and southeast Europe. It is one of two species of boxthorn in the family Solanaceae from which the goji berry or wolfberry is harvested, the other being \"Lycium chinense\".\n\nCommon names of the plant in English include Chinese wolfberry, Chinese boxthorn, Himalayan goji, Tibetan goji, mede berry, barbary matrimony vine, red medlar or matrimony vine. In the United Kingdom it is also known as Duke of Argyll's tea tree or Duke of Argyll's tea plant, after Archibald Campbell, 3rd Duke of Argyll who introduced it in the country in the 1730s. The plant is called Murali in India, and \"dretsherma\" (འདྲི་ཚིར་མ།, \"ghost thorn\") in Tibetan.\n\nThe shrub is an important commercial crop in northern China, especially in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. Its Chinese name is \"Ningxia gǒuqǐ\" (宁夏枸杞 | 寧夏枸杞). It is also grown in Tibet, Mongolia, and more recently in many other countries of the world.\n\n\"Lycium barbarum\" is a deciduous woody shrub, growing high. The shrub has weak arching branches, and the side branches are often reduced to short leafless spines.\n\n\"L. barbarum\" leaves form on the shoot either in an alternating arrangement, or in bundles of up to three. Each leaf is green, scarcely fleshy when fresh, usually lanceolate (spearhead-shaped), sometimes with rounded tips. Clustered leaves are up to 25 mm long; the single alternate leaves are up to 55 mm long.\n\nThe flowers grow in groups of one to three in the leaf axils, with pedicels 6–15 mm long. The calyx, eventually ruptured by the growing berry, is a whitish tube crowned by five or six radial triangular sepals, shorter than the tube, 10–12 mm long and 3–4 mm wide, sometimes 2–lipped, strongly curved. The sepals are whitish on the lower side (facing towards the branch) and deep mauve on the top side. Each flower has five stamens, exserted for 3–8 mm, with stalks longer than the anthers. The pistil is 8–11.5 mm long. The anthers are longitudinally dehiscent.\n\nThe fruit of \"L. barbarum\", the main variety of goji berry, is a bright orange-red, ellipsoid berry in diameter. The fruiting calyx is split deeply once or twice. The number of seeds in each berry varies widely based on cultivar and fruit size, ranging from 10 to 60. The seeds are about 2 mm long, 1 mm wide, yellowish, compressed with a curved embryo.\n\nThe plants are self-pollinating, but may be cross pollinated by insects. The species is dispersed into natural areas by birds and other animals that eat its fruit.\n\nIn the Northern Hemisphere, flowering occurs from June through September and berry maturation from August to October, depending on the latitude, altitude, and climate. Where frost does not occur fruiting is continuous and plants do not lose their leaves.\n\n\"Lycium barbarum\" has been cultivated in China, along the fertile aggradational floodplains of the Yellow River, for more than 600 years. It is still extensively cultivated in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region of north-central China, centered in Zhongning County, totaling 200,000 acres as of 2005, The region produced 13,000 tons of fruit in 2001, accounting for 42% of the nation's total production of goji berries. The plant is also cultivated in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of western China,\n\nThe berries of \"L. barbarum\" are the only therapeutic grade (\"superior-grade\") kinds of wolfberries used by practitioners of traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nAs Ningxia's borders merge with three deserts, \"L. barbarum\" is also planted to control erosion and reclaim irrigable soils from desertification.\n\n\"Lycium barbarum\" has been used since the 18th century in the United Kingdom for hedging, especially in coastal districts. Its red berries are attractive to a wide variety of British birds.\n\nThe plant continues to grow wild in UK hedgerows. On 15 January 2003, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs launched a project to improve the regulations protecting traditional countryside hedgerows, and specifically mentioned Duke of Argyll's Tea Tree as one of the species to be found growing in hedges located in Suffolk Sandlings, Hadleigh, Bawdsey, near Ipswich, and Walberswick.\n\nImportation of mature \"Licium barbarum\" plants into the United Kingdom from most countries outside Europe is illegal, due to the possibility they could be vectors of diseases attacking Solanaceae crops, such as potato or tomato.\n\n\"Lycium barbarum\" has become a high demand plant in the United States. Nearly all major nursery catalogs now carry plants and there are many suppliers found on various web sites. There are a number of varieties available, ranging from leaf producing plants to fruit producing varieties. Most listed plants are hardy zones 5-9. One variety, Phoenix Tears is hardy zones 3-10. This variety produces fruit year round in warmer climates. Berries and leaves produced in the United States are probably more pesticide free than those produced in China.\n\nAt present only the US state of Pennsylvania requires inspection of imported \"L. barbarum\" plants. There have been cases of goji mite outbreaks in Pennsylvania and California. The mites have been found on wild plants in Utah and do have the potential to infect other family Solanaceae plants, but there is no documentation of such infections occurring in the United States.\n\n\"Lycium barbarum\" introduced to Australia became naturalised in south-eastern coastal and sub-coastal regions, and is regarded as an environmental weed in the provinces of Victoria and Tasmania. It is often found growing in disturbed sites, native bushland, and riverbanks, often forming dense thickets along the latter. It overlaps and is often confused with \"Lycium ferocissimum\", a similar species originating from Africa.\n\nBecause of its claimed benefits as a drug of traditional medicine, the chemicals present in the fruit, root, and other parts of the plants have been studied in some detail.\n\nThe main compounds in the fruit (23% of the dry mass) are polysaccharides and proteoglycans. Carotenoid pigments are the second major group, chiefly zeaxanthin dipalmitate. The fruits further contain vitamins, in particular riboflavin, thiamin and ascorbic acid (vitamin C), the latter in a concentration similar to that in lemons. Other detected compounds include flavonoids derived from myricetin, quercetin, and kaempferol; hexadecanoic acid, linoleic acid, β-elemene, myristic acid and ethyl hexadecanoate; and some glycerogalactolipids. The fruit further contains 1–2.7% of free aminoacids; chiefly proline, and including gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and betaine. Other compounds include β-sitosterol, scopoletin, p-coumaric acid, lyciumide A and L-monomenthyl succinate. The alkaloid atropine, common in plants of the family Solanaceae, is not detectable.\n\nThe compounds present in the roots have been less studied, but they include betaine, choline, linoleic acid, and β-sitosterol [79]. Of particular interest are cyclic oligopeptides with 8 aminoacid rings, christened lyciumins A and B.\n\nThe leaves are known to contain the flavonoids quercetin 3-O-rutinoside-7-O-glucoside, kaempferol 3-O-rutinoside-7-O-glucoside, rutin, nicotiflorin, isoquercitrin, quercetin, kaempferol damascenone, choline, scopoletin, vanillic acid, salicylic acid, and nicotinic acid. From the flowers, diosgenin, β-sitosterol, and lanosterol have been isolated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913121", "title": "The Show Must Go On (ER)", "text": "The Show Must Go On (ER)\n\n\"The Show Must Go On is the 245th episode of the NBC television series \"ER\".\n\nDr. John Carter is back in the States to wrap up his affairs. He purchases half a dozen pizzas for the ER staff, as well as some refreshments. He also treats a patient who has injured her wrist.\n\nRay is dealing with whether he wants to go into his residency as a doctor. Dr. Archie Morris and Dr. Ray Barnett leave for another party. This party is held on several floors in the back of an apartment building on the balconies at each level. Morris promptly becomes intoxicated, and begins vomiting. Barnett goes to help him. Suddenly the porches collapse, one on top of each other.\n\nCarter then leaves with Dr. Kovač for his \"surprise\" farewell party, where most of the attending doctors and his friends are waiting for him. County General then stops accepting trauma patients after further problems with the sewer pipes in the hospital leaves them with only one operating room, coupled with the fact that the majority of the ER staff is at Carter's party.\n\n6 people are killed in the porch collapse, and some are not hurt too badly. Five more are critically injured in the accident. Barnett surprises his friends with his handling of the situation. The paramedics on the scene tell Barnett that they are going to take the critically injured to St. Rafe's Hospital because County is closed. County is the only Chicago hospital that has Level I Trauma Status in the show, making it the first choice for such situations. Barnett uses the radio to call County and demands that Abby reopen the ER, otherwise the five critical patients would probably not make it to the hospital. Dr. Lockhart initially refuses, as there are no attending physicians and only one OR, but when one of the critical patients dies, she relents.\n\nUnable to reach Dr. Kovač by pager, they send a student over to fetch him. The party immediately evaporates, as everyone runs back to the ER to help the victims of the porch collapse. A surprised Carter returns from the restroom to empty tables, except for an orderly he doesn't know. They spend some time watching a slideshow of his time at County. The presentation features past ER doctors, including Dr. Doug Ross (George Clooney), Dr. Mark Greene (Anthony Edwards), and Dr. Peter Benton (Eriq La Salle). Eventually Dr. Susan Lewis brings Carter back to the ER.\n\nLife comes full circle for Carter when he treats one last patient before leaving County General. He is surprised to learn that he delivered the young girl with the broken wrist 11 years ago in Season 1.\n\nBefore he leaves he stops by to see Ray, Neela and Abby and shares the letter he wrote to himself as an intern under Dr. Greene, that had sat in his locker until this point. As Carter is leaving the hospital for the last time, Dr. Greene and Dr. Benton (his primary mentors) and Nurse Carol Hathaway are heard in voice-overs. Outside, he finds a fatigued and partially sober Morris crouching outside. Carter repeats the advice that was given to Dr. Greene by Dr. Morgenstern to the new chief resident: \"You set the tone.\" However, Morris, still suffering from the hangover, barely registers the advice and Carter, with a chuckle, goes to catch his train. And Carter leaves the ER and Chicago to be with his wife, Kem.\n\nThe porch collapse featured in this episode is based on the true story of the 2003 Chicago balcony collapse.\n\n\nThis is the final episode with Noah Wyle, (who plays Dr. John Carter), as a regular cast member, although he has several guest appearances in later episodes.\n\nThis is Scott Grimes' final episode as a guest star as he moves on to become a regular cast member in season 12, playing character Archie Morris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913128", "title": "Street painting", "text": "Street painting\n\nStreet painting, also known as screeving, pavement art, street art, and sidewalk art, is the performance art of rendering artistic designs on pavement such as streets, sidewalks, and town squares with impermanent and semi-permanent materials such as chalk.\n\nThe origins of modern street painting can be traced to Britain. Pavement artists were found all over the United Kingdom and by 1890 it was estimated that more than 500 artists were making a full-time living from pavement art in London alone.\n\nThe British term for a pavement artist is a \"screever\". The term is derived from the writing style, often Copperplate, that typically accompanied the works of pavement artists since the 1700s. The term screever is most commonly cited as Shakespearean slang dating from around 1500.\n\nThe works of screevers often were accompanied by poems and proverbs, lessons on morality, and political commentary on the day’s events. They were described as \"producing a topical, pictorial newspaper of current event.\" They appealed to both the working people, who (on the whole) could not read or write, but understood the visual images; and to the educated members of the middle-classes who appreciated the moral lessons and comments. It was important for a screever to catch the eye of the ‘well to do’ and in turn attract the pennies donated for their efforts.\n\nStreet painters, (also called chalk artists) a name these performance artists are most commonly called in the United States are called \"I Madonnari\" in Italy (singular form: madonnaro or madonnara) because they recreated images of the Madonna. In Germany Strassenmaler (streets: straßen, painter: maler).\n\nThe Italian Madonnari have been traced to the sixteenth century. They were itinerant artists, many of whom had been brought into the cities to work on the huge cathedrals. When the work was completed, they needed to find another way to make a living, and thus often would recreate the paintings from the church onto the pavement. Aware of festivals and holy days held in each province and town, they traveled to join in the festivities to make a living from observers who would throw coins if they approved of the artist's work. For centuries, many Madonnari were folk artists, reproducing simple images with crude materials such as tiles, coal, and chalk. Others, such as El Greco, would go on to become household names.\n\nIn 1973, street painting was being promoted in Italy by the formation of a two-day festival in Grazie di Curtatone in the Province of Mantua.\n\nIn the 1980s, Kurt Wenner practiced '3-D pavement art', or one-point perspective art, otherwise known as anamorphic art, a 500-year-old technique, which appears in proper perspective only when viewed from a specific angle.\n\nThe first recorded street-painting competition and 'festival' was held in London in 1906.\n\nIn 1972 the first 'Italian' International Street Painting Competition was held in Grazie di Curtatone, Italy. It is part of festival celebrating the Assumption with the streets of the city being turned over to the festival.\n\nIn 1987, Wenner and Manfred Stader introduced street painting to Old Mission Santa Barbara, California.\n\nOne of the largest events in the United States is the Lake Worth Street Painting Festival, held in Lake Worth Florida. Started in 1994, it attracts 100,000 visitors over the weekend to see 250 works of art by over 400 artists.\n\nIn 1993, Rosy Loyola created Festival Bella Via in Monterrey, Mexico, which has launched several Mexican artists into the international street painting field. Within the years it has become the most important street painting festival in Latin America.\n\nStarted in 2002, The Denver Chalk Art Festival on Larimer Square, located in Downtown Denver, is a free two-day street-painting festival. More than 200 artists spend hours during the weekend turning the streets of Larimer Square, into a museum of chalk art. The Festival is produced by the Larimer Arts Association, a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting arts awareness and education in Denver.\n\nIn 2008 Mark Wagner and 6,000 people (over 4,000 elementary school kids from Alameda, CA) set a Guinness World Record for the World's largest Pavement Art covering over 90,000 sq. ft. (8,361 sq. meters). A satellite photograph was taken of the artwork.\n\nIn 2010, the First International Street Painting Festival held in the United States was organized by Denise Kowal, president of the Avenida de Colores, Inc. 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation that produces the Sarasota Chalk Festival. More than 250 street painters attended the Halloween-themed festival of 2010 that featured street painters from around the world and ran for eight and a half days.\n\nIn 2011 the First International StreetArt was staged in Wilhelmshaven in Germany. The event is scheduled to return in August 2012.\n\nAt Sarasota's 2011 chalk festival Dutch artist Leon Keer and the team of Planet Streetpainting created the 3-D street painting of the Lego Terracotta Army. The chalk painting was inspired by Chinese Emperor Qin Shi Huang's Terracotta Army \"in honor of the arrival of Ego Leonard and to support his release out of his custody.\n\nIn July 2011, the 3-Way-Split Project produced the First Annual in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, United Kingdom. The city of Lake Worth Florida is cited as the source of inspiration, by the project director. Nine street artists from the United States came to Southend-on-Sea to support the launch of this new annual event. In 2012 the festival will be held on the second Saturday in September.\n\nIn August 2012 the Second International StreetArt was staged in Wilhelmshaven in Germany. 37 artists from all over the world traveled to Wilhelmshaven in Germany. Also the largest anamorphic pavement art 3-D streetpainting picture was built by: Gregor Wosik, Lydia Hitzfeld, Melanie Siegel, und Vanessa Hitzfeld.\n\nIn 2012, A company called We Talk Chalk, led by Creative Director Melanie Stimmell, and Remco Van Latum, introduced the art of 3-D street painting to countries such as Israel and Thailand. The city of Chiang Mai hosted their first street painting festival in March 2012. To celebrate the ninetieth anniversary of Tel Aviv suburb Ramat Hasharon, Israeli and 8 International artists from 'We Talk Chalk' used 3-D chalk drawings to transform Bialik Street into an urban art compound. The festival had as many as 50,000 visitors, including Israel’s President Shimon Peres who posed with paintings by Melanie Stimmell and Ruben Poncia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913130", "title": "WCW Sin", "text": "WCW Sin\n\nSin was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It took place on January 14, 2001, from the Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. Sin replaced WCW's January PPV event, Souled Out, which was held from 1997 to 2000. It was the antepenultimate WCW PPV before the company was absorbed by the World Wrestling Federation (now World Wrestling Entertainment) in March 2001.\n\nThe main event was for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship between Scott Steiner, Sid Vicious, Jeff Jarrett, and Animal in a Four Corners match. The WCW champion heading into Sin was Scott Steiner, who retained the title after pinning Sid Vicious, who had fractured his leg after attempting an aerial attack. The main match on the undercard was between Totally Buffed (Lex Luger and Buff Bagwell) and Goldberg and DeWayne Bruce, in a match where if Goldberg lost, he would be (kayfabe) forced to leave WCW. Totally Buffed won the match when Lex Luger pinned Goldberg after a Buff Blockbuster from Bagwell with Goldberg on Luger's shoulders. As a result, Goldberg was forced to leave WCW. The rights to WCW Sin now belong to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).\nIn 2014, all WCW pay-per-views were made available on the WWE Network.\n\nThe event featured wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds and storylines. Wrestlers portrayed villains, heroes, or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nThe main feud heading into Sin, was between Scott Steiner and Sid Vicious. This feud began in November, when Vicious made his return to WCW after a 5-month absence. The feud began the weeks prior to Starrcade, when Vicious was announced as the number one contender for Steiner's WCW World Heavyweight Championship. In the main event at Starrcade, Steiner would retain his WCW World title against Vicious. However, Vicious managed to earn another championship match against Steiner at Sin, in a Four Corners match pitting himself against Steiner, Jeff Jarrett, and a mystery fourth man. On the edition of January 10 of \"Thunder\" Vicious defeated Steiner by disqualification, in a match contested for the WCW World title, thus Steiner retaining.\n\nThe secondary feud heading in to Sin, was between Goldberg and Buff Bagwell. This feud began at Mayhem, where Goldberg hit a spear on the referee by accident after Luger pushed him in his place. Although this would have resulted in a disqualification, Goldberg won the match after a jackhammer. Luger would claim that Goldberg had lost via disqualification, which led to his desire of ending Goldberg's undefeated winning streak. This feud carried over to Starrcade where Goldberg's career was on the line, as he would be forced to leave WCW if he had lost, although Goldberg was victorious. Lex Luger and Buff Bagwell would then form the tag team of Totally Buffed in December 2000, where they got Goldberg's WCW Power Plant trainer, DeWayne Bruce, involved in the feud leading to a match between the two sides at Sin.\n\nThe first match that aired was between Chavo Guerrero, Jr. and Shane Helms for the WCW Cruiserweight Championship. A back and forth match between the two, as Helms would try to execute the \"Nightmare on Helms Street\" on Guerrero, while Guerrero would try to execute his brainbuster. After two consecutive reversals, Guerrero would successfully execute the brainbuster on Helms then covering him for the successful pinfall, thus retaining the WCW Cruiserweight Championship.\n\nA video aired from earlier in the day, where Mike Tenay asked then-WCW CEO, Ric Flair, who was getting out of his limo, on who the \"mystery opponent\" is in the four corners match later in the event. Flair responded by saying the identity of the \"mystery opponent\" had to be kept confidential and \"will rock Scott Steiner's world\". Then Gene Okerlund interviewed The Mamalukes, followed by Reno and Big Vito discussing their match and how everything would be \"finished once and for all\". The second match was between Reno and Big Vito. The match began in a brawl, leading to Big Vito in control. Reno attempted to hit his \"Roll the Dice\" on Vito, but was countered, leading to a successful second attempt where then after, Reno covered Big Vito for the victory.\n\nThe third match was a cruiserweight tag team match between The Jung Dragons and Jamie Knoble with Evan Karagias. The match started out fast with chops and Irish whips from both teams. However the Jung Dragons took control of the match, until the climax of the match, where Karagias gave Yang a hangman's neckbreaker. After Knoble delivered a piledriver to Kaz, Yang unsuccessfully attempted a corkscrew moonsault on Knoble, but ended up pinning Knoble with an inside cradle for the win. After the match, Knoble and Karagias assault the Jung Dragons.\n\nThe fourth match was between Ernest Miller and WCW Commissioner Mike Sanders, in a match where the WCW Commissionership and Ms. Jones' managing services were on the line. Both Miller and Sanders gained control in the course of the match. In the climax, the Thrillers came to interfere on Sanders behalf, but as they came to the ring, KroniK came after them interfering on Miller's behalf. Miller then performed a Feliner on Sanders followed by the pin, winning the match, Ms. Jones, and the WCW Commissioner job title.\nBackstage, Goldberg and then-WCW CEO Ric Flair watched Totally Buffed's arrival followed by \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund interviewing Jeff Jarrett. The fifth match then got underway between Team Canada (Lance Storm, Mike Awesome and Elix Skipper) defeating The Filthy Animals (Konnan, Rey Misterio, Jr. and Billy Kidman) with Jim Duggan as Special Guest Referee in a Penalty Box match, where if one broke a rule they were sent into the Penalty Box for one minute. The match started off with Rey Misterio, Jr. in control as Elix Skipper and Mike Awesome were sent into the Penalty Box after breaking the rules of the match. Midway though the match, Awesome and Lance Storm were sent into the penalty box after performing a double-team move. But then after, Team Canada was in control of the match after Misterio and Kidman were sent into the Penalty Box, after Duggan thought they were about to perform a low blow on Awesome. After Konnan, Awesome, and Skipper were sent into the Penalty box, Storm applied the \"Maple Leaf\" on Kidman forcing him to submit, thus winning for Team Canada.\n\nThe sixth match was between Meng, Crowbar and WCW Hardcore Champion Terry Funk in a Triple Threat match for the WCW Hardcore Championship. The match started out with Crowbar hitting Funk with a steel chair, and then dragging him backstage, where Meng joined the two men in the brawl using a variety of weapons. In the climax of the match, Crowbar applied a figure four leglock on Funk which was broken up by Meng who was then attacked by Funk and Meng with steel chairs. Meng then superkicked a chair into Meng's face followed by making Funk submit to the Tongan Death Grip to win the WCW Hardcore Championship.\n\nThe seventh match was contested between Sean O'Haire, Chuck Palumbo and The Insiders (Kevin Nash and Diamond Dallas Page) in a WCW World Tag Team Championship match, with the stipulation of the Insiders able to make substitutions. The match began with then-WCW CEO Ric Flair sending The Natural Born Thrillers backstage, banning substitutions in the match squashing Paulumbo and O' Haire. In the climax of the match, Palumbo and O' Haire, double team on DDP. Shawn Stasiak interfered in the match, keeping DDP busy on the outside. Buff Bagwell and Lex Luger then interfered in the match by hitting Nash with a wrench, leading to O' Haire hitting a Seanton Bomb on Nash and covering him for the win and the WCW World Tag Team Championship.\nThe eight match was between Shane Douglas and General Rection in a First Blood Chain match for the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship. The match began with Rection in control, as he and Douglas attempted to retrieve the chain. Afterwards, Douglas worked on the legs of Rection for a period of time until Rection recovered and gained control. In a turn of events, Rection was pushed off a ladder by Douglas, which knocked down the referee, and he pulled out a chain from his boots and attacked Rection with it. As the referee recovered, Rection began to bleed and was seen by the referee who called for the bell, declaring Shane Douglas the winner and new WCW United States Champion.\n\nThe ninth match, and the main match on the undercard, was between Totally Buffed (Lex Luger and Buff Bagwell) and Goldberg with DeWayne Bruce in a No Disqualification tag-team match, where if Goldberg lost, he would be (kayfabe) forced to leave WCW. The match started out with Goldberg against Bagwell, where Goldberg had full control of the match. Bruce was then tagged in by Goldberg where he gained an early advantage over Bagwell for a short time, but was then double teamed by Totally Buffed. Goldberg was then tagged in, where Bagwell gained the upper-hand. Luger then exited the ring and walked up to a fan, who asked for Goldberg's autograph earlier in the event. This distracted and lured Goldberg near the fan, who sprayed mace into Goldberg's eyes. Luger then lifted Goldberg on his shoulders and Bagwell hit a Super Blockbuster. Luger covered him for the victory, thus ending Goldberg's undefeated streak of thirty-five victories and forcing him to leave WCW.\n\nThe main event was between Sid Vicious, Jeff Jarrett, WCW World Champion Scott Steiner, and a \"mystery opponent\" for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship in a Four Corners match. The match began with only three competitors, without the mystery opponent. Vicious gained the advantage over Jarrett and Steiner in the start of the match, but was then double-teamed by Jarrett and Steiner. As Vicious was making a comeback, he attempted an aerial maneuver, which was unsuccessfully performed as he slipped on the turnbuckle, legitimately fracturing his leg. (The footage of the injury has been edited out of the WWE Network version of this event.) Towards the end of the match, then-WCW CEO Flair announced the arrival of the \"mystery opponent\", who came out wearing a mask, hiding his identity. He entered the ring delivering a couple of kicks to Vicious. Steiner then covered Vicious for the victory, thus successfully retaining the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. After the match ended, the \"mystery man\" unmasked and revealed himself to be Road Warrior Animal, making his return to WCW after leaving with his longtime tag team partner Road Warrior Hawk in 1996.\n\nSin was the third to last World Championship Wrestling (WCW) pay-per view, before the company was bought by rival promotion, World Wrestling Federation (WWF), two months later on March 23, 2001. This was the last WCW pay-per view held north of the Mason–Dixon line, as the promotion began holding its events in southern states only, as a cost-cutting measure. Only two other televised events were held outside the south after \"Sin\": the next two nights' \"Monday Nitro\" and \"Thunder\", were both held in Fort Wayne, Indiana. After this event, Sid Vicious was unable to compete in professional wrestling regularly, as the injury he sustained was of a severe nature.\n"}
{"id": "1913132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913132", "title": "Consumption tax", "text": "Consumption tax\n\nA consumption tax is a tax levied on consumption spending on goods and services. The tax base of such a tax is the money spent on consumption. Consumption taxes are usually indirect, such as a sales tax or a value-added tax. However, a consumption tax can also be structured as a form of direct, personal taxation, such as the Hall–Rabushka flat tax.\n\nA value-added tax applies to the market value added to a product or material at each stage of its manufacture or distribution. For example, if a retailer buys a shirt for twenty dollars and sells it for thirty dollars, this tax would apply to the ten dollar difference between the two amounts. A simple value-added tax would be proportional to consumption but would also tend to be regressive on income at higher income levels, as consumption tends to fall as a percentage of income as income rises. Savings and investment are tax-deferred until they become consumption. A value-added tax may exclude certain goods to make it less regressive against income. It is imposed in European Union countries. \n\nValue added tax is a consumption based tax and is levied each and every time the value of a good gets increased in the process of manufacturing to the point of sale.\n\nIn Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Singapore, it is instead called a \"Goods and Services Tax.\" In Canada it is also called Harmonized Sales Tax when it is combined with a provincial sales tax.\n\nSales tax is a part of government revenue and is normally a consumption tax applicable to sales of goods & services. It is accepted by the government to collect the sales tax by the retailer and further deposit it to the government. A sales tax typically applies to the sale of goods, and sometimes also to the sales of services. The tax is applied at the point of sale. Laws may allow sellers to itemize the tax separately from the price of the goods or services, or they may require it to be included in the price. The tax amount is usually \"ad valorem\", that is, it is calculated by applying a percentage rate to the taxable price of a sale. When a tax on goods or services is paid to a governing body directly by a consumer, it is usually called a use tax. Often laws provide for the exemption of certain goods or services from sales and use taxes.\n\nAn excise tax is a sales tax that applies to a specific class of goods, typically alcohol, tobacco, gasoline (petrol), or tourism. The tax rate varies according to the type of good and quantity purchased and is typically unaffected by the person who purchases it.\n\nSin taxes, are a type of excise tax imposed on items which are considered harmful to society, in an effort to decrease their consumption by increasing their prices.\n\nA direct, personal consumption tax may take the form of an expenditure tax, that is, an income tax that deducts savings and investments, such as the Hall–Rabushka flat tax. A direct consumption tax may be called an expenditure tax, a cash-flow tax, or a consumed-income tax and can be flat or progressive. Expenditure taxes have been briefly implemented in the past in India and Sri Lanka.\n\nThis form of tax applies to the difference between the income of an individual and the increase/decrease in his savings. Like the other consumption taxes, simple personal consumption taxes tend to be regressive with respect to income. However, because this tax applies on an individual basis, it can be made as progressive as a progressive personal income tax. Just as income tax rates increase with personal income, consumption tax rates increase with personal consumption. Economists from Milton Friedman to Edward Gramlich and Robert H. Frank have supported a progressive consumption tax.\n\nConsumption taxes, specifically excise taxes, have featured in several notable historic events. In the United States, the stamp tax, the tax on tea, and whiskey taxes produced revolts, the first two against the British government and the latter against the new federal government. In India, an excise tax on salt led to Mohandas Gandhi's famous Salt March, a major event in the Indian Independence Movement.\n\nIn the early United States, taxes were levied principally on consumption. Alexander Hamilton, one of the two chief authors of the anonymous \"The Federalist Papers\", favored consumption taxes in part because they are harder to raise to confiscatory levels than income taxes. In \"The Federalist Papers\" (No. 21), Hamilton wrote:\n\nAlthough personal and corporate income taxes provide the bulk of revenue to the federal government, consumption taxes continue to be a primary source of income for state and local governments. One of the first detailed proposals of a personal consumption tax was developed in 1974 by William Andrews.\n\nThe Liberal Democratic Party government of Masayoshi Ōhira had attempted to introduce a consumption tax in 1979. Ohira met a lot of opposition within his own party and gave up on his attempt after his party suffered badly in the 1979 election. Ten years later Noboru Takeshita successfully negotiated with politicians, bureaucrats, business and labor unions to introduce a consumption tax, which was introduced at a rate of 3% consumption tax in 1989.\n\nIn April 1997 under the government of Ryutaro Hashimoto it was increased to 5%. The 5% is made up of a 4% national consumption tax and a 1% local consumption tax. Shortly after the tax was introduced Japan fell into recession, which was blamed by some on the consumption tax increase, and by others on the 1997 Asian financial crisis.\n\nPrime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said he had no intention of raising the tax during his government, but after his massive victory in the 2005 election he lifted a ban on discussing it. Over the following years a number of LDP politicians discussed raising it further, including prime ministers Shinzō Abe, Yasuo Fukuda, and Tarō Asō.\n\nThe Democratic Party came to power in the August 2009 elections with a promise not to raise the consumption tax for four years. The first DPJ prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama was opposed, but Naoto Kan replaced him and called for the consumption tax to be raised. The following prime minister, Yoshihiko Noda \"staked his political life\" on raising the tax. Despite an internal battle that saw former DPJ leader and co-founder Ichirō Ozawa and many other DPJ diet members vote against the bill and then leave the party; on June 26, 2012, the lower house of the Japanese diet passed a bill to double the tax to 10%.\n\nDespite considerable opposition and an attempted no-confidence motion from minor opposition parties the bill was successfully passed through the upper house on August 10, 2012, with the result that the tax was increased to 8% in April 2014 and to 10% in October 2019 (twice postponed from the original date of October 2015).\n\nConsumption taxes do not tax savings, which allows invested assets to grow more quickly. If, in the absence of taxes, one dollar of savings is put aside for retirement at nine percent compound interest, savings will grow to $7.91 after twenty-four years. Alternatively, by assuming a thirty-three percent tax rate, the same dollar is reduced to about sixty-seven cents after taxes when earned. The effective interest rate, thereafter, is reduced to six percent, since the rest of the yield is paid in taxes.\n\nAfter twenty-four years, the balance increases only to $2.73. The cumulative taxes in the latter case are $1.02. The other $4.16 is not lost by the economy in any sense, as the $4.16 is what the government would make in interest, if it had invested its tax revenue in the same investment. If the initial invested amount is not taxed when earned, but the earnings are taxed thereafter, the cumulative taxes paid are the same, but are spread more evenly across the period. These results are primarily sensitive to the rate of return; for example, with a three percent return most of the tax receipts come from the tax on the initial dollar.\n\nTo the extent that taxing something results in less of it (whether income or consumption), taxing consumption instead of income should encourage both work and capital formation, which will increase economic growth, while discouraging consumption. Secondly, the tax base will be larger because \"all\" consumption will be taxed.\n\nSome critics argue that consumption taxes can shift the tax burden to the less well-off. The ratio of tax obligation to income tends to shrink as income increases because high-earners tend to consume proportionally less of their income. An individual unable to save will pay taxes on all his income, but an individual who saves or invests a portion of his income will be taxed only on the remaining income.\n\nMany proposed consumption taxes share some features with income tax systems. Under these proposals, taxpayers would be given exemptions and/or a standard deduction in order to ensure that the poor do not pay any tax. In a pure consumption tax, these other deductions would not be permitted.\n\nA withholding system may also be put into place in order to estimate the total tax liability. It would be difficult for many taxpayers to pay no tax all year, only to be faced with a large tax bill at the end of the year.\n\nA consumption tax could also eliminate the concept of basis when computing the value of investments. All income that is put in investments (such as property, stocks, savings accounts) would be tax-free. As the asset grows in value, it would not be taxed. Only when the proceeds from the investment are spent is any tax imposed. This is in contrast with an income tax system where if land is bought and sold it with a profit, the gain is taxable. A consumption tax taxes only consumption, so if an investment is sold to buy another investment, no tax is imposed.\n\nAndrews notes the inherent problem with housing. Renters necessarily \"consume\" housing, so they will be taxed on the expenditure of rent. However, homeowners also consume housing in the same way, but as they pay down a mortgage, the payments are classified as savings, not consumption (because equity is being built in an asset).\n\nThe disparity is explained by what is known as the imputed rental value of a home. A homeowner could choose to rent the home to others in exchange for money but instead chooses to live in the home to the exclusion of all possible renters. Therefore, the homeowner is also consuming housing by not permitting renters to pay for and occupy the home. The amount of money that the homeowner could receive in rent is the imputed rental value of the home.\n\nA true consumption tax would tax the imputed rental value of the home (which could be determined in the same way that valuation occurs for property tax purposes) and would not tax the increase in the value of the asset (the home). Andrews proposes to ignore this method of taxing imputed rental values because of its complexity. In the United States, home ownership is subsidized by the federal government by permitting limited deductions for mortgage interest expense and capital gains. Therefore, treating renters and homeowners identically under a consumption tax may not be feasible there.\n\nThis issue would not arise under an expenditure tax, since all withdrawals of funds from a pre-tax investment account are treated as taxable consumption, whether these funds are used to pay rent, buy a house, or pay down mortgage principal. A person may buy a house within a pre-tax account, but would not be allowed to live there.\n\nAlso, a consumption tax could utilize progressive rates in order to maintain \"fairness\". More consumption means more tax liability. \n\nThe temporal neutrality of a consumption tax, however, is that consumption itself is taxed, so it is irrelevant what good or service is being consumed in terms of allocation of resources. The only possible effect on neutrality is between consumption and savings. Taxing only consumption should, in theory, cause an increase in savings. \n\nMany economists and tax experts favor consumption taxes over income taxes for economic growth.\n\nDepending on implementation (such as treatment of depreciation) and circumstances, income taxes either favor or disfavor investment. (On the whole, the American system is thought to disfavor investment.) By not disfavoring investment, a consumption tax would increase the capital stock, productivity, and therefore increase the size of the economy. Consumption also more closely tracks long-run average income. The income of an individual or family can often vary dramatically from year to year. The sale of a home, a one-time job bonus, and various other events can lead to temporary high income that will push a lower or middle income person into a higher tax bracket. On the other hand, a wealthier individual may be temporarily unemployed and earn no income.\n\nIn the United States context, William Gale, Co-director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, offers a simplified way to understand a consumption tax: assume that the current U.S. tax system remains the same but remove limitations to contributing to and removing funds from a traditional Individual Retirement Account (IRA). Thus, a person would essentially have a bank account where they could place tax-free earnings at any time, but unsaved (or consumed) withdrawals would be subject to taxation. Having an unrestricted IRA under the current system would approximate a consumption tax at the federal level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913142", "title": "Master I. A. M. of Zwolle", "text": "Master I. A. M. of Zwolle\n\nMaster I. A. M. of Zwolle (known works 1470–1490, lifetime estimated as ca. 1440–1504) was an anonymous Dutch goldsmith and engraver who signed many of his works with his initials I. A. M. or I. A., and added \"Zwolle\" to some. His work is characterized by crowded and active scenes of people, graded tones and crisp strokes. Only 26 works by his hand are extant.\n\nOne theory of Master I. A. M.'s identity points to Johan van den Minnesten (also spelled Mynnesten, b. ca. 1440, d. 1504) as the artist behind the engravings. This obscure artist was a painter in Zwolle, but none of his works have survived, so it is impossible to prove a connection on stylistic grounds. The only link between him and Master I. A. M. is a record that his son, also named Johan, was paid to print several engravings for the city of Zwolle in 1545; these were possibly plates inherited from his father.\n\nAnother theory posits that Master I.A.M's prints were produced by two collaborating artists, one who designed the prints and another who engraved and printed them. In this theory I. A. M. could stand for \"Johannes Aurifaber Meester\" (Master John the Goldsmith), possibly Johannes Ludolphi, a goldsmith who arrived in Zwolle in 1479. One variation of this theory supposes that the signature contains the marks of both artists: I. A. M. would be Johann van den Minnesten's signature, while the image of a drill is the hallmark of the goldsmith / engraver. This collaborative theory would explain the vast differences in composition between the still and simple \"The Madonna Seated, the Christ Child Holding the Cross\" and the manneristically dynamic \"The Betrayal of Christ\".\n\nMaster I. A. M. produced original and inventive compositions in a style that has been variously described as \"lively\", \"dramatic\", \"turbulent\" \"refined\" and marked by \"Dutch swagger\". His engraving technique was careful and neat but tending to dryness. Later prints show more dramatic use of tonal contrasts, in drapery and other areas. His faces mostly have Dutch peasant features, sometimes bordering on the grotesque.\nThe major influence upon Master I. A. M.'s early work appears to have been Rogier van der Weyden, although he was also influenced by Martin Schongauer. Hieronymous Bosch, a contemporary, also appears to have influenced the grotesque figures in \"The Betrayal of Christ\": Bosch's \"Christ Carrying the Cross\" of Vienna is particularly similar.\n\nThe artist's style appears to have changed dramatically around 1485; the drapery of his figures became more sculptural, separated into broad planes like contemporary wood sculptures, as opposed to his earlier and more fluid style. This has generated speculation among scholars that some of these later prints were either designs for wood relief sculptures, or were based upon reliefs that are now lost. This is partially supported by records that Johan van den Minnesten was commissioned to paint several relief sculptures.\n\nHis most involved work was a series of passion engravings, of which only \"The Last Supper\", \"The Agony in the Garden\", and \"The Betrayal of Christ\" survive.\n\nDimensions given are that of the image. The essence of printmaking is the production of multiple images, so most of these works exist in more than one copy and are in the collections of several museums. As with most 15th-century prints, surviving impressions of his works are rare - the three \"Passion\" prints survive in 8,8 and 20 impressions only. The works can only be approximately dated, if at all, because so little is known about Master I. A. M.'s life. None of the prints were titled, so they are given generic or descriptive titles that vary slightly between sources. The individual impressions also vary in sheet size.\n\n\nMaster I.A.M.'s prints were often copied by contemporary engravers, but also by artists in other media. In particular the painter Gian Francesco da Tolmezzo based his fresco in Provesano (c. 1496) upon \"The Betrayal of Christ\". Francisco Henriques also based paintings upon I.A.M.'s engravings. Lucas van Leiden developed his style from that of Master I.A.M. and Albrecht Dürer.\n\nHis prints were much sought after by prominent collectors. The English writer Samuel Pepys owned copies of the \"Pietà\" and \"The Last Supper\", and Ferdinand Columbus (the son of Christopher Columbus) owned a copy of \"Allegory of the Transience of Life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1913144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913144", "title": "George Kirby", "text": "George Kirby\n\nGeorge Kirby (June 8, 1923 – September 30, 1995) was an American comedian, singer, and actor.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Kirby broke into show business in the 1940s at the Club DeLisa, a South Side establishment that employed a variety-show format and preferred to hire local singers, dancers, and comedians. His first recording was as a stand-up blues singer, performing \"Ice Man Blues\" on a Tom Archia session done in 1947 for Aristocrat Records.\n\nHe was one of the first African-American comedians to begin to appeal to white as well as black audiences during the height of the Civil Rights era, appearing between 1963 and 1972 on Perry Como's \"Kraft Music Hall\", \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", \"The Dean Martin Show\", \"The Jackie Gleason Show\", \"The Temptations Show\", \"Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In\", and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". He was an excellent impressionist — targeting, provocatively for 1960s performance venues, many white actors such as John Wayne and Walter Brennan rather than solely black stars such as Bill Cosby and Pearl Bailey — and, for a man of his ample girth, an unexpectedly agile dancer. He also did vocal impressions of such singers as Louis Armstrong, Nat King Cole, Ella Fitzgerald and Joe Williams.\n\nIn 1970, he was allowed to produce \"The George Kirby Show\", a television special, to gauge whether he could attract an audience for a weekly series. This led to his hosting \"Half the George Kirby Comedy Hour\", a sketch comedy and variety show, which lasted for 22 episodes in 1972; it was one of the actor-comedian Steve Martin's first credits in front of the camera. The series was in many ways an uneasy compromise between Kirby's natural gifts and what the public would accept of black actors at the time; a regular feature was a shaggy dog story segment entitled the \"Funky Fable\". He was also a regular in the British series \"The Kopykats\", with other impressionists such as Rich Little, Charlie Callas, Marilyn Michaels, and Frank Gorshin.\n\nFollowing the demise of his show, Kirby's career declined, especially as audiences began to look for more cutting-edge comedy. He had been an occasional drug addict; now, to make up for lost income, he took to selling drugs. In 1977 he sold heroin to an undercover police officer; he made a plea bargain to a 10-year prison term and was released after 42 months.\n\nHis career never again reached its former heights, but he did register featured guest appearances on \"Gimme a Break\" with Nell Carter, \"What's Happening Now!!\", \"Crazy Like a Fox\", and \"227\".\n\nIn 1983 he did a USO tour with Bob Hope to entertain the troops in Beirut, Lebanon as part of the Multi National Peacekeeping force. They performed on the Navy ships as well including the USS New Jersey Christmas '83. He was an amazing talent even in his later years and spoke out about his addiction to educate others.\n\nDiagnosed with Parkinson's disease in his later years, Kirby made his last public appearance at an all-star benefit in May 1995 given by his friends for his mounting medical bills.\n\nOn September 30, 1995, Kirby died of Parkinson's Disease at a nursing home in Las Vegas. He was survived by his wife Rosemary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913145", "title": "Charlotte Adams", "text": "Charlotte Adams\n\nCharlotte A. Adams (later Charlotte A. Cunningham) (born 1859) was an Australian mountain climber. She became the first woman of European descent to climb to the peak of Mount Kosciuszko in February 1881, aged 21.\n\nIn February 1881, Adams accompanied her father, Philip Francis Adams, on a surveying trip to the Cooma district. On the trip, she climbed to the Peak of Mount Kosciuszko, becoming the first known European woman to have made the climb.\n\nAdams married Herbert Norfolk Cunningham on 19 April 1882.\n\nThe village of Charlotte Pass, New South Wales is named after Adams.\n"}
{"id": "1913154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913154", "title": "Herculine Barbin", "text": "Herculine Barbin\n\nHerculine Barbin (November 8, 1838 – February 1868) was a French intersex person who was assigned female at birth and raised in a convent, but was later reclassified as male by a court of law, after an affair and physical examination. They are known for their memoir, \"Herculine Barbin\", which was studied by Michel Foucault. \n\nMost of what we know about Barbin comes from their later memoirs. Herculine Adélaïde Barbin was born in Saint-Jean-d'Angély in France in 1838. They were assigned as a girl and raised as such; their family referred to them as Alexina. Their family was poor but they gained a charity scholarship to study in the school of an Ursuline convent.\n\nAccording to their account, they had a crush on an aristocratic female friend in school. They regarded themself as unattractive but sometimes slipped into their friend's room at night and was sometimes punished for that. However, their studies were successful and in 1856, at the age of seventeen they were sent to Le Château to study to become a teacher. There, they fell in love with one of the teachers.\n\nAlthough Barbin was in puberty, they had not begun to menstruate and remained flat chested. The hairs on their upper lip and cheeks were noticeable.\n\nIn 1857 Barbin received a position as an assistant teacher in a girls' school. They fell in love with another teacher, Sara, and Barbin demanded that only she should dress them. Her ministrations turned into caresses and they became lovers. Eventually, rumors about their affair began to circulate.\n\nBarbin, although sick their whole life, began to suffer excruciating pains. When a doctor examined them, he was shocked and asked that they should be sent away from the school, but Barbin stayed.\n\nEventually, the devoutly Catholic Barbin confessed to Jean-François-Anne Landriot, the Bishop of La Rochelle. He asked Barbin's permission to break the confessional silence in order to send for a doctor to examine them. When Dr. Chesnet did so in 1860, he discovered that even though Barbin had a small vagina, they had a masculine body type, a very small penis, and testicles inside his body. In 20th-century medical terms, they had male pseudohermaphroditism.\n\nA later legal decision declared officially that Barbin was male. They left their lover and their job, changed their name to Abel Barbin and was briefly mentioned in the press. They moved to Paris where they lived in poverty and wrote their memoirs, reputedly as a part of therapy. In the memoirs, Barbin would use female pronouns when writing about their life prior to sexual redesignation and male pronouns, including Alexina and Camille, following the declaration. Nevertheless, Barbin clearly regarded themself as punished, and \"disinherited\", subject to a \"ridiculous inquisition\".\n\nIn his commentary to Barbin's memoirs, Michel Foucault presented Barbin as an example of the \"happy limbo of a non-identity\", but whose masculinity marked them from their contemporaries. Morgan Holmes states that Barbin's own writings showed that they saw themself as an \"exceptional female\", but female nonetheless.\n\nIn February 1868, the concierge of Barbin's house in rue de l'École-de-Médecine found them dead in their home. They had died by suicide by inhaling gas from their coal gas stove. The memoirs were found beside their bed.\n\nDr. Regnier reported the death, recovered the memoirs and performed an autopsy. Later he gave the memoirs to Auguste Ambroise Tardieu, who published excerpts as \"Histoire et souvenirs d'Alexina B.\" (\"The Story and Memoirs of Alexina B.\") in his book \"Question médico-légale de l'identité dans ses rapport avec les vices de conformation des organes sexuels, contenant les souvenirs et impressions d'un individu dont le sexe avait été méconnu\" (\"Forensics of Identity Involving Deformities of the Sexual Organs, along with the Memoirs and Impressions of an Individual whose Sex was Misidentified\") (Paris: J.-B. Ballière et Fils, 1872). The excerpts were translated into English in 1980.\n\nMichel Foucault discovered the memoirs in the 1970s while conducting research at the French Department of Public Hygiene. He had the journals republished as \"\". In his edition, Foucault also included a set of medical reports, legal documents, and newspaper articles, as well as a short story adaptation by Oscar Panizza.\n\nAccording to Morgan Holmes, the anthropologist Gilbert Herdt has identified Barbin as providing a crisis for \"modern ideology\" through an identification as neither male nor female, but Barbin's own writings describe a self-identification as female, albeit an exceptional female.\n\nBarbin's memoirs inspired the French film \"The Mystery of Alexina\". Jeffrey Eugenides in his book \"Middlesex\" treats concurrent themes, as does Virginia Woolf in her book, \"\". Judith Butler refers to Foucault's commentary on Barbin at various points in her 1990 \"Gender Trouble\", including her chapter \"Foucault, Herculine, and the Politics of Sexual Discontinuity.\"\n\nBarbin appears as a character in the play \"A Mouthful of Birds\" by Caryl Churchill and David Lan. Barbin also appears as a character in the play \"Hidden: A Gender\" by Kate Bornstein. \"Herculine,\" a full-length play based on the memoirs of Barbin, is by Garrett Heater. Kira Obolensky also wrote a two-act stage adaptation entitled \"The Adventures of Herculina\".\n\nIn 2014, a manuscript entitled \"Dear Herculine\" by Aaron Apps won the 2014 Sawtooth Poetry Prize from Ahsahta Press.\n\nThe birthday of Herculine Barbin on 8 November is marked as Intersex Day of Remembrance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913160", "title": "Zion (The Matrix)", "text": "Zion (The Matrix)\n\nZion is a fictional city in \"The Matrix\" films. It is the last human city on the planet Earth after a cataclysmic nuclear war between mankind and sentient machines, which resulted in artificial lifeforms dominating the world.\nIt is actually a massive series of caverns deep under the ruined planet's surface, close to the planet's core, for warmth, power, and protection.\n\nStephen Faller writes in \"Beyond the Matrix\" that Christianity is the most dominant religious theme in the \"Matrix\" films and that \"Zion is biblically regarded as the city of God\". The book \"Philosophers Explore the Matrix\" writes that \"The last remaining human city, Zion, [is] synonymous in Judaism and Christianity with (the heavenly) Jerusalem\".\n\nFaller says that Zion is presented as a contrast to the Matrix, \"The racial constituency of Zion is much less European and Anglo than present-day America. We are shifting the paradigm from the racially charged medium of the Matrix, where the subtext is so clearly contrasted in the extremes of black and white, to the imagined world of Zion, which is dominated by people of color.\" One chapter in \"The Matrix Trilogy: Cyberpunk Reloaded\" writes, \"Black spirituality is evoked in the \"Matrix\" films... by the use of Zion for the underground city of free humans populated primarily by black people, suggesting the dream of Christianised slaves to find a safe haven in 'the promised land' and the Rastafarian belief in an utopian society.\" Another chapter writes, \"\"The Matrix Reloaded\" displays black 'life' in a scene reminiscent of countless Hollywood jungle melodramas when the predominantly black population of Zion engages in frenzied dancing to the pounding rhythm of drums. In Hollywood, the war between artifice and reality is drawn along racial lines.\" Adilifu Nama writes in \"Black Space: Imagining Race in Science Fiction Film\", \"The racial politics of Zion appears to be based on a multicultural model of racial equality and participation. In the Zion setting, a racial utopia is presented where blacks, whites, and other people of color live and work together, and in many cases whites are subordinate but not subservient to blacks.\"\n\n\"The Matrix in Theory\" writes that after the September 11 attacks, the narrative shifts from confronting in the 1999 film the Matrix to saving Zion in the 2003 sequels. It writes, \"\"Reloaded\" and \"Revolutions\" plays out this conservative fantasy with Zion as the beleaguered site of humanist values and machines with their terrifying weapons of mass destruction threatening finally to destroy the last remnants of human independence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1913170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913170", "title": "Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert", "text": "Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert\n\nCommand & Conquer: Red Alert is a real-time strategy video game of the \"Command & Conquer\" franchise, produced by Westwood Studios and released by Virgin Interactive Entertainment in 1996. The second game to bear the \"Command & Conquer\" title, \"Red Alert\" is the sequel to the original \"Command & Conquer\" of 1995, and takes place in the alternate early history of \"Command & Conquer\" when Allied Forces battle an aggressive Soviet Union for control over the European mainland.\n\nIt was initially available for PC (MS-DOS and Windows 95 versions included in one package) and was subsequently ported to PlayStation. The PlayStation version was also re-released as a download on the PlayStation Network for PlayStation Portable and PlayStation 3. On August 31, 2008, Electronic Arts, who acquired Westwood Studios in 1998, rendered \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert\" freeware.\n\nIn collaboration with Petroglyph Games, EA announced a remaster of this game along with the original \"Command & Conquer\" on November 14, 2018. The Command & Conquer Remastered Collection contains: Command & Conquer (1995) & The Covert Operations, Red Alert & Counterstrike & The Aftermath as well as console missions (from Nintendo 64 and PlayStation). The Remastered Collection will be released on June 5th, 2020.\n\nPlayers can queue commands, create unit groups that can be selected by a number key, and control numerous units at a time. The game features two factions with differing styles of play. Like Tiberian Dawn, the game has split routes for most missions. The objective stays the same but the map layout differs. The single-player campaign is complemented by live-action cinematic sequences.\n\n\"Red Alert\" requires each player to use their side's strengths in order to compensate for their weaknesses, in contrast to games such as \"Total Annihilation\" or \"\", in which both sides have units with similar abilities and rely on outnumbering or possessing a better-balanced force than their opponent.\n\nPlayers acquire credits to purchase structures and equipment by mining for ores and minerals (as Tiberium in the regular \"C&C\" series has not yet been discovered in this timeline). Rare gems generate more credits, but unlike ores, do not regenerate within the map. Players can gain more credits and increase their buying power by building more ore refineries and ore trucks.\n\nThe Soviets' vehicles tend to be more durable and powerful than Allied vehicles, but are often slower-moving and more expensive. The Soviets also have superior defensive capabilities against ground attacks, with the Flame Towers and Tesla coil, the latter able to destroy most Allied armor in 1-2 hits although it has high power consumption. The Soviets' weakness is at sea; their only offensive naval unit is the submarine, which exists to counter Allied warships and gain intelligence. It is normally invisible except when surfacing to attack when it is vulnerable to destroyers and gunboats. The Soviets' secret weapon is the Iron Curtain, a device that renders a selected unit invulnerable to attacks for a short period of time. They also have a wide selection of air units for assault (the MiG-27 (though depicted as a MiG-29 in cut-scenes), Yak-7, and Mi-24 Hind and map revelation through spy planes, and can deploy infantry by air through paratroops or by the CH-47 Chinook transport helicopter (the latter only present in multiplayer). The Soviet \"tank rush\" was a popular strategy online, involving building many heavy tanks and overwhelming the opponent with sheer numbers.\n\nThe Allies' forces are generally cheaper, faster to build and more agile. Their infantry can survive longer with good use of their Medic unit. The Allies' strongest tank (the Medium Tank) is weaker in a one-on-one engagement against the Soviets' starting tank (the Heavy Tank), but the Allies also have anti-tank minelayers to counter superior Soviet armor. The Allies have only one air unit, the anti-tank AH-64D Apache Longbow, compared to three Soviet air units; however, the Allies also have anti-aircraft guns (more powerful but shorter-ranged than Soviet Surface to Air Missiles). Allied defenses against ground assaults — pillboxes and turret emplacements — are less powerful than the Soviets' Tesla Coil, but much less dependent on power. On maps with water, Allies possess an advantage in naval power thanks to the Cruiser, which has the longest-ranged and most powerful surface-to-surface attack in the game, as its naval artillery can destroy buildings quickly; and the Destroyer, which is versatile and capable of adeptly taking on any type of unit type in the game—land, sea, or air. The Allies' secret weapon is the Chronosphere, which relocates a selected unit to another part of the map. They also possess several other tools of subterfuge and military intelligence, such as spies to gain information on or disable enemy facilities, and thieves for stealing enemy resources, hiding their own units and structures from detection, and revealing the whole game map with a GPS satellite.\n\nIn online play and computer skirmish, both Allied and Soviet forces have access to the nuclear missile silo, which is not available to either side in single-player mode, although it is present in the Allied campaign. In online play and computer skirmishes, the Soviets have access to two of the Allied side's infantry: the Rocket Soldier (for anti-air and anti-tank fighting) and Tanya, a commando capable of easily killing infantry and destroying structures.\n\nIn addition to the single-player and multiplayer campaigns, \"Red Alert\" includes a map editor and the bonus software \"Westwood Chat\".\n\n\"Command & Conquer: Red Alert\" takes place in a parallel universe. At the Trinity Site in New Mexico in 1946, Albert Einstein prepares to travel backward in spacetime. He activates his experimental time machine to find himself in Landsberg, Germany, on December 20, 1924, where he meets a young Adolf Hitler just after the latter's release from Landsberg Prison. Following a brief conversation between the two, Einstein shakes Hitler's hand, which erases him from the timeline.\n\nHitler's death prevents him from rising to power as leader of Nazi Germany, which creates a new timeline. Without Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union grows powerful under the rule of Joseph Stalin. The USSR seizes land from China and then invades Eastern Europe, to achieve Joseph Stalin's vision of a Soviet Union stretching across the entire Eurasian landmass. In response, the U.S. and the countries of Europe form the Allied Nations start a guerrilla war against the invading Soviet Army. Over the course of the game's story, the Allies and Soviets fight for control over the European mainland in an alternate World War II.\n\n\nWestwood Studios designed \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert\" to be the prequel of \"Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn\", and by proxy of the as a whole.\n\nDuring the course of the Soviet's campaign, Kane is seen to make infrequent appearances as a mysterious counselor to Joseph Stalin, and the story implies that he has in fact been the instigator of the world war between the USSR and the Allied nations in order to further the long-term goals of the Brotherhood of Nod. Indeed, Nadia, the head of the NKVD, Stalin's mistress and evidently a secretive member of the Brotherhood herself as early as the 1950s, instructs the player to \"keep the peace\" until Nod would \"tire of the USSR in the early 1990s\" upon the campaign's successful conclusion. Kane, however, shoots her without warning and proclaims to the player that he \"\"[is]\" the future\". Moreover, during the fifth cutscene of the Allied campaign, a news announcer reporting on the Allies' loss of Greece is suddenly heard stating that the United Nations are in the process of bringing about a unique military task force aimed at preventing future globalized conflicts. This task force is heavily implied to have been \"\"Special Operations Group Echo: Black Ops 9\"\"—the covert and international peace enforcing unit of the United Nations and the precursor of the Global Defense Initiative, one of the two main and iconic factions of the Tiberian series alongside the Brotherhood of Nod.\n\nA much debated theory intended to resolve the apparent timeline error which came to exist between \"Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn\" and \"\" is to consider \"Red Alert\" as the genesis of two parallel storylines. If the Soviet campaign were to be completed in \"Red Alert\", the USSR would emerge as the dominant Eurasian power and Kane and the Brotherhood of Nod would subsequently take control of this new empire. Conversely, if the Allied campaign were to be completed, the Allies would emerge victorious and the timeline would instead lead into the events of \"Red Alert 2\" (though Red Alert 2 completely ignores anything that could connect it to the Tiberium timeline). However, \"Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn\" has the Brotherhood of Nod start out as an underground terrorist organisation, not as a political force in control of the late Soviet empire. This is further confirmed by former \"C&C\" designer Adam Isgreen, who confirms that \"Tiberian Dawn\" in fact follows on the conclusion of \"Red Alert\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Allies campaign, while \"Red Alert 2\" and \"\" take place in a second parallel universe, created by a new attempt to alter history in \"\"Tiberian Incursion\"\", the working title of Westwood Studios' cancelled version of \"Command & Conquer 3\". Isgreen also implied that Nikola Tesla may have been responsible for inadvertently having attracted the attention of the Scrin through his experiments, and thus for the arrival of Tiberium on Earth.\n\nWhen the \"\" compilation pack was released in February 2006, Electronic Arts adopted the policy of considering the \"C&C\" franchise to consist of three distinct universes, with this decision apparently violating the storyline connections between \"Red Alert\" and \"Tiberian Dawn\" established by Westwood Studios. With the release of \"\" in March 2007 however, Electronic Arts published a document wherein an implicit reference to Kane's appearance in \"Red Alert\" is made—revealing that GDI's \"InOps\" intelligence division is in the possession of photos of Kane which were taken by CIA that, if genuine, would mean that Kane's age by year 2030 is close to 125.\n\nTo mark the 13th anniversary of \"Command and Conquer\" and the announcement of \"\", EA released \"Command and Conquer: Red Alert\" as freeware. After the promotion ended they allowed third-party mirrors to pick up and also ship the addons for free. The community has started repackaging it to installers that do not require burning the original ISO images and included their latest fan patches that modernize the renderer, remove duplicate files, fix bugs and include content from the PlayStation release. Those repacks typically also include modding tools as well as network utilities for multiplayer matches.\n\nThe game's original score was composed by Frank Klepacki and was voted the best video game soundtrack of 1996 by \"PC Gamer\" and \"Gameslice\" magazines.\n\nIn the United States, \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert\" debuted at #2 on PC Data's computer game sales chart for November 1996, behind \"Microsoft Flight Simulator\". Following a third-place finish in December, it became the United States' seventh-best-selling computer game of 1996 as a whole. According to PC Data, its domestic sales totaled 347,844 units during the period, which drew revenues of $16.5 million. In 1997, \"Red Alert\" held a position in PC Data's top 3 for the first four months of the year, peaking at #2 in April. It was ultimately the fourth-biggest seller of 1997's first half in the United States, after finishing at #4 in May and June. While the game remained in the top 10 through September, it was absent from the top 20 by October. \"Red Alert\" ended 1997 as the United States' eighth-best seller among computer titles, with sales of 363,207 units for the year. The game's lifetime sales rose to 869,623 copies in the United States by September 1999. At the time, PC Data declared it the country's 17th-best-selling computer game released since January 1993.\n\nIn August 1998, \"Red Alert\" received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland (VUD), indicating sales of at least 200,000 units across Germany, Austria and Switzerland. \n\nThe PC version of the game scored 90.91% on GameRankings based on 11 reviews, while the PlayStation version scored 81.40% based on 5 reviews. A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" commented that \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert\" retains the gameplay elements of the outstanding original game while enhancing the graphics, expanding warfare to both air and sea, and rebalancing the gameplay so that players cannot succeed by simply using the same tactics which worked in the original. He concluded that \"in a holiday season swamped with \"C&C\" clones, discerning gamers won't go wrong by sticking to the real thing.\" Vince Broady of \"GameSpot\" also commented on the saturation of real-time strategy games in the 1996 holiday shopping season and concluded \"Red Alert\" to clearly be the best choice. He praised the unit design and variety, particularly that \"the units of the two opposing sides aren't mere copies of each other, but instead maintain a sort of karmic balance.\" Additionally complimenting the level design, cutscenes, graphics, sound effects, and music, he judged that, \"\"Red Alert\" belongs in the same category as \"Civilization II\" and \"Quake\", games that followed legendary predecessors and immediately eclipsed them.\" In a review for \"PC Games\" which was also published in its sister magazine \"GamePro\", Rob Smith summarized, \"The new units, the great story, and the variety of mission styles make up for the limited improvement in the A.I.\" He also noted that the control interface allows players to quickly and easily select units and order them into combat.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" won the 1996 Spotlight Award for \"Best Strategy/War Game\" from the Game Developers Conference. \"Computer Gaming World\" gave it the Strategy Game of the Year award (Readers' Choice). The game was a finalist for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1996 \"Strategy Game of the Year\" award, which ultimately went to \"Civilization II\".\n\nIn 1998, \"PC Gamer\" declared it the 14th-best computer game ever released, and the editors called it \"a perfectly balanced and action-packed epic that functions brilliantly in both the multi-play and the solo campaigns\".\n\nIn 1997, two expansion packs for Red Alert were released for the PC, \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert: Counterstrike\" and \"Command & Conquer: Red Alert: The Aftermath\". The expansion packs were designed by Westwood Studios with the \"apprenticeship\" of Intelligent Games, a London-based game developer. Much of the development on multiplayer maps was undertaken by players from the Compuserve Red Alert ladder. New units, missions, maps, and music were included in the expansions.\n\nBy October 1997, \"Counterstrike\" had sold 650,000 copies worldwide after its launch in April of that year. According to Westwood, this made it the all-time fastest-selling expansion pack for a computer game by that point. The \"Counterstrike\" add-on included the secret \"Ant Missions\" titled \"It Came from Red Alert\", where the player battles against an army of giant, mutant ants with Allied Forces and Soviet units (Representing GDI forces).\n\nThe \"Aftermath\" add-on contained many new units available in single and multiplayer modes. New Allied units include the \"Field Mechanic\" and the \"Chrono Tank\". New Soviet units include the \"Missile Sub\", the \"Shock Trooper\", the \"M.A.D Tank\" and the \"Tesla Tank\". In addition, both sides receive the \"Demolition Truck\". The add-on also includes hundreds of new maps as well as a new, significantly larger, map size.\n\nOn August 28, 1998, Westwood Studios released \"Command & Conquer Red Alert: Retaliation\" for the PlayStation, a compilation of the two PC expansion packs, including the secret Ant Missions. It is almost identical to the PlayStation port of the original Red Alert, except it introduced some new units like Tesla Tank, Shock Trooper, Chrono Tank and Mechanic, and included 105 skirmish maps. The gameplay also included an in-game sidebar code called Soylent Green Mode. In this mode, all ore fields turn to people/civilians, and ore trucks harvest them with grisly sound effects.\n\nIt also included 19 exclusive briefing FMV (full-motion video) clips that were not in any of the PC expansion packs, which had none. All of the videos are shown when the player either starts playing through the operational theatre from the beginning or when all the missions of the theatre are accomplished. In other cases, the briefing text is shown. The FMVs include a general for each side, telling the player the mission objectives; The Allied General Carville later appears in \"\" while Soviet General Topolov has made no further appearances in the \"Red Alert\" series.\n\nThe \"Retaliation\" videos are available for the PC \"Red Alert\" in the \"Red Alert\" modification \"The Lost Files\". This modification adds the \"Retaliation\" videos to the \"Counterstrike\" and \"Aftermath\" missions. It requires \"Red Alert\" patch v3.03 or \"Red Alert\" patch v3.03 TFD (for the \"Red Alert\" version of the \"C&C The First Decade\" package).\n\n\"Red Alert Retaliation\" was released as a download for PSP and PS3 from the PlayStation Network in Europe on March 27, 2008 and in North America on December 3, 2009.\n\nOpenRA is a modern video game remake and game engine recreation created by fans. It adds gameplay elements from successors such as fog of war. The focus is primarily on skirmish/multiplayer gaming with partial support for the single-player missions.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1913177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913177", "title": "Tekken 6", "text": "Tekken 6\n\nWhile this version retains elements from the earlier games, \"Tekken 6\" introduces a new Rage system that increases the strength of the player characters when their health gets low. It also features a beat 'em up mode focused on a soldier named Lars Alexandersson who leads a coup d'état along with his underlings. Losing his memory in an attack against Jin Kazama's Mishima Zaibatsu special forces, Lars goes on a journey with a robot named Alisa Bosconovitch to learn his identity, so that he will be able to recover the subject of his mission. In this campaign mode, the player can win items by completing missions and enhance different power areas of any characters they choose to control.\n\nThe game received generally positive reviews. Critics praised the visuals and the new fight mechanics but had mixed opinions about the handling of the Scenario Campaign. Nevertheless, the PSP port was also well-received for how faithful it was to the initial console versions. The game's sales have reached 3.5 million copies worldwide. It was later re-released with the spin-off \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" and \"Soulcalibur V\" for the PlayStation 3. A sequel, \"Tekken 7\", was released to Japanese arcades on March 18, 2015, and was ported to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One and released internationally on June 2, 2017.\n\n\"Tekken 6\" features bigger stages with more interactivity than its predecessors, including walls or floors that can be broken to reveal new fighting areas. The character customization feature has been enhanced, and certain items have implications in some aspects of the gameplay.\n\nA new Rage system gives characters more damage per hit when their vitality is below a certain point. Once activated, a reddish energy aura appears around the character, and their health bar starts to flicker in red. The Rage aura can be customized with different colors and effects to appear like fire, electricity, and ice, among others. Another newly added gameplay feature is the \"bound\" system. Every character has several moves that when used in a juggle combo will cause the opponent to be smashed hard into the ground, bouncing them off it in a stunned state, leaving them vulnerable to another combo or an additional attack. As of the \"Bloodline Rebellion\" update, successfully parrying a low attack will also put a character into a bound state.\nThe console versions (excluding the PSP version) include an extra beat 'em up mode titled \"Scenario Campaign\", which bears similarities with the \"Tekken Force\" and \"Devil Within\" modes from previous installments. In this mode, the player can move freely in an environment similar to that of a third-person role-playing game. Players can also pick up weapons like poles and Gatling guns, along with lootable items, money, and power-ups which can be found inside crates that are scattered throughout the playing environment. Players can move freely between fights, but when a group of enemies is encountered, the gameplay switches to the traditional, two-dimensional \"Tekken\" style. This mode originally included offline single player only, but on January 18, 2010, Namco released a patch that allows online co-op for the Scenario Campaign.\n\nBoth the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game include an online versus multiplayer mode over the PlayStation Network and Xbox Live. It includes Ranked Matches mode, where the player can promote their character to a higher ranking, and Player Matches mode, where the player's fights are not ranked and they can invite friends to have matches with them.\n\nThe game uses a proprietary graphics engine running at 60 frames per second as well as a dynamic physics engine named the \"Octave Engine\", which simulates fluid dynamics and among other things, allows water to behave realistically according to how the characters move. The graphics engine has been designed with a focus on character-animation to make movements look smoother and more realistic. This led to many animations being remade to either reflect the impact and damage caused, or to create new possibilities in gameplay. The developers considered animation extremely important for a fighting game and wanted to make the game \"look good in motion\", whereas previous installments had been designed to \"look good on still shots\". Since \"Bloodline Rebellion\", the game has supported dynamic full-body motion blur, making \"Tekken 6\" the first fighting game to do so.\n\nFollowing Jin Kazama's victory against his great-grandfather, Jinpachi Mishima, in the previous King of Iron Fist Tournament, he is now the new head of the Mishima Zaibatsu special forces. Jin uses the company's resources to declare independence, becoming a global superpower, severing its national ties and openly declaring war against all nations over the following year. This action plunges the world into an extremely chaotic spiral, with a large-scale civil war erupting around the globe and even among the space colonies orbiting the planet. Meanwhile, Kazuya Mishima, Jin's father, who has risen to lead G Corporation, places a bounty on his son's head. In retaliation, Jin announces the sixth King of Iron Fist Tournament to lure Kazuya out.\n\nAs the war continues to erupt, the field leader of Mishima Zaibatsu's Tekken Force, Lars Alexandersson, has rebelled from the army along with several of his soldiers. However, Lars loses his memory during an attack by the G Corporation and spends some time recovering it. Accompanied by an android, Alisa Bosconovitch, Lars ventures throughout the world, avoiding the Mishima Zaibatsu's manhunt for him while also trying to recover his past. It is eventually revealed that Lars is actually the illegitimate son of Heihachi Mishima, who has gone into hiding since his supposed demise in the last tournament, and has been trying to take the Mishima Zaibatsu from Jin's hands. After coming into contact with several allies, including his adoptive brother, Lee Chaolan, Lars confronts the G Corporation and Mishima Zaibatsu's headquarters. Jin reveals he had sent Alisa to spy on Lars' actions all along. Disabling Alisa's safe mode, Lars is forced to confront his former teammate, who leaves with Jin to Egypt.\n\nHelped by one of his allies, Raven, Lars goes to Egypt. He meets an astrologist named Zafina who provides them with information about the clash of two evil stars that will awake an ancient evil who will destroy the world. This evil, Azazel, is a demonic monster responsible for giving birth to the Devil Gene and is currently bound in an ancient temple. Lars confronts his half-brother Kazuya in front of the door leading to Azazel's chamber and fights him. Lars and Raven enter the chamber and confront Azazel, whom they seemingly defeat. Outside the temple, Lars confronts his half-nephew Jin, who admits that his reason for launching the war was to awaken Azazel and destroy him, freeing the world from a greater threat than the war itself. Also, in doing this, he would free himself from the Devil Gene, as he can only have a physical form through negative energies of the world. Revealing Azazel can only be destroyed by someone with the Devil Gene, Jin confronts and attacks the revived Azazel, sending them both plummeting to the desert. Lars is reunited with a now safe Alisa, who has been fixed by Lee since her previous destruction, and goes on another mission. Raven unearths Jin's body in the desert and notes that Jin still has the Devil mark on his arm, implying that Azazel's demise did not free him from the Devil Gene.\n\nThe game features a total of 39 original playable characters in Tekken 6 in arcade version, and 41 in \"Bloodline Rebellion\" and the console version. Seven new characters are introduced in Tekken 6, but two are not playable bosses, and in \"Bloodline Rebellion\" and the console version two additional characters. Almost all of Tekken 5 / Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection have been added to Tekken 6. Only Jinpachi Mishima and Jack-5 are not there.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJapanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\" first announced in April 2006 that \"Tekken 6\" was to be developed for the PlayStation 3. The first trailer was revealed at Sony's E3 press conference that year. According to Video Games Daily, feedback from the first trailer was negative. However, project director Katsuhiro Harada said at that time the team was not working on \"Tekken 6\" full-time because they were busy developing \"Tekken Dark Resurrection\". Harada's main concern with \"Tekken 6\" was that it appeal to newcomers and older players. The game was released in Japanese arcades on November 26, 2007. It was the first game running on the PlayStation 3-based System 357 arcade board. Harada said Namco decided to make a \"Tekken\" installment for the Xbox 360 because of multiple fan requests. Response to the original arcade game was highly positive, but Harada said the team aimed to make more improvements to attract new players. He noted that feedback from the arcade's release in Japan had surpassed that of previous titles. For the updated release, the team wanted to include more playable characters than in \"Tekken 5\", make the techniques unique as well as more intuitive, and make the fights as brutal as possible.\n\nHowever, Harada revealed they had encountered difficulties making the cast balanced. As a result, Namco took notes from the characters' victories in the original arcades and modified the cast and rebalanced the game. To make battles more strategic, the Rage system was created. Another new element is the use of items by the characters. While Harada did not find this as unique as the Rage System, he felt it added more to the battles' fun factor. Like some games in the \"Mortal Kombat\" series, \"Tekken 6\" is notable for adding the element that allows players to throw enemies down to another area of the stage. This was added to create longer combos if the player has the opportunity, not for the sole purpose of inflicting more damage. A major obstacle in producing the game was Namco's idea to include game modes that allowed four simultaneous characters. This took major rework, especially for online mode. They avoided this for the spinoff \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", which only allowed alternating use of four fighters. Director Yuichi Yonemori also noted that the team wanted to make fights faster while adding these new mechanics. To provide more variety, each stage that could be destroyed was given its own sound effect and each character also had their own.\n\nOn October 23, 2009, Namco Bandai released a \"Tekken 6\" themed Game Space on the North American version of PlayStation Home. \"Tekken 6: Bloodline Rebellion\" was first released as \"Tekken 6\" to Japanese arcades on December 18, 2008. It featured new characters, stages, items and customization options and gave the game a balance update to its characters and items. The console version of \"Tekken 6\" is based on this arcade version and was released for consoles, but under the name \"Tekken 6\". In October 2009, Namco announced the game's development had been completed, and it would be released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles. The online elements of \"Tekken 6\" were based on the ones from \"\". Harada announced the game's roster would be the largest in the series, and that after \"Tekken 3\" they were paying special attention to make sure each character is unique in appearance, personality and techniques and does not overlap with other characters. Preorders of the game included an artbook and a wireless controller.\nThis new version features two new characters: Alisa Bosconovitch, an android built in the image of Dr. Bosconovitch's deceased daughter, and Lars Alexandersson, Heihachi Mishima's illegitimate son and leader of a rebellious Tekken Force faction fighting Jin's tyranny. This expansion also features a number of new items and customization options for characters to use during fights. Unlike previous console games, all the characters are unlocked when the game starts. Harada said the reason behind this was his belief that unlocking characters was outdated, and that online gamers would find their favorite characters faster.\n\nUnlike other new \"Tekken 6\" characters who were based on fan input, both Lars and Alisa were created using a different approach, focusing on their importance to the game's story. As a result, in the arcade version of \"Tekken 6\", most of Lars' identity was kept a mystery, leaving it to the console versions' Scenario Campaign mode to explain his role in the series, with Harada teasing about his potential attack on Jin Kazama's forces. Jin's characterization was changed from an anti-hero to a villain, something Harada had been planning to develop for years. However, his change of personality remained a secret to be explored in the story. Harada referred to the Scenario Campaign as a logical addition to the game. He believes the franchise is known for including bonus content in each installment, besides just being a recreation of the arcade game. He said the mode was meant to help the game appeal to a larger audience.\n\nA number of artists joined the team to create new outfits for a few characters: Lars, Jin, Kazuya and Zafina were also given additional outfits designed by Masashi Kishimoto, Clamp, Takayuki Yamaguchi and Mutsumi Inomata, respectively. Outfits for Anna Williams and Asuka Kazama were made by Mamoru Nagano, and Ito Ogure did one for Lili Rochefort.\n\nAlthough the scenario campaign was removed from the PlayStation Portable's port, the developers added background information for the characters in the arcade mode. Makoto Iwai, chief operating officer of Namco Bandai, said the developers tried to make the PlayStation Portable contain as much content as the original console versions. For this reason, the PSP port has new modes and stages not present in the original one. In late 2009, Harada hinted at the possibility of the game having downloadable content but said that whenever possible it would be made available free of charge. In January 2019, \"Tekken 6\" became playable on the Xbox One, thanks to its backwards compatibility function.\n\n\"Tekken 6\" features a large cast of composers, including: Rio Hamamoto, Ryuichi Takada, Keiichi Okabe, Kazuhiro Nakamura, Shinji Hosoe, Yoshihito Yano, Ayako Saso, Go Shiina, Satoru Kōsaki, Akitaka Tohyama, Hitoshi Sakimoto, Masaharu Iwata, Yoshimi Kudo, Noriyuki Kamikura, Azusa Chiba, Kimihiro Abe, Mitsuhiro Kaneda, Keigo Hoashi, Keiki Kobayashi, and Kakeru Ishihama. Two soundtracks based on the main game and the PSP port were released. Shiina was in charge of the low key tracks. In retrospect he remembers enjoying the music for the game, most notably when rearranging tracks and composing a theme for Alisa.\n\nCritical response to \"Tekken 6\" among reviewers has been generally favorable, with the PS3 version scoring a 79 on Metacritic and the 360 an 80. \"IGN\" praised the additions to the game's mechanics and modes, as well as the large cast, which they felt should appeal to most gamers. \"GameSpot\" agreed, liking the new additions to the roster, most notably Zafina for her look and moveset. They noted that \"Tekken\" fans would enjoy the new mechanics as these meant practicing more combo styles, such as juggle combos. On the other hand, \"Eurogamer\" was more negative, stating that by the time the game was released there were other more appealing fighting games. At the same time, they conceded that it was far more popular than those in the East. They found the graphics superior to the recent fighter \"Soulcalibur IV\" but not as good as those of \"Virtua Fighter 5\". Nevertheless, Eurogamer felt the returning characters' combos felt familiar, and long-time players would enjoy playing them. VideoGamer.com made a similar comparison noting that while other fighting games might entertain gamers more, \"Tekken 6\" was faithful to the series' roots. This included its use of intense motion which the reviewer found easy to learn, though they had mixed opinions about the new mechanics that had to be learned.\n\nThe PlayStation 3 version of the game garnered some criticism for its excessive load times when run without installing it previously, and its initially laggy online multiplayer component, which was later improved via updates. At first 1UP.com was negative towards the game's poor online mode, but once Namco patched it the score was revised upward.\nThe game's Scenario Campaign mode was subject to mixed criticism as well. \"IGN\" regarded it as a disappointment, citing bland environments and repetitive enemies. VideoGamer.com also criticized the mode, saying it was not fun, and the plot involving the Mishima family was not enjoyable. \"GameSpy\" praised the game for its variety of traits taken from different types of games. \"GameSpot\" gave the plot-oriented Scenario Campaign mode far more positive comments, as well as the amount of replay value provided by the possibility of playing other characters besides Lars. Game Revolution also had mixed opinions. They noted the camera had some issues that might affect the moves' input—moves like Kazuya Mishima's Spinning Demon—which could easily still be performed to take down enemies without difficulties. The reviewer compared the style of the Campaign to role-playing games, referring to the way the player can power up the characters.\n\nThe PSP version received positive reviews, with Metacritic giving it 82 out of 100. \"IGN\" said the portable version had greatly improved loading times compared to its console counterparts. GameZone regarded it as the \"definitive version of the game\", despite lacking the Scenario Campaign and the graphics of the main console; the port still managed to retain good graphics, the console's d-pad was felt to be far more useful than the one in the Xbox 360 controller. \"GameSpot\" and \"Eurogamer\" also shared similar opinions on how the PSP port managed to impress, retaining the large cast, and for its responsive controls.\n\nDuring its first week, the PlayStation 3 version of \"Tekken 6\" sold 103,000 units in Japan. According to Media Create, this made it the fastest-selling fighter. It remained so until August 2012 when the PS3 port of \"Persona 4 Arena\" broke the record with sales of 180,000 units. In May 2011, Namco Bandai reported it had become its best-selling game from 2010 with 1.5 million units sold. The game got to number three on the UK sales charts. In North America, the game sold over one million units as of August 2010. Upon its release in Japan, the PSP port sold 25,131 units. As of May 2011, Tekken 6 has sold more than 3.5 million copies worldwide.\n\nIn 2009, \"Tekken 6\" was nominated for a Spike Fighting Game of the Year award but lost to \"Street Fighter IV\". However, it still won the Best PSP Fighting Game and Best PSP Fighting Game Readers' Choice from IGN.\n\nIn retrospective, Harada believes \"Tekken 6\", and \"Tekken 5\", managed to attract a new group of fans, something \"Tekken 4\" failed to do. For this game, Lars was given an alternate design created by manga author Masashi Kishimoto, famous for writing the series \"Naruto\". In 2009, CyberConnect2 CEO Hiroshi Matsuyama read in a \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" magazine that Lars' third costume had been designed by Kishimoto and thought he should be included in the \"Naruto\" video game \"\". As a result, Matsuyama approached \"Tekken 6\" producer Suguru Sasaki and his team and asked them to allow him to include Lars in the game using Kishimoto's outfit. Once this was approved, the \"Tekken\" staff began assisting CyberConnect2 to adjust Lars' moves to fit the other characters in the \"Naruto\" game. When the work was concluded, Matsuyama was surprised at how well Lars fitted in with the game's cast.\n\nThe first CGI scene from the game also influenced the developers to create a film titled \"\" which uses this type of animation.\n\nAt the MCM London Comic Con 2009, a \"Tekken 6\" player named Eliot Smith-Walters was awarded the Guinness World Record for the longest winning streak in \"Tekken 6\", having won 68 consecutive matches.\n\n\"Tekken 6\" was followed by a spin-off titled \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\". A sequel, titled \"Tekken 7\", was announced on July 13, 2014. More information on the sequel was made available during Bandai Namco's panel at the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con International event. The game had a limited arcade release in Japan on February 18, 2015, followed by a full release on March 18, 2015. Harada states that \"Tekken 7\"s story mode was influenced by the Scenario Campaign from \"Tekken 6\" as he believes recent games in the franchise have tried elaborating more on the series' storytelling despite being a fighting game. \"Tekken 6\" was rereleased in 2015 with \"Tag Tournament 2\" and \"Soulcalibur V\" as \"PlayStation 3 Fighting Edition\" for its title console.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913179", "title": "Kris Lane", "text": "Kris Lane\n\nKris Eugene Lane (born April 7, 1967) is a Canadian–American Fulbright scholar, researcher, professor, and author. His areas of academic teaching and research focus on colonial Latin American history. He has written and edited several books and articles on slavery, witchcraft, headhunting, mining, human trafficking, and piracy in the Andes.\n\nLane is the Frances V. Scholes Chair of Colonial Latin American History at Tulane University. He previously taught Latin American History at the College of William and Mary in Virginia, is the general editor of the \"Colonial Latin American Review\", and a member of the board of editors of the \"Hispanic American Historical Review\".\n\nLane was born in Creston, British Columbia. He is the son of Rustin and Grace Fletcher. He was raised in Colorado, Texas, and British Columbia. Lane is married with one daughter. He attended the University of Colorado Boulder, graduating in 1991 with a bachelor's degree in History and Latin American Studies. In 1996, he earned his Ph.D in History from the University of Minnesota.\n\nIn 1997, Lane joined the teaching staff of the College of William and Mary in Virginia, where he taught history. During his employment, he was honored as one of the school's inaugural recipients of the Joseph Plumeri Award, which recognizes the university's faculty for excellence in teaching, research, and community service. He has also served as a visiting professor at the National University of Colombia and the University of Leiden.\n\nLane has traveled extensively in South- and Central America and has written, edited, and collaborated in presenting his research on piracy, slavery, gold mining, headhunting, and witchcraft in colonial Ecuador and Colombia. , he serves as the general editor of the interdisciplinary journal \"Colonial Latin American Review\".\n\nHe has also edited Bernardo Vargas Machuca's work, \"Indian Militia and Description of the Indies\" and \"Defense and Discourse of the Western Conquests\", following their translations from Spanish. Published in Madrid, the two works were training manuals for conquistadors, written in 1599 by Vargas, as an extension of his military service in Italy and South America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913180", "title": "Lembus", "text": "Lembus\n\nA lembus (from Greek λέμβος \"lembos\") was an ancient Illyrian galley, with a single bank of oars and no sails. It was small and light, with a low freeboard. It was a fast and maneuverable warship, capable of carrying 50 men in addition to the rowers. It was the galley used by Illyrian pirates. Illyrians used them at Medion under Agron, and at Elis, Messene, Phoenice, Issa, Epidamnus, Apollonia, Corcyra and Paxus under Teuta. Philip V of Macedon used lembi during the First Macedonian War.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913190", "title": "Iconodulism", "text": "Iconodulism\n\nIconodulism (also Iconoduly or Iconodulia) designates the religious service to icons (kissing and honourable veneration, incense, and candlelight). The term comes from Neoclassical Greek εἰκονόδουλος (\"eikonodoulos\") ← ( – \"icon (image)\" + – \"servant\"), meaning \"one who is serves images (icons)\". It is also referred to as Iconophilism (also Iconophily or Iconophilia ← – \"icon (image)\" + – \"love\") designating a positive attitude towards the religious use of icons. In the history of Christianity, Iconodulism (or Iconophilism) was manifested as a moderate position, between two extremes: Iconoclasm (radical opposition to the use of icons) and Iconolatry (idolatric veritable (full) adoration of icons).\n\nIn contrary to the moderate or respectful adoration, various forms of latria of icons (\"iconolatry\") were also starting to appear, mainly in popular worship. Since veritable (full) adoration was reserved for God only, such attitude towards icons as objects was seen as a form of idolatry. In reaction to that, the idolatric misuse of icons was criticized and by the beginning of the 8th century some radical forms of criticism (\"iconoclasm\") were also starting to emerge, advocating not only against adoration of icons, but also against any form of adoration and use of icons in religious life. \n\nThe iconoclastic controversy emerged in the Byzantine Empire and lasted during the 8th and the 9th centuries. The most famous \"iconodules\" (proponents of the veneration of icons) during that time were saints John of Damascus and Theodore the Studite. The controversy was instigated by Byzantine Emperor Leo III in 726, when he ordered the removal of the image of Christ above the Chalke Gate of the imperial palace in Constantinople. A wider prohibition of icons followed in 730. St. John of Damascus argued successfully that to prohibit the use of icons was tantamount to denying the incarnation, the presence of the Word of God in the material world. Icons reminded the church of the physicality of God as manifested in Jesus Christ. \n\nKissing and respected worship (; ), incense and candles for icons was established by the Second Council of Nicaea (Seventh Ecumenical Council) in 787. The Council decided that icons should not be destroyed, as was advocated and practiced by the iconoclasts, nor veritable (full) worshiped or adored (; ), as was practiced by iconolatrists, but they need to be kissed and they need to respected worship as symbolic representations of God, angels or saints. Such position was approved by Pope Adrian I, but due to some bad translations of conciliar acts from Greek into Latin, a controversy arose in Frankish kingdom, resulting in the creation of Libri Carolini. The last outburst of iconoclasm in the Byzantine Empire was overcome at the Council of Constantinople in 843, which reaffirmed the adoration of icons in an event celebrated as the Feast of Orthodoxy.\n\nThe Council of Trent (XIX Ecumenical Council of the Catholic Church) in 1563 confirmed iconodulism. But this Council, unlike the Council of Nicaea, used a different expression in relation to the icons: «honor and veneration» (). Its decree also reads as follows: «we kiss, and before which we uncover the head, and prostrate ourselves, we adore Christ; and we venerate the saints, whose similitude they bear» ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913191", "title": "Galactic Empire (1980 video game)", "text": "Galactic Empire (1980 video game)\n\nGalactic Empire is a strategy video game written by Doug Carlston for the TRS-80 and released 1980. It is the first game in the \"Galactic Saga\" and became first game published by Brøderbund which was, in fact, created for the purpose of publishing the game. \"Galactic Empire\" was ported to the Apple II and the Atari 8-bit family and followed by three sequels. The game was also published by Adventure International.\n\nDoug Carlston was an attorney who wrote \"Galactic Empire\" on his TRS-80. Adventure International was the original publisher; after his brother Gary began successfully selling the game to computer stores, they founded Brøderbund.\n\nMany of the locations have names taken from African languages, such as Afrikaans or Swahili, based on Doug Carlston's years in Africa. The game navigation uses a list of planets with names beginning with a unique letter of the alphabet for easy access. The 'R' key is reserved for 'Return', and 'Q' for 'Quit.' The player has one fleet which travels from planet to planet, beginning with the home world 'Galactica.' Conquered planets can be taxed and produce troops used to take other planets. Each planet has a technology level above or below Galactica standard, which makes it easier or harder to conquer. It takes time to travel between planets to collect taxes and troops to conquer new planets. The player has 999 years to take the galaxy.\n\nJ. Mishcon reviewed \"Galactic Empire\" in \"The Space Gamer\" No. 30. He commented that \"\"Galactic Empire\" provides hours of play, but they can be frustrating and tedious hours. It is too easy to beat the system, and the game cannot be saved. A mediocre buy.\" \"80 Micro\" in 1981 called \"Galactic Empire\" \"one of the best game programs currently available for the TRS-80\". The magazine described the game as \"well designed and fun to play\", stated that it \"is never dull\" with replayability from a random map generator, and approved of the addition of a save function on newer versions given that a session could last up to six hours. It concluded, \"I heartily recommend Galactic Empire to anyone seeking a complex, intelligent, and of course, fun program.\"\n\nA Macintosh port was released by Cary Torkelson in 1994, with permission from Doug Carlston.\n\nSubsequent games in the \"Galactic Saga\" are \"Galactic Trader\" (no relation to the later \"Galactic Trader\" game by Stephan Meier), \"Galactic Revolution\", and \"Tawala's Last Redoubt\".\n"}
{"id": "1913196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913196", "title": "Shadow price", "text": "Shadow price\n\nA shadow price is a monetary value assigned to currently unknowable or difficult-to-calculate costs in the absence of correct market prices. It is based on the willingness to pay principle – the most accurate measure of the value of a good or service is what people are willing to give up in order to get it. A shadow price is often calculated based on certain assumptions, and so it is subjective and somewhat inaccurate. \n\nThe origin of these costs is typically costs that are external to a market or an unwillingness to recalculate a system to account for marginal production. For example, consider a firm that already has a factory full of equipment and staff. They might estimate the shadow price for a few more units of production as simply the cost of the overtime. In this way, some goods and services have near zero shadow prices, for example information goods. \n\nLess formally, a shadow price can be thought of as the cost of decisions made at the margin without consideration for the total cost.\n\nAlthough shadow pricing may be inaccurate, it is still often used in cost-benefit analyses. For example, before defining a project, businesses and governments may want to weigh the costs and benefits of the project to decide whether the project is worthwhile. While tangible costs and benefits such as the cost of labor are easy to quantify, intangible costs and benefits such as the number of hours saved is much more difficult to quantify. In this case, business owners and policymakers turn to shadow pricing to determine what these intangibles are. There are usually many tools to estimate monetary values of these intangibles. They include contingent valuation, revealed preferences, and hedonic pricing.\n\nIn constrained optimization in economics, the shadow price is the change, per infinitesimal unit of the constraint, in the optimal value of the objective function of an optimization problem obtained by relaxing the constraint. If the objective function is utility, it is the marginal utility of relaxing the constraint. If the objective function is cost, it is the marginal cost of strengthening the constraint. In a business application, a shadow price is the maximum price that management is willing to pay for an extra unit of a given limited resource. For example, if a production line is already operating at its maximum 40-hour limit, the shadow price would be the maximum price the manager would be willing to pay for operating it for an additional hour, based on the benefits he would get from this change.\n\nIn advance of adequate regulation or market pricing for some commodity items, conservative organizations will place on their balance sheets a value they believe to be an accurate reflection of the value of those items to their operations. This is common for companies with a large carbon footprint or water footprint. As an example Microsoft has placed a $27/ton price on its carbon emissions which is then billed to the P&L of its individual business units and used to fund the company's renewable energy and efficiency programs.\n\nMore formally, the shadow price is the value of the Lagrange multiplier at the optimal solution, which means that it is the infinitesimal change in the objective function arising from an infinitesimal change in the constraint. This follows from the fact that at the optimal solution the gradient of the objective function is a linear combination of the constraint function gradients with the weights equal to the Lagrange multipliers. Each constraint in an optimization problem has a shadow price or dual variable.\n\nShadow pricing is frequently used to figure out the monetary values of intangibles and hard to quantify factors during cost-benefit analyses. In the context of public economics, shadow pricing is very useful for governments and policymakers to evaluate whether a public project should be pursued. This is because public goods are very rarely exchanged in the market, making it difficult to determine its price. To help determine the monetary value of these goods, these three tools are often used. Take the example of a government determining whether it wants to undertake a freeway project that would save commuters 500,000 hours a year, save 5 lives a year, and reduce air pollution due to decreased congestion but with a present value cost of $250 million.\n\nContingent valuation estimates the value a person places on a good by asking him or her directly. It is essentially surveys for individuals on how much they would be willing to pay for some intangible benefits or to avoid some intangible harms. Typically, these surveys contain detailed descriptions of hypothetical public goods or services, ask respondents how much they would pay for it, and collect relevant demographic data of these respondents. Some common types of these survey questions include: open-ended, referendum-type, payment-card type, and double-bounded referendum-type.\n\nThe advantage of contingent valuation is that it is sometimes the only feasible method for valuing a public good. This is especially the case when there is no obvious market price that one can use to determine the value. On the other hand, there are also many disadvantages of this method. For instance, how the survey is structured and how the questions are framed can lead to widely varying results and can induce bias into the results. Other times, the respondents may simply have no idea how much they value the public good in question.\n\nIn the freeway project example, policymakers can design a survey that asks respondents on how much they would pay to save a certain period of time or to spend less time in traffic. However, respondents may find it difficult or uncomfortable to put a value on a life.\n\nRevealed preferences are based on observations on real world behaviors to determine how much individuals place on non-monetary outcomes. In other words, observing individuals' purchasing behaviors is the best way to determine their preferences. It assumes that individuals have made their purchasing decisions over other alternatives – making their final purchases the preferred one. It also allows room for the preferred choice to vary depending on the prices and the budgetary constraints. As such, by varying prices and budgetary constraints, a schedule can be created of an individual's/individuals' preferred choices under certain prices and constraints.\n\nThe advantage of revealed preferences is that it reduces biases that contingent valuation may bring. As it is based on real-world behaviors, it is much harder for individuals to manipulate or guess-work their answers. On the other hand, this tool also has its limits. For example, it is difficult to control for other factors that may make one prefer a choice over another. It also fails to fully incorporate indifference between two equally preferred choices.\n\nIn the freeway project example, where contingent valuation may fall short in determining how much individuals value lives, revealed preferences may be better suited. For instance, policymakers can look at how much more individuals need to be paid to take on riskier jobs that increase the probability of fatality. However, the drawbacks with revealed preferences also arise – in this case, if the riskier jobs increase the probability of not only death but also injury, or are also unpleasant in other respects, the higher wages may incorporate the other factors, misrepresenting the result.\n\nHedonic pricing is a model that uses regression analysis to isolate the value of a specific intangible cost or benefit. It is based on the premise that that price is determined by both internal characteristics and external factors. It also assumes that individuals value the characteristics of a good rather than the good itself, which implies that price will reflect a set of internal and external characteristics. It is most often used to calculate variances in housing prices that reflect the value of local environmental factors. The model is based on widely-available and relatively accurate market data, making this method uncontroversial and inexpensive to use.\n\nAs such, one of hedonic pricing's main advantages is that it can be used to estimate values on actual choices. This method is also very versatile and can be adapted to incorporate multiple other interactions with other factors. However, one of its major downfalls is that it is rather limited – it can mostly only measure things that are related to housing prices. It also assumes that individuals have the freedom and power to select the preferred combination given their income but in actuality, this may not be the case as the market may be influenced by changes in taxes and interest rates.\n\nIn the freeway project example, hedonic pricing may be useful to value the benefits of reduced air pollution. It can run a regression of home values on clean air with a variety of control variables that can include home size, age of home, number of bedrooms and bathrooms, crime statistics, school qualities, etc. Hedonic pricing may also be considered in quantifying the monetary value of time saved. It can run a regression of home values on proximity to work with a similar set of control variables.\n\nSuppose a consumer with utility function formula_1 faces prices formula_2 and is endowed with income formula_3 Then the consumer's problem is:\n\nForming the Lagrangian auxiliary function formula_5 taking first-order conditions and solving for its saddle point we obtain formula_6 which satisfy\n\nThis gives us a clear interpretation of the Lagrange multiplier in the context of consumer maximization. If the consumer is given an extra unit of income (the budget constraint is relaxed) at the optimal consumption level where the marginal utility per unit of income for each good is equal to formula_8 as above, then the change in maximal utility per unit of additional income will be equal to formula_8 since at the optimum the consumer gets the same amount of marginal utility per unit of income from spending his additional income on either good.\n\nHolding prices fixed, if we define the indirect utility function as\nthen we have the identity\nwhere formula_12 are the demand functions, i.e. formula_13\n\nNow define the optimal expenditure function\n\nAssume differentiability and that formula_15 is the solution at formula_16, then we have from the multivariate chain rule:\nNow we may conclude that\nThis again gives the obvious interpretation, one extra unit of optimal expenditure will lead to formula_8 units of optimal utility.\n\nIn optimal control theory, the concept of shadow price is reformulated as costate equations, and one solves the problem by minimization of the associated Hamiltonian via Pontryagin's minimum principle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913197", "title": "Hanaoka Seishū", "text": "Hanaoka Seishū\n\nHanaoka studied medicine in Kyoto, and became a medical practitioner in Wakayama prefecture, located near Osaka, where he was born. Seishū Hanaoka learned traditional Japanese medicine as well as Dutch-imported European surgery. Due to the nation's self-imposed isolation policy of \"Sakoku\", few foreign medical texts were permitted into Japan at that time. This limited the exposure of Hanaoka and other Japanese physicians to Western medical developments.\n\nPerhaps the most notable Japanese surgeon of the Edo period, Hanaoka was famous for combining Dutch and Japanese surgery and introducing modern surgical techniques to Japan. Hanaoka successfully operated for hydrocele, anal fistula, and even performed certain kinds of plastic surgery. He was the first surgeon in the world who used the general anaesthesia in surgery and who dared to operate on cancers of the breast and oropharynx, to remove necrotic bone, and to perform amputations of the extremities in Japan.\n\nHua Tuo (華佗, ca. AD 145-220) was a Chinese surgeon of the 2nd century AD. According to the \"Records of Three Kingdoms\" (ca. AD 270) and the \"Book of the Later Han\" (ca. AD 430), Hua Tuo performed surgery under general anesthesia using a formula he had developed by mixing wine with a mixture of herbal extracts he called \"mafeisan\" (麻沸散). Hua Tuo reportedly used mafeisan to perform even major operations such as resection of gangrenous intestines. Before the surgery, he administered an oral anesthetic potion, probably dissolved in wine, in order to induce a state of unconsciousness and partial neuromuscular blockade.\n\nThe exact composition of mafeisan, similar to all of Hua Tuo's clinical knowledge, was lost when he burned his manuscripts, just before his death. The composition of the anesthetic powder was not mentioned in either the \"Records of Three Kingdoms\" or the \"Book of the Later Han\". Because Confucian teachings regarded the body as sacred and surgery was considered a form of body mutilation, surgery was strongly discouraged in ancient China. Because of this, despite Hua Tuo's reported success with general anesthesia, the practice of surgery in ancient China ended with his death.\n\nThe name \"mafeisan\" combines \"ma\" (, meaning \"cannabis, hemp, numbed or tingling\"), \"fei\" (, meaning \"boiling or bubbling\"), and \"san\" (, meaning \"to break up or scatter\", or \"medicine in powder form\"). Therefore, the word \"mafeisan\" probably means something like \"cannabis boil powder\". Many sinologists and scholars of traditional Chinese medicine have guessed at the composition of Hua Tuo's mafeisan powder, but the exact components still remain unclear. His formula is believed to have contained some combination of:\nOthers have suggested the potion may have also contained hashish, bhang, \"shang-luh\", or opium. Victor H. Mair wrote that \"mafei\" \"appears to be a transcription of some Indo-European word related to \"morphine\".\" Some authors believe that Hua Tuo may have discovered surgical analgesia by acupuncture, and that mafeisan either had nothing to do with or was simply an adjunct to his strategy for anesthesia. Many physicians have attempted to re-create the same formulation based on historical records but none have achieved the same clinical efficacy as Hua Tuo's. In any event, Hua Tuo's formula did not appear to be effective for major operations.\n\nHanaoka was intrigued when he learned about Hua Tuo's mafeisan potion. Beginning in about 1785, Hanaoka embarked on a quest to re-create a compound that would have pharmacologic properties similar to Hua Tuo's mafeisan. His wife, who participated in his experiments as a volunteer, lost her sight due to adverse side effects. After years of research and experimentation, he finally developed a formula which he named \"tsūsensan\" (also known as \"mafutsu-san\"). Like that of Hua Tuo, this compound was composed of extracts of several different plants, including:\n\nSome sources claim that \"Angelica archangelica\" (often referred to as \"garden angelica\", \"holy ghost\", or \"wild celery\") was also an ingredient.\n\nReportedly the mixture was ground to a paste, boiled in water, and administered as a drink. After 2 to 4 hours the patient would become insensitive to pain and then lapse into unconsciousness. Depending on the dosage, they might remain unconscious for 6–24 hours. The active ingredients in tsūsensan were scopolamine, hyoscyamine, atropine, aconitine and angelicotoxin. When consumed in sufficient quantity, tsūsensan produced a state of general anesthesia and skeletal muscle paralysis.\n\nShutei Nakagawa (1773–1850), a close friend of Hanaoka, wrote a small pamphlet entitled \"Mayaku-ko\" (\"narcotic powder\") in 1796. Although the original manuscript was lost in a fire in 1867, this brochure described the current state of Hanaoka's research on general anesthesia.\n\nOnce perfected, Hanaoka began to administer his new sedative drink to induce a state of consciousness equivalent to or approximating that of modern general anesthesia to his patients. Kan Aiya (藍屋勘) was a 60-year-old woman whose family was beset by breast cancer - Kan being the last of her kin alive. On 13 October 1804, Hanaoka performed a partial mastectomy for breast cancer on Kan Aiya, using tsūsensan as a general anesthetic. This is regarded today by some as the first reliable documentation of an operation to be performed under general anesthesia. Nearly forty years would pass before Crawford Long used general anesthesia in Jefferson, Georgia.\n\nHanaoka's success in performing this painless operation soon became widely known, and patients began to arrive from all parts of Japan. Hanaoka went on to perform many operations using tsūsensan, including resection of malignant tumors, extraction of bladder stones, and extremity amputations. Before his death in 1835, Hanaoka performed more than 150 operations for breast cancer. He also devised and modified surgical instruments, and trained and educated many students, using his own philosophy for medical management. Hanaoka attracted many students, and his surgical techniques became known as the Hanaoka method.\n\nHanaoka wrote the following works. None of these were printed books. Rather (as was the custom in Japan at that time), they were all handwritten manuscripts which were later reproduced by his students for their personal use.\n\nThe surgical teachings of Hanaoka were also preserved in a series of eight handwritten books by unnamed pupils, but known to us by the following titles: \"Shoka shinsho\", \"Shoka sagen\", \"Kinso yojutsu\", \"Kinso kuju\", \"Geka chakuyo\", \"Choso benmei\", \"Nyuiganben\", and \"Koho benran\". No dates are known for any of these writings. Since Hanaoka himself made only manuscript copies and none were ever published, it is doubtful if many copies of his surgical writings are now extant.\n\nThough some of his patients are said to have benefited from Hanaoka's work, it apparently had no impact upon the development of general anesthesia in the rest of the world. The national isolation policy of the Tokugawa shogunate prevented Hanaoka's achievements from being publicized until after the isolation ended in 1854. By that time, different techniques for general anesthesia had already been independently developed by American and European scientists and physicians. The Japan Society of Anesthesiologists however has incorporated a representation of the Korean morning glory flower in their logo in honor of Hanaoka's pioneering work.\n\nHanaoka's house has been preserved in his hometown (Naga-cho, Kinokawa, Wakayama). It has various interactive exhibits in both Japanese and English. It is adjacent to a nursing college, and many locally trained doctors and nurses pay homage to Hanaoka and his works.\n\nThe Japanese author Sawako Ariyoshi wrote a novel entitled \"The Doctor's Wife\" (Japanese \"華岡青洲の妻\"), based on the actual life of Hanaoka Seishū mixed with a fictional conflict between his mother and his wife. The novel was subsequently filmed as a 1967 movie directed by Yasuzo Masumura, \"Hanaoka Seishū no tsuma\" (aka \"The Wife of Seishu Hanaoka\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913204", "title": "Mercedes-Benz C111", "text": "Mercedes-Benz C111\n\nThe Mercedes-Benz C111 was a series of experimental automobiles produced by Mercedes-Benz in the 1960s and 1970s. The company was experimenting with new engine technologies, including Wankel engines, diesel engines, and turbochargers, and used the basic C111 platform as a testbed. Other experimental features included multi-link rear suspension, gull-wing doors and a luxurious interior with leather trim and air conditioning.\n\nThe first version of the C111 was completed in 1969. The car used a fiberglass body shell and with a mid-mounted three-rotor direct fuel injected Wankel engine (code named M950F). The next C111 appeared in 1970. It used a four-rotor engine producing 257 kW (350 hp). The car reportedly could reach a speed of .\n\nThe company decided not to adopt the Wankel engine and turned to diesel experiments for the second and third C111s. The C111-IID produced and was based on the 240D 3.0 W115 model OM616 engine. The C111-III was powered by a at 4,500 rpm straight-five OM617 turbocharged diesel that broke nine diesel and gasoline speed records. With more aerodynamic bodywork that gave it an air drag coefficient of 0.191, the C111 eventually reached at the Nardò Ring in 1978, and averaged 16.0 liters/100 km at 316 km/h (14.7 mpg at 195.4 mph) over a 12-hour cruise. A later 4.8 L twin KKK-turbocharged V8 version set another record, with an average lap-speed of 403.78 km/h (250.958 mph). This was achieved by Hans Liebold in 1 minute, 56.67 seconds on May 5, 1979.\n\nTotal production was 16 cars: 13 first and second generation Wankel engined cars, 2 diesel engined third generation cars used in the Nardo record attempt, and a single V8 engined fourth generation car.\n\nMercedes-Benz introduced the C112 at the Frankfurt Motor Show in 1991 as a proposed production sports car. The car used a mid-mounted 6.0 L V12 engine. After accepting 700 deposits, the company decided not to proceed with production.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913209", "title": "Triumph in the Skies", "text": "Triumph in the Skies\n\nTriumph in the Skies is a Hong Kong drama television series that premiered on TVB in 2003, starring Francis Ng, Flora Chan, Joe Ma and Myolie Wu. The drama tells the lives of pilots working for the fictional Solar Airways based on Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific.\n\nIt has been cited as one of TVB's best serial dramas, and there were plans for a sequel to be filmed in 2006. However, it was delayed due to negotiations with an airline to provide support. In May 2011, TVB announced that a sequel was in development, with filming beginning in the early months of 2012. The sequel, titled \"Triumph in the Skies II\", aired on TVB Jade on 15 July 2013.\n\n\"Triumph in the Skies\" has been compared to the now-cancelled NBC series \"LAX\". It sparked an interest in aviation when first aired amongst Hong Kong viewers, as well as an interest in a small doll named \"Triangel\" featured early on in the series.\n\nLocation filming included Japan, Italy, and Australia, with sequence shots at Parafield Airport in Adelaide being memorable for their in-depth depiction of flight training.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913212", "title": "Cefuroxime axetil", "text": "Cefuroxime axetil\n\nCefuroxime axetil, sold under the brand name Ceftin among others, is a second generation oral cephalosporin antibiotic.\n\nIt is an acetoxyethyl ester prodrug of cefuroxime which is effective orally. The activity depends on \"in vivo\" hydrolysis and release of cefuroxime tablets.\nIt was patented in 1976 and approved for medical use in 1987.\n\nSecond generation cephalosporins are more effective in treating Gram-negative bacilli compared to first generation cephalosporins, which have a greater coverage for Gram-positive cocci. Also, it has been reported that cefuroxime is resistant to hydrolysis by β-lactamases produced by Gram-negative bacteria.\n\nSome medical uses are:\n\nUpper respiratory tract infections.\n\nLower respiratory tract infections.\n\nUrinary tract infections.\n\nSkin and soft tissue infections.\n\nGonorrhoea.\n\nEarly Lyme disease.\n\nCefuroxime axetil treats infections against methicillin, oxacillin and penicillin-sensitive bacterial strains. Cefuroxime axetil does not work against enterococci. \n\nGram-positive aerobic microorganisms\n\nStaphylococcus aureus (Methicillin-sensitive only)\n\nStaphylococcus epidermis\n\nStreptococcus pneumoniae (Penicillin-sensitive only)\nGram-negative aerobic microorganisms\n\nHaemophilus influenzae\n\nMoraxella catarrhalis\n\nNeisseria gonorrhoeae\n\nEscherichia coli\n\nProteus mirabilis\n\nKlebsiella pneumoniae (variable acitivity)\n\nCefuroxime axetil, as a second generation cephalosporin ;that just as penicillins antibiotics, contains a β-lactam ring structure. Cephalosporins works as a bactericidal antibiotic; that by binding to penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), inhibit the last step of the bacterial cell wall synthesis. Once the β-lactam ring binds to PBPs, cross-linking between peptidoglycan units is inhibited.\n\nAbsorption: Once consumed, cefuroxime axetil is converted to the active compound cefuroxime by esterases of mucosal cells in the gastrointestinal tract. Cefuroxime is then released for systematic circulation. If cefuroxime axetil is given with food, absorption values can increase by 52% compared to fasting patients.\n\nDistribution: It has been reported that after cefuroxime axetil administration, it can be found in tonsil tissue, sinus tissue, bronchial tissue and middle ear effusion.\n\nElimination: After cefuroxime production, the body is unable to metabolize the drug, and is eliminated unchanged in the urine.\n\nIt was discovered by Glaxo now GlaxoSmithKline and introduced in 1987. It was approved by FDA on December 28, 1987. It is available by GSK as Ceftin in US and Ceftum in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913214", "title": "Indonesian slang", "text": "Indonesian slang\n\nIndonesian slang (\"bahasa gaul\" or \"bahasa prokém\") is a term that subsumes various vernacular and non-standard styles of expression used throughout Indonesia that are not necessarily mutually intelligible. Regional slang from the capital is however heavily exposed and promoted in national media, and considered the \"de facto\" Indonesian slang. Despite its direct origins, Indonesian slang often differs quite significantly in both vocabulary and grammatical structure from the most standard form of Indonesia's national language. These expressions are neither standardized nor taught in any formal establishments, but rather function in daily discourse, usually in informal settings. Indonesian speakers regularly mix several regional slangs in their conversations regardless of origin, but depending on the audience and the familiarity level with the listeners.\n\nIts native name, \"bahasa gaul\" (the 'social language'), was a term coined in the late 1990s where \"bahasa\" means 'language' and \"gaul\" means 'social', 'cool' or 'trendy'. Similarly, the term \"bahasa prokém\" (a more out-dated name for Indonesian slang) created in the early 1970s means 'the language of gangsters'. \"Prokém\" is a slang form of the word \"préman\" and was derived from the Dutch word \"vrijman\" (English: \"freeman\"; lit. gangster).\n\nIndonesian slang is predominantly used in everyday conversation, social milieus, among popular media and, to a certain extent, in teen publications or pop culture magazines. For those living in more urbanized regions of Indonesia, Indonesian slang language often functions as the primary language medium for communication in daily life. While it would be unusual to communicate orally with people on a casual basis with very formal Indonesian, the use of proper or 'good and correct' Indonesian (\"\"bahasa Indonesia yang baik dan benar\"\") is abundant in the media, government bodies, schools, universities, workplaces, amongst some members of the Indonesian upper-class or nobility and also in many other more formal situations.\n\nIndonesian slang has evolved rapidly. This is, in part, due to its vocabulary that is often so different from that of standard Indonesian and Malaysian and also because so many new words (both original and foreign) are quite easily incorporated into its increasingly wide vocabulary list. However, as with any language, the constant changing of the times means that some words become rarely used or are rendered obsolete as they are considered to be outdated or no longer follow modern day trends.\n\nAt present, there is no formal classification for Indonesian slang language as it is essentially a manipulated and popularized form of the Indonesian (the national language of Indonesia).\n\nIndonesian is part of the Western Malayo-Polynesian subgroup of the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian languages. According to the Ethnologue, Indonesian is modelled after Riau Malay, a form of Old Malay originally spoken in Northeast Sumatra.\n\nIndonesian slang language is mostly spoken in urban regions of the Indonesian archipelago. Variations of slang language can be found from city to city, mainly characterised by derivatives of the different local ethnic languages. For example, in Bandung, West Java, the local slang language contains vocabulary from the Sundanese language while the slang found in Jakarta tends to be heavily influenced by English or the old Batavian dialect (i.e. the language of the original inhabitants of Jakarta or \"Batavia\" as it was known during the Dutch colonial period). For more information relating to the geographics of Indonesian slang and regional influences, please see \"Region Specific Slang\" below.\n\nIndonesian slang language is not an official language of Indonesia. However, it is a modified form of the Indonesian language and is widely used for everyday communication and in informal situations. Sometimes it is mixed with formal Indonesian in formal situations, except during state ceremonies, business meetings, and sacred prayers. A number of Indonesians sometimes speak a mixture of Indonesian slang and formal Indonesian in everyday conversation and informal situations.\n\nIndonesian slang generally uses the same pronunciation as standard Indonesian, although there are many influences from regional dialects on certain aspects such as accent and grammatical structure. Loan words adopted from foreign languages (especially European) such as English or Dutch are often transliterated according to the modern Indonesian orthography. For example, 'please' is often written as \"plis\". Another closely related phenomenon to arise in recent years is the formation of complex nouns or phrases created using a combination of English and Indonesian (slang) in the one sentence. A prime example of this is the phrase \"\"so what gitu loh!\"\", meaning \"who cares?!\" or quite simply \"so what!\" with added emphasis from the phrase \"\"gitu loh\"\". \"\"Gitu\"\" is an abbreviated form of the Indonesian word \"\"begitu\"\" meaning \"like that/ such as\", while \"\"loh\"\" (also spelt \"lho\") is a particle commonly used in slang or conversational Indonesian to show surprise or instigate a warning. In these cases of combined, interlingual phrases, the original spelling (and quite often the pronunciation) of the foreign word(s) are retained. Hence, the English component of the Indonesian slang phrase \"\"so what gitu loh!\"\" remains relatively unchanged as far as spelling and pronunciation are concerned.\n\nThe overall structure of Indonesian slang is not all that different from formal Indonesian, although in many cases sentences are simplified or shortened when necessary. The differences between formal and colloquial Indonesian are most evident in vocabulary and grammatical structures (e.g. affixes).\n\nThe structure of the Indonesian slang language is mostly derived from formal Indonesian, however, its vocabulary is a different story altogether. Indonesian slang vocabulary is enriched by a combination of derivatives or loan words/ structures from foreign languages such as Min Nan commonly referred to as Hokkien, English, and Dutch, as well as local ethnic languages such as Batavian, Sundanese, and Javanese. However, in many cases, new words are simply created at random, their origins often quite obscure.\n\n• A large proportion of the vocabulary used in Indonesian slang language was developed from formal Indonesian through several methods, most of which are listed below:\n\n• Some words are simply transliterated from English, for example:\n\n• Some words are also adopted or transliterated from Chinese languages (mainly Hokkien and Mandarin), for example:\n\n• Some words originated from the LGBT community (especially among transvestites) usually adding the nasal-sounded suffix -ong in the end of the base word. This was also an attempt among LGBT community to alter the words to become more \"French-sounding\", thus sounding more sexy, for example:\n\n• Many words also emerged without following the above rules at all, many of which have their own unique history and/or origin. For example: \n\nMany slang particles are used in the end of a sentence. Usually, these particles do not directly change the sentence's meaning, in the sense that the truth conditions remain the same. However, they can have other effects, such as emphasizing a sentence, or suggesting hesitancy. They can be used to reinforce the social link between speaker and listener.\n\nFor example, the sentence \"Dia datang\" (she/he comes) could be modified by one of the following particles:\n\n\nParticles can also be used to introduce questions. The following examples could both be translated as \"How could she come?\":\n\n\n\nThe 1980s was the era of \"bahasa prokém\". At this time slang language vocabulary was formed by inserting the infix -ok- after the first consonant of a word, and deleting the last syllable, creating a totally new word. \"Prokem\" itself is a \"prokem\" word, created by adding -ok- to \"preman\" and removing the -an.\n\nFor example, the word \"Bapak\" was broken into \"B-ok-apak\" and the last \"-ak\" is deleted, and the resulting word is \"Bokap\" which, until this day, is used as a slang term for Father.\n\nThe word \"Sekolah\" (School) was transformed into \"Skokul\", but this word slowly become outdated and by the 1990s the word was no longer used, and changed to \"Sekul\" or simply \"Skul\", reminiscent of the English word \"school\".\n\nOther notable words such as \"mémblé\" (ugly, frowning), \"kécé\", (beautiful, good looking) from the words \"keren cekali\" (very cool), the sentence attribute \"Nih yé\", and the exclamation \"Alamakjan!\" all emerged in the same decade.\n\nMuch of the slang language created post-2000 originated from the Indonesian LBGT community. The latest method for transforming a word is to take a different word which has a similar sound. For example, the word mau (want), is replaced with the word mawar originally meaning rose. Despite its creativity and originality, this latest form of Indonesian slang can be quite complicated to understand, even to the native Indonesians themselves. For example: \"Akika tinta mawar macarena\" originates from the sentence written in proper Indonesian - \"Aku tidak mau makan\" meaning 'I don't want to eat'.\n\nThe abbreviations often used to mask insult, such as \"kamseupay\" (totally lame) abbreviation of \"kampungan sekali udik payah\" (really provincial, rurally lame).\n\nJakarta including Botabek is the capital city of Indonesia with a population of more than 20 million people. Consequently, such a huge population will undoubtedly have a role in the Jakarta slang evolution. Much of the slang evolved from the Betawi dialect.\n\nSome prominent examples:\n\nThe following words are taken from Hokkien (Fukkien) Chinese, and commonly used in transactions.\nHowever, many Indonesians of non-Chinese descent do not know the meaning of the transaction words above, probably with the exception of Goceng due to its usage on KFC Indonesia's advertising on their \"Goceng\" products, in which all \"Goceng\" menus are sold at the IDR 5000 price range. Sometimes the word \"perak\", literally \"silver\", is used to describe small denominations of currency.\n\nBandung is the capital city of West Java province with a predominantly Sundanese culture. The Sundanese language has three levels or forms, namely: high (polite), middle class, and low (impolite). Bandung slang often uses the Low Sundanese pronouns along with the many other Sundanese translations of popular Indonesian.\n\nSome examples:\n\nThese slangs are shared across Central Java and Yogyakarta where Javanese is predominantly spoken. Like Sundanese which are spoken in Bandung, Javanese also has 3 different set of vocabularies, based on the politeness level. Common people usually talk with a mix between low-Javanese, middle-Javanese, and Indonesian. Some non-Javanese residents added their own dialects to the pot, resulting what is called the Central Java slang\n\nJogjakarta slang is also known as \"Basa Walikan\", literally means \" 'Reverse Language' \".\n\nIt is a transformation of Javanese, in which Javanese consonants are switched with one another, as shown below:\n\nWith the above rules, the expletive expression \"Matamu!\" (which literally means: 'Your Eyes!') becomes \"Dagadu!\". The following website automatically performs this transformation: Walikan Translator\n\nMalang slang is inverted alphabetical word (mostly from Javanese and little bit from Indonesian). The way is just read from end of the word. Example: \"Ongis Nade\" comes from \"Singo Edan\" (the nickname of Arema Cronus F.C.), \"Helum\" comes from \"Muleh\" (Go home in Javanese), and some name of place like \"Sawojajar\" become \"Rajajowas\".\n\nAs the second largest city in Indonesia and the capital of East Java, Surabaya uses a rougher dialect of Javanese and has a fairly complete list of its own slang. Javanese language originated from the Central Javanese farmland and by the time it reached the coastal area of East Java, it changed from its original polite form into a more impolite version with the creation or further adaptation of many new 'Javanese-style' words and swearwords.\n\nMedan is the capital of North Sumatra Province. Most of the slang from Medan are heavily influenced by Malay, Hokkien and Karo language. For example, \"bapa\" for \"father\", \"nande\" for \"mother\", \"kedé\" for \"shop\", \"tutup lampu\" for \"turn off the light\", \"buka radio\" for \"turn on the radio\". Another example of Medan slang is by adding \"punya\" at the end of the sentence. For example, \"mobil aku punya\" for \"my car\". They also have the tendency to confuse between e and é.\n\nJambi and Palembang slang mostly involves changing the letter at the end of the word with letter 'o'. However, not all words can be modified to include the characteristic 'o', as this rule applies mostly to words ending with the letter 'a'. Sometimes Palembang use shorter-version of word by erase first syllables, like 'segala' in standard Malay-Indonesian to 'galo'.\n\nAnother characteristic pattern of Jambi and Palembang slang involves the addition or replacement of the final letter of a word with 'k'.\n\nAnother classic Malay Sumatran dialect also prevailed in most of Sumatran cities, from Palembang to Bengkulu, Jambi and Pekanbaru. These classical Malay words such as \"nian\" is used in Sumatran cities instead of \"sangat\" or \"banget\" (very).\n\nPontianak slang is influenced by Malay, Teochew and Dayak and sometimes combined with Hakka. It is spoken in the Malay dialect. These slang varieties are spoken throughout West Kalimantan.\n\nMakassarese slang is highly influenced by the native Makassarese dialect and sometimes combined with Chinese accents. The slang, in the end, sounds more informal and 'rude', as going with the tough image of Makassarese people. The possessive word for \"you\" (\"kamu\") has three degrees of politeness:\n\"-ta\" (very formal and respectful), \"-mu\" (neutral), and \"-nu\" (informal). For example:\n\n\nMeanwhile, the word for \"you\" itself is divided into two, the formal \"ki\" and the informal \"ko\".\n\n\nIni \"mi\"? -> 'This one?'\nBiarkan \"mi\" -> 'Let it go'\nKo sudah belajar \"mi\"? -> 'Have you studied?'. \"Ko\" derives from the informal Indonesian word \"Kau\", which stands for 'you'. \nSudah dimulai\"mi\" itu ulangan? -> 'Has the exam started?', literally, 'Has-been started-the exam?'\n\n\"Ji\" is also often used in the end of words. Most often, it means 'only', or used to give a more assuring tone to a sentence.\n\n\n\"Di\" functions more like a question tag, read with a glottal stop at the end, which makes it to be 'dik'\n\n\nAside from that, Makassarese more often speak with a heavier accent, mixing many of the Indonesian words with native Makassar words.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913215", "title": "Long March 3", "text": "Long March 3\n\nThe Long March 3 (), also known as the Changzheng 3, CZ-3 and LM-3, was a Chinese orbital carrier rocket design. They were all launched from Launch Area 3 at the Xichang Satellite Launch Center. It was a 3-stage rocket, and was mostly used to place DFH-2-class communications satellites into geosynchronous transfer orbits. It was complemented and later replaced by the more powerful Long March 3A, which has an improved third stage.\n\nOn January 29, 1984, a LM-3 rocket failed during launch.\nThe third stage failed 4 s after restart for GTO insertion of the satellite, due to incorrect mixture ratio in the engine gas generator, which caused high temperatures and burned out the turbine casing. However, many planned tests on the experimental communications spacecraft were still carried out in the resulting elliptical orbit.\n\nOn December 28, 1991, a LM-3 rocket failed during launch.\nThe third-stage engine suffered a loss of turbine speed and combustion pressure 58 s after re-igniting for the second burn for GTO insertion and shut down completely 135 s after re-ignition. Loss of pressure in the high-pressure helium supply used for engine control had reduced the propellant flow.\n\nOn August 18, 1996 a LM-3 rocket failed during launch.\nThe third-stage engine shut down roughly 40 s earlier than planned because of a fire in the LH2 injector of the gas generator. Insufficient purging had permitted oxygen to freeze in the gas generator during flight.\n"}
{"id": "1913219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913219", "title": "Joseph Chatoyer", "text": "Joseph Chatoyer\n\nJoseph Chatoyer, also known as Satuye (died 14 March 1795), was a Garifuna (\"Carib\") chief who led a revolt against the British colonial government of Saint Vincent in 1795. Killed that year, he is now considered a national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and also of Belize and Costa Rica. Vincentian politician Camillo Gonsalves described him in 2011 as his country's \"sole national hero\".\n\nIn 1772, the population rebelled. Led by Chatoyer, the First Carib War forced the British to sign a treaty with them in 1773. This was the first time Britain had been forced to sign an accord with non-white people in the Caribbean.\n\nBy 1795, it became apparent to the local population that Britain had no intention of obeying the treaty. The people of the Caribbean then rose in rebellion and were joined by a group of French radicals, inspired by the ideals of the French Revolution, who saw Britain as a traditional enemy of France. In the Second Carib War, Chatoyer divided the island with his brother Duvalle, who was another chieftain. Duvalle had a Guadeloupean lieutenant by the name of Massoteau. Working his way along the coast, Chatoyer was met by his French supporters at Chateaubelair, and together the forces worked their way to Dorsetshire Hill, from where they would launch their attack on the capital city, Kingstown.\n\nOn March 14, a battalion of British soldiers led by General Ralph Abercromby, marched toward Dorsetshire Hill. That night, Chatoyer was killed by Major Alexander Leith. Though the rebellion continued until October 1796 under the leadership of Duvalle, Chatoyer's death led to the desertion of the French supporters and without their aid, the tide of the war turned in favour of the British.\n\nAs a national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Chatoyer is recognized with a monument on Dorsetshire Hill, where he died.\n\nAlthough Chatoyer died before the remainder of the rebels were deported to Roatan in Honduras, from where they spread along the Caribbean coast of Central America and became known as the Garifuna people; he is considered to have been a Garifuna warrior.\n\nA play based on his life, \"The Drama of King Shotaway,\" was written by William Henry Brown, an African American from the West Indies, and Director of the African Theatre. It was the first play written in the United States by a black man. The play was produced by the African Company at the African Grove Theatre in New York City in 1823, but no manuscript survived.\n"}
{"id": "1913223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913223", "title": "Shermine Shahrivar", "text": "Shermine Shahrivar\n\nShermine Shahrivar (; born 17 September 1982) is an Iranian-born German model and beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss Europe 2005.\nShe became Miss Germany in 2004 and then won the overall title of Miss Europe in 2005 while competing in France.\n\nShe was born to Iranian parents. Her family moved to Germany when she was one year old. Her mother and brothers live in Germany.\n\nShe was raised speaking German and Persian, and she is also fluent in French and English.\n\nShahrivar has a university degree in social sciences.\n\nShermine Shahrivar was selected to be the host of the Oberhausen, Germany Nowruz celebration, said to be the largest in the World, on March 19, 2005. She hosted Traumpartner TV in Germany from December 2004 to August 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913243", "title": "Florida High School Athletic Association", "text": "Florida High School Athletic Association\n\nThe Florida High School Athletic Association (FHSAA) is an organization whose purpose is to organize sports competition for high schools in Florida. It is a member of the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS). Florida uses NFHS contest rules in its sports.\n\nThe Florida High School Athletic Association was founded on April 9, 1920 by a group of 29 high school principals which met on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville. The organization was founded as the Florida High School Athletic Association. The name was changed to Florida High School Activities Association in 1951. The name was changed back to Florida High School Athletic Association in 2002.\n\nThe 29 schools who became charter members were: Summerlin (Bartow), Clearwater, Mainland (Daytona Beach), Seabreeze (Daytona Beach), DeLand, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers, Gainesville, Duval (Jacksonville), Osceola (Kissimmee), Columbia (Lake City), Lakeland, Leesburg, Suwannee (Live Oak), Miami, Ocala, Orlando, Putnam (Palatka), Pensacola, Plant City, Quincy, Seminole (Sanford), Ketterlinus (St. Augustine), St. Petersburg, Leon (Tallahassee), Hillsborough (Tampa), Hardee (Wauchula), West Palm Beach, and Winter Haven.\n\nThe first Constitution limited membership to public schools. However, in 1930, it was amended to open membership to private and parochial schools as well.\n\nIn 1951, the member schools voted to change the word \"athletic\" to \"activities\" in the organization name so that non-athletic activities such as music and student council programs would also receive proper supervision at the state level.\n\nThe Association was incorporated in 1962. While the association's charter had never specifically excluded non-white student participation, none actually participated until 1967, when all-black Gibbs High School not only participated in basketball but won the state championship. In 1968 the FIAA disbanded. The FHSAA has never comprehensively incorporated the achievements of the black high schools into their record books.\n\nIn 1996 the FHSAA adopted regulations permitting students enrolled in home education programs to participate in interscholastic activities. The regulations would later allow future Heisman Trophy quarterback Tim Tebow to participate in high-school football; similar rules adopted later by other states would thus be called the \"Tebow rule\".\n\nIn May 1997, the Florida Legislature recognized in statute the FHSAA as the governing body for interscholastic athletics in Florida, provided the Association comply with the provisions of a legislatively mandated revamping of its governmental structure.\n\nThe name was changed back to Florida High School Athletic Association in 2002. As of August 2007, the FHSAA has a membership of 748 schools.\n\nIn 2017, the association adopted a points method of ranking football teams for state championship playoffs. Points are awarded on the basis of wins, and losses, opponents records, and past playoff records.\n\nThe FHSAA oversees the following sports:\n\n\n\nAs in most areas, high schools compete in sports in two types of division. One, because of logistical and geographical constraints, is necessarily local: large schools play small ones in the same area. There are four geographical regions for most sports, each subdivided into up to 16 districts, typically four for larger school classifications and two for smaller school classifications, to reduce travel time and expense for conference play.\n\nAnother level of classification is made based on school population and is statewide. Eventually, schools with the best records in this type of classification will meet each other for seasonal playoffs to determine the state champion. That classification is calculated every two years for each sport and provides schools the opportunity to appeal their classification based on certain factors, primarily transportation expense. There are as many as eight classes, from 1A to 8A, based on population, the largest schools compete in 8A.\n\nFor 2019-20, the schools were classified based upon the total number of high school students, as follows:\nBracket 1A is specifically identified as \"Rural\".\n\nPreviously in 2017-8, the brackets were:\n\nClass 1A-4A are no longer broken down into districts. Their \"districts\" are listed as \"Independent\". These teams are eligible to compete within the FHSAA State Series.\n\nFHSAA's All-Century Team was selected in December 2007, to celebrate 100 years of high school football in Florida. It was selected by a panel of Florida high school experts. The Florida High School Athletic Association lists the 34 greatest high school football players in state history. In conjunction with selecting the All-Century team, the FHSAA named an All-Century Coaching Staff.\n"}
{"id": "1913249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913249", "title": "Trophy hunting", "text": "Trophy hunting\n\nTrophy hunting or sport hunting is hunting of wild game for human recreation. The trophy is the animal or part of the animal kept, and usually displayed, to represent the success of the hunt. The game sought is typically a large or impressively ornamented male, such as one having large horns or antlers. Generally, only parts of the animal are kept as a trophies (usually the head, skin, horns or antlers) and the carcass itself is used for food.\n\nTrophies are often displayed in the hunter's home or office, and often in specially designed \"trophy rooms\", sometimes called \"game rooms\" or \"gun rooms\", in which the hunter's weaponry is displayed as well.\n\nTrophy hunting has both firm supporters and strong opponents. Debates surrounding trophy hunting centrally concern not only the question of the morality of recreational hunting and supposed conservation efforts of big-game and ranch hunting, but also the observed decline in animal species that are targets for trophy hunting.\n\nTrophy hunting has been practiced in Africa and is still practiced in many African countries. According to a study sponsored by International Council for Game and Wildlife Conservation (CIC) in partnership with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the revenue generated by hunting tourism in seven Southern African Development Communities (SADC) in 2008 was approximately US$190 million. The practice of trophy hunting supersedes that of ranch or farm hunting, but game ranches helped to legitimize trophy hunting as a facet of the tourism industry in Africa. The first game ranches in Africa were established in the 1960s, and the concept quickly grew in proliferation. Statistics from 2000 illustrate that there were approximately 7000 game farms and reservations operating within South Africa, established on about 16 million hectares of land in the country. Game ranches attract wealthy tourists interested in hunting, as well as foreign investors on a large scale.\n\nEconomists at Large Report demonstrated how little money actually reaches communities. Jeff Flocken of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, states that \"despite the wild claims that trophy hunting brings millions of dollars in revenue to local people in otherwise poor communities, there is no proof of this. The money that does come into Africa from hunting pales in comparison to the billions generated from tourists who come just to watch wildlife. If lions and other animals continue to disappear from Africa, this vital source of income—nonconsumptive tourism—will end, adversely impacting people all over Africa\".\n\nHowever, South African Environmental Affairs Minister, Edna Molewa, contradicts Flocken's conclusions by stating that the hunting industry has contributed millions to South Africa's economy in past years. In the 2010 hunting season, total revenue of approximately R1.1 billion was generated by the local and trophy hunting industries collectively. \"This amount only reflects the revenue generated through accommodation and species fees. The true revenue is therefore substantially higher, as this amount does not even include revenue generated through the associated industries as a result of the multiplier effect\", according to Molewa. South Africa's canned lion industry however runs the risk of damaging 'Brand South Africa' and it's profitable nature tourism industry.\n\nAfter the public outcry from the Killing of Cecil the lion, awareness of this sport was raised worldwide. Attention also focussed on North American sport hunting, in particular the cougar. The cougar, also called the mountain lion, puma, or panther, is hunted for sport across its expansive habitat. According to the Washington, the only federally protected populations in the country are the Florida panther and the Eastern cougar, believed to be extinct.\n\nSeveral states—including Colorado, Utah and Washington—in recent years have proposed an increase in cougar hunting for various reasons, California is currently the only state throughout the West that prohibits cougar hunting.\n\nThe Boone and Crockett Club, claim they used the selective harvest of older males to aid in the recovery of many big game species which were on the brink of extinction at the turn of the 20th century. The organization continues to promote this practice today, and monitors conservation success through its Big Game Records data set. A dataset which glamourises the sport and is the source of awards for members.\n\nNorth American trophy hunting should not be confused with canned hunting or \"vanity hunting\", which involves the shooting of genetically manipulated and selectively bred animals for the sole purpose of collecting an animal for display. The Boone and Crockett Club disavows this practice and actively campaigns against it.\n\nRanch hunting is a form of big-game hunting where the animals hunted are specifically bred on a ranch for trophy hunting purposes.\n\nMany species of game such as the Indian blackbuck, nilgai, axis deer, barasingha, the Iranian red sheep, and variety of other species of deer, sheep, and antelope, as well as tigers and lions and hybrids of these from Africa, Asia, and the Pacific islands were introduced to ranches in Texas and Florida for the sake of trophy hunting.\n\nThese animals are typically hunted on a fee for each kill, with hunters paying $4,000 or more to be able to hunt exotic game. As many of these species are endangered or threatened in their native habitat, the United States' government requires 10% of the hunting fee to be given to conservation efforts in the areas where these animals are indigenous. Hunting of endangered animals in the United States is normally illegal under the Endangered Species Act, but is permitted on these ranches since the rare animals hunted there are not indigenous to the United States.\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States has criticized these ranches and their hunters with the reasoning that they are still hunting endangered animals even if the animals were raised specifically to be hunted.\n\nGame auctions help provide game farms and reserves with their wildlife. These facilities are important in terms of tourism in Africa, one of the continent's largest economic sectors, accounting for almost 5% of South Africa's GDP, for example. South Africa in particular is the main tourist destination on the continent, and as a result, hosts a large number of game auctions, farms, and reservations. Game auctions serve as competitive markets that allow farm and reservation owners to bid on and purchase animals for their facilities. Animals purchased at auctions for these purposes are commonly bought directly as game, or are then bred to supply facilities. Animals used for breeding are generally females, which cost more on average than males due to the increased breeding prospects they present. In addition to sex, other factors that contribute to the prices of animals on auction include the demand for particular species (based on their overall rarity) and the costs of maintaining them. Animals that receive increased interest from poachers, such as rhinos or elephants due to their ivory horns and tusks, present additional risks to game farm operations, and do not typically sell well at auction. However other herbivores, specifically ungulate species, tend to fetch exponentially higher sums than carnivores. Prices for these animals can reach into the hundreds of thousands in South African rands, equivalent to tens of thousands of American dollars.\n\nTrophy hunting is legal in many countries ; however, there are restrictions on the species that can be hunted, when hunting can take place, and the weapons that can be used. Permits and government consent are also required. Specific laws of trophy hunting vary based on the criteria mentioned, and some areas have even banned trophy hunting all together. Costa Rica, Kenya and Malawi, are amongst the countries which have chosen to ban trophy hunting. Specific laws of trophy hunting usually concern endangered animals in an effort to protect them from extinction. In 1973, the United States passed a law called the Endangered Species Act. This was meant to stop hunting and trafficking of many endangered species in the U.S. that are looked at as prized by many hunters such as the Wood Bison and Polar Bear.\n\nTrophy hunting imports are banned in the Netherlands, France and Australia.\n\nTrophy hunting was introduced by the British Colonials in an era of plentiful wildlife. It has never been a part of African culture. The Maasai tribes of Kenya and Tanzania have turned their backs on the rite of passage of lion killing and now conserve lions, mindful of the reduced numbers of lions, they decided to reduce the size of their cattle herds.\n\nSome argue it can provide economic incentives to conserve areas for wildlife 'if it pays it stays' and there are some research studies in \"Conservation Biology\", \"Journal of Sustainable Tourism\", \"Wildlife Conservation by Sustainable Use\", and \"Animal Conservation\". There are concerns that the same species targeted by trophy hunters are key individuals to their herds. It is now estimated only around 40 great tuskers, elephants with tusks to the ground are left. Mature elephant bulls are now known to be the favoured bulls for breeding females, and to have a stabilising effect on younger males. The trophy hunters favoured lion target is a mature male lion with an impressive mane, these males are 'pride' lions, their loss could equate to as many as 20 lions, as a new pride male will kill cubs when he takes over the pride which has lost it's dominant male lion.\n\nTanzania has an estimated 40 percent of the population of lions. Its wildlife authorities defend their success in keeping such numbers (as compared to countries like Kenya, where lion numbers have plummeted dramatically) as linked to the use of trophy hunting as a conservation tool. According to Alexander N. Songorwa, director of wildlife for the Tanzanian Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, trophy hunting generated roughly $75 million for Tanzania's economy from 2008 to 2011.\n\nWhen poorly managed, trophy hunting can cause negative ecological impacts for the target species such as altered age/sex structures, social disruption, deleterious genetic effects, and even population declines in the event of excessive off-takes, as well as threaten the conservation and influence the behavior of non-target species. The conservation role of the industry is also hindered by governments and hunting operators that fail to devolve adequate benefits to local communities, reducing incentives for them to protect wildlife, and by unethical activities, such as shooting from vehicles and canned hunting, conducted by some attract negative press. While locals may hunt certain species as pests, particularly carnivorous species such as leopards, these animals, as well as lions and cougars, are known to exhibit infanticidal tendencies which can be exacerbated by the removal of adult males from their populations. Males are trophy hunted more frequently than females. However, the removal of these males still degrades the networks and groups these species create in order to survive and provide for offspring. Hunting regulations and laws proposing constant proportions or thresholds of community members for these species have been proposed in African nations such as Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe, but are exceptionally difficult to enforce due to the logistics of tracking carnivore populations.\n\nAccording to the Smithsonian Institution and the World Wildlife Fund, wildlife populations have decreased by an alarming rate of 52% since 1970. This is heavily concentrated on mammals, birds, amphibians and reptiles. The decline is attributed to several reasons including over-exploitation, habitat loss, pollution and climate change.\nThe graph depicts lion population decline from the 1800s. This information was taken from the National Geographic Big Cats Initiative.\n\nA 2005 paper by Nigel Leader-Williams and colleagues in the \"Journal of International Wildlife Law and Policy\" asserted that the legalization of white rhinoceros hunting in South Africa motivated private landowners to reintroduce the species onto their lands. As a result, white rhinos increased from fewer than one hundred individuals to more than 11,000. Leader-Williams's study also showed that trophy hunting in Zimbabwe doubled wildlife areas relative to state protected areas. The implementation of controlled and legalized hunting led to an increase in the area of suitable land available to elephants and other wildlife, which \"reversed the problem of habitat loss and helping to maintain a sustained population increase in Zimbabwe's already large elephant population\".\n\nA scientific study in the journal, \"Biological Conservation\" by Diogo Andrade, states that trophy hunting is of \"major importance to conservation in Africa by creating economic incentives for conservation over vast areas, including areas which may be unsuitable for alternative wildlife-based land uses such as photographic ecotourism\". Financial incentives from trophy hunting effectively more than double the land area that is used for wildlife conservation, relative to what would be conserved relying on national parks alone, according to the study published in \"Biological Conservation\".\n\nAccording to the American writer and journalist Richard Conniff, if Namibia is home to 1,750 of the roughly 5,000 black rhinos surviving in the wild. Namibia's mountain zebra population has increased from 1,000 in 1982 to 27,000 in 2014. Elephants, which are gunned down elsewhere for their ivory, have gone from 15,000 to 20,000 in 1995. Lions, which were on the brink of extinction \"from Senegal to Kenya\", are increasing in Namibia.\n\nThe International Union for Conservation of Nature recognizes that trophy hunting, when well-managed, can generate significant economic incentives for the conservation of target species and their habitats outside of protected areas.\n\nA study published in the journal \"Animal Conservation\" and led by Peter Lindsey of Kenya's Mpala Research Centre concluded that most trophy hunters assure that they are concerned about the conservation, ethical, and social issues that hunting raises. The study interviewed 150 Americans who had hunted in Africa before, or who planned to do so within three years. For example, hunters assure that they were much less willing to hunt in areas where African wild dogs or cheetahs were illegally shot than their hunting operators perceived, and they also showed greater concern for social issues than their operators realized, with a huge willingness to hunt in areas were local people lived and benefited from hunting (Fig.1). Eighty-six percent of hunters told the researchers they preferred hunting in an area where they knew that a portion of the proceeds went back into local communities. A certification system could therefore allow hunters to select those operators who benefit local people and conduct themselves in a conservation-friendly manner.\n\nCougar hunting quotas have had a negative effect on the animals' population. According to Robert Wieglus, director of Large Carnivore Conservation Lab at Washington State University, when too many cougars are killed demographic issues can be seen in the cat's population. The male cougar is extremely territorial and will often seek out females in the territory to both mate and kill any cubs to ensure room for their own offspring. Oftentimes these are young \"teenage\" males who are hormonal and unpredictable.\n\nThese \"teenage\" lions are mostly responsible for killed livestock and unwanted human interaction. In addition, they often drive females with cubs into hiding or new territory, forcing the females to hunt new prey they did not before.\n\n\"Basically the bottom line was this heavy hunting of cougars was actually causing all the problems we were seeing\", Wielgus said of his work in Washington.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, trophy hunting \"provides an economic incentive\" for ranchers to continue to breed those species, and that hunting \"reduces the threat of the species' extinction\".\nAccording to Dr G.C. Dry, former President of Wildlife Ranching South Africa, wildlife ranches have contributed greatly to the South African economy. In his paper \"COMMERCIAL WILDLIFE RANCHING’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE GREEN ECONOMY\", he states that \"commercial wildlife ranching is about\nappropriate land-use and rural development; it is less about animals per se, not a white affluent issue, not a conservation at-all-cost\nissue, but about economic sustainability\". Dr Dry's paper concludes that \"It is a land-use option that is\necologically appropriate, economically sustainable, politically sensitive, and finally, socially just\", however no references or sources are provided for the data used.\n\nThe International Union for Conservation of Nature reports in \"The baby and the bathwater:\ntrophy hunting, conservation and rural livelihoods\", that trophy hunting, when well-managed, can be sustainable and generate significant economic incentives for the conservation of target species, but that there are valid concerns about the legality, sustainability and ethics of some hunting practices. The paper concludes that \"in some contexts, there may be valid and\nfeasible alternatives to trophy hunting that can deliver the above-mentioned benefits, but identifying, funding and implementing these requires genuine consultation and engagement with affected governments, the private sector and communities.\n\nThe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service imposed a ban on imports. This ban is limited to elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and Tanzania for 2014–2015 and likely going to extend and expand.\n\nIn 2001, Botswana instituted a one-year ban on lion hunting. They had previously permitted the hunting of fifty lions each year, which caused a shortage in mature males in the population, as the hunters preferred the lions with the largest manes. After the ban, Safari Club International including prominent member, former President George H. W. Bush successfully lobbied the Botswanan government to reverse the ban.\n\nBotswana again banned trophy hunting in 2014, and now villagers claim they get no income from trophy hunters, suffer from damaged crop fields caused by elephants and buffaloes, and lions killing their livestock. Some conservationists claim trophy hunting is more effective for wildlife management than a complete hunting ban.\n\nIn the wake of the killing of Cecil the lion, Emirates Airlines, American Airlines, Delta, and United Airlines have all banned the transportation of hunting trophies on flights.\n\nOn the contrary, Kenya, which banned trophy hunting in 1977, has seen a 70 percent decline of wild animals according to Laurence Frank, a zoology researcher at the University of California at Berkeley and director of the conservation group \"Living with Lions\". Because the government has no incentive to protect wild animals, effective enforcement on protecting animals has been a disaster according to Frank.\n\nAccording to a 2012 article by P. Lindsey and G. Balme, if lion hunting was effectively precluded, trophy hunting could potentially become financially unviable across at least 59,538 km that could result in a concomitant loss of habitat.\n\nHowever, the loss of lion hunting could have other potentially broader negative impacts including reduction of competitiveness of wildlife-based land uses relative to ecologically unfavorable alternatives.\n\nRestrictions on lion hunting may also reduce tolerance for the species among communities where local people benefit from trophy hunting, and may reduce funds available for anti-poaching.\n\nOpponents voice strong opinions against trophy hunting based on the belief that it is immoral and lacks financial contribution to the communities affected by trophy hunting and to conservation efforts. \"National Geographic\", for example, published a report in 2015 which says government corruption, especially in Zimbabwe, prevents elephant hunting fees from going towards any conservation efforts, with authorities keeping the fees for themselves. Governments also take more wildlife areas to profit from poaching and trophy hunting. Similarly, a 2017 report by the Australian-based Economists at Large says that trophy hunting amounted to less than one percent of tourism revenue in eight African countries. According to an IUCN report from 2009, surrounding communities in West Africa receive little benefit from the hunting-safari business. Trophy hunting has received a large amount of popular attention internationally as a result of incidents such as the death of Cecil the Lion, garnering a widely negative perception of the practice in many sectors of the general populace. Attention has been drawn both popularly and academically to the ethics of trophy hunting and trophy hunting facilities. Generally speaking, ethical arguments against trophy or sport hunting practices frame them as exploitative and abusive against animals. Evidence has been found illustrating that wild game hunting can also impact the reproductive and social processes of animal species, as well as increase aggression between species members, ultimately impacting the stability of different wildlife communities.\n\nOpponents also cite that the genetic health and social behaviors of species is adversely affected because hunters often kill the largest or most significant male of a species. The removal the most significant animals (because of the size of their horns or mane for example) can severely affect the health of a species population. As Dr Rob Knell states 'Because these high-quality males with large secondary sexual traits tend to father a high proportion of the offspring, their 'good genes' can spread rapidly, so populations of strongly sexually selected animals can adapt quickly to new environments. Removing these males reverses this effect and could have serious and unintended consequences. If the population is having to adapt to a new environment and you remove even a small proportion of these high quality males, you could drive it to extinction.'\n\nCited from The League Against Cruel Sports \"A November 2004 study by the University of Port Elizabeth estimated that eco-tourism on private game reserves generated more than 15 times the income of livestock or game rearing or overseas hunting. (1) Eco-tourism lodges in Eastern Cape Province produce almost 2000 rand (£180) per hectare. Researchers also noted that more jobs were created and staff received \"extensive skills training\".\n\nA 2011 study published in \"Conservation Biology\" found that trophy hunting was the leading factor in the decline of lion populations in Tanzania.\n\nThe U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources in 2016 concluded that trophy hunting may be contributing to the extinction of certain animals. The 25 page report is called Missing the Mark.\n\nNnimmo Bassey, Nigerian environmental activist and director of the Health of Mother Earth Foundation, asserted in November 2017 that \"wildlife in Africa have been decimated by trophy hunters\".\n\nConservationist groups such as IFAW and HSUS assert that trophy hunting is a key factor in the \"silent extinction\" of giraffes.\n\nAccording to IFAW's analysis of CITES database, 1.7 million animals were killed by trophy hunters between 2004 and 2014, with roughly 200,000 of these being members of threatened species.\n\nMany of the 189 countries signatory to the 1992 Rio Accord have developed biodiversity action plans that discourage the hunting of protected species.\n\nTrophy hunting is also opposed by the group In Defense of Animals (IDA) on the basis that trophy hunters are not aimed at conservation, they are instead aimed at glory in hunting and killing the biggest and rarest animals. They contend that the trophy hunters are not interested in even saving endangered animals, and are more than willing to pay the very high prices for permits to kill members of an endangered species.\n\nPETA is also opposed to trophy hunting on the basis that it is unnecessary and cruel. The opposition from PETA is on the basis of the moral justification of hunting for sport. The pain that the animals suffer is not justified by the enjoyment that the hunters receive.\n\nThe League Against Cruel Sports also opposes trophy hunting for the reason that even if the animal that is being hunted for a trophy is not endangered, it is still unjustified to kill them. They respond to claims of economic benefits as false justifications for the continuance of the inhumane sport.\n\nThe David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, an elephant conservation organization, believe that elephants bring in significantly more revenue from tourists who want to see them alive. Their 2013 report stated \"alive, they benefit local communities and economies; dead they benefit criminal and even terrorist groups\".\n\nProponents of trophy hunting claim many hunting fees go toward conservation, such as portions of hunting license fees, hunting tags and ammunition taxes. In addition, private groups, such as the National Shooting Sports Foundation, which contributed more than $400,000 in 2005, and smaller private groups also contribute significant funds; for example, the Grand Slam Club Ovis has raised more than $6.3 million to date for the conservation of sheep. Proponents of game and trophy hunting claim that the economic benefits presented by the practice are essential to nations in which ecotourism is not as viable or popular. Additionally, locals in more rural areas of Africa express that there is tension between human communities and certain species that pose dangers to them and their livestock. Members of these communities rely on current hunting regulations that allow them to retaliate or preempt against the threats these species can pose. Programs such as CAMPFIRE (Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous Resources) in Zimbabwe have been implemented to allow landowners to benefit from the presence of wildlife on their land by marketing it to individuals such as safari owners or game ranch owners, framing wildlife as a renewable resource. Aside from the economic boon presented by the program, CAMPFIRE has also served to mitigate illegal poaching or hunting in certain areas, as well as helping farmers more easily access essential resources that they sometimes have to compete with animal communities for.\n\nOrganizations that support trophy hunting as a tool for conservation include Boone and Crockett Club, The National Wildlife Federation, The Wilderness Society, The Izzaak Walton League of America, North American Wildlife Foundation, Outdoor Writers Association of America, Ducks Unlimited, World Wildlife Fund, The American Forestry Association, Wildlife Legislative Fund of America, Wildlife Management Institute, The Wildlife Society, and IUCN.\n\nThe President of Panthera, a conservation group for big cats and their ecosystems, argues that trophy hunting gives African governments economic incentives to leave safari blocks as wilderness, and that hunting remains the most effective tool to protect wilderness in many parts of Africa.\n\nOrganizations that are neutral and do not oppose trophy hunting include The National Audubon Society, Defenders of Wildlife, and The Sierra Club\n\nOne proposed solution to these problems is the development of a certification system, whereby hunting operators are rated on three criteria: \n\nIntroducing a certification system however remains challenging because it requires co-operation between hunting operators, conservationists and governments. It also requires difficult questions to be answered, including; what constitutes ethical hunting? Who constitutes local communities and what represents adequate benefits for them? Some researchers also continue to express concern that allowing trophy hunts for endangered animals might send the wrong message to influential people around the world, perhaps with adverse consequences for conservation. For example, it has been suggested that people will contribute less money to conservation organizations because allowing hunting of a species could suggest that it does not need saving.\n\nThe controversy surrounding trophy hunting was further ignited when an American dentist Walter Palmer gained internet infamy when a picture of him and the dead lion Cecil went viral. Palmer is an experienced and avid big-game hunter and reportedly paid over 50,000 US dollars to hunt and kill the lion.\n\nCecil the lion was one of the most known and studied lions in Zimbabwe. The lion was lured from the park and, after being injured by an arrow and stalked for 40 hours, Cecil was finally killed. Palmer was reportedly attracted to Cecil's rare black mane. Had Cecil been in the park, it would have been illegal to kill him. The actions the dentist and his hired hunter took in luring out of the park were not endorsed by trophy hunting officials in Zimbabwe. While Zimbabwe courts initially ruled his killing to be illegal, charges were ultimately dropped against the hunter Palmer hired.\n\nThousands of people went on social media sites to condemn Palmer's actions. Responses included Facebook pages such as \"Shame Lion Killer Walter Palmer and River Bluff Dental\".\n\nTrophy hunters imported over 1.26 million trophies into the United States of America in the 10 years from 2005 to 2014. Canada was the leading source of imported trophies.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2014 the top ten trophy species imported into the United States were:\nFrom 2005 to 2014 the 'Big Five' trophy species imported into the United States, totaling about 32,500 lions, elephants, rhinos, buffalo, and leopards combined, from Africa were:\nMexico has a hunting industry valued at approximately $200 million with about 4,000 hunting ranches.\n\n\n\nIUCN (2016) Informing Decisions About Trophy Hunting \n\n"}
{"id": "1913256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913256", "title": "Command &amp; Conquer: Generals", "text": "Command &amp; Conquer: Generals\n\nCommand & Conquer: Generals is a real-time strategy video game and the seventh installment in the \"Command & Conquer\" series. It was released for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS in 2003 and 2004. The Windows version of \"Generals\" was developed by EA Pacific and published by EA Games, the Mac OS X version was developed and published by Aspyr Media. The Mac OS X version was re-released by Aspyr for the Mac App Store on March 12, 2005. In the game, the player can choose from three different factions: the United States, China and the Global Liberation Army (GLA).\n\n\"Generals\" utilizes SAGE (Strategy Action Game Engine), an extended version of the \"\"s 3D engine. An expansion pack, entitled \"\", was additionally released for PC in 2003, and for Mac OS in 2005. Both \"Generals\" and \"Zero Hour\" were met with highly positive reviews. A sequel, \"Command & Conquer: Generals 2\", was in development, until it was repurposed to a free-to-play game known as \"Command & Conquer\". The new game was part of the \"Generals\" franchise and was cancelled on October 29, 2013 by EA after negative feedback during the closed alpha test.\n\n\"Command & Conquer Generals\" operates in a similar manner to that of other titles in the series - players construct bases and train units from these, acquiring resources on one of the game's maps to fund this, and then defeat their opponents by eliminating their bases and armies. Various units types are available for training, ranging from infantry to ground vehicles and aircraft, each focuses on specific roles (i.e. anti-vehicle), while base structures are divided between unit production, support facilities, and defensive counter-measures. Success in the game relies upon making the most out of mixing units, utilising their advantages while countering their disadvantages with other units, in order to win against opponents - for example, rifle infantry are useful for countering anti-vehicle infantry, but need to rely on tanks to counter anti-infantry vehicles. Units that survive and manage to kill other units gain \"veterancy\" points, earning chevrons when they level up, effectively improve their abilities and making them more powerful; at the highest level, it also grants the ability to repair any damage when out of combat\n\nTraining can be queued at production structures and units sent to rally points designated by the player, with the ability to research upgrades to improve certain units. In addition, players can also deploy superweapons which can decimate an opponent's forces, though must wait for a cooldown period to end before they can use it again. Factions in the game function similar in how they operate, but maintain differences in units and strategies: \n\n\n\"Generals\" functions differently to other titles in the series, in that base construction relies on dedicated builder units rather than a central construction building, but with the added ability of being able to construct buildings anywhere on the map. Resources are restricted to supply docks that have a limited amount for collection, with each faction able to construct units or buildings that provide continual resources as long as they are not destroyed. In addition, players can also make use of \"Generals Abilities\" - a unique set of bonuses that can be purchased upon earning experience points during the game, which can confer additional abilities such as support powers (i.e. airstrikes), improvements to certain units, or access to additional units for construction.\n\nIn a single-player mode, players can tackle one of three campaigns, each dedicated to a faction and consisting of seven missions. While a training mission is provided to allow new players to become accustomed to the game, players can freely chose which campaign to tackle and at what difficulty, with each mission moderately becoming difficult and featuring different scenarios to tackle.\n\nGames can be played both over the Internet or a local area network (LAN). It adopts a similar format to skirmish mode whereby the goal is to eliminate the other team. Games over the Internet can be completely random, in the form of a Quick Match. Players can also play in Custom Matches where the number of players, the map and rules are decided upon by the host.\n\nThe online feature originally worked via GameSpy servers. After the shutdown of GameSpy in 2014, these were no longer available.\n\nThe macOS version of the game released for the Mac App Store does not support multiplayer. Apple discontinued Game Center for online play with the release of macOS Sierra.\n\n\"Generals\" presents players with a separate musical score for each faction. The United States' theme music consists of grand, militaristic scores composed by Bill Brown and Mikael Sandgren. China's musical themes feature apocalyptic, orchestral scores combined with East Asian instrumentation. The GLA faction's theme soundtrack can be described as a combination of Middle Eastern and few South Asian sounds coupled with heavy metal music.\n\n\"Generals\" includes a map editor named \"World Builder\" for the PC edition only. The World Builder includes features such as:\n\n\"Generals\" takes place in a speculative mid-2010s, in which the world's two main superpowers - the United States and the People's Republic of China - have become embroiled in a conflict with the Global Liberation Army (GLA) - an omnipresent borderless terrorist organization consisting of a fanatical irregular force - who seek to liberate the world from its \"oppressive\" governments. In the single-player campaigns, the United States and China act as allies with one another, in the hopes of combating the rising problems brought forth by the GLA, with the game's story focused on a chronological order of events that begins with China's campaign, followed by the GLA's campaign, and ending with the United States' campaign.\n\nChina holds a military parade in Beijing to celebrate the strength of its armies, only for the GLA to attack the procession and detonating a stolen Chinese nuclear warhead that kills thousands. In response, China works to counter GLA cells operating across the country, leading to considerable damage. Despite this, China manages to stop further attacks and even hamper the GLA's toxin production operations, going on the offensive beyond its borders with air support from the United States. Eventually, the Chinese launch an assault into Tajikistan, upon the stronghold of the mastermind behind the country's attacks, using nuclear weapons to finally put an end to the GLA incursion.\n\nDespite their losses to the Chinese, the GLA maintains a strong presence across Asia and the Middle East, and retaliate by attacking American and Chinese forces, causing riots in Astana and raiding supplies being delivered by United Nations convoys. Eventually they target American forces, reclaiming bunkers storing toxin materials, and eliminate traitors attempting to use Chinese support. In order to demonstrate their might to the world, the GLA eventually assault the Baikonur Cosmodrome, decimating Chinese and American forces guarding it, and long-range toxin missiles at highly populated city to signal their victory.\n\nTo counter the threat they pose, the United States works to eliminate their presence in the Middle East, eventually focusing their efforts on Kazakhstan. The initial effort fails, but after successfully withdrawing and regrouping, American forces regain the advantage, and begin pushing back against the GLA, despite efforts by a rogue Chinese general to support the terrorist outfit with a supply of nuclear weapons. Pushed back to their final stronghold - the capital of Akmola - a joint America-Chinese operation is launched to liberate the city, ending the tyranny of the GLA.\n\nAfter its release, \"Generals\" received mostly positive reviews. Based on 34 reviews, Metacritic gives it a score of 84/100, which includes a score of 9.3/10 from \"IGN\". \"Generals\" has received the E3 2002 Game Critics Awards Best Strategy Game award. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, it sold over 100,000 units during the first half of 2003. This made it the United Kingdom's second-best-selling computer game for the period, or seventh across all platforms. At the time, Kristan Reed of GamesIndustry.biz wrote that its performance proved \"you can still have big hits on PC\". \"Generals\" received a \"Silver\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 100,000 copies in the United Kingdom. The game's \"Deluxe\" release received another \"Silver\" award from ELSPA.\n\nThe \"Generals\" series is banned in mainland China. Throughout the Chinese campaign, the player is occasionally made to utilize heavy-handed tactics such as leveling the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre after it becomes a GLA base and destroying the Three Gorges Dam to release a flood on GLA forces. Chinese forces also liberally use nuclear weaponry in-game, albeit restricted to the lower tactical nuclear weapon yield range. Furthermore, in the introduction of the game, Tiananmen Square and much of Beijing is destroyed by a stolen nuclear warhead.\n\nInitially, the game was released in Germany under its international title \"Command & Conquer: Generals\". However, due to the then imminent Iraq War, the Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende Medien (\"Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young People\") placed the game onto the \"\"List of Media Harmful to Young People\"\" two months after the initial release, which, by law, forbids further public advertising and any sale for people under 18 years of age. The BPjM stated that the game would give underage people the ability to play the war in Iraq before the real war had even begun. Additionally, the player would be able to kill civilians. Based on these two points the BPjM put the game on the Index, because they believed it glorified war.\nTherefore, sale to minors and marketing the original version of the game were prohibited throughout the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nDue to the ban, EA released in the middle of 2003 a regular title-localized German version specifically for the German market called \"Command & Conquer: Generäle\", which did not incorporate real world factions or any relation to terrorism. For example, the \"terrorist\" suicide bomber unit was transformed into a rolling bomb and all other infantry units were changed into \"cyborgs\" (e.g. Red Guard becomes Standard Cyborg) in order of appearance and unit responses similar to earlier releases of the \"Command & Conquer\" franchise.. The changes, particularly the cyborg generals, were ridiculed by the gaming community\n\nIn September 2003, an expansion pack called \"\" was released, which continues the story of \"Generals\". In December 2011, a sequel, \"Command & Conquer: Generals 2\", was announced, due to be released in 2013. On August 15, 2012, it was announced that \"Generals 2\" would be repurposed to a free-to-play game known as simply \"Command & Conquer\". The new game would have started with the \"Generals\" franchise and may have expanded to the rest of the franchise post-release. On October 29, 2013, it was announced on the game's website that it was ceasing production and that \"this version of the game\" would be cancelled, with refunds being issued for all money spent by consumers on the Alpha version. In November 2013, EA announced the game will still be developed by a new game studio, and customers who bought the \"Command & Conquer Ultimate Collection\" will still receive an invite to the Beta. EA is finding a new developer for the reboot.\n"}
{"id": "1913275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913275", "title": "Gulf Coast League Braves", "text": "Gulf Coast League Braves\n\nThe Gulf Coast League Braves are the rookie-level minor league baseball affiliate of the Atlanta Braves. The team plays at CoolToday Park in North Port. The team is composed mainly of players who are in their first year of professional baseball either as draftees or non-drafted free agents from the United States, Canada, Dominican Republic, Venezuela, and other countries.\n\nThe team traces its history to the earliest days of \"complex-based\" baseball. Initially based in Sarasota, Florida, it was a member of the short-lived Sarasota Rookie League (1964) and Florida Rookie League (1965), and was a charter club in the Gulf Coast League when it formed in 1966. The GCL Braves have operated from 1964 to 1967 and continuously since 1976.\n\nIn 2003, the Gulf Coast Braves won a best-of-three series to defeat the Gulf Coast Pirates and become the Gulf Coast League champions. They did not make the playoffs in 2006. In 2015, the Gulf Coast Braves finished second in the Northeast division with a 27–33 record. They were 9.5 games behind the division-winning GCL Tigers, and did not make the playoffs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913277", "title": "Patrick Nielsen Hayden", "text": "Patrick Nielsen Hayden\n\nPatrick James Nielsen Hayden (born Patrick James Hayden January 2, 1959 in Lansing, Michigan), is an American science fiction editor, fan, fanzine publisher, essayist, reviewer, anthologist, teacher and blogger. He is a World Fantasy Award and Hugo Award winner (with nine nominations for the latter award), and is an editor and the Manager of Science Fiction at Tor Books. He changed his last name to \"Nielsen Hayden\" on his marriage to Teresa Nielsen (now Teresa Nielsen Hayden) in 1979.\n\nHe was first active in science fiction fandom while living in Toronto in the early 1970s. He continued in Seattle, before moving to the New York area in the 1980s to work professionally in publishing. After moving to New York, he worked at Literary Guild as an editorial assistant, then at Chelsea House as an associate editor. He joined Tor Books in the mid-1980s as an assistant and has worked there ever since. He is also a writer, teacher, and musician. He plays guitar and sings on occasion for the New York rock band Whisperado. He currently lives in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nHe has published a number of essays and reviews. He has contributed to a number of books and magazines, including \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" (2nd edition, 1993) \"\".\n\nHe is one of the regular instructors at \"Viable Paradise\", a science fiction writing workshop held on Martha's Vineyard, and has also taught at both U.S. Clarion Workshops.\n\nHe used to be active on the Usenet groups rec.arts.sf.* in the 1990s. Since July 2000 he wrote a blog \"Electrolite\" until it was incorporated into his wife's blog \"Making Light\" in May 2005, where he now writes along with her, with \"Viable Paradise\" co-teacher, SF writer James D. Macdonald, and SF fans Avram Grumer and Abi Sutherland.\n\n\nFrom 1982 to 1987, he edited and published the science fiction fanzine \"Izzard\" with his wife Teresa Nielsen Hayden. He has worked on a number of other fanzines over the years, including \"Twibbet\", \"Thangorodrim\", \"Tweek\", \"Ecce Fanno\", \"Telos\", \"Zed\", and \"Flash Point\".\n\nThrough their small press, Ansatz Press, Patrick and Teresa Nielsen Hayden published Samuel R. Delany's \"Wagner/Artaud: A Play of 19th and 20th Century Critical Fictions\"\n\nFrom 1985 to 1989, he served on the editorial board of \"The Little Magazine\", a poetry magazine. In 1988, he was one of the founding editors of \"The New York Review of Science Fiction\", for which he did the basic design still in use today. He left the magazine after several issues.\n\n\nStarlight original science fiction & fantasy anthology series:\n\n\n\"Short Fiction\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1913283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913283", "title": "Splinter (Sneaker Pimps album)", "text": "Splinter (Sneaker Pimps album)\n\nSplinter is the second studio album by English electronic band Sneaker Pimps, released on 25 October 1999 through record labels Clean Up and Virgin.\n\nIt was the first album to feature founding member and principal songwriter Chris Corner on lead vocals, replacing the band's previous singer Kelli Dayton.\n\n\"NME\" described \"Splinter\" as \"a staunch refusal to cash in whatsoever on previous fame\" and \"the band's hangover after the long night of success brought by debut <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"Becoming X\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>. It’s faintly ugly and always a breath away from self-destruction, the vision of a band who've renounced smiling at people they hate and wrestled their collective soul back from the devil.\"\n\nAllMusic described the album's musical style as \"full of trancey, edgy psychedelia, interspersed with moments of blistering rock\" and \"an intricate album of trip-hop\".\n\nSongs recorded during the album sessions but not included on the album are \"Diving\" and \"Unattach\", which were included as bonus tracks on the Japanese edition and as B-sides on certain editions of the \"Low Five\" single, as well as \"Virgin\" and \"Perfect One\", B-sides to editions of the \"Ten to Twenty\" single.\n\nThe album cover displays a photograph of the back of frontman Chris Corner's head.\n\n\"Splinter\" was released on 29 October 1999 in the UK, Japan and Europe, through record labels Clean Up and Virgin. \"Splinter\" was not released in the United States, unlike the group's other two albums.\n\nTwo singles were released from the album: \"Low Five\" and \"Ten to Twenty\".\n\nThe album reached number 80 in the UK Albums Chart; the single \"Low Five\" reached number 39 on the UK Singles Chart, while \"Ten to Twenty\" reached number 56.\n\nThe band performed a live version of the album on Scottish TV show \"Boxed Set\" in 2000.\n\n\"NME\" was largely favourable towards the album, singling out Chris Corner's lyrics for praise: \"His abstract punctuation-free lyrics have the same bleak power as <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"OK Computer\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> – strangely meaningful without saying anything\", and calling \"Splinter\" \"as compelling as it is claustrophobic\". AllMusic, despite giving it a mediocre rating, described it as \"a superb disc\", \"every bit as original as any of their contemporaries\" as well as \"pleasantly low-key and occasionally brilliant.\"\n\n\n\nMore information can be found on \n"}
{"id": "1913317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913317", "title": "Willi Münzenberg", "text": "Willi Münzenberg\n\nWilhelm \"Willi\" Münzenberg (14 August 1889, Erfurt, Germany – June 1940, Saint-Marcellin, France) was a German Communist political activist. Münzenberg was the first head of the Young Communist International in 1919–20 and established the famine-relief and propaganda organization Workers International Relief in 1921. He was a leading propagandist for the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) during the Weimar Era, but later grew disenchanted with the USSR due to Joseph Stalin's Great Purge of the 1930s. Condemned by Stalin to be purged and arrested for treason, Münzenberg left the KPD and in Paris became a leader of the German émigré anti-fascism and anti-Stalinist community until forced to flee the Nazi advance into France in 1940. Arrested and imprisoned by the Daladier government in France, he escaped prison camp only to be found dead a few months later in a forest near the commune of Saint-Marcellin, France.\n\nMünzenberg was born 14 August 1889 in Erfurt, in the Prussian Province of Saxony (present-day Thuringia). The son of a tavern keeper, Münzenberg grew up in poverty. As a young man, he became involved with trade unions and in the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). When the SPD split in 1914 between the moderate Majority SPD (MSPD) and the radical Independent SPD (USPD) over the issue of World War I, Münzenberg sided with the USPD.\n\nDuring World War I, Münzenberg often visited Vladimir Lenin at his home in Zürich, Switzerland. In 1918, Münzenberg was a founding member of the KPD.\n\nMünzenberg was also the head of the Young Communist International and was the delegate of the YCI to the 2nd World Congress of the Communist International in 1920.\n\nIn 1924, Münzenberg was elected to the \"Reichstag\" as a KPD member. He served until the KPD was banned in 1933. Münzenberg was one of the few KPD leaders in 1933. Münzenberg was one of the few KPD leaders of working-class origin, which was a source of immense pride for Münzenberg.\n\nDuring the Weimar period, Münzenberg earned the reputation of a brilliant propagandist. His first major success was an effort to raise money and food for the victims of the Russian famine of 1921. Münzenberg was reputed to have raised millions of dollars for aid to the Soviet Union during the famine through his famous organization \"Internationale Arbeiter-Hilfe\" (IAH; \"Workers International Relief\"), based in Berlin. In 1924 he launched \"Arbeiter-Illustrierte-Zeitung\", which became the most widely read socialist pictorial newspaper in Germany. In addition, Münzenberg worked closely with the Comintern and the Soviet secret police (known as the Cheka in 1917–22 and as the OGPU in 1922–34) to advance the Communist cause internationally.\n\nTo broaden the Comintern's influence, Münzenberg created numerous front organizations, which he termed \"Innocents' Clubs\". These front groups, such the Friends of Soviet Russia, the World League Against Imperialism, and Workers International Relief, were superficially devoted to an undeniably benign cause such as famine relief, anti-imperialism, or peace, but Münzenberg created them to enlist the support of liberals and moderate socialists in defending the Bolshevik revolution. As he told a fellow Comintern member, \"These people have the belief they are actually doing this themselves. This belief must be preserved at any price.\" The front organizations, in turn, helped fund the acquisition of the Münzenberg Trust, a collection of small newspapers, publishing houses, movie houses, and theatres in locations around the world. Münzenberg, referred to by some as the \"Red Millionaire\", used the businesses to pay for a limousine and an elegantly furnished apartment for himself.\n\nAfter directing the Comintern's handling of the Sacco and Vanzetti case in 1925, Münzenberg took charge of the League against Imperialism, created in Brussels in 1927.\nThe World Congress Against War was held in Amsterdam on 27–29 August 1932 and was attended by more than 2,000 delegates from 27 countries.\nFollowing the meeting, Münzenberg formed the permanent World Committee Against War and Fascism, based in Berlin.\nThe Executive Committee of the Communist International was uncomfortable with Münzenberg's views and replaced him with Bulgarian Communist leader Georgi Dimitrov.\nEarly the next year, Adolf Hitler was appointed chancellor of Germany. The World Committee had to move its headquarters to Paris and Münzenberg resumed the leadership.\n\nDimitrov was arrested and tried on a charge of responsibility for the 1933 Reichstag fire.\nThe League Against Imperialism organised a countertrial, which concluded that the Nazis had set the fire themselves.\nAs he was barred from entering Britain at the time of the trial, Münzenberg went to the United States instead. He toured the northeastern and midwestern US in June 1934 with Welsh Labour figure Aneurin Bevan, his wife Babette Gross, and SPD lawyer Kurt Rosenfeld. Speaking at well-attended rallies at venues like Madison Square Garden and the Bronx Coliseum, he appeared alongside Sinclair Lewis and Malcolm Cowley.\nLater in 1934, Münzenberg's influence reached the antipodes when his Comintern machine sent Egon Kisch to the All-Australian Conference of the Movement Against War and Fascism (an Australian Communist Party front organization). What could have been a low-key visit from an unknown Czech writer quickly polarized Australian society when the Joseph Lyons government declared Kisch as \"undesirable as an inhabitant of, or visitor to, the Commonwealth\" and attempted to exclude Kisch from Australia. With the government unable to produce any legal proof that Kisch was a communist, its case collapsed, and Kisch became a popular speaker disseminating Münzenberg's Comintern message. However, attempts to foster a United Front against fascism in Australia eventually came to nothing.\n\nMünzenberg instructed his assistant, fellow Comintern agent Otto Katz, to travel to the United States to garner support for various pro-Soviet and anti-Nazi causes, as part of the 1935 Comintern Seventh World Congress' proclamation of a \"Peoples' Front Against Fascism\", aka the Popular Front. Katz made his way to Hollywood, and in July 1936 he formed the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League with Dorothy Parker. Many artists and writers in the U.S. flocked to join the Popular Front, the Anti-Nazi League, and related groups such as the League of American Writers, and movie stars such as Paul Muni, Melvyn Douglas, and James Cagney all agreed to sponsor the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League.\n\nMünzenberg lived intermittently in Paris from 1933 to 1940. He took a common-law wife, Babette Gross, a party member who had separated from her husband shortly after her marriage. It has been suggested that during his years in exile, Münzenberg had some role in recruiting Kim Philby to work for the Soviet Union, but there is no clear evidence. The argument for the theory is that Philby was recruited to work for Soviet intelligence by one of the Münzenberg Trust's front organizations, the World Society for the Relief of the Victims of German Fascism based in Paris.\n\nUntil 1936, Münzenberg remained loyal to Joseph Stalin and to the aims of Soviet foreign policy. In late 1936, fellow KPD exile Walter Ulbricht, who had parted ways with Münzenberg over the latter's refusal to carry out Stalin's directive to purge the KPD, urged him to take up an offer from Dimitrov, then residing in Moscow, to return there and assume other missions on behalf of the Comintern. Münzenberg refused, stating that he could not go to the Soviet Union unless he had assurances that he could leave Moscow when he was ready. He was also concerned that controls on his movements in Moscow and the inevitable delays in getting permission to visit others would greatly impede his work, and he may also have suspected that he would be implicated and liquidated in the same Stalinist purges his disinformation organizations had previously sought to obscure by propaganda statements. Ulbricht appears to have been well aware of Münzenberg's probable fate if he returned to Moscow since he had been communicating to Moscow reports on Münzenberg \"deviance\" from Stalinist orthodoxy. (One of Ulbricht's coworkers allegedly stated to a party cell, \"\"Wenn Münzenberg gefahren wäre, wäre er schon erschossen\"\" (\"If Münzenberg had gone [to Moscow], he would have already been shot by now\"). In Paris, Ulbricht revealed to Otto Klepper, the German jurist and former Prussian minister of finance, \"\"Wir schicken ihn nur nach Moskau, damit er erledigt wird\"\" (\"We're sending him to Moscow so that he is liquidated\").\n\nMunzenberg remained loyal to Stalin until 1936. Shortly after urging Münzenberg to visit Moscow, Ulbricht traveled to Republican Spain, where his work consisted of identifying \"disloyal\" German communists (anyone not totally loyal to Stalin) who were fighting on the Republican side in Spain; the men were either returned to the Soviet Union to face a tribunal or executed on the spot. From Spain, Ulbricht went directly to Paris, where, over protest from some Committee members, he began purging the Popular Front Committee (PFC) of individuals \"disloyal\" to Stalin. In less than two years \"virtually all the writers who had been willing to work closely with the Comintern and their publisher Willi Münzenberg would be driven out or murdered by the NKVD\".\n\nMünzenberg was becoming increasingly marginalized by the actions of his Stalinist opponents, and in an October 1937 letter to Dimitrov, he threatened to reveal every detail of his secret work for the Comintern to the public to show that he was being falsely accused. In the KPD, which was rapidly being reorganized to conform to Stalinist doctrine, Münzenberg was officially condemned as a traitor who had deviated from Marxism–Leninism. Münzenberg responded by resisting any attempt to expel him from the Communist movement, and his protests and arguments grew in acrimony and intensity. In late 1938, KPD chairman Wilhelm Pieck concluded during a meeting of party leadership, \"\"Hauptgefahr jetzt nicht Trotzkismus, sondern Münzenberg\"\" (\"The present danger is not Trotskyism but Münzenberg\"). Unknown to Münzenberg or the leaders of the KPD, his fate had already been determined in 1937 by Stalin. In that year, Dimitrov had noted in his diary of a private conversation with Stalin regarding Münzenberg in which Stalin had exclaimed, \"Münzenberg is a Trotskyist. If he comes (to Moscow), we will arrest him. Give some thought on how to best to lure him here.\"\n\nHaving been expelled from the German Communist Party (KPD) on trumped-up charges, Münzenberg finally moved into open opposition to Stalin. A final article on the disgraced propagandist in the Comintern journal \"Die Internationale\" warned, \"\"Unser fester Wille, die Einheit unter den Antifaschistischen herzustellen, unser Gefühl der Verantwortlichkeit vor dem deutschen Volk macht es uns daher zur Pflicht, vor Münzenberg zu warnen. Er ist ein Feind!\"\" (\"Our unshaking determination to unify anti-Fascists, our sense of duty before the German people, obliges us to warn them about Münzenberg. \"He is an enemy!\")\n\nBack in Paris, Münzenberg became a genuine leader of German émigré antifascism and a confirmed anti-Stalinist. His new journal, \"Die Zukunft\", was the intellectual forerunner of \"Encounter\" and other Cold War publications. Münzenberg continued to work on behalf of antifascist causes throughout Western Europe, where he played a role in recruiting volunteers and acquiring Soviet arms for the International Brigades which fought for the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nHowever, his time was running out. His closest professional associates in the party, Karl Radek, Heinz Neumann, and countless others were arrested and either shot or worked to death in Soviet concentration camps. Margarete Buber-Neumann, Heinz Neumann's wife and the sister of his common-law wife Babette Gross, was arrested and imprisoned in Karaganda. The NKVD eventually handed her over to Germany in 1940, inadvertently saving her life. After spending the war in the relative safety of Ravensbrück concentration camp, she fled at the end of the war, reaching safety with Anglo-American forces just ahead of the advancing Soviet troops.\n\nIn June 1940, Münzenberg fled from Paris, where he had been making anti-Nazi broadcasts, to escape the advance of German forces. While in the south of France, he was imprisoned by the Daladier government at \"Camp militaire de Chambaran\", an internment camp located in the great \"Forêt des Chambarans\" (Chambaran Forest) near the commune of Roybon, in southeastern France. There, another camp inmate, unknown to Münzenberg and his colleagues, befriended Münzenberg and proposed that the two of them escape in the chaos of the Armistice. Some sources believe the unknown communist was actually an agent of Lavrentiy Beria's NKVD. Münzenberg agreed, and he, the stranger, and several of Münzenberg's colleagues (including Valentin Hartig, a former SPD official, and Hans Siemsen, Münzenberg's \"Brown Books\" collaborator) fled southward, in the direction of the Swiss border . Münzenberg disappeared a few days later; it was the last anyone saw of him alive.\n\nOn October 17, 1940, in the Bois de Caugnet between Saint-Antoine-l'Abbaye and Montagne, near Saint Marcellin, French hunters discovered Münzenberg's partially decomposed corpse at the foot of an oak tree. The initial newspaper report stated that the cause of death was strangulation caused by a \"knotted cord\" but other sources state that the cause of death was a garrote (a weapon usually formed from a knotted rope or cord). The body was found resting upright on the knees, with a knotted cord draped over the skull. The knotted cord had apparently snapped soon after the body had been suspended from an overhead branch. The police investigation of the circumstances of his death, including the brief coroner's report, did not interrogate Münzenberg's fellow camp inmates, and cause of death was listed officially as suicide. However, several eyewitnesses at the prison camp, including Valentin Hartig and Hans Siemsen, reported that Münzenberg remained in high spirits both during his days at Chambaran and in the first days of his flight to freedom after which they lost sight of their comrade. That tends to support the conclusion that Münzenberg was intentionally killed, either by Soviet NKVD agents or by party members acting on Stalin's orders.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, members of Münzenberg's circle that had survived both Stalin's purges and the war were closely tracked by the \"Abteilung Personalpolitik\" of the \"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschland\" (SED), the predecessor to the Stasi, the state security service of East Germany. Among the most notable was the return to Paris of Münzenberg's former companion, Babette Gross, who, since 1940, had been living in Mexico with the former Prussian finance minister Otto Klepper and married him after returning to Paris in 1947. SED agents reported that Gross was \"spreading rumors\" that Münzenberg had been murdered by Soviet state security agents.\n\nAnother theory is that Münzenberg was killed by German agents working for the Gestapo, who had apparently infiltrated his organization in 1939. One of the most notable documents in the \"Bundesbeauftragte für die Stasi-Unterlagen\" (\"Federal Commissionn For Stasi Dcocuments\") archive is a letter referring to information obtained from the prewar \"Deutschen Institut für Militärgeschichte\" files in Potsdam. On 10 June 1969, the head of \"Hauptabteilung I\", Generalmajor Kleinjung , wrote to Erich Mielke, then Minister of State Security, The letter stated that there was proof that a secret agent of the Gestapo with the code name V 49 had infiltrated Münzenberg's group in 1939. The identity of the agent remains unknown. The widely circulated theory that he was executed by the NKVD was also countered by the theory of Wilhelm Leo's son, Gerhard, in his reminiscences of the French Resistance: that Wilhelm Leo escaped the Chambaran Internment Camp with Münzenberg and confirmed that he committed suicide, as confirmed by French investigators.\n\nArthur Koestler wrote 1949 about the death of Willi Münzenberg: He \"was murdered in the summer of 1940 under the usual lurid and mysterious circumstances; as usual in such cases, the murderers are unknown and there are only indirect clues, all pointing in one direction like magnetic needles to the pole\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913331", "title": "Sport in Uruguay", "text": "Sport in Uruguay\n\nSport in Uruguay has been an important part of Uruguayan culture, since the early start of the nation. Winners of such important awards such as the FIFA World Cup, the French Open, and Olympic medals, Uruguay has been a constantly successful sports nation in continental and world aspects.\n\nFootball (Spanish: \"fútbol\") is the most popular sport in Uruguay. Uruguay has won an Olympic gold medal in 1924, and another one in 1928, which were considered the most important tournaments in football, before the FIFA World Cup began in 1930, hence the four stars on the Uruguayan jersey. The first World Cup, which Uruguay won, was held in 1930 in Montevideo. The Estadio Centenario was built for the World Cup, and serves to this day as the country's main football stadium.\n\nUruguay also won the World Cup in 1950, beating Brazil in Rio de Janeiro at the Estádio do Maracanã. The event has had astounding impacts on the history of the sport, due to Brazil being a heavily favoured team at that time, and is also known as the \"Maracanazo\".\n\nUruguay produces well known football players such as Luis Suárez (FC Barcelona) and Diego Forlán. Another Uruguayan player, Sebastian \"El Loco\" Abreu, became an iconic figure in Uruguay, after chipping a goal during the penalty shootout, against Ghana during the 2010 FIFA World Cup quarter-finals.\n\nBasketball has risen as a competitive alternative to football and rugby, and the Uruguayan Basketball Federation boasts a proud early history. The Uruguay national basketball team was placed 6th in the first Olympic Games (Berlin in 1936), 5th in London in 1948, 3rd in Helsinki in 1952, 3rd in Melbourne in 1956, 8th in Rome in 1960, and 8th in Tokyo in 1964. After this successful run, the team did not qualify as finalists in any Olympic tournament, until the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, in which they earned 6th place. Uruguay has also won 12 South American championships, and participated in many Pan-American and World Championships. Uruguay was the host for the 1967 FIBA World Championship. And dud co-bid for the 2023 FIBA Basketball World Cup with Argentina but lost out to Philippines, Japan and Indonesia.\n\nThe \"Liga Uruguaya\" (Uruguay's top league) attracts many players from Argentina and Brazil. In the NBA, Esteban Batista is the only Uruguayan player to play in the league when he played for the Boston Celtics.\n\nWith a history dating back to the 1940s, rugby union is a popular recreational sport in Uruguay. The tragic crash of Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571, and the resulting books and films, \"\" and \"Alive\", brought Uruguayan rugby into the global limelight.\n\nRugby union is considered the third most popular sport in Uruguay after Football and Basketball.\n\nThe popularity of rugby increased significantly, after the national side qualified for the 1999 Rugby World Cup, and the subsequent 2003 Rugby World Cup, this saw a renewed interest in the sport and broad media coverage of the game. Uruguay secured a historic victory over a much more fancied Fiji at the 2019 Rugby World Cup, winning 30-27. This was followed by a string of strong performances against more favoured opposition. \n\nThe Uruguay national rugby union team, more commonly known as the \"Los Teros\" (southern lapwing), represent Uruguay at the international level. The team is governed by the Unión de Rugby del Uruguay, and are the second highest ranked team in South America, after Argentina, at 17th in the world.\n\nUruguayan rugby players such as Pablo Lemoine and Rodrigo Capó Ortega have enjoyed success in the professional European leagues.\n\nTennis is a mildly popular sport in Uruguay, although Uruguayan players have not been as successful as the Argentinian and Brazilians ones. Marcelo Filippini is Uruguay's most successful player, winning five singles titles, reaching the quarterfinals at the 1999 French Open, and achieving a rank of No. 30 in 1990. The Uruguay Davis Cup team currently competes in Group I of the Americas regional Zone, and the Uruguay Fed Cup team competes in Group I as well. Pablo Cuevas is currently the second highest-ranked Uruguayan male player.\n\nFour Uruguayan drivers competed in Formula Two: Eitel Cantoni, Asdrúbal Fontes Bayardo, Óscar González, and Alberto Uria. The latter two shared a ride at the 1956 Argentine Grand Prix and finished 6th. Gonzalo Rodríguez won the International Formula 3000 races at Nürburgring, Spa-Francorchamps, and Monaco, and finished 3rd in the 1998 and 1999 seasons. He got a ride in the CART World Series for Penske Racing, where he finished 12th in his debut, but was killed in a crash during practice for his second race.\n\nUruguay has been a major force in South American rally. The most notable driver is Gustavo Trelles, who won the FIA Group N World Cup four times straight from 1996 to 1999, finished runner-up in 1990, 2000, and 2001, and ranked 9th in the 1993 World Rally Championship season, with a best result of fourth in the Rally Argentina. The \"Rally del Atlántico\", held in the Maldonado department, is regularly included in the South American Rally Championship.\n\nThe two major purpose-built circuits are El Pinar and Mercedes, whereas several cities have hosted street races, including Montevideo, Punta del Este, and Piriápolis. Major Argentine and South American road course championship series have raced at those places, most notably the Turismo Carretera, TC 2000, Top Race, and Formula Three Sudamericana, and also international karting and motorcycling events. Conversely, Uruguayan drivers have raced in Argentina, most recently Juan Cáceres and José Pedro Passadore.\n\nCurrently, Uruguay has national championships for road course racing (both automobiles and motorcycles), rallying, motocross, and karting. NASCAR has offered a check to Uruguay so they can race the US in the Indy 500\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913333", "title": "Jagged array", "text": "Jagged array\n\nIn computer science, a ragged array, also known as a jagged array, is an array of arrays of which the member arrays can be of different sizes and producing rows of jagged edges when visualized as output. In contrast, two-dimensional arrays are always rectangular so jagged arrays should not be confused with multidimensional arrays, but the former is often used to emulate the latter.\n\nArrays of arrays in languages such as Java, PHP, Python (multidimensional lists), Ruby, C#.Net, Visual Basic.NET, Perl, JavaScript, Objective-C, Swift, and Atlas Autocode are implemented as Iliffe vectors.\n\nIn C# and Java jagged arrays can be created with the following code:\n\nint[][]c;\nc = new int[2][]; // creates 2 rows\nc[0] = new int[5]; // 5 columns for row 0\nc[1] = new int[3]; // create 3 columns for row 1\nIn C and C++, a jagged array can be created using the following code:\nint jagged_row0[] = {0,1};\nint jagged_row1[] = {1,2,3};\nint *jagged[] = { jagged_row0, jagged_row1 };\nIn C/C++, jagged arrays can also be created with an array of pointers:\nint *jagged[5];\n\njagged[0] = malloc(sizeof(int) * 10);\njagged[1] = malloc(sizeof(int) * 3);\nIn C++/CLI, jagged array can be created with the code:\n\nusing namespace System;\nint main()\n\nIn Python, jagged arrays are not native but one can use list comprehensions to create a multi-dimensional list which supports any dimensional matrix:\nmulti_list_3d = [[[] for i in range(3)] for i in range(3)]\n\nmulti_list_5d = [[[] for i in range(5)] for i in range(5)]\n\n[[Category:Arrays]]\n[[Category:Articles with example Python code]]\n"}
{"id": "1913356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913356", "title": "Bangladesh Civil Service", "text": "Bangladesh Civil Service\n\nBangladesh Civil Service (), more popularly known by its acronym BCS, is the civil service of the Government of Bangladesh. It originated from the Central Superior Services of Pakistan. Since independence it has been known by Act as Bangladesh Civil Service. Bangladesh Public Service Commission (BPSC) is the main policy setting and recruitment body of BCS. BCS has 28 cadre services. In the parliamentary democracy of Bangladesh, the ultimate responsibility for running the administration rests with the elected representatives of the people which are the ministers. But the handful of ministers cannot be expected to deal personally with the manifold problems of modern administration. Thus the ministers lay down the policy and civil servants carry out this policy.\n\nThe civil bureaucracy is a colonial legacy in this part of the world. The British used to rule the native population through Indian Civil Service (ICS) and most of the officers in ICS were British themselves. It was in the early 20th century that the Indians also started competing against the British and many Indians eventually made it to the ICS. With the partition of India in 1947, the term 'Central Superior Services' was used in Pakistan and the concept of All-Pakistan Services continued. After the independence of Bangladesh in 1971, Bangladesh Civil Service is formed to gear up the government system of the newly born country by an act from the then President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.\n\nBangladesh Public Service Commission a constitutional body established primarily recruit persons for various services and posts in the government. It is also involved in decision processes relating to other service matters such as promotion, posting, transfer, discipline, and appeal of the government servants. The main purpose of constituting such a body, designated in most countries of British heritage as 'civil' or 'public' service commission, is to ensure that all decisions relating to recruitment and other service matters are made consistent with the principles of merit and equity. In Bangladesh, this body is presently designated as the Bangladesh Public Service Commission (BPSC).\nA commission called Public Service Commission was first established in India in 1926, when it was entrusted with functions almost similar to those of its British counterpart in London, particularly in matters of recruitment of public servants of the central government of British India. Similar provincial level commissions were subsequently established, including the Bengal Public Service Commission in 1937, following the formation of responsible governments in the provinces in pursuance of provisions made in the Government of India Act, 1919, and thereafter in the Government of India Act, 1935. After the partition of India in 1947, replicas of the Public Service Commission in British India were created in Pakistan, both at central and provincial levels. Hence a body designated as Public Service Commission, Eastern Pakistan (renamed later East Pakistan Public Service Commission) came into being in East Bengal (later named East Pakistan) in August 1947.\nAfter the emergence of Bangladesh two separate commissions, namely the Public Service Commission (First), and the Public Service Commission (Second), were initially established in May 1972 under provisions made in President's Order No. 34 of 1972. But to give effect to the provisions on public service commissions in the constitution adopted in November 1972, a fresh Presidential Order (President's Order No. 25 of 1973) was promulgated in March 1973 which in effect formally regularized the establishment of the two commissions in existence since May 1972. However, in November 1977 the government promulgated another ordinance to establish a single commission in place of the existing two commissions, which, in effect, came into being on 22 December 1977 and was designated as Bangladesh Public Service Commission.\n\nThe Constitution of Bangladesh provides the fundamental law to construct The Bangladesh Public Service Commission (BPSC), a quasi judicial body that works under the provisions of the Article 137 – 141 of the Constitution of Bangladesh and certain other rules and regulations made by the government from time to time.\nBangladeshi Nationals are recruited through the provisions of the constitution from article 133 to 136 and article 29.\n\nThe highest ranking civil servant is the Chief of the Cabinet Secretariat of the People's Republic of Bangladesh who is also the Cabinet Secretary. He is ex-officio Chairman of the Superior Selection Board and head of all civil services under the rules of business of the Government of Bangladesh. He also holds the 12th position in the Warrant of Precedence of Bangladesh.\nCabinet Secretary is appointed from Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration) Cadre, known as Bangladesh Administrative Service.\n\nThe position holder is accountable for ensuring that the Civil Service is equipped with the skills and capability to meet the everyday challenges it faces and that civil servants work in a fair and decent environment.\n\nBangladesh Civil Service can be classified into two types- General Cadres and Technical/Professional Cadres.\n\nBCS Examination is the top most competitive job examination in Bangladesh. On an average, 150,000 to 225,000 candidates apply every year and the percentage of candidates appearing is more than 90%. Aspirants must complete a three-stage process, with a final success rate of about 2% for all cadres and 0.5% for general cadres, although it varies from years to years exam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913360", "title": "Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools", "text": "Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools\n\nThe Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools, or TAPPS, is an organization headquartered in the Lone Star Tower at Texas Motor Speedway Fort Worth, Texas. It was formerly headquartered at the Salado Civic Center in Salado, Texas.\n\nFounded in 1978, TAPPS governs athletic, fine arts, and academic contests for the majority of non-public high schools in Texas.\n\nAs of 2012 TAPPS organizes competitions for over 200 private schools in Texas.\n\nIn 2004 Darul Arqam, a Muslim school in Houston, submitted an application to join TAPPS. Khaled Katbi, who represented the school, had a meeting with TAPPS on November 4, 2004, and did not report any unusual questions. However the school subsequently received a letter which included a questionnaire with \"Why do you wish to join an organization whose membership is basically in total disagreement with your religious beliefs?\" and \"Why do you think that the current member schools of TAPPS will not be biased against your school, based on the fundamental difference in your religion and Christianity, since about 90% of TAPPS schools embrace Christianity?\" In response the American Civil Liberties Union of Texas stated that TAPPS should be investigated.\n\nIn 2010 Iman Academy Southwest, another Muslim school in Houston, submitted an application to join TAPPS. TAPPS responded by asking Iman to complete a questionnaire with questions like \"Historically, there is nothing in the Koran that fully embraces Christianity or Judaism in the way a Christian and/or a Jew understands his religion. Why, then, are you interested in joining an association whose basic beliefs your religion condemns?\" Iman Academy SW did not fill out the questionnaire and the attached application, and TAPPS denied Iman SW admission into the league. Iman SW did not appeal the decision.\n\nIn 2012 TAPPS came under harsh criticism after it refused to reschedule a semifinals basketball game scheduled for 9 p.m. on Friday March 2 despite the fact that Robert M. Beren Academy, an Orthodox Jewish school, asked that its players not play on Jewish Sabbath. The school had won the regional championship to advance for their first trip to the semi-finals. An appeal was made by Beren academy but denied by TAPPS under its bylaws set in the 1970s. TAPPS received legal pressure and pressure from Mayor Annise Parker of Houston as well as hundreds of letters. TAPPS eventually relented and allowed the game to be rescheduled under this pressure.\n\nThe controversies with the Muslim schools and Beren drew attention to the point where the Texas Catholic Conference called for a review of the association.\n\nIn 2015 the TAPPS Winter Division 1 Soccer State Championship Game was stopped by Trinity Christian Academy coaches and Athletic Director to protest a yellow card that was issued by the referee to a John Paul II player. The TCA AD left the field of play and met with the TAPPS Executive Director. They walked back to the JPII bench together and the TAPPS Executive Director issued an Administrative Red card to the player, over ruling the referee in charge of the game. This violates TAPPS section 134 \"NO PROTESTS. A protest base on a game or contest official's decision will not be considered\" and TAPPS section 27 \"...may not protest a contest judge's / referee's or other official's decision\". The cause of the controversy was that after scoring a goal to go up 1-0 with 32 minutes left in the game the player removed his jersey on the way to the bench and was issued a yellow card for this unsportsmanlike behavior. JPII was forced to play 10 v 11 for the remainder of the game and lost 1-2.\n\nLike the UIL, TAPPS aligns member schools into districts by geography and enrollment size for various contests. Each contest has a slightly different alignment based on the participating schools, but most follow the same basic framework. The districts are mostly decided behind closed doors by TAPPS every even year (in February, around the same time as the UIL's biannual redistricting), and are an attempt to keep schools within a certain distance of their home town when attending competitions. Like the UIL, the districts are the first progression to the state championship.\n\nSchools are further broken down with a letter classification to separate them from other schools of varying sizes. The purpose is ensure that schools compete only with others with similar size talent pools and resources. TAPPS's general classifications are 1A, 2A, 3A, 4A, 5A, and 6A; unlike the UIL, whose official designations are strictly alphabetic, TAPPS officially uses alphanumeric designations for its classifications. The largest schools are classified as 6A, and the smallest are known as 1A. However, TAPPS uses different classification schemes in some other competitions (also by enrollment; larger numbers indicate lower enrollment unless otherwise indicated):\nTAPPS includes 8 other sports under the normal 1A through 6A alignments:\n\nFor the 2018-2020 seasons, the general alignments were adjusted with an average enrollment cut-off of 380 for 6A, 218 for 5A, 141 for 4A, 100 for 3A, and 71 for 2A. Schools with an average enrollment of 70 and below are in 1A.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913363", "title": "M. G. Scroggie", "text": "M. G. Scroggie\n\nMarcus Graham Scroggie FIEE (1901–1989) was a British technical author active in the fields of radio and electronics.\n\nHe was born in Leytonstone, Essex in 1901, the only child of the Baptist minister, writer and theologian Dr W. Graham Scroggie. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh in 1922. He gained practical experience, in the still emerging technologies of radio and electronics, at Bruce Peebles Ltd and Creed Telegraph, before moving to Burndept Wireless Co - one of the original constituents of the pre-Reith British Broadcasting Company.\n\nHe served in World War II in the Royal Air Force (RAF) in command of Pevensey Bay radar station in East Sussex and from there became a lecturer at the RAF Radio School at Yatesbury, Wiltshire, as well as being tasked by the Air Ministry to take charge of all RAF secret radar and radio publications.\n\nAfter the War, he became a technical consultant and is known for more than 800 articles he contributed to 'Wireless World', often under the pseudonym 'Cathode Ray', as well as several books. He died in 1989.\n\nThough not as prolific a book writer as FJ Camm, Scroggie is chiefly remembered for his seminal work, \"Foundations Of Wireless\" [in later editions, \"… and Electronics\"]. Although this was originally written by A.L.M. Sowerby (and published in 1936 by Iliffe & Sons, London) its third edition of November 1941 was, 'Revised and enlarged by M.G. Scroggie B.Sc, M.I.E.E' and all subsequent editions bore Scroggie's name as author. An 11th revised edition was published by Newnes in 1997 as \"Scroggie's Foundations of Wireless & Electronics\", revised by SW and RS Amos, .\n\nNine editions of his \"Radio Laboratory Handbook\", first published in 1939, later \"Radio and Electronic Laboratory Handbook\", (last and 9th, 1980 edition coauthored by George Gordon Johnstone, ) were published.\n"}
{"id": "1913368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913368", "title": "Kibbeh", "text": "Kibbeh\n\nKibbeh (), also kubba and other spellings, is a Levantine dish made of bulgur, minced onions, and finely ground lean beef, lamb, goat, or camel meat with Middle Eastern spices (cinnamon, nutmeg, clove, allspice).\n\nOther types of kibbeh may be shaped into balls or patties, and baked, cooked in broth, or served raw. Kibbeh is considered to be the national dish of many Middle Eastern countries.\n\nKibbeh is a popular dish in Middle Eastern cuisine. Mainly, it is found in Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Jordan, Egypt (\"kobeiba\"), Iraq, as well as Armenia (\"kuefteh\"), Iran, Israel, Cyprus (\"koupes\") and in Turkey it is called \"içli köfte\".\n\nIt is also found throughout Latin American countries that received substantial numbers of immigrants from the Levant during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, as well as parts of North America.\n\nThe word is derived from the Classical Arabic \"kubbah\" (\"kibbeh\" in North Levantine Arabic), which means \"ball\". Various transliterations of the name are used in different countries: in English, \"kibbe\" and \"kibbeh\".\n\nIn Levantine cuisine, a variety of dishes made with bulghur (cracked wheat) and minced lamb are called \"kibbeh\". The northern Syrian city of Aleppo (Halab) is famous for having more than 17 different types. These include \"kibbeh\" prepared with sumac (\"kibbe sumāqiyye\"), yogurt (\"kibbe labaniyye\"), quince (\"kibbe safarjaliyye\"), lemon juice (\"kibbe ḥāmḍa\"), pomegranate sauce, cherry sauce, and other varieties, such as the \"disk\" \"kibbeh\" (\"kibbe arāṣ\"), the \"plate\" \"kibbeh\" (\"kibbe biṣfīḥa\" or \"kibbe bṣēniyye\") and the raw \"kibbeh\" (\"kibbeh nayyeh\").\n\n\"Kibbeh nayyeh\" is a raw dish made from a mixture of bulghur, very finely minced lamb or beef similar to steak tartare, and Middle Eastern spices, served on a platter, frequently as part of a \"meze\" in Lebanon and Syria, garnished with mint leaves and olive oil, and served with green onions or scallions, green hot peppers, and pita/pocket bread or \"markouk\" bread.\n\n\"Kubba Mosul\" from Iraq is flat and round like a disc. \"Kubba halab\" is an Iraqi version of kibbeh created with a rice crust and named after the largest city in Syria, Aleppo. \"Kubbat Shorba\" is an Iraqi-Kurdish version prepared as a stew, commonly made with tomato sauce and spices. It is often served with \"arak\" and various salads.\n\nA Syrian soup known as \"kubbi kishk\" consists of \"kubbi\" \"torpedoes\" or \"footballs\" in a yogurt (\"kishk\") and butter broth with stewed cabbage leaves. Another soup, known as \"kibbeh hamda\", consists of a chicken stock with vegetables (usually leeks, celery, turnips and courgettes), lemon juice and garlic, with small \"kibbeh\" made with ground rice as dumplings. In the Syrian Jewish diaspora this is popular both at Pesach and as the pre-fast meal on the day before Yom Kippur.\n\nOn Colombia's Caribbean coast, the most local variations of the dish use ground beef instead of lamb, but the original recipe, or one with mixture of beef and lamb, can be found served by the large Middle Eastern population of the zone. The dish has acquired almost vernacular presence and is frequently served in social occasions at both Arab and non-Arab households. When served as an adopted local dish, it is offered often as a starter along with other regional delicacies, including empanadas, tequeños and carimañolas.\n"}
{"id": "1913369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913369", "title": "Dudley Leavitt", "text": "Dudley Leavitt\n\nDudley Leavitt (August 31, 1830 – October 15, 1908) was an early patriarch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), a Mormon pioneer and an early settler in southern Utah.\n\nLeavitt was born in Hatley, Quebec, Canada. Although born in Canada, he came from a long line of early New Englanders. He was named for his ancestor Thomas Dudley, the founder of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and second colonial governor of Massachusetts. His ancestor John Leavitt, an early Massachusetts Puritan, was deacon of Old Ship Church in Hingham, Massachusetts, when it was built in the 17th century.\n\nLeavitt crossed the Great Plains on the Mormon trail as a young man. He was a member of the 1850 Milo Andrus Company, which left the outfitting post at Kanesville, Iowa (present day Council Bluffs) on June 3 and arrived in Salt Lake Valley on August 30, 1850. He is credited as one of the founders of settlements in Washington County, Utah.\n\nWhile Leavitt is cited in Jon Krakauer's bestseller, \"Under the Banner of Heaven\", as a participant in the Mountain Meadows massacre of 1857, Leavitt is said to have never discussed the massacre, except to have remarked later in life, \"I thank God that these old hands have never been stained by human blood.\" His granddaughter Juanita Brooks later investigated the Massacre, writing the seminal \"The Mountain Meadows Massacre\". On the role of her grandfather, Brooks seemed ambivalent. \"We can only wonder as to Dudley's relation to the Massacre,\" Brooks wrote of him. Brooks also devoted a book to her ancestor entitled \"On the Ragged Edge: The Life and Times of Dudley Leavitt\".\n\nLater in his life, Leavitt became pivotal in dealing with the Indian tribes of southern Utah on behalf of the Mormon settlers. He was credited by Brooks for having intervened with the Indians in Southern Utah, preventing an attack on non-Mormon settlers. Leavitt married several wives and spent a decade hiding from federal officers seeking to apprehend polygamists.\nLeavitt died in Bunkerville, Nevada, near Mesquite, in 1908. Although polygamy had been outlawed, he never abandoned his several families, according to historians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913371", "title": "100 höjdare", "text": "100 höjdare\n\n100 höjdare (\"100 Highlights\") was a Swedish TV series which was produced and aired on Kanal 5. Six seasons of the show were produced and it ran from 2004 to 2008. It was hosted by the comedy duo Filip Hammar & Fredrik Wikingsson.\n\nIn the first three seasons the hosts presented funny moments, often in the form of video clips, listing their 100 all-time favorites. In season two and three they also discuss the clips with celebrity guests. By season four the format changed and instead of showing clips, Filip and Fredrik made impromptu interviews with people, often in their homes.\n\nThe first season, \"Sweden's 100 Funniest Moments\", first aired on 5 September 2004 and consisted of nine 25 minute episodes. Wikingsson and Hammar presented the clips in a summer-themed outdoor environment.\n\nThe show lists funny moments and people that are not intended to be funny, i.e., no sketches or jokes, etc. The clips are chosen by the hosts and reflect their kind of humour. The well known Swedish sports commentator Bosse Hansson gave voice-overs on the video clips and animations illustrating the funny moments in the first two seasons. The theme song is \"Pretty Belinda\" by Hammar, Wikingsson and their producer André Linschooten. The trio called themselves \"Fille and the Fittpippers\" when releasing the song; the song was originally made by Chris Andrews.\n\nSeason two, first aired on 7 March 2005, consisted of ten 45 minute episodes. The theme for season two was \"The World's 100 Funniest Moments\". The production was now a bit more expensive and the show took place in a studio with live audience and one or two invited guests for each show. Season two featured a part of the programme entitled \"Luca's Ladder\", in which Wikingson & Hammars' gay Italian friend Luca Brasi presented one of his favourite clip from the first season.\n\nDespite its title, season three of 100 höjdare consisted of eight different top ten lists, making it only 80 highlights. As in season two, each episode is 45 minutes and takes place in a studio with guests commenting the clips. Season three first aired on 21 November 2005.\n\nIn season four, Fredrik and Filip try to find Sweden's 100 most original people. The winner of each show was invited for a grand finale where an overall winner was selected. Season four first aired on 28 August 2006. Season five, airing in 2007, was similar to season four, but included people from all over Scandinavia.\n\nIn season six, first aired on 17 March 2008, they travel around America trying to find \"100 reasons to love the United States\" in the form of very unusual people. In the last episode, similar to season four and five, they crown \"America's most extraordinary person\".\n"}
{"id": "1913376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913376", "title": "Vertex Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Vertex Pharmaceuticals\n\nVertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is an American biopharmaceutical company based in Boston, Massachusetts. It was one of the first biotech firms to use an explicit strategy of rational drug design rather than combinatorial chemistry. It maintains headquarters in South Boston, Massachusetts, and three research facilities, in San Diego, California, and Milton Park, near Oxford, England.\n\nVertex was founded in 1989 by Joshua Boger and Kevin J. Kinsella.\n\nThe company's beginnings were profiled by Barry Werth in the 1994 book, \"The Billion-Dollar Molecule\" and it's further developed in his 2014 book, \"The Antidote: Inside the World of New Pharma\".\n\nBy 2004, its product pipeline focused on viral infections, inflammatory and autoimmune disorders, and cancer.\n\nIn 2009, the company had about 1,800 employees, including 1,200 in the Boston area. By 2019 there were about 2,500 employees.\n\nSince late 2011, Vertex has ranked among the top 15 best performing companies on the Standard & Poor's 500. Vertex shares increased 250 percent in the same period. In January 2014, Vertex completed its move from Cambridge, Massachusetts to Boston, Massachusetts, and took residence in a new, $800 million complex. Located on the South Boston waterfront, it marked the first time in the company's history that all of the roughly 1,200 Vertex employees in the Greater Boston area worked together.\n\nOn 23 January 2019, Ian Smith, the COO and interim CFO of Vertex was terminated from his position for undisclosed personal behavior that violated established company code of conduct rules. In June of the same year, Vertex announced it would acquire Exonics Therapeutics for up to $1 billion and collaborate with CRISPR Therapeutics, boosting its development of treatments for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1.\n\nIn September 2019 the company announced it would acquire Semma Therapeutics for $950 million in cash. Semma Therapeutics created a \"small, implantable device that holds millions of replacement beta cells, letting glucose and insulin through but keeping immune cells out.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2020, former Chief Medical Officer, Reshma Kewalramani, became President and Chief Executive Officer of Vertex Pharmaceuticals. Former CEO and President Jeffrey Leiden transitioned to the role of Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, as of 1 April 2020. Dr. Leiden will serve as Executive Chairman until April 2023.\n\nIn 2012 ivacaftor, was designated as an orphan drug, identifying cystic fibrosis as affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. On 31 January 2012, Vertex gained FDA approval of the first drug, Kalydeco, to treat the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis rather than the symptoms, in patients 6 years or older who have the G551D gene mutation. In the US, 30,000 people have cystic fibrosis. \n\nAbout 4% of those, or 1,200, have the G551D gene mutation. In 2017 Vertex marketed the drug for $311,000 per year. \n\nVertex also studied ivacaftor in combination with another drug (lumacaftor) for the most common mutation in cystic fibrosis (CF), known as F508del, and published the first set of results in 2012. Vertex produced the drug after 13 years of research and development, with $70 million in support from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation.\n\nIn the UK, the company provided the drug free for a limited time for certain patients. Subsequently, the hospitals decided to continue to pay for the drug for those patients. UK agencies estimated the cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) at between £335,000 and £1,274,000—far above the NICE thresholds of £20,000-£30,000.\n\nOn 5 November 2014 Vertex announced the submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for a fully co-formulated combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor for people with cystic fibrosis ages 12 and older who have two copies of the F508del mutation in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. In 2015, FDA approved the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor to treat CF in patients 12 years and older, who have the F\"508del\" mutation. The combination drug is marketed under the tradename Orkambi.\n\nOn 28 March 2017, Vertex announced Phase 3 data from a dual combination treatment, tezacaftor plus ivacaftor, in patients with cystic fibrosis. On 12 February 2018, the FDA approved the combination, marketed as Symdeko.\n\nIn 2016, Vertex began developing a new group of CFTR modulators in combination with tezacaftor and ivacaftor. In 2017, the company reported results that showed benefits for patients with different mutations that represent 90% of the CF population.\nOn 22 October 2019, the FDA approved Vertex's Triple-combo therapy \"TRIKAFTA (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor)\" for patients 12 and older with at least one F508del mutation. This approval came only 2 months after the NDA was filed. Trikafta is approved for approximately 90% of patients with cystic fibrosis.\n\n\n\nIn 2014, Vertex discontinued telaprevir. In May 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the drug telaprevir (Incivek), an oral treatment for hepatitis C marketed by Vertex. Development and commercialization of telaprevir is shared with Johnson & Johnson for European distribution and Mitsubishi for Asia. Telaprevir is a protease inhibitor.\n\nIn 2015, several media outlets reported CEO Jeffrey Leiden's 2014 compensation to be approximately US$48.5 million. Vertex shareholders opted for a reduction in CEO compensation in 2015 and 2016, resulting in 2016 earnings of US$17.4 million.\n\nCriticism of Vertex-based around claims that the pricing of their groundbreaking cystic fibrosis drug Orkambi (priced at to per patient per year, depending on the patient's country), limited access to the drug for children and young adults with cystic fibrosis, resulted in campaigns by concerned parent groups and allegations of unfair pricing by the UK's National Health Service.\n\nIn March 2019, Vertex was legally required to destroy 7,880 packs of Orkambi that reached their expiry dates during negotiations with the NHS concerning the drug's pricing.\n\nOn October 24, 2019, Vertex reached an agreement with NHS England which provided improved access to all of the pharmaceutical company's cystic fibrosis medications that are already licensed, such as Orkambi, Symkevi and Kalydeco, and any future indications of these medicines. The deal was finalized soon after Vertex signed reimbursement deals elsewhere, including NHS Scotland, Spain and Australia. The NHS in Wales and Northern Ireland will be offered equivalent pricing terms.\n\nIn the late 1990s the Bethesda-based Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, encouraged by then-President Robert Beall, began investing in Vertex— when it was a small start-up biotechnology company— to help fund the development of Kalydeco in the form of venture philanthropy. The total investment amounted to $150 million. In 2014, the CF Foundation sold the rights to the royalties of the drugs for $3.3 billion, twenty times the foundation's 2013 budget. Proponents of venture philanthropy say the high financial return helps speed drug development and also provides potential monetary rewards that can go to more research.\n\nBy 2015 the annual price of Kalydeco had been increased to more than $300,000 per patient.\n\nAccording to an article published in the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" Vertex executives \"grossed more than $100 million by cashing in stocks and stock options\" and at \"one point, the value of company's stock increased more $6 billion in a single day.\"\n\nTwenty-nine physicians and scientists working with people with cystic fibrosis (CF) wrote to Jeff Leiden, CEO of Vertex Pharmaceuticals to plead for lower prices.\n\nThe company responded in an email that \"while publicly funded academic research provided important early understanding of the cause of cystic fibrosis, it took Vertex scientists 14 years of their own research, funded mostly by the company, before the drug won approval.\"\n\nOn 15 April 2015 in Cambridge, MA, Joan Finnegan Brooks of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, spoke about the role of Vertex and venture philanthropy to a panel of biotech leaders hosted by Life Sciences Foundation on the topic of patient advocacy in the biotech industry. While Brooks, who has Cystic Fibrosis, expressed gratitude for Vertex' development of Kalydeco, she observed that \"More than 25% of people are saying (in a surveys conducted by the CFF) that they are skipping medications or delaying medications or skipping doctor appointments because of cost of care issues.\" She added that \"one of the things that the Foundation has done,\" is to \"develop resources that can help patients bridge that gap through patient access programs, and so forth.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913377", "title": "Jerry Yanover", "text": "Jerry Yanover\n\nJerald \"Jerry\" Yanover (January 3, 1947 – July 26, 2009) was a political advisor in Canada.\n\nFor several decades, Yanover was the leading advisor to the Liberal Party of Canada House Leader. He was considered to be one of Canada's foremost experts on parliamentary procedure. While not a public figure, he played a central role in Canadian politics for many years. \"Maclean's\" magazine once stated that \"Yanover is to Liberalism what Yoda is to the Jedi Council.\"\n\nBorn in Erie, Pennsylvania, the son of Gordon and Katherine Yanover, Yanover grew up in Kingston, Ontario. He was one of three siblings (sisters Judy and Gail).\n\nHe first came to Parliament Hill as a tour guide at age eighteen. After obtaining a political science degree from Queen's University, he returned to Parliament Hill in 1969 as assistant to Liberal House Leader Donald Macdonald.\n\nHe continued to serve as an advisor to the House Leader. He planned to retire after the 2004 election, but chose to remain to help the minority government. One of his greatest successes was arranging the votes on the 2005 federal budget, and preventing the defeat of the government on numerous votes of non-confidence. As a result of Yanover's efforts, the Liberal government survived the turbulent spring of 2005.\n\nYanover died in his Ottawa apartment where he lived with his Norwich Terrier, Opie. He was 62. His funeral service was held at the Jewish Memorial Chapel in Ottawa on July 29, 2009 with interment in Belleville, Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "1913378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913378", "title": "Liaodong Bay", "text": "Liaodong Bay\n\nLiaodong Bay () is largest and longest of the three main bays (along with Laizhou Bay to the south and the Bohai Bay to the southwest) of the Bohai Sea, the innermost gulf of the Yellow Sea.\n\nAlthough named after the Liaodong Peninsula (which forms its eastern shore), the bay is located directly south of the Liaoxi region, almost entirely west of the Liao River. It is bounded by the coastline of cities from southern Liaoning province (Dalian, Yingkou, Panjin, Jinzhou and Huludao) and eastern Hebei province (Qinhuangdao and Tangshan), between the Laotieshan Cape at Dalian's Lüshunkou District in the east, and the Daqing River estuary (which is an old southern mouth of Luan River) at Tangshan's Laoting County in the west.\n\nThe major rivers that drain into the Liaodong Bay include Luan River, Daling River, Xiaoling River, Liao River and Daliao River.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913379", "title": "WTNH", "text": "WTNH\n\nWTNH, virtual channel 8 (VHF digital channel 10), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to New Haven, Connecticut, United States and serving the Hartford–New Haven television market. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with MyNetworkTV affiliate WCTX (channel 59), also licensed to New Haven. The two stations share studios on Elm Street in downtown New Haven and transmitter facilities in Hamden, Connecticut. However, master control and some internal operations are based at Springfield, Massachusetts-licensed Nexstar sister station and NBC affiliate WWLP's studios in Chicopee.\n\nWTNH first went on the air on June 15, 1948 as WNHC-TV, originally broadcasting on channel 6. The station was founded by the Elm City Broadcasting Corporation, owners of WNHC radio (1340 AM, now WYBC; and 99.1 FM, now WPLR). Elm City Broadcasting founded WNHC radio in December 1944 and was principally owned by Patrick J. Goode, U.S. postmaster for New Haven; Garo W. Ray, Chief Engineer; and Aldo DeDominicis, a radio salesperson. The station is Connecticut's oldest television outlet.\n\nWNHC-TV was originally an affiliate of the DuMont Television Network, and claims to have been the first full-time station of that short-lived network. The station originally broadcast from WNHC radio's building on Chapel Street in downtown New Haven. However, with no studio facilities of its own, it could not produce local programming. For a time, WNHC-TV simply rebroadcast the signal of DuMont's New York City flagship, WABD (now Fox flagship WNYW). In October 1948, the station added CBS programming to its schedule, and additional secondary affiliations with NBC and ABC followed a year later. The station was the first in the country to use videotape for local programming and one of the first to broadcast in color.\n\nWhen the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s \"Sixth Report and Order\" ended the four-year freeze on television construction permit awards in 1952, it also reorganized channel allocations to alleviate interference issues. As a result, WNHC-TV changed frequencies and moved to channel 8 in December 1953. The next year, the FCC collapsed New Haven and Hartford into a single market. WNHC-TV shared some CBS programming with New Britain's WKNB-TV (channel 30, now NBC owned-and-operated station WVIT) until 1955, since WKNB's signal was not strong enough to cover New Haven at the time.\n\nIn 1956, the WNHC stations were purchased by Philadelphia-based Triangle Publications. Also that same year, WNHC-TV lost its CBS affiliation when that network purchased WGTH-TV in Hartford (channel 18, later WHCT and now Univision affiliate WUVN). This left channel 8 as a sole ABC affiliate, although it shared ABC programming with WATR-TV (channel 20, now WCCT-TV) in nearby Waterbury until 1966. Under Triangle ownership the WNHC stations moved to a new studio facility, on College Street in downtown New Haven, around 1960.\n\nUntil the original WTIC-TV (channel 3, now WFSB) signed on from Hartford in September 1957, WNHC-TV was the only station on the VHF dial in Connecticut. Many viewers northeast of Hartford used outdoor antennas to get spotty reception of CBS and NBC programs from Boston, while those southwest of Hartford with outdoor TV antennas got great to excellent reception from their respective New York City flagship stations, which were local channels to most of Connecticut. By contrast, most of Connecticut got a clear picture and pitch-perfect sound from channel 8.\n\nTriangle was forced to sell its broadcast outlets in 1970 after then-Pennsylvania Governor Milton J. Shapp complained the company had used its Pennsylvania stations in a smear campaign against him. The WNHC stations were among the first batch to be sold, going to Capital Cities Communications, along with its sister stations in Philadelphia (WPVI-TV) and Fresno (KFSN-TV) in a deal that would be finalized in 1971. However, Capital Cities could not keep the radio stations because of the FCC's then-restrictions on ownership, resulting in WNHC-AM-FM being spun off to separate third parties. WNHC-TV changed its call letters to the current WTNH-TV in April 1971, not long after Capital Cities officially took over (the station dropped the \"-TV\" suffix from its calls in 1985, but continued to call itself \"WTNH-TV\" on-air well into the 1990s). The station later relocated for a second time in May 1983, into its present studio facility on Elm Street.\n\nOn March 19, 1985, Capital Cities announced its intention to buy ABC in a deal that would stun the broadcast industry. As part of the deal, Capital Cities was required to sell WTNH and WPVI due to a significant signal overlap with ABC's New York flagship station, WABC-TV. Like the other major stations in Connecticut, WTNH's signal reaches Fairfield County and most of Long Island, both of which are part of the New York City market. At the time, the FCC normally did not allow common ownership of two stations with overlapping coverage areas, and would not even consider granting a waiver for a city-grade overlap (the FCC began allowing common ownership of two stations with overlapping coverage areas in 2000). WPVI was granted a waiver to be sold to ABC despite CBS owning its overlapping New York and Philadelphia stations. WTNH (which was not part of the deal) was sold to Cook Inlet Television Partners, a subsidiary of Cook Inlet Region, Inc. (an Alaska Native Regional Corporation); the deal was eventually completed in January 1986. During the mid-1980s, the syndicated \"Sally Jessy Raphael\" talk show originated from the WTNH studios in New Haven, until the show moved to New York City later in the decade.\n\nCook Inlet sold WTNH to LIN Television in 1994. When a new UHF station in New Haven, WTVU (channel 59, now WCTX) signed on in April 1995 as a WB affiliate, WTNH began operating the station through a local marketing agreement (LMA); prior to WTVU's launch, WTNH held a temporary secondary WB affiliation, airing its programming (which at the time consisted solely of a Wednesday primetime lineup) Saturdays in late night. In 2001, LIN TV bought WCTX outright. On May 18, 2007, the company announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives that could have resulted in the sale of the company. On March 21, 2014, Media General announced that it would purchase LIN Media and its stations, including WTNH and WCTX, in a $1.6 billion merger. The merger was completed on December 19.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire the Meredith Corporation for $2.4 billion, with the combined group to be renamed Meredith Media General if the sale had been finalized. Because Meredith already owned WFSB, and the two stations ranked among the four highest-rated stations in the Hartford–New Haven market in total day viewership, the companies would have been required to sell either WTNH or WFSB to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as recent changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations that restrict sharing agreements; WCTX would have been the only one of the three stations affected by the merger that could legally be acquired by Meredith Media General, as its total day viewership ranked below the top-four ratings threshold. However, on January 27, 2016, Nexstar Broadcasting Group announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Media General (which was approved on January 17, 2017), resulting in the termination of Meredith's acquisition by Media General.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Chicago-based Tribune Media—which has owned Fox affiliate WTIC-TV (channel 61) since 1996 and CW affiliate WCCT-TV (channel 20) since 2001—for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar was required to sell two of the stations (including one ranking in the top four in ratings) to a separate, unrelated company to comply with FCC ownership rules. On March 20, 2019, it was announced that Nexstar would keep the WTNH/WCTX duopoly and sell the WTIC/WCCT duopoly to McLean, Virginia-based Tegna Inc. as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Tegna and the E. W. Scripps Company in separate deals worth $1.32 billion; this would make the WTIC/WCCT duopoly the first television properties in Connecticut and southern New England for Tegna.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWTNH shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 8, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition VHF channel 10, using PSIP to display WTNH's virtual channel as 8 on digital television receivers.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, WTNH once had carriage in portions of northeastern New Jersey in Bergen County and much of Suffolk County on Long Island.\n\nIn addition to the ABC network schedule, syndicated programming broadcast on WTNH include \"Jeopardy!\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Dr. Phil\" and \"Judge Judy\", among others.\n\nWTNH presently broadcasts 48 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6 hours on weekdays and 4½ hours each on Saturdays and Sundays) among both WTNH and WCTX. In addition to its main studios, WTNH operates a New London Bureau in \"The Day\" newsroom on Eugene O'Neill Drive and a Hartford Bureau on Columbus Boulevard. Along with regional NOAA National Weather Service radar data, the station operates its own weather radar near its transmitter site in Hamden. Together, these two sources are called \"SkyMax Doppler Network\". This can be seen via live video with audio from the National Weather Service on WTNH's website.\n\nFor over a quarter century, the station used the \"Action News\" format made famous at former Philadelphia sister station WFIL-TV (which became WPVI-TV and is now an ABC O&O), using the same \"Move Closer to Your World\" music and graphics packages as WPVI. It rebranded as \"NewsChannel 8\" in 1996.\n\nFor most of the last half-century, WTNH has been a distant runner-up in the overall Connecticut market to dominant WFSB. However, in recent times, it has had to fend off a spirited challenge from WVIT. Since the turn of the millennium, the two stations have regularly traded the runner-up spot. However, WTNH appears to have higher ratings in southern and coastal Connecticut. Historically, WTNH's ratings for news and local programming are far higher in Nielsen's \"Metro B\" area of New Haven County than \"Metro A\" containing Hartford County.\n\nSince 2000, WTNH has been producing a nightly prime time newscast at 10:00 p.m. on WBNE/WCTX. It has competed right from the start with WTIC-TV's 10:00 p.m. broadcast, which established itself as a viewer favorite since it debuted in 1989. As of the February 2008 ratings period, WTIC's weeknight newscast is actually the most watched late news broadcast in the market, even gathering more viewership than the 11:00 p.m. newscasts on Connecticut's Big Three stations. In 2005, WCTX began simulcasting the second hour of WTNH's weekday morning show at 6:00 a.m. followed by a third hour from 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m. that was seen exclusively on WCTX, except for simulcast \"Good Morning America\" cut-ins on WTNH. The simulcast of the 6:00 a.m. hour was eventually dropped. The 7:00 a.m. hour received competition on March 3, 2008 when WTIC launched its own weekday morning show.\n\nIts weekday noon newscast was originally an hour long, but was reduced to 30 minutes on February 23, 2009 when a new lifestyle/entertainment magazine show known as \"Connecticut Style\" was added at 12:30 p.m. On January 12, 2015, CT Style was added at 9:00 a.m. and the noon newscast become an hour long. On April 26, 2010, WTNH re-branded from \"News Channel 8\" to \"News 8\". In addition, WTNH began broadcasting its newscasts in widescreen enhanced definition, with WCTX's newscasts and \"Connecticut Style\" being included in the upgrade. On October 4, 2010, WTNH became the third station in the market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. WCTX's newscasts also made the transition, while \"Connecticut Style\" made the transition in 2015.\n\nOn January 2, 2017, \"Good Morning Connecticut\" was expanded to start at 4:30 a.m. while the noon newscast was shortened to 30 minutes. \"Connecticut Style\" was also cut to a half hour.\n\nOn March 30, 2020, WTNH planned to launch an expansion of WCTX's primetime newscast to the three-hour entirety of primetime on weeknights and 90 minutes on weekends. This quickly shifted to launching on March 16 instead to provide continuing coverage of the local impact of the coronavirus pandemic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913403", "title": "Paul Le Guen", "text": "Paul Le Guen\n\nPaul Joseph Marie Le Guen (, ; born 1 March 1964) is a French professional football manager and former player. He is the manager of Ligue 2 club Le Havre.\n\nDuring his playing career, Le Guen enjoyed a successful stay with Paris Saint-Germain between 1991 and 1998, and won 17 caps for the France national team. As a manager, his most notable achievement has been winning the Ligue 1 title in each of his three seasons in charge of Lyon between 2002 and 2005.\n\nLe Guen was born in Pencran, Finistère. During his playing career, he played at Stade Brest for five years and Nantes Atlantique for two years, before leaving his home region of Brittany for Paris Saint-Germain. In seven seasons at the Parc des Princes, he made 478 appearances, winning a league title, three French Cups, two League Cups and the Cup Winners' Cup medal in 1996. Le Guen scored the winning goal in the 1995 Coupe de France Final against Strasbourg.\n\nAt international level, Le Guen played 17 times for France, due to injuries and he was part of the team which lost out on a trip to the 1994 FIFA World Cup, along with Eric Cantona and David Ginola. He ended his playing career by taking part in a friendly where Brittany faced Cameroon on 21 May 1998. The match finished in a 1–1 draw.\n\nLe Guen had a successful managerial career in France, most notably leading Olympique Lyonnais to three consecutive Ligue 1 titles. He has also managed Stade Rennais, Paris Saint-Germain, Rangers, the Cameroon national team, the Oman national team, Bursaspor and Le Havre. In July 2016, he was to be named manager of the Nigeria national team, but didn't agree to the contract terms.\n\nDuring his time at Rennes between 1998 and 2001, Le Guen was noted for signing then unknown players, such as Shabani Nonda and El Hadji Diouf, who under his guidance, developed into talented footballers. He resigned from Rennes in 2001 after a fall-out with the club's board. This led to him taking a year off from football.\n\nLe Guen replaced Jacques Santini as manager of Olympique Lyonnais on 21 May 2002 after they captured their first league title. Le Guen experienced a grim start to his managerial career at Lyon, winning only three games of the first nine, but eventually took Lyon to a further three consecutive championships and reached the UEFA Champions League quarter-final. He resigned from his position at Lyon on 9 May 2005, the day after the club won their fourth consecutive Ligue 1 championship, with Gérard Houllier taking over.\n\nAfter leaving the club, Le Guen embarked upon another year away from football management. During this time, he turned down management positions at several top European clubs, including Benfica and Lazio, and also stated that he would not return to manage his former club Paris Saint-Germain.\n\nOn 11 March 2006, it was confirmed that Le Guen had agreed to replace Alex McLeish as manager of Rangers starting in the 2006–07 season. Le Guen signed a three-year contract with the option to extend his stay at Ibrox, and quickly acquired a number of players.\n\nHowever, Le Guen made a poor start to his Ibrox career. His record across his first ten league games was the worst start to a season by an Old Firm debutant since John Greig's team won only two, drew six and lost two of their opening ten games in 1978–79.\n\nOn 8 November, Rangers were knocked out of the Scottish League Cup at the quarter-final stage by First Division side St Johnstone. The result, the first time Rangers had been knocked out of a cup tournament by a lower league side at home, prompted protests outside Ibrox and demands for the situation to improve.\n\nOn 1 January 2007, Rangers announced that Le Guen had stripped Barry Ferguson of his captaincy of the club and dropped him from the squad for a match the following day. \"BBC Sport\" reported that Ferguson would not play for Rangers again under Le Guen.\n\nClub chairman David Murray announced on 4 January 2007 that Le Guen had left Rangers by mutual consent. At the time, this made him the club's shortest-serving manager, and the only one to leave the club without completing a full season in charge.\n\nLe Guen's European record with Rangers has been described as being 'excellent' after remaining unbeaten in the 2006–07 UEFA Cup and finishing at the top of their group. However, it was the poor domestic results that ultimately led to his departure.\n\nIt was announced on 15 January 2007 that Le Guen would return to the club he once skippered as a player as first team coach replacing Guy Lacombe at Paris Saint-Germain. When Le Guen arrived, PSG were lying 17th in Ligue 1 but he led them to safety in his first season finishing 15th. As the 2007–08 season in Ligue 1 unfolded, it was clear that Le Guen was getting inconsistent performances from the crop of players, as the club was in the relegation zone with four games in the league season remaining, while winning the Coupe de la Ligue after beating Lens with 2–1, as well as qualifying for the final of the Coupe de France. Winning the Coupe de la Ligue guaranteed the side a place in the UEFA Cup for the 2008–09 season. PSG announced on 5 May 2009 that Le Guen would not be offered a new contract and would leave at the end of the 2008–09 season.\n\nLe Guen was named Cameroon national football team manager on 15 July 2009, penning a six-month contract. He made an immediate impact by leading the team to qualification for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Le Guen also stripped veteran defender Rigobert Song of the captaincy and the appointment of Samuel Eto'o as the new captain. Both players responded well to the change with Eto'o scoring goals, and Song winning back his starting spot as the Lions qualified for the finals. However, Cameroon were the first team officially knocked out of the 2010 World Cup. Le Guen announced his resignation on 24 June 2010.\n\nTowards the end of the 2010–11 season, Le Guen claimed he had received job offers from several Ligue 1 clubs that were seeking new candidates to fill the remaining vacancies, but he turned them all down. He eventually accepted an offer from Oman national football team on 11 June 2011. He led Oman to qualification for the 2015 AFC Asian Cup, where they were to be absent in 2011. Oman were eliminated in the group stage of the tournament with one win and two losses. Le Guen was sacked on 19 November 2015 after a poor start of the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification campaign.\n\nLe Guen was announced as the new manager of Süper Lig team Bursaspor on 22 June 2017, His first game was on 11 August 2017, a 1–0 league defeat away to İstanbul Başakşehir. However, a string of poor results meant he was removed from his managerial post on 10 April 2018.\n\nOn 29 May 2019, after ten years of managing abroad, Le Guen returned to France to become the new manager of Le Havre, replacing Oswald Tanchot. His debut game as manager came on 26 July 2019, ending in a 2–2 away draw to Ajaccio.\n\nParis Saint-Germain\n\nLyon\n\nParis Saint-Germain\n\n"}
{"id": "1913408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913408", "title": "Popular Hot Rodding", "text": "Popular Hot Rodding\n\nPopular Hot Rodding was a monthly American automotive magazine from the Motor Trend Group, dedicated to high-performance automobiles, hot rods, and muscle cars. Though it focused primarily on vehicles produced from 1955 to the present day it maintained an emphasis on cars produced from the early 1960s through the mid 1970s.\n\nThe magazine's technical and feature articles (advertorials) showcased aftermarket and modified production parts and services, reviews, product announcements, news, and tuning tips. \"Popular Hot Rodding\" also covered high-profile events and the annual Engine Masters Challenge.\n\nLos Angeles-based Argus Publishers Corp. began publishing \"Popular Hot Rodding\" in early 1962. On May 29, 2014 Source Interlink Media announced that it would cease production of \"Popular Hot Rodding\" as part of the company's name change to TEN, The Enthusiast Network. The last printing of \"Popular Hot Rodding\" was the September 2014 issue. Their quarterly newsstand special issue (Engine Masters) which PHR once published, is currently published and distributed by Hot Rod Magazine. Some PHR articles which were published online also have been willed to hotrod.com.\n"}
{"id": "1913415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913415", "title": "Pro-feminism", "text": "Pro-feminism\n\nPro-feminism refers to support of the cause of feminism without implying that the supporter is a member of the feminist movement. The term is most often used in reference to men (\"male feminists\") who actively support feminism and its efforts to bring about the political, economic, cultural, personal, and social equality of women with men. A number of pro-feminist men are involved in political activism, most often in the areas of gender equality, women's rights, and ending violence against women.\n\nAs feminist theory found support among a number of men who formed consciousness-raising groups in the 1960s, these groups were differentiated by preferences for particular feminisms and political approaches. However, the inclusion of men's voices as \"feminist\" presented issues for some. For a number of women and men, the word \"feminism\" was reserved for women, whom they viewed as the subjects who experienced the inequality and oppression that feminism sought to address. In response to this objection, various groups coined and defended other terms like \"antisexism\" and pro-feminism.\n\nThere are pro-feminist men's groups in most areas of the Western world. The activities of pro-feminist men's groups include anti-violence work with boys and with young men in schools, offering sexual-harassment workshops in workplaces, running community-education campaigns, and counseling male perpetrators of violence.\n\nPro-feminist men also are involved in men's health, men's studies, the development of gender-equity curricula in schools, and many other areas. Pro-feminist men who support anti-pornography feminists participate in activism against pornography including anti-pornography legislation. This work is sometimes in collaboration with feminists and women's services, such as domestic violence and rape crisis centers.\n\nThe term \"pro-feminist\" is also sometimes used by people who hold feminist beliefs or who advocate on behalf of feminist causes, but who do not consider themselves to be feminists \"per se\". It is also used by those who do not identify with, or wish for others to identify them with, the feminist movement. Some activists do not refer to men as \"feminists\" at all, and will refer to all pro-feminist men as \"pro-feminists\", even if the men in question refer to themselves as \"feminists\". Others criticise \"pro-feminist\" men who refuse to identify as feminist. Most major feminist groups, most notably the National Organization for Women and the Feminist Majority Foundation, refer to male activists as \"feminists\" rather than as \"pro-feminists\".\n\nMen responded in a variety of ways to first-wave feminism and to the societal changes in late 19th and early 20th century United States. Profeminist men embraced feminist ideas and actively advocated for female equality. While antifeminists \"articulated a nostalgic yearning for the pre-urban, pre-industrial traditional village, the profeminist position was articulated with a belief in modernity's liberatory potential\". Essentially, through their belief in science and progress, profeminists believed that \"suffrage was but a public expression of the feminist challenge to the social order that bound both women and men to repressive social conditions\" and that in the long run it would be an immense gain for Americans of both genders.\n\nPro-feminist men are considered by some to be a stream of the modern men's movement sympathetic towards feminism. Pro-feminist men seek to add male voices to feminism and advocate change by both women as well as men in their gender relations and social, political, and institutional structures. Some feminists argue that male inclusion in the feminist movement is necessary for the universalization of the movement, and for the movement to remain relevant in the future. Since the latter half of the 20th century, more pro-feminists around the world have become involved in advocating for various causes typically associated with feminism, including but not limited to anti-rape and anti-violence activism, as well as challenging the sexualization of women in the media. Many of these activities have been chronicled in a variety of publications and books, including, since 1983, Voice Male magazine, edited by Rob Okun, himself a long-time pro-feminist.\n\nMarge Piercy (1969) argued that liberal male politicians will sometimes espouse feminist claims to gain votes, despite dubious backgrounds and actions.\n\nPro-feminist men are often social activists like August Bebel.\n\nAn area of feminist social work in which some pro-feminist men have participated is preventing violence against women, and supporting its survivors. Anti-violence activists work in shelters for battered women, counseling survivors, rehabilitating perpetrators and spreading awareness of the issue. Many male activists support these anti-violence campaigns on two strong fronts: first, that violence against women concerns all people, regardless of gender; and secondly, that more attention should be paid to the social environments that produce perpetrators. Activists have also analyzed the cultural factors that contribute to violence against women.\n\nThe White Ribbon Campaign was founded in response to the École Polytechnique Massacre in Montreal, Canada. The movement aims to spread awareness about the issue of violence against women by educating men about the problem.\n\nAlthough men's participation in anti-rape activism in American campaigns is still uncommon, some men have proved valuable allies in their positions in shelters, support groups, and rape response teams. Some male activists claim that their efforts are met with mistrust and anger. Much literature about male anti-rape activists involves men experiencing epiphanies about the emotional and psychological impact rape inflicts on its victims. Scholars typically claim that in order to end rape and violence against women, men must become aware of these issues, otherwise there is no hope for stopping rape.\n\nIn addition to the struggles men face as a part of their work with anti-rape activism, many men that choose to speak out against rape report social costs, specifically that they are viewed as ‘not masculine.’ Men's deviation from hegemonic masculinity, which is currently characterized by traits such as toughness, dominance, self-reliance, heterosexual behaviors, restriction of emotional expression and the avoidance of traditionally feminine attitudes and behaviors in European and American countries, can lead to exclusion by their male peers. Male activists claim that unless masculinity can be redefined to include both caring for women and being vulnerable to emotional issues such as rape, men will continue to avoid taking action against rape.\n\nSome pro-feminist scholars believe that the portrayal of sexuality in pornography has contributed to the rise of sexual violence, misogyny, and the perpetuation of inequality between the sexes. They suggest that the normalization of male-dominated, violent, and degrading sexual acts has led users of pornography to incorporate violence into their own lives. Pro-feminists may assert that these trends in pornography are reflected by increased acts of sexual violence; and also contribute to normalizing rape culture. As with some areas of feminism, pro-feminists may also believe that pornography reduces women and teenage girls to sex objects.\n\nAs there is no centralised \"movement\" the motivation and goals of pro-feminist men are various. One profeminist website claims that among those motivations are:\n\nIssues on which pro-feminists usually campaign include violence against women, sexism, inequalities in pay and promotion at work, sex trafficking, and women's rights to birth control. Pro-feminist men who support anti-pornography feminists also campaign against pornography.\n\nThey generally believe that:\n\nJust as there is substantial diversity and disagreement within feminism, there is diversity among pro-feminist men. For example, the extent to which men are also limited or harmed by societal gender relations is an area of disagreement. Some men emphasise the privilege received by virtue of being men in a patriarchal or male-dominated society, while others emphasise the ways in which the gender roles laid down by patriarchal society constrict both men and women.\n\nSome pro-feminist men argue that those who emphasize the latter, or who even claim that, like women, men too are \"oppressed\", are not really pro-feminist or are not pro-feminist enough. Others make a distinction between \"radical pro-feminist\" and \"liberal pro-feminist\" men, and emphasize their shared commitments and similarities.\n\nPro-feminist men typically also recognise the importance of other forms of injustice and other kinds of social relations. Pro-feminists assume that class, race, sexuality, age and other such things are important influences on the relations between and among men and women.\n\nPro-feminist men who are politically active have tended to concentrate on a number of specific issues, such as men's violence.\n\nEarly writings in the U.S. that the pro-feminist men's movement has identified as antecedents to its thought include Jon Snodgrass's \"A Book of Readings for Men against Sexism\", Michael Kimmel and Michael Messner's collection of essays, \"Men's Lives\", and Joseph Pleck's \"The Myth of Masculinity\". Three basic assumptions of these early texts included the distinction between sex and gender, the treatment of gender as a social construct, and the position that men are harmed by proscriptive gender roles. Building on this last assumption, early pro-feminist men's texts assumed a corollary that if men were made aware of these conditions, they would relinquish their social privileges.\n\nSome feminists and pro-feminists believe that it is inappropriate for men to call themselves \"feminists\". This argument takes a variety of forms, including the following: \nThere is also internal disagreement within this \"movement\", for example with socialist movements, anti-racist struggles, and so on. Those who claim that \"feminist\" can apply equally to men and women often point out that the arguments made by advocates of the term \"pro-feminist\" are based in notions of biological determinism and essentialism, and are actually contrary to feminist principles.\n\nPro-feminists claim to be anti-sexist, and anti-patriarchal, but they argue that they are not anti-male. Some pro-feminist men believe that men have potential for good and believe that there is a potential for \"backlash\" within the men's movement, a potential for the movement to turn towards the defence of what they see as men's privilege and position, and some say that this has already occurred. While all pro-feminist men assume that men must act to dismantle gender injustice, some argue that a men's movement is not the way to do this. They advocate instead that pro-feminists build alliances and coalitions with other progressive groups and movements (such as feminism, gay and lesbian liberation, left-wing and socialist movements, anti-racist struggles, and so on).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913416", "title": "Chatham Manor", "text": "Chatham Manor\n\nChatham Manor is the Georgian-style home completed in 1771 by farmer and statesman William Fitzhugh, after about 3 years of construction, on the Rappahannock River in Stafford County, Virginia, opposite Fredericksburg. It was for more than a century the center of a large, thriving plantation, and the only private residence in the United States visited by George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nChatham also reflected the new country's racial tensions. In January 1805, Chatham's slaves overpowered and whipped their overseer and assistants in a minor slave rebellion. An armed posse of white men quickly gathered. They killed one slave in the attack, and two more died trying to escape capture. Two other slaves were deported, likely to the Caribbean or Louisiana, and Fitzhugh soon sold the property.\n\nFive decades later, in 1857, owner Hannah Jones Coalter (the 77-year-old mother of a disabled daughter named Janet), died and attempted to manumit her 93 slaves after making provision both for her daughter and them. Her relatives sued, claiming that after the Dred Scott decision, slaves were legally incapable of choosing whether to remain enslaved or receive their freedom and enough money to establish themselves in another state. While local judges thought the executors should free the slaves per Hannah's intent, a divided Virginia Supreme Court disagreed. Thus, the executors sold Chatham with its slaves to J. Horace Lacy (husband of Hannah's much younger half-sister Betty), although soon one slave was allowed to travel to raise money to buy freedom for herself and her small family, and succeeded.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, the Lacys abandoned Chatham. Its strategic site overlooking Fredericksburg briefly served as Union headquarters, and later as the major Union hospital during battles for control of the strategic Virginia city and Spotsylvania county en route to the Confederate capital. Due to wartime use and disuse, Chatham fell into great disrepair. The Lacys ultimately sold Chatham to pay taxes (including on their other estate, Ellwood Manor) in 1872. Saved from total destruction as the 20th Century began by a series of wealthy American owners, Chatham was refurbished and became a showpiece. Willed to the National Park Service in 1975, the estate now serves as the headquarters for the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park.\n\nWealthy lawyer and planter William Fitzhugh financed building the main house at Chatham over three-years ending in 1771. He was a friend and colleague of George Washington, whose family's farm was just down the Rappahannock River from Chatham. Washington's diaries note that he was a frequent guest at Chatham. He and Fitzhugh had served together in the House of Burgesses prior to the American Revolution, and shared a love of farming and horses. Fitzhugh's daughter, Molly, would marry the first president's step-grandson, George Washington Parke Custis as well as becoming a leading abolitionist together with her friend Ann Randolph Meade Page. Their daughter Mary Anna, born at Ann Page's estate, would later wed the future Confederate General Robert E. Lee, who freed the Custis slaves as executor after his in-laws' deaths.\n\nThe plantation included an orchard, mill, and a race track where Fitzhugh's horses vied with those of other planters for prize money. Fizhugh named the mansion after the British parliamentarian William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham, who championed many of the opinions held by American colonists prior to the Revolutionary War. Flanking the main house were dozens of supporting structures: slave quarters, a dairy, ice house, barns, stables. Down on the river were fish traps.\n\nFitzhugh sold the Chatham plantation to Major Churchill Jones, who had served under Col. William Washington and Gen. Light Horse Harry Lee. The elderly Fitzhugh then moved to a city house in Alexandria, Virginia. Jones was a member of the Society of the Cincinnati, and greatly improved the estate: adding terraces down to the Rappahannock River, as well as began constructing the first bridge across that river to Fredericksburg (it took a year and half to build and but washed away in the flood of 1826, slightly more than three years after Churchill Jones died). Churchill's brother William Jones had long owned an estate, Ellwood Manor, in Spotsylvania County, and inherited Chatham around the time his wife of 40 years had died. Hannah Jones Coalter was William's daughter by his first wife, and after her first husband died, she married three-time widower (and Virginia Court of Appeals judge John Coalter (1771–1838)) in 1825 and received the deed to Chatham as their wedding present. Meanwhile, the 78 year old William Jones then remarried, to Lucy Gordon, his late wife's niece. Their 18-year marriage produced a daughter, Betty Churchill Jones, who in 1848 married her former tutor, James Horace Lacy of Mississippi, son of a Presbyterian minister.\n\nChatham remained known for its hospitality: Thomas Jefferson, James Monroe and William Henry Harrison often visited Chatham, as later did Washington Irving. Irving visited twice, while doing research for his multi-volume biography of George Washington, for whom he was named.\n\nHannah survived her last husband by nearly two decades, as did her disabled daughter Janet. The wealthy widow attempted to provide for her daughter's care, as well as free her household's administrator, Charles, and 92 other slaves in her will. However, the Virginia Constitution of 1851 (and earlier Virginia laws) required manumitted slaves to leave the state within a year, so (as had none other than the late U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Marshall for one slave), Hannah gave her each of slaves (other than Charles, who was freed outright) the choice of remaining enslaved in Virginia (but choosing their mistresses/masters) or manumission and a small stake to enable them to support themselves in another state or country. Her estate other than the slaves was valued at $15000 to $20,000, so they could be provided for. However, her executor (presumably emboldened by Betty and her husband) sought court instruction as to their duties. While the local Stafford court thought the slaves should be freed, the Virginia Supreme Court disagreed. In 'Williamson v. Coalter,' 14 Gratton 394 (1858), a majority of three justices refused to uphold Hannah's testamentary wishes, although she had revised the will shortly before she died in order to circumvent another recent decision refusing to uphold manumissions (Bailey v. Poindexter's executor). Her neighbor Justice Richard C.L. Moncure dissented vehemently, joined by Justice Samuels, who died shortly thereafter. So Lacy bought Chatham for about $35,000, but as discussed below, ultimately sold it in 1872 to a Pennsylvania banker for $23,900.\n\nFitzhugh had owned upwards of 100 slaves as well as about 49,000 acres of land (including roughly 6000 at Chatham), with anywhere from 60 to 90 being used at Chatham, depending on the season. Most worked as field hands or house servants, but he also employed skilled tradesmen such as millers, carpenters, and blacksmiths. Little physical evidence remains to show where slaves lived; until recently, most knowledge of slaves at Chatham was from written records.\n\nIn January 1805, a number of Chatham slaves rebelled after an overseer ordered slaves back to work at what they considered was too soon after the Christmas holidays. The slaves overpowered and whipped their overseer and four others who tried to force them back to work. An armed posse put down the rebellion and punished those involved. One black man was executed, two died while trying to escape, and two others were deported, perhaps to a slave colony in the Caribbean, or to Louisiana.\n\nWilliam Churchill gave Chatham as a wedding present for his widowed daughter Hannah and the three-time widowed Judge John Coalter. Coalter died in 1838, so Chatham passed to his wife Hannah, who did not remarry (married women at the time could only hold property through their husbands). Hannah Coalter owned 51 slaves in the 1850 census, and, as an anti-slavery Methodist unlike her late husband, tried to free slaves through her will upon her death in 1857. Hannah's will provided that her slaves would have the choice of being freed and migrating to a free state like Ohio, or to Liberia, with passage paid for, or of remaining as slaves with any of her (Coulter's) family members they might choose.\n\nHowever, Hannah's much younger half-sister Betty had in 1848 married J. Horace Lacy, a prosperous businessman and slaveowner at Ellwood Plantation further to the south in the Wilderness area of Spotyslvania County. Lacy convinced the will's executors to seek court direction. The Stafford court upheld the manumissions, but the Virginia Court of Appeals (the name at the time of the Virginia Supreme Court) in a 3 to 2 decision overturned the 92 conditional manumissions (only upholding Charles' outright manumission). The court denied Coalter's slaves any chance of freedom by ruling that the 1857 \"Dred Scott\" decision by the U.S. Supreme Court had declared that slaves were property, and not persons with choice.\n\nEllen Mitchell, an enslaved laundress at \"Chatham\", had known of and counted on Mrs. Coalter's promise of manumission. When Lacy's court case took her freedom away, Mitchell, irate, loudly proclaimed how unfair this denial was, particularly as she feared being sent to a plantation in Monroe, Louisiana. To be rid of her (and the problem she represented), Lacy sold her to a slave trader, James Aler, in Fredericksburg. Aler, active in his church and unsure what to do with Mitchell, allowed her a 90-day pass to leave Fredericksburg in early 1860 on a tour during which she and one of her sons attempted to raise money to buy their freedom for $1000. She gave speeches to church and political groups in Washington City, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston, raising enough money to return to Fredericksburg and buy not only her own freedom, but also that of her children. Lacy, impressed, also freed Mitchell's mother. The Mitchell family moved to Cincinnati in the free (i.e. slavery-prohibited) state of Ohio. In the 1860 census, Ellen Mitchell was listed as running a laundry business. Today, some of her descendants still live in that area of Ohio.\n\nThe 1860 census indicated that Lacy owned 39 slaves at Chatham and another 49 at his Ellwood plantation, as well as some slaves which he rented out. An outspoken proponent of slavery, Lacy joined the Confederate Army and rose to the rank of major; his brother Beverly Tucker Lacy (a Presbyterian minister) was the chaplain for General Stonewall Jackson, whose amputated arm was buried at Ellwood Plantation near Hannah Coalter's grave. At least two former slaves at Chatham served in the U.S. Colored Troops and survived the war, Charles Sprout and Andrew Weaver, and one may have served as a Confederate scout. Thus, slavery at Chatham ended in 1865 as a result of the Civil War, upon the passage of the constitutional amendment abolishing the institution.\n\nNational Park Service historians and others continue research, seeking to locate the former slave quarters. As discussed below, the property was extensively damaged during the Civil War. An 1862 sketch by a Unionist New Jersey soldier during the Civil War shows some buildings at the Chatham site that were long gone by the time historians began speculating that most slave dwellings were likely to be in the \"rear\", or the field-side area of the estate. This area had been cultivated since the slave days and in the 20th century new structures were built there. The recently discovered sketch shows structures to the south side of the manor house, in an area across a ravine away from the central area of the property. Re-examination of old photographs shows the faint rooflines of structures in that area, which may indicate the location of heretofore unconfirmed slave dwellings.\n\nThe Civil War brought change and destruction to Chatham. As discussed above, the house was owned by James Horace Lacy (1823–1906), a former schoolteacher who had married Churchill Jones's niece. As a planter, Lacy sympathized with the South, and at the age of 37 he left Chatham to serve the Confederacy as a staff officer. He served on the staff of General Gustavus W. Smith at the Battle of Seven Pines, and also served as field transportation inspector in the Trans-Mississippi Department. His wife and children remained at Chatham until the spring of 1862, when Union troops' arrival forced them to abandon the building and move in with relatives across the river in soon-beleaguered Fredericksburg, and after its fall later to Pulaski County.\n\nFor much of the next thirteen months, Chatham was occupied by the Union army; orders, reports and letters referred to it as the \"Lacy House\". Northern officers initially used the mansion as a headquarters. In April 1862, General Irvin McDowell brought 30,000 men to Fredericksburg and supervised the repair of the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad and construction of several bridges across the Rappahannock River from Chatham. McDowell planned to use the new bridges to march south and join forces with the Army of the Potomac outside Richmond.\n\nPresident Abraham Lincoln journeyed to Fredericksburg to confer with McDowell about the movement, meeting with the general and his staff at Chatham. His visit gave Chatham the distinction of being one of three houses visited by both Lincoln and Washington (the other two are Mount Vernon and Berkeley Plantation on the James River east of Richmond.) While at Chatham, Lincoln went to Fredericksburg, walked its streets, and visited a New York regiment encamped on what would become known as \"Marye's Heights\" during a later battle.\n\nSeven months after Lincoln's visit, fighting again erupted at Fredericksburg. In November 1862, General Ambrose E. Burnside brought the 120,000-man Army of the Potomac to Fredericksburg. Using pontoon bridges, Burnside crossed the Rappahannock River below Chatham, seized Fredericksburg, and launched a series of bloody assaults against Lee's Confederates, who held the high ground behind the town. One of Burnside's top generals, Edwin Sumner, observed the battle from Chatham, while Union artillery batteries shelled the Confederates from adjacent bluffs. Furthermore, a German Military Observer, Count Zeppelin, from Chatham's lawn sent up a reconnaissance balloon with a soldier to observe the battle, an incidence he later often recounted after starting his air craft factory.\n\nThe Battle of Fredericksburg became a disastrous Union defeat. Burnside suffered 12,600 casualties, many of whom were brought back to Chatham and the nearby Conway House (Falmouth, Virginia) for care. For several days, army surgeons operated on hundreds of soldiers inside the house. Assisting them were volunteers, including the poet Walt Whitman, Clara Barton (who later founded the American chapter of the International Red Cross), and Dr. Mary Edwards Walker (as of 2015 the only woman awarded the Medal of Honor).\n\nWhitman had come to Chatham searching for a brother wounded in the fighting. The carnage shocked him. He later wrote a published a description that, outside the house, at the foot of a tree, he noticed \"a heap of amputated feet, legs, arms, hands, etc.-about a load for a one-horse cart. Several dead bodies lie near,\" he added, \"each covered with its brown woolen blanket.\"<citation needed> More than 130 Union soldiers died at Chatham and were initially buried on the grounds. After the war, their bodies were removed to the Fredericksburg National Cemetery. Years later when three additional bodies were discovered, the remains were buried at Chatham at the outskirts of the again-famous gardens, in graves marked by granite stones lying flush to the ground.\n\nIn the winter following the battle, the Union army camped in Stafford County, behind Chatham. The Confederate army occupied Spotsylvania County, across the river. Opposing pickets patrolled the riverfront, keeping a wary eye on their foe. Occasionally the men would trade newspapers and other articles using miniature sailboats. When not on duty, Union pickets slept at Chatham; Dorothea Dix of the United States Sanitary Commission operated a soup kitchen in the house. As the winter progressed and firewood became scarce, some soldiers tore paneling from the walls for fuel, exposing the underlying plaster. Some of the soldiers' pencil graffiti is still visible, with additional scrawls being deciphered by Park Service staff.\n\nMilitary activity resumed in the spring. In April, the new Union commander, General Joseph Hooker, led most of the army upriver, crossing behind Lee's troops. Other portions remained in Stafford County, including John Gibbons' division at Chatham. The Confederates marched out to meet Hooker's main force and for a week fighting raged around a country crossroad known as Chancellorsville. At the same time, Union troops crossed the Rappahannock at Fredericksburg and drove a Confederate force off Marye's Heights, behind the town. Many of 1,000 casualties suffered by the Union army in that 1863 engagement were sent back to Chatham, which again served as a hospital.\n\nBy the time the Civil War ended in 1865, Chatham was desolate and severely damaged. When the Lacys returned in November 1865, over 750 panes of glass had been broken, blood stains spotted the floors, graffiti marred its bare plaster walls and much of the interior wood paneling had been removed for firewood. In addition the surrounding forests had been cut down for fuel, the gardens and several of the outbuildings where damaged or destroyed, and the lawn had been used as a graveyard. Some of their furniture had been evacuated, but the transport boat sank in the Rappahannock, ruining much of it. Over the next years, the Union Burial Corps removed many soldiers' remains from the gardens and lawn for reburial at the new national cemetery in Fredericksburg. Unable to maintain their home properly without slaves, they moved to their house known as \"Ellwood\" and sold Chatham in 1872 to a Pennsylvania banker for $23,900. Betty Lacy helped found the Ladies Memorial Association of Federicksburg, establishing the Confederate Cemetery, and her husband traveled and made speeches to raise money.\n\nThe property had a succession of owners until the 1920s, when General Daniel Bradford Devore (1860–1956) and his wife Helen Stewart Devore undertook its restoration (and made significant changes). Their restoration re-oriented the house away from the west front on the river (no longer the main transportation route); the east entrance became the main entrance, easily reached by the automobile. They also added a large, walled English-style garden designed by the noted landscape architect Ellen Biddle Shipman on the east side. As a result of the DeVores' efforts, Chatham regained its place among Virginia's finest homes. However, the DeVores sold Chatham in 1931 to move to Washington D.C., where they built a townhouse later also designated a historic site (and once offered to become the official residence of the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court).\n\nToday the house and the of surrounding grounds are open to the public. The last private owners, Northern Neck native and General Motors executive John Lee Pratt and his wife, purchased the Chatham estate (shrunken to 256 acres) from the Devores in 1931 for $150,000 cash. They were looking ahead to retirement. During World War II, Pratt served as one of President Roosevelt's \"dollar-a-year\" men, Pratt met and had as visitors Generals George Marshall and Dwight Eisenhower, among many others, essentially to get away from Washington to relax and go duck hunting. Chatham's distinction thus continued during their ownership, as the Pratts did retire to the home and use it as a working \"gentleman's\" farm although he continued to serve on the General Motors Board of Directors until 1968.\n\nUpon Pratt's death in 1975, he bequeathed land around the mansion to Stafford County for parks, as well as a large section to the region's YMCA. This also left the manor house and approximately surrounding it to the National Park Service (NPS), which uses it as the headquarters for the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park.\n\nFive rooms are open as a (free) museum during designated hours (with explanatory video tour); the grounds are open to the public. The rest of the house and outbuildings serve as administrative offices and maintenance facilities. In 2014, the National Park Service undertook tree removal designed to improve the vistas to and from Chatham. This increased the house's visibility from the city, as well as essentially restoring the view to what it had been during the Civil War and preceding decades.\n\nSince 2012 the Friends of Chatham, a 501(c)3 non-profit organization, has provided additional support for the preservation of the historic house and its grounds. Partnering with local Rotary and garden clubs, the Friends group supplements NPS-budgeted services by providing extensive garden maintenance and plantings. It has also undertaken repairs of the 1940s-era summer house at the edge of the gardens and a statue of Pan in a scenic gazebo overlooking the sity which was damaged by vandals in 2002, and has begun repairing all 80-plus windows in the original house and outbuildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913432", "title": "Scenes of Bohemian Life", "text": "Scenes of Bohemian Life\n\nScenes of Bohemian Life (original French title: \"Scènes de la vie de bohème\") is a work by Henri Murger, published in 1851. Although it is commonly called a novel, it does not follow standard novel form. Rather, it is a collection of loosely related stories, all set in the Latin Quarter of Paris in the 1840s, romanticizing bohemian life in a playful way. Most of the stories were originally published individually in a local literary magazine, \"Le Corsaire\". Many of them were semi-autobiographical, featuring characters based on actual individuals who would have been familiar to some of the magazine's readers.\n\nThe first of these stories was published in March 1845, carrying the byline \"Henri Mu..ez\". A second story followed more than a year later, in May 1846. This time Murger signed his name \"Henry Murger\", spelling his first name with a \"y\" in imitation of the English name, an affectation he continued for the rest of his career. A third story followed in July, with the subtitle \"Scènes de la bohème\". The same subtitle was used with 18 more stories, which continued to appear on a semi-regular basis until early 1849 (with a long break in 1848 for the revolution in Paris).\n\nAlthough the stories were popular within the small literary community, they initially failed to reach a larger audience or generate much income for Murger. This changed in 1849, after Murger was approached by Théodore Barrière, an up-and-coming young playwright, who proposed writing a play based on the stories. Murger agreed to the collaboration, and the result — titled \"La Vie de la bohème\", credited to Barrière and Murger as co-authors — was staged to great success at the Théâtre des Variétés.\n\nThe popularity of the play created a demand for publication of the stories. Murger therefore compiled most of the stories into a single collection. To help establish continuity, he added some new material. A preface discussed the meaning of \"bohemian\", and a new first chapter served to introduce the setting and the main characters. To the end were added two more chapters which wrap up some loose ends and offer final thoughts on the bohemian life. This became the novel, published in January 1851. A second edition was published later in the year, in which Murger added one more story. The late nineteenth century English novelist George Gissing claimed in 1890 to be reading the novel, in French, for the 'twentieth time'.\n\nTwo operas were later based on the novel and play, \"La bohème\" by Giacomo Puccini in 1896 and \"La bohème\" by Ruggero Leoncavallo in 1897. Puccini's became one of the most popular operas of all time, spawning several later works based on the same story.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913445", "title": "La bohème (Leoncavallo)", "text": "La bohème (Leoncavallo)\n\nLa bohème is an Italian opera in four acts, with music and libretto by Ruggero Leoncavallo, based on \"Scènes de la vie de bohème\" (1851) by Henri Murger. The opera received a successful premiere at the Teatro la Fenice, Venice on 6 May 1897.\n\nLeoncavallo wrote his opera \"La bohème\" contemporaneously with Giacomo Puccini's own treatment of the same story. Leoncavallo later revised the work, titling it \"Mimì Pinson\", but despite initial respect, it did not survive. Puccini's version has become a standard in the operatic repertoire, whereas Leoncavallo's opera is rarely performed. Leoncavallo's version did not receive its UK premiere until May 1970.\n\nAllan Atlas has analysed in detail the different treatments of the death of the Mimì character in both Leoncavallo's and Puccini's versions of \"La bohème\", contrasting the historical success of Puccini's opera and the relative failure of Leoncavallo's.\n\n\"Café Momus\"\n\nThe innkeeper Gaudenzio tries in vain to eject the Bohemians, who never pay and are continually up to no good. During the conversation another piece of horseplay on their part is discovered. They sit down to dine, while Musette gaily sings. (Canzonette: \"Mimì is the name of my sweet blonde.\") Naturally when they are asked to pay the bill, they have no money. A comic fight ensues between them and the innkeeper, who has called his servants to assist him. It is ended by Barbemuche, who offers to pay the bill.\n\n\"The courtyard of Musette's house\"\n\nMusette's lover has left her, refusing any longer to pay her debts. In consequence, her furniture has been confiscated and is carried down to the courtyard. When this has been done, she returns home. She expects guests but cannot entertain them in any other way than by receiving them in the courtyard. Here the Bohemians, who arrive in large numbers, celebrate joyously. The neighbours, awakened from sleep, protest in vain and the scene ends in a general fight between the two factions.\n\n\"Marcello's garret room\"\n\nMusette, who can no longer bear the sufferings of hunger and want, determines to leave Marcello. During the festivities in the courtyard, Mimì has allowed herself to be carried off by Count Paul, but she returns, motivated by love for Rodolfo. Musette begs her to go with her, but she refuses. Angrily, Marcello and Rodolfo force both women to leave the apartment.\n\n\"Rodolfo's garret room\"\n\nMimì returns to Rodolfo, at the brink of death. Musette, who accidentally meets her there, sacrifices her jewels to procure fuel to warm the room for Mimì. As the Christmas chimes are heard, Mimì dies.\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "1913452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913452", "title": "Thomas Caulfield", "text": "Thomas Caulfield\n\nThomas Caulfield may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1913478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913478", "title": "William McKendree", "text": "William McKendree\n\nWilliam McKendree (July 6, 1757 – March 5, 1835) was an Evangelist and the fourth Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and the first Methodist bishop born in the United States. He was elected in 1808.\n\nWilliam was born in King William County, Virginia, the son of John and Mary McKendree. His parents were both of Scottish ancestry.\n\nAs a young man, McKendree served in the Virginia militia during the American Revolutionary War. He entered the ranks as a private, but eventually served as an adjutant in the commissary department. He was present at the siege of Yorktown and the surrender of Lord Cornwallis. After the war, he returned to private life.\n\nWilliam was converted to Christ in 1787. Shortly thereafter he began conversing with his friends on the subject of the Christian faith and making them the subjects of his fervent prayers. He soon volunteered to take part in public religious meetings, and his addresses produced a powerful effect.\n\nIn 1788, while living in Brunswick County, Virginia, William was received on trial into the ministry of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Unusually, he was admitted without first obtaining a License to Preach and without anyone's recommendation. Bishop Francis Asbury appointed him as junior preacher to Mecklenburg circuit and he served for several years on neighboring circuits.\n\nThe Rev. McKendree continued as an itinerant preacher until November 1792, when, having been influenced by James O'Kelly to join in certain measures of pretended reform, he was greatly disappointed by their failure at the General Conference. Mr. O'Kelly withdrew from the M.E. Church. Mr. McKendree, sympathizing with him, sent in his resignation as a minister. But the Conference agreed that he might still preach among the Methodist societies.\n\nRev. McKendree soon obtained leave to travel with Bishop Asbury, that he might ascertain for himself whether his impressions had been well founded. In a short time he was convinced he had been deceived. He therefore devoted himself to a careful examination of the Rules and Discipline of the Church as drawn up by John Wesley, and as established by the General Conference in the U.S.A. McKendree became fully convinced both of their harmony with the primitive church and of their particular adaptedness to the circumstances and wants of this nation.\n\nIn 1793 the Rev. McKendree was sent to South Carolina, but returned the next year. For the next three years, his circuit was vast—extending from Chesapeake Bay to the Blue Ridge and Alleghany Mountains. In 1796 he became Presiding Elder. In 1798, he was appointed to the Baltimore conference, and in 1800 he went with Bishop Asbury and Bishop Richard Whatcoat to the Western Conference, which met that year at Bethel, Kentucky.\n\nRev. McKendree was appointed the Presiding Elder of the Kentucky-Holston District, 1800-01. In 1801, the conference sent McKendree to oversee the church's efforts in Southeastern Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, and western Virginia and part of Illinois. He subsequently became Presiding Elder on the Cumberland District. He served as a circuit preacher in addition to his organizational efforts, becoming a respected figure in the region. He was the leader of the Great Revival in the West.\n\nThe Rev. William McKendree became widely know and most highly esteemed because of his popular talents in the pulpit and his faithful attention to every part of his work. Consequently, the 1808 General Conference of the M.E. Church, meeting in Baltimore, elected him to the office of Bishop. Indeed, when called to preach before the General Conference, such was the power and unction connected with his sermon, that Bishop Asbury was quoted as having said at its close, \"That sermon will make McKendree bishop.\"\n\nFrom that time, then, Bishop McKendree traveled with Bishop Asbury, or alone, over every part of the Church. His first episcopal tour of 1,500 miles extended through Virginia, Tennessee, Missouri, and Illinois. After 1816 he was Senior Bishop for nineteen years. In 1830, he lent his support to the Lebanon Seminary, Lebanon, Illinois. As a result, the school chose to change its name to McKendree College (later University).\n\nBishop McKendree never married. His family had moved to Sumner County, Tennessee about 1810. So when the bishop was not traveling, he also called that area home. He died 5 March 1835 at the home of his brother, Dr. James McKendree, in Sumner County near Nashville. One of his last expressions was said to have been, \"All is well.\" McKendree was initially buried in a family burial ground in Sumner County, but in October 1876 his remains were reinterred to the grounds of the recently founded Vanderbilt University.\n\nBishop Matthew Simpson wrote of Bishop McKendree:\nHe was a man of great energy and genius, and was deeply pious and modest almost to timidity. His mind was clear and logical, his knowledge varied and extensive, his imagination lively but well regulated, and his eloquence was unusually powerful. He was careful in the administration of discipline, and intruduced system into all the operations of the church.\n\nBishop McKendree's influence was patent everywhere, but especially was he regarded in the West. He had given years of earnest labor to establishing Methodism on the western frontier. He therefore felt a deep and abiding interest in the success thereof. He thus earned the nickname \"Father of Western Methodism\", and was considered one of the greatest Bishops of the M.E. Church.\n\nPeople named for Bishop McKendree include William McKendree Springer, William McKendree Robbins, William McKendree Gwin and James McKendree Reiley's son William McKendree Reiley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913485", "title": "2M (TV channel)", "text": "2M (TV channel)\n\n2M TV is a Moroccan free-to-air television network. It was established by the royal-owned conglomerate, ONA, before being partly sold to the Moroccan state. 20.7% of 2M is owned by Mohammed VI's holding company SNI. While approximately 60% is controlled by the Moroccan state.\n\nIt is based in Casablanca. It is available free of charge locally on digital signal with coverage over all Morocco and on satellite television via Globecast, Nilesat and Arabsat.\n\n2M offers services in Arabic, French, and Berber.\n\n2M was set up as a second national television channel with the aim of promoting competition and diversity in Moroccan audio-visual broadcasting.\n\n2M started its programmes officially on March 4, 1989. It used to be a cable channel broadcasting uncoded twice a day. After 7 years of activity, SOREAD (ONA group), the major shareholder, withdrew from the management of this TV channel due to financial reasons. The Moroccan state took over the control of 2M with a participation of 68% in its capital. This takeover was supported by a major effort to develop the audio-visual sector.\n\nRadio 2M is the companion radio channel to 2M, presenting music, news, and information directly from Morocco in Arabic and French.\n\n2M challenged taboos by debating controversial issues and established a reputation for itself as a symbol of freedom of speech in Morocco. The channel regularly broadcasts news, films, sports and music. It is now a government-controlled public TV station and has close under-the-table ties with influential parts of the Moroccan political power structure (the Makhzen). 2M has been used by the government as an indirect means to attack independent newspapers such as \"Le Journal\".\n\n2M has two different channels, a local analog channel and a satellite channel whose name is (since 2007) 2M Monde, which means 2M World. Both local and satellite/world versions of 2M have the same shows but are aired at different times. 2M Monde does not broadcast Hollywood movies and American TV shows because it only buys their broadcasting rights for within Morocco.\n\nOn November 23, the TV channel aired in its morning show \"Sabahiyat\" a segment on how to cover beaten bruises with make up on the International Day to Eliminate Violence Against Women. Moroccan TV has apologized on Monday for airing the segment.\n\n\nList of American and European TV shows broadcast by the local version of 2M (which may change time by time):\n\n\nAmerican TV shows and Hollywood movies are imported from France with French dubbing. Some Mexican TV shows are dubbed locally in Moroccan Arabic.\n\nBesides American TV shows, 2M TV also airs a few Turkish shows dubbed in Arabic. 2M TV's children's programming schedule also includes foreign TV shows, such as \"Célestin\", \"Braceface\" \"Oggy and the Cockroaches' and 1001 Nights\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913486", "title": "Ion laser", "text": "Ion laser\n\nAn ion laser is a gas laser that uses an ionized gas as its lasing medium. \nLike other gas lasers, ion lasers feature a sealed cavity containing the laser medium and mirrors forming a Fabry–Pérot resonator. Unlike helium–neon lasers, the energy level transitions that contribute to laser action come from ions. Because of the large amount of energy required to excite the ionic transitions used in ion lasers, the required current is much greater, and as a result all but the smallest ion lasers are water-cooled. A small air-cooled ion laser might produce, for example, 130 milliwatts of output light with a tube current of about 10 amperes and a voltage of 105 volts. Since one ampere times one volt is one watt, this is an electrical power input of about one kilowatt. Subtracting the (desirable) light output of 130 mW from power input, this leaves the large amount of waste heat of nearly one kW. This has to be dissipated by the cooling system. In other words, the power efficiency is very low.\n\nA krypton laser is an ion laser using ions of the noble gas krypton as its gain medium. The laser pumping is done by an electrical discharge. Krypton lasers are widely used in scientific research, and in commercial uses, when the krypton is mixed with argon, it creates a \"white-light\" lasers, useful for laser light shows. Krypton lasers are also used in medicine (e.g. for coagulation of retina), for the manufacture of security holograms, and numerous other purposes.\n\nKrypton lasers can emit visible light close to several different wavelengths, commonly 406.7 nm, 413.1 nm, 415.4 nm, 468.0 nm, 476.2 nm, 482.5 nm, 520.8 nm, 530.9 nm, 568.2 nm, 647.1 nm, and 676.4 nm.\n\nThe argon-ion laser was invented in 1964 by William Bridges at the Hughes Aircraft Company and it is one of the family of ion lasers that use a noble gas as the active medium.\n\nArgon-ion lasers are used for retinal phototherapy (for the treatment of diabetes), lithography, and the pumping of other lasers. Argon-ion lasers emit at 13 wavelengths through the visible and ultraviolet spectra, including: 351.1 nm, 363.8 nm, 454.6 nm, 457.9 nm, 465.8 nm, 476.5 nm, 488.0 nm, 496.5 nm, 501.7 nm, 514.5 nm, 528.7 nm, and 1092.3 nm. However, the most commonly used wavelengths are in the blue-green region of the visible spectrum. These wavelengths have the potential for use in underwater communications because seawater is quite transparent in this range of wavelengths.\n\nCommon argon and krypton lasers are capable of emitting continuous-wave (CW) output of several milliwatts to tens of watts. Their tubes are usually made from nickel end bells, kovar metal-to-ceramic seals, beryllium oxide ceramics, or tungsten disks mounted on a copper heat spreader in a ceramic liner. The earliest tubes were simple quartz, then followed by quartz with graphite disks. In comparison with the helium–neon lasers, which require just a few milliamperes of input current, the current used for pumping the krypton laser is several amperes, since the gas has to be ionized. The ion laser tube produces much waste heat, and such lasers require active cooling.\n\nThe typical noble-gas ion-laser plasma consists of a high-current-density glow discharge in a noble gas in the presence of a magnetic field. Typical continuous-wave plasma conditions are current densities of 100 to 2000 A/cm, tube diameters of 1.0 to 10 mm, filling pressures of 0.1 to 1.0 Torr (0.0019 to 0.019 psi), and an axial magnetic field of the order of 1000 gauss.\n\nWilliam R. Bennett, a co-inventor of the first gas laser (the helium–neon laser), was the first to observe spectral hole burning effects in gas lasers, and he created the theory of \"hole burning\" effects in laser oscillation. He was co-discoverer of lasers using electron-impact excitation in each of the noble gases, dissociative excitation transfer in the neon–oxygen laser (the first chemical laser), and collision excitation in several metal-vapor lasers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913494", "title": "Long March 3A", "text": "Long March 3A\n\nThe Long March 3A (), also known as the Chang Zheng 3A, CZ-3A and LM-3A, is a Chinese orbital carrier rocket design. It is a 3-stage rocket, and is usually used to place communications satellites and Beidou navigation satellites into geosynchronous transfer orbits.\n\nIt has formed the basis of the Long March 3B, which is a heavier version with four liquid booster rockets.\n\nLong March 3A rockets have been launched from Launch Areas 2 and 3 at the Xichang Satellite Launch Center.\n\nLM-3A is a 3-stage launch vehicle developed on the basis of LM-3 and LM-2C. Its third stage is powered by cryogenic propellants: liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen. It is dedicated for launching spacecraft into GTO. Its launch capability for GTO mission is 2,600 kg. The fairing static envelope is 3m in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "1913507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913507", "title": "Kellia", "text": "Kellia\n\nKellia (\"the Cells\"), referred to as \"the innermost desert\", was a 4th-century Egyptian Christian monastic community spread out over many square kilometers in the Nitrian Desert. It was one of three centers of monastic activity in the region, along with Nitria and Scetis (Wadi El Natrun). It is called al-Muna in Arabic and was inhabited until the 9th century. Only archaeological sites remain there today.\n\nFounded in 338 C.E. by Saint Amun, under the spiritual guidance of Saint Anthony, it was designed for those who wished to enter the cenobitic life in a semi-anchoritic monastery. An account of its founding, perhaps legendary, is in the \"Apophthegmata Patrum\". Amun, who was then a monk at Nitria, one day talked with Anthony saying that he and some brothers wanted to move away \"that they may live in peace\". Nitrea had become too successful and they wished for the solitude of the early days. Anthony and Amun ate dinner then walked into the desert until sunset, prayed and planted a cross to mark the site of the new community. The distance was 12 miles, or what Anthony considered close enough to reach in an after-dinner stroll.\n\nKellia was for advanced monks, for those who \"lived a more remote life, stripped down to bare rudiments,\" as was recorded in the Greek \"Historia Monachorum in Aegypto\" by Flavius Rufinus who personally saw it. The cells were arranged far enough apart that \"no one can catch sight of another nor can a voice be heard\". It was only for monks who had first mastered the art of desert living at Nitria. They came together on Saturday and Sunday to share a meal together, some journeying 3 or 4 miles from their cell to the church. \"They met in Church and, glimpsing this way and that, see one another as the heaven-restored.\" If a monk failed to appear they would know he was sick or died and eventually someone (individually) would bring food or help or collect the remains. \n\nIt was believed in the 390s up to 600 monks were at Kellia. By the 5th and 6th centuries it numbered in the thousands. Activity began to taper off in the 7th and 8th centuries due to doctrinal disputes in Egypt, and raids from nomads out of the Libyan desert to the west. The site was abandoned in the 9th century.\n\nKellia was discovered by archaeologist Antoine Guillaumont in 1964, and has been excavated for over 25 years by French and Swiss teams. The site covers over 125 square kilometers, over which many small hills, or \"koms\", were found. Once excavated they were found to contain many churches and living quarters, or cells named \"koms\". Over 1500 structures have been identified but it is probable there were many more. The structures range from single-cells for one person, to multiple cells for two or three people, to larger hermitages that included rooms for older monks, chapels and towers. In addition there were clusters of buildings that formed centers for communal services (Qasr Waheida), a complex of churches (Qasr Lsa 1), and a commercial center (Qasr al-lzeila). Buildings were made with a sandy mud brick and brick vaulted roofs. Most of the recovered artifacts are pottery, some of the walls are covered in inscriptions, graffiti and paintings. \n\n"}
{"id": "1913508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913508", "title": "Kyoto Sanga FC", "text": "Kyoto Sanga FC\n\nThe club was started as \"Kyoto Shiko Club\", one of the few proper Japanese football clubs in the sense of being strictly dedicated to football and not being part of a company. Like Ventforet Kofu, however, it could not rise to a Japan Soccer League First Division dominated by company teams; in 1993, after the J.League was created, Kyoto Shiko Club, aided by funds from local new sponsors Kyocera and Nintendo, professionalized (though some players broke away and formed their own clubs, see below) and joined the former Japan Football League under the new name \"Kyoto Purple Sanga\". \nFirst joining the J.League in 1996, Kyoto Sanga hold the dubious distinction of being the League's most relegated side, having been demoted on three separate occasions. Relegation to J2 occurred at the end of the 2000, 2003 and 2006 seasons; more than any other team. The 2003 relegation happened despite having many national team players on its roster. Stars like Park Ji-sung and Daisuke Matsui have since left for greener pastures. In December 2007 the club gained J1 status for the fourth time in their history via the promotion/relegation playoff. A 0-2 home defeat to Urawa Reds on 14 November 2010 confirmed Sanga's relegation back to J2, bringing an end to their three-season spell in the top flight.\n\n\"As of May 15th, 2020\".\n\n\n\n\nKyoto Sanga is considered the main continuation of the Kyoto Shiko Club that competed in the Japan Soccer League Second Division. \"Shiko\" (紫光) means \"brilliant purple\" and is the color that Shiko/Sanga have always worn.\n"}
{"id": "1913543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913543", "title": "Grolier", "text": "Grolier\n\nGrolier was one of the largest American publishers of general encyclopedias, including \"The Book of Knowledge\" (1910), \"The New Book of Knowledge\" (1966), \"The New Book of Popular Science\" (1972), \"Encyclopedia Americana\" (1945), \"Academic American Encyclopedia\" (1980), and numerous incarnations of a CD-ROM encyclopedia (1986–2003).\n\nGrolier is an educational publishing company known for its presence in school libraries. It has a strong presence among parents of children under six years old, the target of Grolier's direct mail-to-the-home business.\n\nIn June 2000 Grolier became part of Scholastic Corporation, which now maintains \"Scholastic GO\", formerly \"Grolier Online\".\n\nWalter M. Jackson (1863–1923) was the founder of encyclopedia publisher Grolier, Inc., and he was the partner of Horace Everett Hooper in publishing the 10th edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and in developing its 11th edition. He split with Hooper in 1908-1909 in a nasty legal fight after failing to wrest control of the \"Britannica\" from Hooper.\n\nJackson had founded the \"Grolier Society\", which specialized in making extra-fine editions of classics and rare literature. The Society was named after the Grolier Club, which had been founded in 1884 to advance the arts involved in making books and which was itself named after a well-known French bibliophile, Jean Grolier de Servières.\n\nAfter the split with Hooper he acquired the rights to publish the British \"The Children's Encyclopædia\" under the name \"The Book of Knowledge\".\n\nGrolier, Inc. subsequently became a large publisher of general encyclopedias, including \"The Book of Knowledge\" (1910), \"The New Book of Knowledge\" (1966), the \"Encyclopedia Americana\" (1945), the \"Academic American Encyclopedia\" (1980), \"The New Grolier Electronic Encyclopedia\" (1985 CD-ROM), and the \"Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia\" (1995).\n\nGrolier had a US$100 million international business, primarily located in the UK, Canada and Asia. It had 1999 revenues of $450 million and earnings of approximately $45 million, with $4.5 million in Internet revenues.\n\nBy the late 1970s, Grolier had moved its operations to Danbury, Connecticut. In 1987, Grolier acquired the Chicago-based Children's Press. In 1988 Grolier was purchased by the French media company Hachette, which owned a well-known French-language encyclopedia, the \"Hachette Encyclopedia\". Hachette was later absorbed by the French conglomerate the Lagardère Group. \nGrolier was then purchased by Scholastic for US$400 million in 2000. The new owners projected a 30% increase in operating income, although historically Grolier had experienced earnings of 7% to 8% on income.\n\nStaff reductions as a means of controlling costs followed soon thereafter, even while an effort was made to augment the sales force. Cuts occurred every year between 2000 and 2007, leaving a much-depleted work force to carry out the duties of maintaining a large encyclopedia database. Scholastic, which specializes in works for the K-8 market (Kindergarten-to-8th grade), has sought to position the \"Encyclopedia Americana\" as a reference resource for schools. It remains to be seen whether that strategy, applied to a venerable upper-level (even adult-level) publication, will work in the long run.\n\nThe name \"Grolier\" is retained as the Scholastic website \"Scholastic GO\". The company exists as Grolier Incorporated.\n\nFranklin Watts Inc. was formed in 1942. The company was sold to Grolier in 1957. When the namesake founder retired in 1967, he moved to London to start Franklin Watts Ltd. in 1969. Franklin Watts retired again in 1976.\n\nWhen Grolier acquired Children's Press, much of Franklin Watts were published under the Children's Press imprint. When Hachette sold Grolier to Scholastic Corporation in 2000, Scholastic took U.S. rights to Children's Press and Franklin Watts as well. The UK branch exists today as an imprint of Hachette UK's Hachette Children's Books.\n\nOrchard Books was founded in 1986 by Grolier as a children's publisher. Hachette, which acquired Grolier in 1988, sold Grolier to Scholastic Corporation in 2000, along with the U.S. branch of Orchard Books, while retaining the UK branch.\nThe company produced the \"Disney Christmas Magic Collection\", a popular Christmas ornament line for Disney Consumer Products. This part of the business was sold to Early Moments.\n\nGrolier's first CD-ROM publication was the text-only \"Academic American Encyclopedia on CD-ROM\" in 1985, and was one of the first commercial CD-ROM titles. The text was based on the \"Academic American Encyclopedia\", which comprised 30,000 entries and 9 million words. The editions were updated quarterly—a rate which outpaced the print edition. Eventually the CD-ROM edition was quite different from the print edition.\n\nGrolier published the encyclopedia with numerous name variations: \"The Electronic Encyclopedia\" (1986), \"The Grolier Electronic Encyclopedia\" (1987), \"The New Grolier Electronic Encyclopedia\" (1988–91), \"The New Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia\" (1992). The 1990 edition was the first to feature pictures, and the 1992 edition was the first to deliver video and sound. The last CD-ROM edition published was the 2003 \"Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia\".\n\nIn 1982 Grolier formed a subsidiary called Grolier Electronic Publishing Inc. Grolier Electronic Publishing Inc. was renamed Grolier Interactive Inc. in February 1996. They made electronic encyclopedias for the Amiga and video games for DOS, Windows, Macintosh and the PlayStation.\nThe video games they released include:\n\nGrolier Interactive stopped releasing video games when Grolier was bought by Scholastic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913552", "title": "Bayview Stadium", "text": "Bayview Stadium\n\nBayview Stadium, known formerly as New Bayview, is a football stadium located in the Scottish town of Methil, Fife. It is home to East Fife. It was opened in 1998, after the club relocated from the original Bayview Park across town.\n\nThe stadium can accommodate up to spectators all of whom are seated in a single stand running along one side of the pitch. There are open areas for future expansion. In 2008 plans were announced to increase capacity with the erection of a covered terrace/stand at the sea end of the stadium. Due to the economic climate in 2009 these plans were put on hold.\n\nThe stadium's capacity was temporarily expanded to 4,700 for a Scottish League One match against Rangers in October 2013.\n\nThe site of the stadium is near the mouth of the River Forth and the pitch used to be overshadowed by Methil power station, which was demolished in April 2011.\n\nFrom its inception, the stadium had a grass playing surface, however, in May 2017 a new 3G artificial pitch was installed for the start of the 2017–18 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913554", "title": "Cowboy Troy", "text": "Cowboy Troy\n\nTroy Lee Coleman III (born December 18, 1970), better known by his stage name Cowboy Troy, is an American, Hick Hop/country rapper and songwriter. He is a member of the MuzikMafia, an aggregation of country music singer-songwriters whose membership also includes Big & Rich, Gretchen Wilson and James Otto. He has released seven studio albums and one EP, including three releases on Warner Bros. Records, and has charted twice on the \"Billboard\" country singles charts.\n\nTroy graduated from Skyline High School in the Dallas Independent School District. He then attended the University of Texas at Austin where he earned a bachelor's degree. Prior to beginning his career as a singer, he worked as the assistant manager of a Dallas area Foot Locker.\n\nHe got the name Cowboy Troy in college, after a friend used the name to distinguish the cowboy-hat-wearing Coleman from his other friends named Troy.\n\nOn May 17, 2005, Troy released his first major-label solo album, \"Loco Motive\", through the RAYBAW records production label and the Warner Music Group distribution label. The album debuted at No. 2 on Billboard's Top Country Albums chart. The first single, \"I Play Chicken with the Train,\" peaked at No. 48 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart on April 9, 2005 and was the No. 1 country download at the iTunes Music Store on April 15, 2005.\n\nAs a Chevrolet promotion, Troy, Wilson, and Big & Rich released \"Our America\" as a free, time-limited download on July 1, 2005. They also performed the song live at the Boston Pops concert on July 4, 2005. \"Our America\" combines \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" with spoken word of parts of the U.S. Constitution, Declaration of independence, Pledge of Allegiance and Martin Luther King, Jr.'s \"I Have a Dream\" speech. The song peaked at No. 44 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart, and appears as a bonus track on both Big & Rich's \"Comin' to Your City\" and Wilson's \"All Jacked Up\" albums.\n\nCowboy Troy released the single \"If You Don't Wanna Love Me\", a duet with Sarah Buxton. The single failed to chart, as did the follow-up, \"My Last Yee Haw.\" A promotional single, titled \"Hook 'Em Horns\", was released on February 14, 2006 after his alma mater (Texas) won the national championship in football.\n\nCowboy Troy co-hosted, with Jewel, the fifth season of \"Nashville Star\" on the USA Network and CMT Canada.\n\nTroy made a special appearance at the March 13, 2006 episode of WWE's \"RAW\" in Beaumont, Texas. He came to the announcer's table and helped announce for the match between superstars Edge and Goldust. His entrance music was \"My Last Yee Haw.\" The April 30 episode of WWE's \"Raw\", broadcast from Nashville, showed Troy in the crowd. The announcers mentioned him, and his duties hosting \"Nashville Star\". In 2007, he released \"Black in the Saddle\".\n\nTroy parted ways with Warner Bros. Nashville in 2008. He released \"Demolition Mission: Studio Blue Sessions\" in 2009. Troy returned to Warner Music Nashville to release \"King of Clubs\" in March 2014.\n\nCowboy Troy was cited as a featured guest artist on two tracks from the 2011 Vanilla Ice release titled \"WTF\", which is available on iTunes.\n\nTroy appeared on the May 21 and 22, 2012 finale of Season 14 of the U.S. television show \"Dancing With the Stars\", performing \"I Play Chicken With the Train.\"\n\nHis 2017 single \"Pork Chop\" was named as the theme for the National Pork Board's October promotion called \"Porktober\".\n\nCowboy Troy performed at the 2008 Republican National Convention in St. Paul, Minnesota. He is a self-described black conservative and a member of the Republican Party who supported Senator John McCain in the 2008 U.S. presidential election\n"}
{"id": "1913558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913558", "title": "Script doctor", "text": "Script doctor\n\nA script doctor is a writer or playwright hired by a film, television, or theatre production to rewrite an existing script or polish specific aspects of it, including structure, characterization, dialogue, pacing, themes, and other elements.\n\nScript doctors generally do their work uncredited for a variety of commercial and artistic reasons. They are usually brought in for scripts that have been almost \"green-lit\" during the development and pre-production phases of a film to address specific issues with the script, as identified by the financiers, production team, and cast.\n\nTo receive credit, the Writers Guild of America screenwriting credit system requires a second screenwriter to contribute more than 50 percent of an original screenplay or 33 percent of an adaptation. Uncredited screenwriters are not eligible to win the Academy Award or the Writers Guild of America Award.\n\nA script doctor should be distinguished from a script consultant.\n\nMany screenwriters have done uncredited work on screenplays:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913567", "title": "Parliament of Egypt", "text": "Parliament of Egypt\n\nThe Parliament of Egypt, officially the House of Representatives ( ) is currently a unicameral legislature (though\nthe approval of the 2019 Egyptian constitutional referendum will create a second chamber, called the Senate).\n\nThe Parliament is located in Cairo, Egypt's capital. Under the country's 2014 constitution, as the legislative branch of the Egyptian state the Parliament enacted laws, approved the general policy of the State, the general plan for economic and social development and the general budget of the State, supervised the work of the government, and had the power to vote to impeach the president of the Republic, or replace the government and its prime minister by a vote of no-confidence.\n\nThe parliament is made up of 596 seats, with 448 seats elected through the individual candidacy system, 120 elected through winner-take-all party lists (with quotas for youth, women, Christians, and workers) and 28 selected by the president.\n\nParliamentary life began in Egypt as early as 1866, and since then several forms of national assemblies have been formed, dismantled and amended to reach the present-day form. Since 1866, Egypt witnessed seven parliamentary systems whose legislative and oversight competences varied and reflected the history of the Egyptian people's struggle to establish a society based on democracy and freedom. For more than 135 years of parliamentary history Egypt witnessed 32 Parliaments whose members ranged between 75 and 458 who contributed to writing Egypt's modern political social, economic and cultural history. According to the present-day constitution, the Parliament consists only of the House of Representatives (\"Maǧlis an-Nowwab\"), a 596-member lower house.\n\nThe Parliament has lacked the powers to effectively balance the powers of the president.\n\nEgypt was without a parliament for three years. The parliament was dissolved in June 2012. On 8 July 2012, President Mohamed Morsi said he would override the edict that had dissolved the country's elected lawmakers, but that was followed by his deposition. Elections for parliament were held from 17 October 2015 to 2 December 2015.\n\nWhile parliamentary elections in the major cities are often fixed by the ruling party, elections in Upper Egypt—the poorest and most underdeveloped part of the country where approximately 40% of Egypt's population live—are more free, with the ruling party \"recruiting whoever happened to win.\" According to journalist Peter Hessler, neglect of Upper Egypt has also allowed the region to \"devise indigenous campaign traditions\".\n\nWithout parties or local media to promote issues or policies, campaigns consist primarily of evening house calls to potential voters by candidates with their entourage. Visits may last anywhere from only a minute to a half an hour. Candidates are served cigarettes, (non-alcoholic) drinks or sweets; The visits are not confined to a period before the election but often continue even when the parliament is cancelled and elections continually delayed.\n\nThe group affiliation of the candidates is not party or ideology but tribe (despite the fact that according to anthropologists \"tribes\" in Egypt are often 20th century creations). Because family hierarchies dominate most people's lives, candidates seek the support of clan elders who direct family members, sometimes numbering in the hundreds, how to vote. Candidates may successfully campaign without the \"support of any party or other institution\" because there are no party networks. They do campaign with family members and when defeated candidates lose face because elections are a matter of family pride. \nCandidates often have no platform, do not talk \"about issues, policies, or potential legislation\", or make any \"public campaign promises\". Candidates often sit in silence on their visits rather than formally introduce themselves, give a stump speech or field questions about what they will do if elected. Potential voters will however often ask for small favors such as making a call to a government office that issued permits or handled utilities on the voter's behalf if the candidate is elected. \nCampaigning involves male Muslims, as candidates seldom if ever interact with women (who in the south are sequestered at home and sometimes forbidden from voting by the clan elder), and the ten percent Coptic Christian minority is \"basically ignored\" by \"most\" candidates.\n\nThe 2014 constitution that was passed in the 2014 constitutional referendum has put into place the following rules: the House that is elected following the ratification of the constitution must have at least 450 members. In addition, prospective members must be Egyptian, must be at least 25 years old and must hold an education certificate. Also, the president can appoint, at the most, five percent of the members in the chamber.\n\nThe House sits for a five-year term but can be dissolved earlier by the president. All seats are voted on in each election. The House of Representatives members are elected by absolute majority of legitimate votes cast.\n\nThe House may demand the resignation of the cabinet by adopting a motion of censure. For this reason, the Prime Minister of Egypt and his cabinet are necessarily from the dominant party or coalition in the House. When the president and house come from opposing parties (a situation which did arise historically, but not since the 1970s), this would lead to the situation known as cohabitation.\n\nThe House of Representatives has various competences stated in Chapter Five of the Constitution. According to article 86 the House of Representatives shall undertake:\n\n\nIn practice, the People's Assembly had very little power prior to the 2011 Egyptian revolution. It was dominated by the National Democratic Party, and there was little substantive opposition to executive decisions.\n\nThe House of Representatives Speaker (HR Speaker) presides over the House and is elected from the House membership, along with two deputies during the first session of the season. The Speaker's role in session is to keep the peace and order to the parliamentary session, take part in discussion provided that he gives up his presidency to one of his deputies and doesn't return to his presidency until the discussion is finished as well as ordering an emergency session for one of the House' committees. In case of vacancy in the president's office, the Speaker serves as acting president until the presidential elections are held (Which must be within 60 days). This has happened once, when president Anwar Sadat was assassinated in office, and then People's Assembly Speaker, Sufi Abu Taleb served as acting president. The last PA Speaker was Saad Al Katatny, who briefly presided the Assembly for only 5 months from 23 January 2012 to the dissolution of parliament on 18 June 2012.\n\nThe Staff is responsible for organization of the house' and its committees' agendas, the enforcement of the House' orders and is the link between the House and different agencies, ministries and other authorities. The staff consists of the HR speaker and his two deputies.\n\nThis committee is formed in the beginning of the House' annual season, headed by the Speaker. Its membership includes the Deputy Speakers, representatives of the political parties' parliamentary committees, and five House members (of whom one is an independent, if there are more than ten independents). The Speaker is responsible for outlining the committee's agenda. The committee is responsible for discussing the general issues put forward by the president, the prime minister or the speaker.\n\nThese committees are:\n\nThis committee is formed in the beginning of the House' annual season, headed by one of the HR speaker deputies. The membership includes the heads of the following committees: Constitutional Affairs and Legislation; Religious, Social and \"Awkaf\" Affairs; and Suggestions and Grievances; five members of the General Committee (of whom at least two are from the opposition parties); and five members chosen randomly from the House. This committee is responsible for looking into the violations committed by House members towards the Egyptian society's code of behavior towards religion, social standards, etc.\n\nThe ad hoc committees are formed by the suggestion of the Speaker or the request of the government to study, debate on a new bill or law, voting on the ratification of a new law or bill or a special issue of concern. The Speaker is responsible on choosing members for this committee. The Combined committees are formed by the request of the Speaker, the government, members of two or more of the specialized committees, with the aim of studying a particular issue of concern. These combined committees are headed by one of the Speaker's deputies. The orders of these committees are issued when a majority vote is achieved.\n\nThe Egyptian House of Representatives is the Egyptian representative of the international parliamentary conventions. This chapter aims at developing of mutual relations with international parliaments. The General Assembly of this chapter consists of the entire membership of the House, and headed by the Speaker. The Executive committee of this chapter of the Speaker staff office, three members chosen from the Assembly membership of whom at least one is a member of the opposition parties. The Assembly meets in its chapter form every January. Emergency sessions are held by the request of the executive committee to look into any of additionally outlined issues of concern.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913568", "title": "Jet Data Access Objects", "text": "Jet Data Access Objects\n\nJet Data Access Objects is a general programming interface for database access on Microsoft Windows systems, primarily for Jet and ACE databases.\n\nDAO were originally called VT Objects. DAO 1.0 came up in November 1992 as part of Access 1.0. In version 3.5 it was able to bypass the Jet engine altogether and directly access ODBC data sources, including Microsoft SQL Server and other enterprise database systems. DAO 3.6 shipped with Jet 4.0. Access 2007 and later uses ACE with its ACEDAO, where most new features supported by ACE are added to. ACEDAO no longer supports ODBCDirect.\n\nDAO works by creating a \"Workspace\" object in which all database operations are performed. The workspace object exists as a session object that exists within a larger database engine object. There are two types of database engines: a Jet database engine object, and an ODBCDirect database engine.\n\nThe Jet database engine (in Access 2007 and later, ACE) object consists of several objects:\n\n\nThe first version of DAO used Snapshot/Dynaset/Table objects etc. In DAO 2.0 Recordset etc. objects was introduced. DAO 3.0/3.5 only supported the old objects using a special compatibility TLB, which was removed completely in DAO 3.6. \n\nThe ODBCDirect database engine consists of a workspace object and an errors object. The main differences between this database engine and the Jet database engine are:\n\n\nThe ODBC connection objects consist of QueryDef objects and recordset objects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913571", "title": "Gay literature", "text": "Gay literature\n\nGay literature is a collective term for literature produced by or for the LGBT community which involves characters, plot lines, and/or themes portraying male homosexual behavior. The term is now used most commonly to cover specifically gay male literature, with a separate genre of lesbian literature existing for women. Historically, the term \"gay literature\" was sometimes used to cover both gay male and lesbian literatures.\n\nBecause the social acceptance of homosexuality has varied in many world cultures throughout history, LGBT literature has covered a vast array of themes and concepts. LGBT individuals have often turned to literature as a source of validation, understanding, and beautification of same-sex attraction. In contexts where homosexuality has been perceived negatively, LGBT literature may also document the psychological stresses and alienation suffered by those experiencing prejudice, legal discrimination, AIDS, self-loathing, bullying, violence, religious condemnation, denial, suicide, persecution, and other such obstacles.\n\nThemes of love between individuals of the same gender are found in a variety of ancient texts throughout the world. The ancient Greeks, in particular, explored the theme on a variety of different levels in such works as Plato's \"Symposium\".\n\nMany mythologies and religious narratives include stories of romantic affection or sexuality between men or feature divine actions that result in changes in gender. These myths have been interpreted as forms of LGBT expression and modern conceptions of sexuality and gender have been applied to them. Myths have been used by individual cultures, in part, to explain and validate their particular social institutions or to explain the cause of transgender identity or homosexuality.\n\nIn classical mythology, male lovers were attributed to ancient Greek gods and heroes such as Zeus, Apollo, Poseidon and Heracles (including Ganymede, Hyacinth, Nerites and Hylas, respectively) as a reflection and validation of the tradition of pederasty.\n\nThough Homer did not explicitly portray the heroes Achilles and Patroclus as homosexual lovers in his 8th century BC Trojan War epic, the \"Iliad\", later ancient authors presented the intense relationship as such. In his 5th century BC lost tragedy \"The Myrmidons\", Aeschylus casts Achilles and Patroclus as pederastic lovers. In a surviving fragment of the play, Achilles speaks of \"our frequent kisses\" and a \"devout union of the thighs\". Plato does the same in his \"Symposium\" (385–370 BC); the speaker Phaedrus cites Aeschylus and holds Achilles up as an example of how people will be more brave and even sacrifice themselves for their lovers. In his oration \"Against Timarchus\", Aeschines argues that though Homer \"hides their love and avoids giving a name to their friendship\", Homer assumed that educated readers would understand the \"exceeding greatness of their affection\". Plato's \"Symposium\" also includes a creation myth that explains homo- and heterosexuality (Aristophanes speech) and celebrates the pederastic tradition and erotic love between men (Pausanias speech), as does another of his dialogues, \"Phaedrus\".\n\nThe tradition of pederasty in ancient Greece (as early as 650 BC) and later the acceptance of limited homosexuality in ancient Rome infused an awareness of male-male attraction and sex into ancient poetry. In the of Virgil's \"Eclogues\" (1st century BC), the shepherd Corydon proclaims his love for the boy Alexis. Some of the erotic poetry of Catullus in the same century is directed at other men (\"Carmen 48\", \"50\", and \"99\"), and in a wedding hymn (\"Carmen 61\") he portrays a male concubine about to be supplanted by his master's future wife. The first line of his infamous invective \"Carmen 16\" — which has been called \"one of the filthiest expressions ever written in Latin—or in any other language, for that matter\" — contains explicit homosexual sex acts.\n\nThe \"Satyricon\" by Petronius is a Latin work of fiction detailing the misadventures of Encolpius and his lover, a handsome and promiscuous sixteen-year-old servant boy named Giton. Written in the 1st century AD during the reign of Nero, it is the earliest known text of its kind depicting homosexuality.\n\nIn the celebrated Japanese work \"The Tale of Genji\", written by Murasaki Shikibu in the early 11th century, the title character Hikaru Genji is rejected by the lady Utsusemi in chapter 3 and instead sleeps with her young brother: \"Genji pulled the boy down beside him ... Genji, for his part, or so one is informed, found the boy more attractive than his chilly sister.\"\n\nAntonio Rocco's \"Alcibiades the Schoolboy\", published anonymously in 1652, is an Italian dialogue written as a defense of homosexual sodomy. The first such explicit work known to be written since ancient times, its intended purpose as a \"Carnivalesque satire\", a defense of pederasty, or a work of pornography is unknown, and debated.\n\nSeveral medieval European works contain references to homosexuality, such as in \"Lanval\", a French lai, in which the knight Lanval is accused by Guinevere of having \"no desire for women\". Others include homosexual themes, like \"Yde et Olive\".\n\nThe era known as the Age of Enlightenment (1650s to 1780s) gave rise to, in part, a general challenge to the traditional doctrines of society in Western Europe. A particular interest in the Classical era of Greece and Rome \"as a model for contemporary life\" put the Greek appreciation of nudity, the male form and male friendship (and the inevitable homoerotic overtones) into art and literature. It was common for gay authors at this time to include allusions to Greek mythological characters as a code that homosexual readers would recognize. Gay men of the period \"commonly understood ancient Greece and Rome to be societies where homosexual relationships were tolerated and even encouraged,\" and references to those cultures might identify an author or book's sympathy with gay readers and gay themes but probably be overlooked by straight readers. Despite the \"increased visibility of queer behavior\" and prospering networks of male prostitution in cities like Paris and London, homosexual activity had been outlawed in England (and by extension, the United States) as early as the Buggery Act 1533. Across much of Europe in the 1700s and 1800s, the legal punishment for sodomy was death, making it dangerous to publish or distribute anything with overt gay themes. James Jenkins of Valancourt Books noted:\nMany early Gothic fiction authors, like Matthew Lewis, William Thomas Beckford and Francis Lathom, were homosexual, and would sublimate these themes and express them in more acceptable forms, using transgressive genres like Gothic and horror fiction. The title character of Lewis's \"The Monk\" (1796) falls in love with young novice Rosario, and though Rosario is later revealed to be a woman named Matilda, the gay subtext is clear. A similar situation occurs in Charles Maturin's \"The Fatal Revenge\" (1807) when the valet Cyprian asks his master, Ippolito, to kiss him as though he were Ippolito's female lover; later Cyprian is also revealed to be a woman. In Maturin's \"Melmoth the Wanderer\" (1820), the close friendship between a young monk and a new novice is scrutinized as potentially \"too like love.\" Sheridan Le Fanu's novella \"Carmilla\" (1872) basically invented the lesbian vampire story, and influenced Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897). Stoker's novel has its own homoerotic aspects, as when Count Dracula warns off the female vampires and claims Jonathan Harker, saying \"This man belongs to me!\"\n\n\"\" (1805) by Augustus, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg is \"the earliest known novel that centers on an explicitly male-male love affair\". Set in ancient Greece, the German novel features several couples—including a homosexual one—falling in love, overcoming obstacles and living happily ever after. The Romantic movement gaining momentum at the end of the 18th century allowed men to \"express deep affection for each other\", and the motif of ancient Greece as \"a utopia of male-male love\" was an acceptable vehicle to reflect this, but some of Duke August's contemporaries felt that his characters \"stepped over the bounds of manly affection into unseemly eroticism.\" The first American gay novel was \"\" (1870) by Bayard Taylor, the story of a newly engaged young man who finds himself instead falling in love with another man. Robert K. Martin called it \"quite explicit in its adoption of a political stance toward homosexuality\" and notes that the character Philip \"argues for the 'rights' of those 'who cannot shape themselves according to the common-place pattern of society.'\" Henry Blake Fuller's 1898 play, \"At St. Judas's\", and 1919 novel, \"Bertram Cope's Year\" are noted as among the earliest published American works in literature on the theme of homosexual relationships.\n\nThe new \"atmosphere of frankness\" created by the Enlightenment sparked the production of pornography like John Cleland's infamous \"Fanny Hill\" (1749), which features a rare graphic scene of male homosexual sex. Published anonymously a century later, \"The Sins of the Cities of the Plain\" (1881) and \"Teleny, or The Reverse of the Medal\" (1893) are two of the earliest pieces of English-language pornography to explicitly and near-exclusively concern homosexuality. \"The Sins of the Cities of the Plain\" is about a male prostitute, and set in London around the time of the Cleveland Street Scandal and the Oscar Wilde trials. \"Teleny\", chronicling a passionate affair between a Frenchman and a Hungarian pianist, is often attributed to a collaborative effort by Wilde and some of his contemporaries. Wilde's more mainstream \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890) still shocked readers with its sensuality and overtly homosexual characters. Drew Banks called Dorian Gray a groundbreaking gay character because he was \"one of the first in a long list of hedonistic fellows whose homosexual tendencies secured a terrible fate.\" The French realist Émile Zola in his novel \"Nana\" (1880) depicted, along with a wide variety of heterosexual couplings and some lesbian scenes, a single homosexual character, Labordette. Paris theater society and the \"demi-monde\" are long accustomed to his presence and role as go-between; he knows all the women, escorts them, and runs errands for them. He is \"a parasite, with even a touch of pimp\", but also a more sympathetic figure than most of the men, as much a moral coward as them but physically brave and not a stereotype.\n\nBy the 20th century, discussion of homosexuality became more open and society's understanding of it evolved. A number of novels with explicitly gay themes and characters began to appear in the domain of mainstream or art literature.\n\nNobel Prize-winner André Gide's semi-autobiographical novel \"The Immoralist\" (1902) finds a newly married man reawakened by his attraction to a series of young Arab boys. Though Bayard Taylor's \"Joseph and His Friend\" (1870) had been the first American gay novel, Edward Prime-Stevenson's \"\" (1906) was the first in which the homosexual couple were happy and united at the end. Initially published privately under the pseudonym \"Xavier Mayne\", it tells the story of a British aristocrat and a Hungarian soldier whose new friendship turns into love. In Thomas Mann's 1912 novella \"Death in Venice\", a tightly wound, aging writer finds himself increasingly infatuated with a young Polish boy. Marcel Proust's serialized novel \"In Search of Lost Time\" (1913–27) and Gide's \"The Counterfeiters\" (1925) also explore homosexual themes.\n\nBritish author E.M. Forster earned a prominent reputation as a novelist while concealing his own homosexuality from the broader British public. In 1913-14, he privately penned \"Maurice\", a bildungsroman that follows a young, upper-middle-class man through the self-discovery of his own attraction to other men, two relationships, and his interactions with an often uncomprehending or hostile society. The book is notable for its affirming tone and happy ending. \"A happy ending was imperative,\" wrote Forster, \"...I was determined that in fiction anyway, two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever and ever that fiction allows ... Happiness is its keynote.\" The book was not published until 1971, after Forster's death. William J. Mann said of the novel, \"[Alec Scudder of \"Maurice\" was] a refreshingly unapologetic young gay man who was not an effete Oscar Wilde aristocrat, but rather a working class, masculine, ordinary guy ... an example of the working class teaching the privileged class about honesty and authenticity a bit of a stereotype now, but back then quite extraordinary.\"\n\nBlair Niles's \"Strange Brother\" (1931), about the platonic relationship between a heterosexual woman and a gay man in New York City in the late 1920s and early 1930s, is an early, objective exploration of homosexual issues during the Harlem Renaissance. Though praised for its journalistic approach, sympathetic nature and promotion of tolerance and compassion, the novel has been numbered among a group of early gay novels that is \"cast in the form of a tragic melodrama\" and, according to editor and author Anthony Slide, illustrates the \"basic assumption that gay characters in literature must come to a tragic end.\" \"Smoke, Lilies, and Jade\" by gay author and artist Richard Bruce Nugent, published in 1926, was the first short story by an African-American writer openly addressing his homosexuality. Written in a modernist stream-of-consciousness style, its subject matter was bisexuality and interracial male desire.\n\nForman Brown's 1933 novel \"Better Angel\", published under the pseudonym Richard Meeker, is an early novel which describes a gay lifestyle without condemning it. Christopher Carey called it \"the first homosexual novel with a truly happy ending\". Slide names only four familiar gay novels of the first half of the 20th century in English: Djuna Barnes' \"Nightwood\" (1936), Carson McCullers' \"Reflections in a Golden Eye\" (1941), Truman Capote's \"Other Voices, Other Rooms\" (1948) and Gore Vidal's \"The City and the Pillar\" (1948). In John O'Hara's 1935 novel \"BUtterfield 8\", the principal female character Gloria Wondrous has a friend Ann Paul, who in school \"was suspect because of a couple of crushes which ... her former schoolmates were too free about calling Lesbian, and Gloria did not think so\". Gloria speculates that \"there was a little of that in practically all women\", considers her own experience with women making passes, and rejects her own theory.\n\nThe story of a young man who is coming of age and discovers his own homosexuality, \"The City and the Pillar\" (1946) is recognized as the first post-World War II novel whose openly gay and well-adjusted protagonist is not killed off at the end of the story for defying social norms. It is also one of the \"definitive war-influenced gay novels\", one of the few books of its period dealing directly with male homosexuality. \"The City and the Pillar\" has also been called \"the most notorious of the gay novels of the 1940s and 1950s.\" It sparked a public scandal, including notoriety and criticism, because it was released at a time when homosexuality was commonly considered immoral and because it was the first book by an accepted American author to portray overt homosexuality as a natural behavior. Upon its release, \"The New York Times\" refused to publish advertisements for the novel and Vidal was blacklisted to the extent that no major newspaper or magazine would review any of his novels for six years. Modern scholars note the importance of the novel to the visibility of gay literature. Michael Bronski points out that \"gay-male-themed books received greater critical attention than lesbian ones\" and that \"writers such as Gore Vidal were accepted as important American writers, even when they received attacks from homophobic critics.\" Ian Young notes that social disruptions of World War II changed public morals, and lists \"The City and the Pillar\" among a spate of war novels that use the military as backdrop for overt homosexual behavior.\n\nOther notable works of the 1940s and 1950s include Jean Genet's semiautobiographical \"Our Lady of the Flowers\" (1943) and \"The Thief's Journal\" (1949), Yukio Mishima's \"Confessions of a Mask\" (1949), Umberto Saba's \"Ernesto\" (written in 1953, published posthumously in 1975), and \"Giovanni's Room\" (1956) by James Baldwin. Mary Renault's \"The Charioteer\", a 1953 British war novel about homosexual men in and out of the military, quickly became a bestseller within the gay community. Renault's historical novels \"The Last of the Wine\" (1956) about Athenian pederasty in ancient Greece and \"The Persian Boy\" (1972) about Alexander the Great and his slave lover Bagoas followed suit. \"A Room in Chelsea Square\" (1958) by British author Michael Nelson — about a wealthy gentleman who lures an attractive younger man to London with the promise of an upper crust lifestyle — was originally published anonymously both because of its explicit gay content at a time when homosexuality was still illegal, and because its characters were \"thinly veiled portrayals of prominent London literary figures.\"\n\nA key element of Allen Drury's 1959 bestselling and Pulitzer Prize-winning political novel \"Advise and Consent\" is the blackmailing of young US senator Brigham Anderson, who is hiding a secret wartime homosexual tryst. In 2009, \"The Wall Street Journal\" Scott Simon wrote of Drury that \"the conservative Washington novelist was more progressive than Hollywood liberals,\" noting that the character Anderson is \"candid and unapologetic\" about his affair, and even calling him \"Drury's most appealing character\". Frank Rich wrote in \"The New York Times\" in 2005:\n\nDrury later wrote about the unrequited love of one male astronaut for another in his 1971 novel \"The Throne of Saturn\", and in his two-part tale of ancient Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten's attempt to change Egyptian religion—\"A God Against the Gods\" (1976) and \"Return to Thebes\" (1977)—Akhenaten's romance with his brother Smenkhkara contributes to his downfall. Tormented homosexual North McAllister is one of the ensemble of Alpha Zeta fraternity brothers and their families that Drury follows over the course of 60 years in his \"University\" novels (1990-1998), as well as René Suratt — villain and \"bisexual seducer of students\" — and the tragic lovers Amos Wilson and Joel. Assessing Drury's body of work in 1999, Erik Tarloff suggested in \"The New York Times\" that \"homosexuality does appear to be the only minority status to which Drury seems inclined to accord much sympathy.\"\n\nJames Baldwin followed \"Giovanni's Room\" with \"Another Country\" (1962), a \"controversial bestseller\" that \"explicitly combines racial and sexual protests ... structured around the lives of eight racially, regionally, socioeconomically, and sexually diverse characters.\" John Rechy's \"City of Night\" (1963) and \"Numbers\" (1967) are graphic tales of male hustlers; \"City of Night\" has been called a \"landmark novel\" that \"marked a radical departure from all other novels of its kind, and gave voice to a subculture that had never before been revealed with such acuity.\" Claude J. Summers wrote of Christopher Isherwood's \"A Single Man\" (1964):\nGeorge Baxt's \"A Queer Kind of Death\" (1966) introduced Pharaoh Love, the first gay black detective in fiction. The novel was met with considerable acclaim, and \"The New York Times\" critic Anthony Boucher wrote, \"This is a detective story, and unlike any other that you have read. No brief review can attempt to convey its quality. I merely note that it deals with a Manhattan subculture wholly devoid of ethics or morality, that said readers may well find it 'shocking', that it is beautifully plotted and written with elegance and wit ... and that you must under no circumstances miss it.\" Love would be the central figure in two immediate sequels \"Swing Low Sweet Harriet\" (1967) and \"Topsy and Evil\" (1968) and also two later novels, \"A Queer Kind of Love\" (1994) and \"A Queer Kind of Umbrella\" (1995). In his controversial 1968 satire \"Myra Breckinridge\", Gore Vidal explored the mutability of gender-roles and sexual-orientation as being social constructs established by social mores, making the eponymous heroine a transsexual waging a \"war against gender roles\".\n\nThough Thomas Pynchon's \"Gravity's Rainbow\" (1973) was unanimously recommended by the Pulitzer Prize fiction jury to receive the 1974 award, the Pulitzer board chose instead to make no award that year. In 2005 \"TIME\" named the novel one of its \"All-\"TIME\" 100 Greatest Novels\", a list of the best English language novels from 1923 to 2005. Other notable novels from the 1970s include Manuel Puig's \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\" (1976), Andrew Holleran's \"Dancer from the Dance\" (1978), and \"Tales of the City\" (1978), the first volume of Armistead Maupin's long-running \"Tales of the City\" series.\n\nIn the 1980s, Edmund White — who had cowritten the 1977 gay sex manual \"The Joy of Gay Sex\" — published the semiautobiographical novels \"A Boy's Own Story\" (1982) and \"The Beautiful Room Is Empty\" (1988). Bret Easton Ellis also came to prominence with \"Less Than Zero\" (1985), \"The Rules of Attraction\" (1987) and later \"American Psycho\" (1991). Nobel Prize winner Roger Martin du Gard's unfinished \"Lieutenant-Colonel de Maumort\", written between 1941 and 1958, was published posthumously in 1983. It explores adolescent homosexual relations and includes a fictional first-person account, written in 1944, of a brief tragic encounter between a young soldier and a bakery apprentice in rural France.\n\nThe founding of the Lambda Literary Award in 1988 helped increase the visibility of LGBT literature.\n\nIn the 21st century, much of LGBT literature has achieved a high level of sophistication and many works have earned mainstream acclaim. Notable authors include Alan Hollinghurst, André Aciman, Michael Cunningham, Michael Chabon, Colm Tóibín, Sarah Waters, John Boyne, Pablo Soler Frost, Jamie O'Neill, and Andrew Sean Greer. Greer, an openly gay man, won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for \"Less\". LGBT themes have also become more visible in a growing body of high-quality young adult literature, with notable authors including Alex Sanchez, Stephen Chbosky, Shyam Selvadurai, Perry Moore, Adam Silvera, and David Levithan. Becky Albertalli's teen novel \"Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda\" was adapted into the feature film \"Love, Simon\" by 20th Century Fox, the first film by a major studio focused on a gay teenage romance.\n\nGay pulp fiction or gay pulps, refers to printed works, primarily fiction, that include references to male homosexuality, specifically male gay sex, and that are cheaply produced, typically in paperback books made of wood pulp paper; lesbian pulp fiction is similar work about women. Michael Bronski, the editor of an anthology of gay pulp writing, notes in his introduction, \"Gay pulp is not an exact term, and it is used somewhat loosely to refer to a variety of books that had very different origins and markets\" People often use the term to refer to the \"classic\" gay pulps that were produced before about 1970, but it may also be used to refer to the gay erotica or pornography in paperback book or digest magazine form produced since that date.\n\nHomosexuality in speculative fiction refers to the incorporation of homosexual themes into science fiction, fantasy, horror fiction and related genres which together constitute speculative fiction. Such elements may include a lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) character as the protagonist or a major character, or exploration of varieties of sexual experience that deviate from the conventional.\n\nScience fiction and fantasy have traditionally been puritanical genres aimed at a male readership, and can be more restricted than non-genre literature by their conventions of characterisation and the effect that these conventions have on depictions of sexuality and gender. During the pulp magazine era (1920s-30s), explicit sexuality of any kind was rare in genre science fiction and fantasy. Then, according to Joanna Russ, in the more relaxed Golden Age of Science Fiction (1940s-50s) the genre \"resolutely ignored the whole subject\" of homosexuality. Some writers were able to introduce more explicit sexuality into their work as the readership for science fiction and fantasy began to age in the 1950s, however until the late 1960s few depicted alternative sexuality or revised gender roles, or openly investigated sexual questions. After the pushing back of boundaries in the 1960s and 70s, homosexuality gained much wider acceptance, and was often incorporated into otherwise conventional SF stories with little comment. By the 1980s, blatant homophobia was no longer considered acceptable to most readers. In Lois McMaster Bujold's \"Ethan of Athos\" (1986), the titular \"unlikely hero\" is gay obstetrician Dr. Ethan Urquhart, whose dangerous adventure alongside the first woman he has ever met presents both a future society where homosexuality is the norm and the lingering sexism and homophobia of our own world. \"Uranian Worlds\", by Eric Garber and Lyn Paleo, was compiled in 1983 and is an authoritative guide to science fiction literature featuring gay, lesbian, transgender, and related themes. The book covers science fiction literature published before 1990 (2nd edition, 1990), providing a short review and commentary on each piece.\n\nAs speculative fiction gives authors and readers the freedom to imagine societies that are different from real-life cultures, this freedom makes speculative fiction a useful means of examining sexual bias by forcing the reader to reconsider his or her heteronormative cultural assumptions. It has also been claimed that LGBT readers identify strongly with the mutants, aliens and other outsider characters found in speculative fiction.\n\nJames Jenkins of Valancourt Books notes that the connection between gay fiction and horror goes back to the Gothic novels of the 1790s and early 1800s. Many Gothic authors, like Matthew Lewis, William Thomas Beckford and Francis Lathom, were homosexual, and according to Jenkins \"the traditional explanation for the gay/horror connection is that it was impossible for them to write openly about gay themes back then (or even perhaps express them, since words like 'gay' and 'homosexual' didn't exist), so they sublimated them and expressed them in more acceptable forms, using the medium of a transgressive genre like horror fiction.\" Early works with clear gay subtext include Lewis's \"The Monk\" (1796) and both Charles Maturin's \"The Fatal Revenge\" (1807) and \"Melmoth the Wanderer\" (1820). Somewhat later came the first lesbian vampire novella \"Carmilla\" (1872) by Sheridan Le Fanu and \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890) by Oscar Wilde, which shocked readers with its sensuality and overtly homosexual characters. There is even gay subtext in Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897) as the title character warns off the female vampires and claims Jonathan Harker, saying \"This man belongs to me!\" The erotic metaphor of vampirism, inspired by \"Carmilla\", has resulted in numerous vampire films since the 1970s strongly implying or explicitly portraying lesbianism.\n\nJames R. Keller writes that in particular,\"Gay and lesbian readers have been quick to identify with the representation of the vampire, suggesting its experiences parallel those of the sexual outsider.\" Richard Dyer discusses the recurring homoerotic motifs of vampire fiction in his article \"Children of the Night\", primarily \"the necessity of secrecy, the persistence of a forbidden passion, and the fear of discovery.\" With the vampire having been a recurring metaphor for same-sex desire from before Stoker's \"Dracula\", Dyer observes that historically earlier representations of vampires tend to evoke horror and later ones turn that horror into celebration. The homoerotic overtones of Anne Rice's celebrated \"The Vampire Chronicles\" series (1976–2016) are well-documented, and its publication reinforced the \"widely recognized parallel between the queer and the vampire.\"\n\nLGBT themes in comics is a relatively new concept, as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) themes and characters were historically omitted intentionally from the content of comic books and their comic strip predecessors, due to either censorship or the perception that comics were for children. With any mention of homosexuality in mainstream United States comics forbidden by the Comics Code Authority (CCA) until 1989, earlier attempts at exploring these issues in the US took the form of subtle hints or subtext regarding a character's sexual orientation. LGBT themes were tackled earlier in underground comics from the early 1970s onward. Independently published one-off comic books and series, often produced by gay creators and featuring autobiographical storylines, tackled political issues of interest to LGBT readers.\n\nComic strips have also dealt in subtext and innuendo, their wide distribution in newspapers limiting their inclusion of controversial material. The first openly gay characters appeared in prominent strips in the late 1970s; representation of LGBT issues in these titles causes vociferous reaction, both praise and condemnation, to the present day. Comic strips aimed at LGBT audiences are also syndicated in gay- and lesbian-targeted magazines and comics have been created to educate people about LGBT-related issues and to influence real-world politics, with their format and distribution allowing them to transmit messages more subtle, complex, and positive than typical education material. Portrayal of LGBT themes in comics is recognized by several notable awards, including the Gaylactic Spectrum Award and GLAAD Media Awards for outstanding comic book and comic strip.\n\nSince the 1990s, LGBT themes have become more common in mainstream US comics, including in a number of titles in which a gay character is the star. European comics have been more inclusive from an earlier date. The lack of censorship, and greater acceptance of comics as a medium of adult entertainment led to less controversy about the representation of LGBT characters. The popular Japanese manga tradition has included genres of girls' comics that feature homosexual relationships since the 1970s, in the form of \"yaoi\" and \"yuri\". These works are often extremely romantic and include archetypal characters that often are not identified as gay. Since the Japanese \"gay boom\" of the 1990s, a body of manga aimed at LGBT customers has been produced, which have more realistic and autobiographical themes. Pornographic manga also often includes sexualised depictions of lesbians and intersex people. Queer theorists have noted that LGBT characters in mainstream comic books are usually shown as assimilated into heterosexual society, whereas in alternative comics the diversity and uniqueness of LGBT culture is emphasized.\n\nCompared to gay and lesbian teen fiction, sales of gay-themed books for younger children, and availability of these books in public and school libraries remain \"very dicey and very different.\"\n\n\"When Megan Went Away\" (1979) was the first picture book to include LGBT characters. The story, written by Jane Severance and illustrated by Tea Schook, concerns a preteen girl whose lesbian mother and her partner have separated. The first children's book with gay male character was \"Jenny Lives with Eric and Martin\". Originally published in 1981 in Danish as \"Mette bor hos Morten og Erik\", it tells the story of Jenny, her father and his partner and their daily life. Controversy and politicization followed its publication.\n\nSome of the best known children's books with gay themes include \"Heather Has Two Mommies\" (1989) and \"Daddy's Roommate\" (1991), published by LGBT publisher Alyson Books. Both books discussed same-sex parenting and attracted criticism and controversy. The American Library Association ranked \"Heather Has Two Mommies\" as the third and second most frequently challenged book in the United States in 1993 and 1994, respectively.\n\nRecent controversies include \"King & King\", originally written in Dutch and published in English in 2002. The book is about a prince uninterested in princesses, who eventually falls in love with another prince. In 2006, parents sued a Massachusetts school district after a teacher read the book to their son's second grade class. \"And Tango Makes Three\" (2005) by Justin Richardson and Peter Parnell has been frequently challenged, and is often on the American Library Associations's List of Challenged Books for Banned Books Week. It was ranked ninth on this list in 2017. The book tells the true story of two male penguins who adopt an egg and raise the baby once it has hatched. While it has been banned and debated many times, it has been awarded and noted by the American Library Association on their Rainbow Book List.\n\nIn 2018, Little Bee Books partnered with media advocacy group GLAAD for a series of books that offered positive LGBT representation in children's literature. The partnership kicked off with \"Prince & Knight\", written by Daniel Haack and illustrated by Stevie Lewis, which was named to the American Library Association's Rainbow Book List and was named a best book of the year by Kirkus Reviews, Amazon and the Chicago Tribune. The partnership has gone on to include books that also offer lesbian, transgender and gender non-conforming representation.\n\nAustralian titles include the books in the 'Learn to Include' series: \"The Rainbow Cubby House\", \"My House\", \"Going to Fair Day\" and \"Koalas on Parade\". \"House of Hades\" (2013), Book 4 in the young adult series \"The Heroes of Olympus\" by Rick Riordan, features a gay supporting character, Nico di Angelo.\n\nA more extensive list of gay children's literature includes:\n\nIn July 2014, Singapore's National Library Board (NLB), a state-funded network of 26 public libraries, confirmed it would destroy three children's books with pro-LGBT families themes for being \"against its 'pro-family' stance[,] following complaints by a parent and its own internal review.\" The decision was widely criticized by LGBT supporters and the arts and literary community who see the actions as akin to book burnings and other forms of censorship. The three books are “And Tango Makes Three,” which covers the true story of a pair of male penguins that successfully raise a chick, “The White Swan Express”, which features children adopted by a variety of families including gay, mixed-race and single parents, and “Who's In My Family”, which references families with homosexual parents. Two weeks after a gay rights rally, these books \"sparked a fierce debate\" between the religious conservatives, who opposed the rally, and Singapore's growing gay-rights lobby.\n\nTo date, there have been no explicitly bisexual characters–either children or adults–in children's books. Some young adult fiction books do feature bisexual characters, including \"Empress of the World\" by Sara Ryan (2001), \"Double Feature: Attack of the Soul-Sucking Brain Zombies/Bride of the Soul-Sucking Brain Zombies\" by Brent Hartinger (2007), \"Pink\" by Lili Wilkinson (2009), and \"It's Our Prom (So Deal with It)\" by Julie Anne Peters (2012). When they do appear in young adult fiction, bisexuals are often portrayed as confused or greedy.\n\nAccording to a 2015 NPR story, hundreds of books featuring transgender characters have been published since 2000. Although a vast majority of them tend to be targeted to a teenage audience, these self-publications also consist of picture books for younger children.\n\nTransgender teenage girl Jazz Jennings co-authored a 2014 children's book called \"I Am Jazz\" about her experience discovering her identity. Scholastic Books published Alex Gino's \"George\" in 2015, about a transgender girl, Melissa, who everyone else knows as George. Unable to find books with transgender characters to explain her father's transition to her children, Australian author Jess Walton created the 2016 children's book \"Introducing Teddy\" with illustrator Dougal MacPherson to assist children in understanding gender fluidity. Additional books listed by \"The Horn Book Magazine\" include:\n\nIn the past few years, transgender women have been finding publishers for their own picture books written for transgender kids. Some of these books include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913591", "title": "Hisham Abbas", "text": "Hisham Abbas\n\nMohammad Hisham Mahmoud Mohammad Abbas (; born September 13, 1963), commonly known as just Hisham Abbas , is an Egyptian pop singer best known for his hit song \"Habibi Dah (Nari Narain)\" and his religious song \"Asmaa Allah al-husna\".\n\nHisham Abbas was born in Cairo, Egypt. He had his primary education at Dar El Tefl school. Later on he enrolled in American University in Cairo and graduated with a major in mechanical engineering. \n\nAbbas' career bloomed later on to release several songs. He became popular in the early 1990s with successful hits like \"Wana Wana Wana\", \"Eineha El Sood\", \"Ta'ala\", \"Ya Leila\", \"Shoofi\" and his most successful hit, \"Habibi Dah (Nari Narain)\" featuring Indian singer Jayashri. He currently has 10 solo studio albums to his credit. He received a number of awards, the most notable being Orbit's Arabic Song Award in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913592", "title": "Missed approach", "text": "Missed approach\n\nMissed approach is a procedure followed by a pilot when an instrument approach cannot be completed to a full-stop landing. The instructions for the missed approach may be assigned by air traffic control (ATC) prior to the clearance for the approach. If ATC has not issued specific instructions prior to the approach and a missed approach is executed, the pilot must follow the (default) missed approach procedure specified for the approach. Prior to commencing the approach, if the pilot believes that a missed approach may occur, he or she can make a specific request to ATC in the event that one occurs. Such a request may include heading and altitude instructions to avoid in-flight delays (such as holds) and efficiently maneuver the aircraft into position for either its next approach or a diversion to an alternate airport.\n\nGenerally, if a pilot determines by the time the aircraft is at the decision height (for a precision approach) or missed approach point (for a non-precision approach), that the runway or its environment is not in sight, or that a safe landing cannot be accomplished for any reason, the landing approach must be discontinued (a \"go-around\") and the missed approach procedure must be immediately initiated. It is also common for pilots to practice a missed approach as part of initial or recurrent instrument training. In such cases, a pilot may execute multiple instrument approaches in a row, with missed approaches between them.\n\nThe missed approach procedure normally includes an initial heading or track to follow, and altitude to climb to, typically followed by holding instructions at a nearby navigation fix. The pilot is expected to inform ATC by radio of the initiation of the missed approach as soon as possible. ATC may simply acknowledge the missed approach call or modify the missed approach instructions, for example, with vectors to another fix. ATC may subsequently clear the flight for another approach at the same airport or clear it to an alternative airport, depending on the pilot's intentions as well as fuel, weather and traffic considerations.\n"}
{"id": "1913594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913594", "title": "Preferans", "text": "Preferans\n\nPreferans () or Russian Preference is a 10-card plain-trick game with bidding, played by three or four players with a 32-card Piquet deck. It is a sophisticated variant of the Austrian game Préférence, which in turn descends from Spanish Ombre and French Boston. It is renowned in the card game world for its many complicated rules and insistence on strategical approaches.\n\nPopular in Russia since approximately the 1830s, Preferans quickly became the country's national card game. Although superseded in this role by Durak, it is still one of the most popular games in Russia. Similar games are played in various other European countries, from Lithuania to Greece, where an earlier form of Russian Preferans is known as Prefa (). Compared to Austrian Préférence, Russian Preferans and Greek Prefa are distinguished by the greater number of possible contracts, which allows for almost any combination of trumps and numbers of tricks. Another distinguishing feature is the relatively independent roles played by the opponents of the soloist.\n\nPreferans is played by three active players with a French-suited 32-card piquet deck. Aces rank high and tens rank in their natural position between jacks and nines. As happens with many three-player trick-taking games, the game is frequently played by four players using the convention that in each hand the dealer pauses. Each active player receives 10 cards in batches of 2. The remaining 2 cards form a talon that will be used by the declarer to improve his or her hand. The deal typically follows the scheme: 2–talon–2–2–2–2...\n\nAlso two players can play Preferans. This variation is called hussar (Russian: \"Gusarik\"). In this variation cards are dealt for three players. The third player is called dummy, his cards are not opened during bidding. If someone wins a bidding and the second player decides to whist, his and dummy's hands will be displayed face-up on the table and the defender will play in the light as in the game with three or four players.\n\nA bidding process is used to decide which player declares the trump suit, as well as the contract, which is the required number of tricks the soloist must attain. The soloist is known as the declarer, and the declarer's objective is to win the contracted number of tricks, while the defenders' main objective is to prevent this.\n\nTrick-play differs from Whist in that there is an obligation to trump. The eldest hand leads to the first trick. Players must follow suit if possible, else trump if possible. The trick is won by the player who played the highest trump or the highest card of the suit led. The winner of a trick leads to the next trick.\n\nBeginning with the eldest hand, players bid for the privilege of declaring the contract and trump suit and playing as the soloist. Each bid consists of a number from 6 to 10 that indicates the minimum number of tricks to be won by the declarer and a trump suit. The ranking is first by number of tricks and then by suit as follows: spades, clubs, diamonds, hearts, and no trumps (in ascending order). A special bid, \"misère\", ranks between 8 tricks with no trumps and 9 tricks with spades.\n\nThe bidding can last several rounds until all players but one pass. At the beginning of each round, the eldest hand can make a bid that only needs to be as high as the highest bid so far. Otherwise each bid must be higher than the previous one. A player who has passed may not bid again later, and a player who wants to bid misère must not make any other bids before or after. If no player bids at all, a special all-pass game is played (Russian: \"raspasovka\"). Misère and all-pass games are special in that the object is to avoid tricks rather than win them. Both are described in their own sections below.\n\nThe highest bidder becomes the declarer. The declarer shows the two cards in the talon to the defenders before adding them to his or her hand and discarding any two cards face down. Unless the declarer's bid was misère, the declarer then declares any contract that ranks at least as high as the highest bid.\n\nIn trick-play, the declarer must win at least the number of tricks indicated in the contract. If successful, the declarer wins the value of the contract in pool points (×10). If not successful (a situation called \"remise\"), the declarer loses the value of the contract multiplied by the number of undertricks (tricks missing) in dump points (×10), and also pays the same amount to each defender in whist points (×1).\n\nAn unusual feature of Preferans is that the defenders have their own secondary objectives in addition to the objective of preventing the declarer from keeping the contract. Moreover, defenders may drop out of trick-play or may play with open cards.\n\nBeginning with the player who sits to the left of the declarer, each defender indicates whether he or she wants to whist. If neither defender wants to whist, the declarer wins automatically without playing out the hand. The declarer scores the value of the contract, and no other scoring takes place. In addition, if the declarer plays a 6- or 7-trick game, the second player chooses whether they will \"half-whist\" or \"whist,\" rather than the usual \"pass\" or \"whist\". That means he writes whists on the declarer as if he took 2 tricks in a 6-trick game and 1 in a 7-trick one.\n\nA second incentive for whisting, besides the chance of spoiling the declarer's contract, is that the whisting players are paid the value of the contract in whist points (×1) from the declarer for each trick they win, regardless of whether the declarer or the defender wins their respective required number of tricks. If there is only one whister, then that player also gets the whist points for the tricks won by the other defender (known as a greedy whist). There also exists a convention that if the declarer has failed to achieve his contract, the whists won by the whister are divided equally between the whister and the other player (known as gentlemanly whist). However, there are significant penalties for the whister(s) if the defenders fail to win enough tricks. The required number is 4 tricks if the declarer undertook to win 6 tricks, 2 tricks if the declarer undertook to win 7 tricks, and 1 trick if the declarer's contract is for 8 tricks or more. (See table above.)\n\nIf precisely one of the defenders decides to whist, then that player has a choice between playing normally and \"playing in the light\". In the latter case, both defenders' hands are displayed face-up on the table and the whister plays from both hands, similar to contract bridge. In any case, only the whister will score for this hand, positively or negatively.\n\nIf the defenders do not win the required number of tricks and there is only a single whister, then the whister loses the value of the contract in dump points (×10) for each undertrick. If this happens when there are two whisters, then the penalty is distributed fairly among them according to the principle that each whister is only responsible for his or her own undertricks with respect to half the required number of tricks. However, if the required number of tricks was 1, then it cannot be divided by 2 and the second whister is deemed responsible.\n\nWhen the first defender decides not to whist against a contract for 6 or 7 tricks, the other defender has a third option besides passing and whisting. In this case the second defender may \"half-whist\", in which case trick-play does not take place and the declarer and the second defender each score as if both sides had won their required number of tricks and the defenders' tricks had been shared equally between both. The first defender does not score. However, if the second defender wants to half-whist, the first defender gets a second chance to whist, in which case trick-play and scoring are done normally.\n\nThe Preferans scoring system has three different kinds of points. The basic unit, \"whist points\", is used for payments from one player to another. Pool points can only be won by winning a game as declarer (or by winning no tricks at all in an all-pass game). Dump points are used for keeping track of the penalties that declarers or whisters have to pay for not winning the required number of tricks. A \"pool point\" or \"dump point\" is worth 10 whist points.\n\nThe scoring system as described so far is known as Sochi scoring, after the city of Sochi. To summarize:\n\nLeningrad scoring is similar to Sochi scoring. All dump and whist scores are doubled when writing down scores, but not the pool scores. However, the pool scores are doubled at the end of the game before calculating its outcome.\n\nA third scheme is called Rostov scoring. It differs from Sochi scoring in that the dump penalties for whisters in case the defenders do not win enough tricks are halved. Moreover, dump points are not used. Instead of losing a dump point, a player pays 5 whist points to each opponent, resulting in the same overall result.\n\nA common condition for ending the game is that each player must have reached a certain target score in pool points. A player who wins more pool points than that target score performs an operation known as \"American aid\". The surplus pool points are transferred to the player with the greatest number of pool points among those who have not yet reached the target score. The receiving player pays for this with ten times as many whist points, i.e. the equivalent amount. If necessary, this procedure is repeated with another player. If this is not possible because all players have reached the target score (and the game is over), the player reduces his or her dump accordingly to make sure that the pool points can be ignored in the final reckoning.\n\nScores are kept on score sheets that have a triangular area designated for each player. Two horizontal lines divide each player's segment of the score sheet into three parts. The top is the \"dump\" (sometimes referred to as the \"mountain\"), and the last number noted there represents the equivalent (negative) number of dump points. The middle is the \"pool\", and the numbers in this area are used to keep track of the player's pool points. The bottom area is subdivided further. On the left-hand side the player keeps track of the whist points received from the player's left neighbor, and analogously on the right-hand side. If there are four players, the middle corresponds to the player sitting opposite.\n\nWhen a number in an area of the score sheet changes, the new value is written behind the previous value, separated from it by a period. Older numbers are not crossed out, even when they were in error (in which case the correct number is simply entered after the erroneous one).\n\nA small circle or diamond in the center of the score sheet, where all the players' triangles meet, is used to keep track of general agreements such as the required number of pool points to end the game. When the game is over, each player's score consists of the whist points in the player's whist point area, minus the whist points that other players have written for that player, minus 10 times the number in the player's dump area. An appropriate number is added to each score so that the sum of all scores is 0. The end score indicates how much a player receives or pays in terms of money.\n\n\"Misère\" is a special bid that ranks between 8 with no trumps and 9 at spades, but can be regarded as having a contract value of 10. A player who has made a different bid before cannot bid or declare misère, and a player who has bid misère before cannot bid or declare a different contract. Once a misère contract has been declared, defenders are not asked whether they want to whist. It is played at no trumps, with the defenders' cards face up on the table. The defenders may discuss their options before making a move.\n\nIf the declarer does not win a single trick, the declarer receives 10 pool points (×10). Otherwise the declarer loses 10 dump points (×10) each for every overtrick. No further payments take place.\n\nAs a variation, there may also be a \"misère hand\" (also known as \"misère without the talon\") bid ranking between 9 with no trumps and 10 at spades. In some variations misère hand can be beat by 9 without the talon.\n\nThe all-pass game (Russian: \"Raspasovka\" or \"raspasy\") is played when no player has made a bid. The objective is to win as few tricks as possible with no trumps. Each player receives 1 dump point (×10) per trick. A player who does not win any tricks wins 1 pool point (×10). In Rostov variation players do not receive dump points but pays 5 whists per trick to the winner of all-pas.\n\nThere are a number of popular variations that may be agreed to. These involve the talon, the dealer (if there are four players), and escalations in case several all-pass rounds occur in a row.\n\nIf there are four players and the dealer is pausing, the talon belongs to the dealer and the dealer (rather than the eldest hand and then the winner of the first trick) leads to the first two tricks: first with the top card of the talon, then the second card. After that, the eldest hand leads to the third trick. A similar arrangement can be followed with three players. In Rostov variation the talon does not belong to the dealer and is not displayed during the all-pas, the dealer receive 1 pool point.\n\nIn case of two consecutive all-pass rounds, the second is played at doubled stakes. For further consecutive all-pass rounds, this may either increase by 1 dump point or be doubled each time. (Players may agree on a limit.) All-pass rounds may even be considered consecutive if they are only interrupted by unsuccessful declarations. Moreover, consecutive all-pass rounds may lead to increasing minimum bids, making it progressively harder to leave all-pass mode.\n\nThe dealer gets 2 dump points for mis-dealing. Mis-dealing faults are:\n\nThese rules were introduced to reduce cheating. When a deal is declared failed, the same dealer should reshuffle the deck, let the player on their right cut it, and deal again.\n\n\nIn a four-player game, the following rules exist for the dealer. These rules are sometimes seen as archaic and are rarely used.\n\nThe popularity of Préférence appears to have started in Vienna in the early 19th century before it spread to Russia, where it peaked in the middle of the 19th century and is still played today. Besides developing and diversifying within Imperial Russia, and then the Soviet Union, the game also expanded into other countries of Eastern and Central Europe. Modern variations include Austrian Illustrated Préférence and Balkan Préférence, which are both close to the original game, and Greek Prefa, which is more similar to the Russian game. Many of the game's mechanics are based on French Boston, a game that can be roughly characterised as Whist with suit-based bidding.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913604", "title": "American Legion Memorial Stadium", "text": "American Legion Memorial Stadium\n\nAmerican Legion Memorial Stadium is a 17,000-seat stadium located on 7th Street in the Elizabeth community of Charlotte, North Carolina. It is located on a complex with the Grady Cole Center. Both are located next to Central Piedmont Community College. Independence Park Stadium, a tiny public baseball stadium, is also close by. Memorial Stadium is mainly used for high school sporting events and also serves as a public venue. Before the construction of nearby Bank of America Stadium in 1996, Memorial Stadium was Charlotte's largest outdoor stadium, and is still the largest municipal venue in the city.\n\nGround was broken on the stadium in 1934 and the gates were officially opened two years later in 1936. Named in honor of local soldiers who fell in World War I, the stadium was a project of the Works Progress Administration.\n\nThroughout the years the stadium hosted events of every kind, ranging from Presidential addresses to classic professional wrestling encounters featuring local hero Ric Flair. \nThe stadium formerly hosted Charlotte (Central) High School (which is now Garinger). For many years afterward, as the city grew and opened more high schools, the stadium was used practically every week during the football season to accommodate both schools which had no campus stadium and large crowds which some campus stadiums could not contain for the more popular match-ups.\n\nIn 1985, the stadium hosted a preseason USFL game between the Baltimore Stars and Tampa Bay Bandits in February.\n\nFrom 1937 to 2000, the stadium annually hosted the Shrine Bowl which was a match-up of the top high school football players in North Carolina and South Carolina. Sometime during the 1960s and 1970s, Memorial Stadium gained upper level seating on both sides of the field, raising its capacity to over 20,000. \nFor the past few years the stadium has hosted several band competitions. It has hosted the battle of the Bands between the biggest HBCUs in South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia, and hosted Drum Corps International competitions hosted by Carolina Crown.\n\nThe stadium also served as a neutral site for the 2002 and 2003 meetings between The Citadel and VMI, known as the Military Classic of the South.\n\nIn late 2009 the east end of the stadium suffered significant damage after a storm drain under the structure caved in causing the stands above it to collapse. While repairs were being made, the stadium was closed for several months. The stadium reopened in July 2010 with a reduced capacity as a grass berm largely replaced the old seating.\n\nMemorial Stadium served as the home field for the Charlotte Hounds MLL team. The team began play at the start of the 2012 season and used the stadium for home games until 2018. The team is currently on hiatus and hopes to return in 2021.\n\nThe stadium continues to play a large role in Charlotte-Mecklenburg high school football, as it hosts big ticket match-ups such as Butler v. Independence and Charlotte Latin v. Charlotte Country Day. The Myers Park Mustangs moved most of their 2012 home games to the stadium after renovations temporarily lowered capacity at Gus Purcell Stadium, their on-campus home. \n\nIn early 2015, the possibility arose of renovating the stadium to accommodate professional soccer in Charlotte and try to lure an MLS expansion franchise to the city, however this was only a proposal. Sometime during 2015, a new press box was constructed on the 'visitors' side of the stadium. The Mecklenburg County Commissioners approved a $23 million renovation plan in late 2017.\n\nIn September 2019, Mecklenburg County Parks and Recreation broke ground on a $31.7 million renovation of the stadium, which will be the new home of USL Championship soccer team Charlotte Independence beginning in spring 2021. Most of the existing stadium will be demolished and re-built. The renovation will add new concourse buildings, a memorial, a new scoreboard and other amenities. Historical elements of the stadium, such as the stone wall and ticket booths, will be preserved. Capacity is expected to drop to 10,500.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913607", "title": "Barred antshrike", "text": "Barred antshrike\n\nThe barred antshrike (\"Thamnophilus doliatus\") is a passerine bird in the antbird family. It is found in the Neotropics from Tamaulipas, Mexico, through Central America, Trinidad and Tobago, and a large part of South America east of the Andes as far south as northern Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay. There is one accepted record from southern Texas. It is found in a wide range of wooded habitats (even gardens and parks) in both humid and arid regions. Throughout a large part of its range, it is among the most common antbirds.\n\nThe barred antshrike was described by the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus in 1764 and given the binomial name \"Lanius doliatus\". The type locality was subsequently designated as Surinam. The specific epithet is from New Latin \"doliatus\" meaning \"barred\". There are 12 recognised subspecies.\n\nThe barred antshrike is in length, and weighs . This species exhibits marked sexual dimorphism. The male of the nominate race is barred all over with black and white, and has a white-based black crest that is raised in display. The female is rufous above with a chestnut crest. The sides of her head and neck are streaked with black, and the underparts are rich buff. In both sexes, the legs are grey, the bill is black and the iris is pale yellow.\n\nThe subspecies vary primarily in the overall darkness and the amount of barring and hue of the underparts. For example, in the Tobagonian race \"T. d. tobagensis\", males are whiter below, and females darker, than in the nominate subspecies. The most distinctive subspecies is \"T. d. capistratus\" of the Caatinga in north-eastern Brazil, where males have uniform black crown (no white barring to the base) and females have streaked throat and faintly barred belly. It is also the only subspecies where the iris is deep maroon-red. It has been suggested that it should be considered a separate species, the Caatinga barred antshrike.\n\nIt is typically found as territorial pairs. The female lays two purple-marked creamy white eggs in a deep cup nest in a shrub, which are incubated by both sexes for 14 days to hatching. The chicks fledge in another 12–13 days.\n\nThe barred antshrike is an insectivore which feeds on ants and other arthropods at or near the ground; it sometimes follows columns of army ants, and will take small lizards and berries. It is a skulking species, which may be located by its chuckling \"hu-hu-hu-hu-hu-hu\" song, often performed as a duet by a pair of birds, or a growled \"graaaaa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913629", "title": "Yunyan Temple (Suzhou)", "text": "Yunyan Temple (Suzhou)\n\nThe Yunyan Temple () or Tiger Hill Temple () was a historical temple located on Tiger Hill in Suzhou, in Jiangsu province, China. The temple was founded in 327 and was last rebuilt in 1871. It has suffered damage in successive wars throughout history, and much of the temple was finally destroyed during the Second Sino-Japanese War, which ended in 1945. The grounds of the temple covered most of what is today Tiger Hill park.\n\nSome elements of the temple survive and are important features of the Tiger Hill park. These include the formal entrance to the temple (and today, the formal entrance to the park grounds), its famous, \"leaning\" pagoda (the Tiger Hill Pagoda), and several other buildings and smaller shrines scattered throughout the park. This Pagoda was extremely important during the Song Dynasty, when it was the center of many religious events, festivals, and worshiping.\n"}
{"id": "1913640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913640", "title": "2003 Mississippi general election", "text": "2003 Mississippi general election\n\nA general election was held in Mississippi on November 4, 2003 to elect to 4 year terms all members of the state legislature (122 representatives, 52 senators), the offices of Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Attorney General, State Treasurer, State Auditor, Secretary of State, Commissioner of Agriculture and Commerce, and Commissioner of Insurance, plus all three members of the Transportation Commission and all three members of the Public Service Commission.\n\nAll 122 representatives and all 52 senators are elected for four-year terms with no staggering of terms. The state legislature draws up separate district map for the House of Representatives and for the Senate, usually after the U.S. Census. There are no term-limits for members of the legislature.\n\nAccording to Article 5, Sections 140-41 of the state constitution, the governor and the other seven statewide officers are elected if they receive a majority of electoral votes and a majority of the direct total popular vote. A candidate wins an electoral vote by winning a plurality of the votes in a state house district; therefore, with there being 122 house districts, there are 122 electoral votes. When no candidate receives both majorities, the House of Representatives decides the election between the two persons receiving the highest number of popular votes.\n\nIncumbent Democrat Ronnie Musgrove faced Republican challenger Haley Barbour as well as the Constitution Party's John Thomas Cripps, the Green Party's Sherman Lee Dillon, and the Reform Party's Shawn O'Hara. in 1999, Musgrove, then Lt. Gov., just barely won the gubernatorial election against Republican Mike Parker, a former U.S. Representative, with the state House of Representatives deciding the outcome due to a tie in the electoral votes (Musgrove did win 49% of the popular vote compared to 48% by Parker).\nMusgrove lost his re-election bid in 2003 to Barbour after a very competitive race.\n\nAmy Tuck, elected to the office in 1999 as a Democrat, had switched to the Republican Party in December 2002 after taking positions on several issues, like re-districting, that opposed the state Democratic Party's stances. In this race, her challenger was Democratic State Senator Barbara Blackmon, who was the first black woman to run for a statewide race. Tuck defeated Blackmon by a comfortable margin.\n\nMike Moore, a Democrat who had served four terms starting in 1988, declined to run for re-election. Moore protégé Jim Hood faced Republican Scott Newton. Newton ran many ads attacking Hood on being soft on crime and especially criticized Hood's handling of a rape case, while Hood focused on Newton's supposed inexperience. Hood won convincingly over Newton.\nFour term Democrat Marshall Bennett resigned in early 2003 to join a New York City law firm and was replaced by Peyton Prospere who was appointed by Gov. Musgrove to complete the term. With Prospere not seeking election in his own right, Gary Anderson ran for the Democrats. The Republicans chose 29-year-old banker Tate Reeves. In a very close race, Reeves bested Anderson.\nRepublican Phil Bryant, first appointed by Gov. Kirk Fordice in 1996 to fill an unexpired term and then won in 1999, easily cruised to victory over Reform Party candidate Billy Blackburn.\nThree term incumbent Democrat Eric Clark won with token opposition.\nDemocrat Lester Spell was re-elected to a 3rd term.\nDemocrat George Dale won an 8th term.\n"}
{"id": "1913644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913644", "title": "John M. Belk Arena", "text": "John M. Belk Arena\n\nJohn M. Belk Arena is a 5,295-seat multi-purpose arena, located on the campus of Davidson College, in Davidson, North Carolina, United States.\n\nIt is named for Davidson alumnus and benefactor John M. Belk (1920–2007), class of 1943.\n\nAs the centerpiece of the Baker Sports Complex, it is home to the Davidson Wildcats men's and women's basketball teams, the Davidson Wildcats wrestling team, and the women's volleyball team.\n\nThe playing surface is named McKillop Court in honor of current men's basketball coach Bob McKillop, who has coached the most victories in the school's history.\n\nBob Dylan performed at the arena during his 2006 North American Tour on May 2, 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913645", "title": "Michael Rowan-Robinson", "text": "Michael Rowan-Robinson\n\n(Geoffrey) Michael Rowan-Robinson (born 1942) is an astronomer, astrophysicist and Professor of Astrophysics at Imperial College London. He previously served as head of the astrophysics group until May 2007 and from 1981 to 1982, and as Gresham Professor of Astronomy.\n\nRowan-Robinson was educated at Eshton Hall School and the University of Cambridge where he completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in Natural Sciences as an undergraduate student of Pembroke College, Cambridge. He went on to complete a PhD on Quasars at Royal Holloway, University of London in 1969 supervised by William McCrea.\n\nRowan-Robinson's research interests include the Spitzer Space Telescope SWIRE project, the European Large Area ISO Survey, the UK SCUBA Survey (see James Clerk Maxwell Telescope), the IRAS PSC Redshift Survey, the Herschel Space Observatory SPIRE instrument and the Planck Surveyor HFI.\nRowan-Robinson co-supervised Brian May's PhD in Astrophysics initially supervised by James Ring and Ken Reay. He retired as president of the Royal Astronomical Society in 2008.\n\nHis publications and books include:\n\nRowan-Robinson was awarded the 2008 Hoyle Medal by the Institute of Physics for his research in infrared and submillimetre astronomy, and observational cosmology.\n\nThe asteroid 4599 Rowan, discovered in 1985 by Henri Debehogne at the European Southern Observatory, was renamed \"Rowan\" to honor Michael Rowan-Robinson. The credit notes that, even though Rowan-Robinson's contributions have been in extragalactic astronomy, he was able to use data from IRAS to set a limit on the number of undiscovered Jupiter-like planets beyond the orbit of Neptune.\n"}
{"id": "1913650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913650", "title": "Henri Rivière (naval officer)", "text": "Henri Rivière (naval officer)\n\nHenri Laurent Rivière (1827 – 1883) was a French naval officer and a writer who is chiefly remembered today for advancing the French conquest of Tonkin (northern Vietnam) in the 1880s. Rivière's seizure of the citadel of Hanoi in April 1882 inaugurated a period of undeclared hostilities between France and China that culminated two years later in the Sino-French War (August 1884–April 1885).\n\nBorn in Paris on 12 July 1827, Rivière entered the École Navale in October 1842. He passed out as a midshipman (second class) in August 1845, and saw his first naval service in the Pacific Ocean on \"Brillante\". In February 1847 he was posted to the South Seas naval division, to \"Virginie\". He was promoted to midshipman (first class) in September 1847 and to \"enseigne de vaisseau\" in September 1849. During the next five years he served in the Mediterranean squadron aboard \"Iéna\" (1850), \"Labrador\" (1851) and \"Jupiter\" (1852–54). Significantly, his confidential reports from this period mentioned that he seemed to be unduly interested in poetry and literature.\n\nRivière took part in the Crimean campaign (1854–56), serving on the vessels \"Uranie\", \"Suffren\", \"Bourrasque\" and \"Montebello\". Promoted to the rank of \"lieutenant de vaisseau\" in November 1856, he served aboard \"Reine Hortense\" during the Franco-Austrian War (1859). In 1866 he took part in the Mexican campaign aboard \"Rhône\" and \"Brandon\". He was promoted to the rank of \"capitaine de frégate\" in June 1870 and served as second officer on the ironclad corvette \"Thétis\" with the French Baltic Squadron during the Franco-Prussian War. He saw no active service in any of these campaigns.\n\nRivière's role in the suppression of a revolt in the French colony of New Caledonia in the late 1870s won him promotion to the coveted rank of \"capitaine de vaisseau\" in January 1880. In November 1881 Rivière was posted to Saigon, as commander of the Cochin China naval division. The posting was generally regarded as a backwater that offered few opportunities for distinction. Rivière himself saw it as an opportunity to write a literary masterpiece that would procure him membership of the Académie française. Although Rivière spent most of his adult life as a naval officer, he was also ambitious for literary distinction. He was a journalist for \"La Liberté\", and also had articles published in the \"Revue des deux mondes\".\n\nAt the end of 1881 Rivière was sent with a small French military force to Hanoi to investigate Vietnamese complaints against the activities of French merchants. In defiance of the instructions of his superiors, he stormed the citadel of Hanoi on 25 April 1882 in a few hours, with the governor Hoàng Diệu committing suicide having sent a note of apology to the emperor. Although Rivière subsequently returned the citadel to Vietnamese control, his recourse to force was greeted with alarm in both Vietnam and China.\n\nThe Vietnamese government, unable to confront Rivière with its own ramshackle army, enlisted the help of Liu Yongfu, whose well-trained and seasoned Black Flag soldiers were to prove a thorn in the side of the French. The Black Flags had already inflicted one humiliating defeat on a French force commanded by \"lieutenant de vaisseau\" Francis Garnier in 1873. Like Rivière in 1882, Garnier had exceeded his instructions and attempted to intervene militarily in northern Vietnam. Liu Yongfu had been called in by the Vietnamese government, and ended a remarkable series of French victories against the Vietnamese by defeating Garnier’s small French force beneath the walls of Hanoi. Garnier was killed in this battle, and the French government later disavowed his expedition.\n\nThe Vietnamese also bid for Chinese support. Vietnam had long been a tributary of China, and China agreed to arm and support the Black Flags and to covertly oppose French operations in Tonkin. The Qing court also sent a strong signal to the French that China would not allow Tonkin to fall under French control. In the summer of 1882 troops of the Chinese Yunnan and Guangxi armies crossed the border into Tonkin, occupying Lang Son, Bac Ninh, Hung Hoa and other towns. The French minister to China, Frédéric Bourée, was so alarmed by the prospect of war with China that in November and December 1882 he negotiated a deal with the Chinese statesman Li Hongzhang to divide Tonkin into French and Chinese spheres of influence. The Vietnamese were not consulted by either party to these negotiations.\n\nRivière was disgusted at the deal cut by Bourée, and in early 1883 decided to force the issue. He had recently been sent a battalion of marine infantry from France, giving him just enough men to venture beyond Hanoi. On 27 March 1883, to secure his line of communications from Hanoi to the coast, Rivière captured the citadel of Nam Dinh with a force of 520 French soldiers under his personal command. During his absence at Nam Dinh the Black Flags and Vietnamese made an attack on Hanoi, but they were repulsed by \"chef de bataillon\" Berthe de Villers in the Battle of Gia Cuc on 28 March. Rivière was jubilant: 'This will force them to take forward their Tonkin Question!'\n\nRivière's timing was perfect. He had expected to be cashiered for his Capture of Nam Dinh, but instead he found himself the hero of the hour. There had recently been a change of government in France, and the new administration of Jules Ferry was strongly in favour of colonial expansion. It therefore decided to back Rivière up. Ferry and his foreign minister Paul-Armand Challemel-Lacour denounced Bourée's agreement with Li Hongzhang and recalled the hapless French minister. They also made it clear to the Chinese that they were determined to place Tonkin under French protection. In April 1883, realising that the Vietnamese were incapable of resisting the French effectively, the Chinese civil mandarin Tang Jingsong (Tang Jingsong, 唐景崧) persuaded Liu Yongfu to take the field against Rivière with the Black Flag Army.\n\nOn 10 May 1883 Liu Yongfu challenged the French to battle in a taunting message on placards that were widely distributed on the walls of Hanoi. On 19 May Rivière marched out of Hanoi to attack the Black Flags. His small force (around 450 men) advanced without proper precautions, and blundered into a well-prepared Black Flag ambush at Paper Bridge (Pont de Papier), a few miles to the west of Hanoi. In the Battle of Paper Bridge the French were enveloped on both wings, and were only with difficulty able to regroup and fall back to Hanoi. Towards the end of the battle a French cannon overturned with the shock of its recoil, and Rivière and his officers rushed forward to help the gunners to right it. The Black Flags fired a volley into this struggling mass of men, killing one French officer and seriously wounding Rivière in the shoulder. Several seconds later, Rivière collapsed. Seeing the French line in confusion, the Black Flags surged forward and drove back the French rearguard. Several French officers were wounded at this critical moment, and in the confusion of the retreat Rivière's body was abandoned on the battlefield. He was immediately presumed dead by his fellow officers. If he had not already died from the effects of his wound, he would have been killed as soon as the Black Flags discovered who he was.\n\nAlthough the Battle of Paper Bridge was a serious defeat for the French, it strengthened the resolve of Jules Ferry's administration to entrench the French protectorate in Tonkin. The news of Rivière's defeat and death reached Paris on 26 May, and the French navy minister Admiral Peyron declared 'France will avenge her glorious children!' The Chamber of Deputies immediately voted a credit of three and a half million francs to finance the despatch of a strong expeditionary corps to Tonkin. Rivière's adventure in Tonkin set in train a course of events that, within a few years, saw French rule extended beyond Cochinchina to the whole of Indochina.\n\nThe French had been forced to leave Rivière's body on the battlefield of Paper Bridge, and for several months were unsure of the precise circumstances of his death. After being shot in the shoulder Rivière had fallen, then risen to his feet, then collapsed again. His recumbent body had been last seen surrounded by a knot of Black Flag soldiers. Most of Rivière's fellow officers naturally assumed that he had been either shot or stabbed to death on the battlefield there and then, but many Vietnamese believed that he had been taken alive by the Black Flags. According to a Vietnamese soldier who claimed to have been present at the time, Rivière had been brought into Liu Yongfu's presence shortly after the battle ended and had been beheaded on the orders of the Black Flag leader, one of whose close friends had been killed by the French during the battle. Neither version of his death could be confirmed.\n\nSeveral weeks after the battle the French heard rumours that Rivière's body had been savagely mutilated and buried near the Black Flag stronghold of Phu Hoai. On 18 September 1883, acting on information received from Vietnamese informants, the French scouted the area with two battalions of marine infantry. Rivière's severed head and hands, buried in a lacquered box, were discovered in the village of Kien Mai, and three weeks later the mutilated body of a European, dressed in naval uniform, was found close to Paper Bridge, near the spot where Rivière had fallen on 19 May. The body had been gashed with sword slashes, the head and the hands were missing, and the sleeves of the naval tunic had been cut away to remove the marks of rank. Several French naval officers who knew Rivière well were able to confirm that the body was indeed his. These circumstances strongly suggested that Rivière had been killed in the heat of battle, on the battlefield of Paper Bridge. Liu Yongfu had offered a substantial bounty for the heads of French officers, graded according to their rank, and it seems likely that a Black Flag soldier had killed the wounded French commander and then decapitated him in order to claim the bounty, cutting off his hands so that his rank could be verified by the number of bands (\"galons\") on his tunic cuffs.\n\nRivière's remains were brought back to Hanoi, where a funeral service was said over them by Paul-François Puginier, the French apostolic vicar of Western Tonkin. Ten years earlier Puginier had performed a similar office over the body of Francis Garnier, who had died in remarkably similar circumstances. The remains were subsequently returned to France at the request of Rivière's family. They were finally buried in the Cimetière de Montmartre, in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913653", "title": "Nirgal", "text": "Nirgal\n\nThe name Nirgal can mean:\n"}
{"id": "1913655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913655", "title": "Xitang", "text": "Xitang\n\nXitang (), formerly known as Xietang (), Pingtang () and Xutang (), is a historic town in Jiashan County, Zhejiang, China. It borders Luxu Town in the north, Yaozhuang Town in the east, Ganyao Town in the southeast, and Tianning Town and Town in the west. As of the 2016 census it had a population of 57,400 and an area of . Xitang is a water town crisscrossed by nine rivers. The town stretches across eight sections, linked by old-fashioned stone bridges. In the older parts of town, the buildings are set along the banks of the canals, which serve as the main transportation thoroughfares in the area.\n\nIts history dates back to at least the Spring and Autumn period (770 BC–476 BC) when it was located at the border of the State of Yue and Wu. According to legend, Wu Zixu, a well-known scholar and military general, ordered to dig many canals and a pond to facilitate water transportation and to channel water to Jiashan County, and thus Xitang is also called \"Xutang\".\n\nIn 2001 it participated in the selection of World Heritage Site by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).\n\nOn October 8, 2003, it has been designated as a Historic Towns of China by the National Cultural Heritage Administration and Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.\n\nIn February 2017, it has been categorized as an AAAAA level tourist site by the China National Tourism Administration.\nAs of 2013, the town is divided into 4 communities 18 villages: \n\nThe local economy is primarily based upon agriculture, tourism and local industry. Button production is the most famous in the area. It has 636 button production enterprises, producing more than 1600 kinds of buttons and about 60 billion buttons annually. It is known as \"Hometown of Buttons in China\" ().\n\nXitang also contains numerous antique residences and temples, such as the Temple of the Seven Masters. The town keeps a tranquil ambience and scenic beauty, making it a very popular tourist attraction. It is frequently depicted in Chinese landscape painting.\n\nThe town houses many bridges, lanes and covered corridors, with many of the old streets and lanes retaining their original features. In Xitang, the famous scene is the covered corridors which is nearly long and of simple appearance. It is actually a street with roof. Some sections of the covered corridors are placed in the busiest section, while other are built along the river of streets. Long chairs are arranged along the riverside of some covered corridors for people to have a rest. Most of them are made of bricks and wood and covered by black tiles. There are 122 lanes of varying lengths in Xitang, among which five are over a long.\n\nThe most distinctive open-air lane is called \"Shipi Lane\" (). It got its name for the fact that it is flanked by two residential buildings. It was built in late Ming and early Qing dynasties (1368–1911), with length and width, and the narrowest point at the entrance is only wide. It was paved with 166 stone slabs. The walls on both sides of the lane are high, and are still intact.\n\nThe Zui Garden () is situated at Tawan Street of Xitang and traces its origins to the Ming dynasty (1368–1644). The garden, small and unique, includes a succession of five courtyards, in which delicate rockworks and winding aisles are ingeniously arranged. In the courtyard there is an exquisite tiny bridge made of bricks, which is ornamental and functional but allows only one person to pass through at a time. On the wall opposite the door are carved three Chinese characters \"\", from which the garden takes its name. The hall is built by Wang Zhixi (), a prominent calligrapher and painter in the Qianlong period (1735–1795) of the Qing dynasty (1644–1911), whose works can still be seen in the garden.\n\nXitang locations were featured in the final sequences of the motion picture \"\".\n\nThe town is connected to two highways: G60 Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and S32 Shenjiahu Expressway.\n\nThe National Highways G320 and G318 pass across the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913663", "title": "Flywheel Arts Collective", "text": "Flywheel Arts Collective\n\nThe Flywheel Arts Collective is a collectively run, DIY culture non-profit performance space, in Easthampton, Massachusetts. Flywheel hosts cheap and free shows as well as community events and workshops. Flywheel is governed by consensus and is run by volunteers. Its programming schedule is determined by members of the Flywheel community, which is open for anyone to join, get trained in their operations, or to schedule an event. \n\nIn spring of 1998, the Valley Arts and Music Alliance (VAMA) was founded by Cindy Bow and Helen Harrison, a grassroots collective with the aim of producing shows that reflected the artists visions rather than the values of the music industry. Throughout the rest of 1998, the group put together more than two dozen shows before finding a permanent location at 2 Holyoke Street, where it came to be known as Flywheel. The doors for Flywheels first location opened in March 1999.\n\nThe mission statement of Flywheel is to build community and provide artists with an environment in which creativity is valued over profit, believing that art and information should be accessible and affordable for everyone.\n\nMost of the bands that play at Flywheel are local artists, though there are occasionally performances by more well-known acts such as Kill Your Idols, Thurston Moore, and Fugazi.\n\nNot only does Flywheel showcase musicians, but they also provide a space for art openings, theater, poetry readings, performance art and film screenings.\n\nFlywheel held its last show at its old location on Holyoke Street in March 2007. \n\nHowever, April 15, 2010 saw the beginning of a three-day grand re-opening celebration of the Flywheel Arts Collective in its new home in Easthampton's historic Old Town Hall on 43 Main Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913692", "title": "Charlotte Hornets (baseball)", "text": "Charlotte Hornets (baseball)\n\nThe Charlotte Hornets was an American minor league baseball franchise based in Charlotte, North Carolina. The club was founded in 1901, and lasted in some form until 1973, capturing 11 league titles during its history. From 1937 to 1942 and 1946 to 1972, the Hornets were a farm system affiliate of the original Washington Senators franchise and its post-1960 successor, the Minnesota Twins. The 1931 and 1951 Hornets were recognized as being among the 100 greatest minor league teams of all time.\n\nThe earliest \"Charlotte Hornets\" team was in 1892, according to Minor League Baseball records. The team played in the 19th century South Atlantic League for one season. Later in 1900, the Charlotte \"Presbyterians\" played a 27-game season in the North Carolina Association. Under the name Hornets, a professional baseball team played in 1901 and 1902 in the Virginia–North Carolina League and the North Carolina League respectively, both Class C leagues. In 1905 the Hornets again played in the Virginia–North Carolina League (then a Class D operation).\n\nIn 1908, the Hornets were a founding member of the Carolina Association (Class D) through 1913. In 1909, the Hornets moved from Latta Park, to a new ballpark built by J.H. Wearn, called \"Wearn Field\", also called \"Hayman Park\" in the 1920s and 1930s, also in the 1930s it was called \"Robbies Field\". The Hornets moved to the North Carolina State League in 1913, another Class D League. The team remained with the North Carolina State League until 1917 when the team folded because of World War I. In 1919, the Hornets moved to the South Atlantic League (Class C 1919–1920, Class B after 1921) where they remained through the 1930 season. In 1931, the \"Bees\" were (Class C) playing in the Piedmont League, and from 1932 - 1935, (Class B) Piedmont League. In 1935, the Bees were the Class B, Piedmont League affiliate of the Boston Red Sox, and in 1936, the Bees left Charlotte and became the \"Rocky Mount Red Sox\" in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. For just one season in 1936, the Charlotte Hornets were a member of the independent Carolina League with players like \"Alabama Pitts\", and \"Struttin Bud Shaney\", who was quite a character.\n\nThe team was purchased by the Washington Senators in 1937. The club would remain affiliated with the Senators/Twins franchise for 35 years. In 1938 the team was managed by Calvin Griffith, the adopted son of Senators owner Clark Griffith. In 1940, Calvin Griffith built a 3,200-seat park in Charlotte's Dilworth neighborhood on Magnolia Avenue and named it Clark Griffith Park. It officially opened in 1941, and was the home of the Hornets for the next 31 years. The Ballpark would keep the name Griffith Park for the Charlotte Orioles inaugural season in 1976, before being renamed in 1977 as \"Jim Crockett Memorial Park\" or simply referred to as \"Crockett Park\" named after Jim Crockett, the O's owner's (Francis Crockett) husband.\n\n(Now back to the Charlotte \"Hornets\" history.) Following a three-year break during World War II, the Hornets returned to competition now in the Tri-State League (Class B) through the 1953 season when it rejoined the Class-A South Atlantic League. It remained in the league, which was upgraded to Class AA in 1963 and renamed the Southern League the following year, through 1972. (In 1971 the Hornets played in the Dixie Association, a merger of the Texas and Southern leagues.) In 1972, the Twins also placed a Class A Western Carolinas League franchise, the Charlotte Twins, alongside the Double-A Hornets' franchise; it lasted only one season. Through the years, the Hornets won championships in the North Carolina League (1902, 1916 and 1923), Piedmont League (1931 and 1938) Tri-State League (1946, 1947 and 1952) and Southern League (1969,1971).\n\nThe mainstay of the Hornets through the years was Phillip \"Phil\" Howser, who became Charlotte General Manager in 1935 and except for three years in the early 1940s when he worked in the Washington Senator's front office, ran the Charlotte operation until January 1970. Sometimes he served both as president and general manager of the club. Howser worked his entire 39-year baseball career for the Griffith family, beginning in 1935 in Chattanooga. From 1971 until his death in 1974 he was southern scouting supervisor for the Twins.\n\nHowser loved youngsters and often let them into the ballpark without charge when he found them looking through holes in the fence. He prided himself on the upkeep and maintenance of Clark Griffith Park, which for years was covered with large—six to eight foot long and four to six foot high—photographs of old Hornet teams and players from the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s. In 1962 Howser was named \"King of Baseball\", by the National Association of Minor League Baseball and in 1969 he was named minor league baseball's executive of the year. From 1967–1969 he was named the Southern League's baseball executive of the year.\n\nIn 1972 / maybe or maybe not 1973, there was plans to bring a current affiliate of the Reds? from maybe Tennessee or Kentucky? to Charlotte, called the \"Charlotte Pines\", but unfortunately, the plans fell through, and thus failing to bring baseball back to Charlotte, for the time being.\n\nTwo Hornet teams are remembered for their proficiency. The 1931 team won 100 games and lost 37 with a winning percentage of .730. The club was managed by 33-year-old player/manager Oceola Guy Lacy of Cleveland, Tenn., whose playing career spanned a quarter-century, 1916–1941. The Hornets finished 13 1/2 games ahead of the second place Raleigh, which was beaten four games to two in the championship series. The team had several .300 hitters, including Frank \"What-A-Man\" Packard (.366 with 21 home runs and 123 RBIs); Vern Brandes (.335 with 144 RBIs and a league high 44 stolen bases) and George Rhinehardt (.325). Jimmy Hudgens batted (.290) and was the only one of the group to play in the major leagues. The team's top pitcher was right-hander Charles \"Struttin' Bud\" Shaney, who led the league with a 24-10 record. Shaney never played in the majors, but won 230 games during his lengthy minor league career. In 1954 at age 54 he played in his annual Tri-State Leaguye game with the Asheville Tourists and was still good enough to pitch five innings of four-hit shutout ball for a victory.\n\nIn 1951 the Hornets also won 100 games, while losing 40 with a .714 winning percentage record. The team took first place in the league on May 15 and remained there for the rest of the season, finishing 15 games ahead of Asheville. However, Charlotte was eliminated in the opening round of the league playoffs, losing three games to one to Spartanburg, which had finished 27 games behind the Hornets in regular league play. The Hornets were managed by 27-year-old Cal Ermer, who also hit. 297 and led the league's second basemen in fielding (.971) in his last season as an active player. Later he served for nearly two years (1967 and 1968) as manager of the Minnesota Twins.\n\nThe Hornets' Francisco \"Frank\" Campos led the league in batting (.368) with only 20 strike outs in 566 plate appearances. Catcher Bob Oldis and outfield Bruce Barmes also were standouts. Oldis played parts of seven seasons in the Major Leagues as a catcher, and later was a longtime MLB coach and scout.\n\nA host of major league stars played for the Charlotte Hornets including Van Lingle Mungo (1929), Early Wynn (1939), Harmon Killebrew (1956), Tony Oliva (1962) and Graig Nettles (1967). Another player, Archibald \"Moonlight\" Graham, appeared as a right fielder in a single major league game on June 29, 1905, but he never had an at bat, nor a fielding play. His unusual story came to the attention of author W. P. Kinsella and was popularized by his novel \"Shoeless Joe\" and the subsequent 1988 film \"Field of Dreams\". Graham's character was played by Burt Lancaster and Frank Whaley as older and younger Graham.\n\nIn 2001 as part of the 200th anniversary celebration of Minor League Baseball, Bill Weiss and Marshall Write, two veteran chroniclers of minor league teams, researched and rated the best Minor League teams of the Twentieth Century. The 1951 Charlotte Hornets ranked 36th and the 1931 Hornets 56th.\n\nThe next era of Charlotte baseball began in 1976, however the three years prior, (1973-75) the stadium sat empty and deteriorating. In an effort to save the iconic stadium from being knocked down for warehouse space, and return baseball to Charlotte, Wrestling promoter Jim Crockett, Jr. and the Crockett family, bought the Asheville Orioles, the AA Southern League affiliate of the Baltimore Orioles, and renamed them the \"Charlotte\" Orioles. The stadium was refurbished in time for the 1976 season. In 1977 the ballpark was renamed Jim Crockett, Sr. Memorial Park (more commonly known as Crockett Park), after the patriarch of the Crockett family. The team, ( known as the \" O's \" ), won Southern League titles in 1980 and 1984. Eventual major-league superstars Eddie Murray (the first baseman of the 1974-75 Asheville O's, then 1976 Charlotte O's) and Cal Ripken (1979-80) played for the O's during this period.\n\nOn March 17, 1985, Crockett Park (mostly wood-framed) was destroyed by a massive fire after a high school baseball game. An investigation revealed that the cause of the fire was arson. (either a juvenile set flame to the park, or Jim Crockett Sr. had some wrestling debts unpaid.) The Crockett family built a 5,500-seat makeshift stadium immediately afterward, which served as the O's home for the next two seasons. After the 1987 season concluded, George Shinn, owner and founder of the NBA Charlotte Hornets, bought the team from the Crockett family. He renamed the team the Charlotte Knights out of a naming contest. The Knights played in the makeshift stadium on Magnolia for the 1988 season, with future Major League players like Curt Schilling, Gregg Olson, Steve Finley, Pete Harnisch, Jeff Tackett, and a host of other players. This however was just a temporary measure in Shinn's big plan to build a bigger ballpark, and after failed plans to construct it next to the new Hornets arena out on independence, he decided on building it in Fort Mill SC. The Knights switched the team's affiliation to the Chicago Cubs in 1989, playing at \"Knights Castle\" which was demolished after the season ended, as the new ballpark \"Knights Stadium\" opened in 1990, and would be the home of a Knights franchise for the following 23 years, but Shinn didn't stop there. What do you need in a bigger ballpark? A bigger level team, AAA level that is, so in 1992, the AA Knights franchise was sold to Nashville when the '92 season ended (the Knights became the Nashville Express 1993-94 (Nashville TN), Port City Roosters 1995-96 (Wilmington NC, AA - SL of the Mariners), then Mobile Bay Bears 1997-201? (Alabama) ) In 1993, Charlotte got a new AAA International League expansion franchise, which was affiliated with the Cleveland Indians from 1993–1994, the Florida Marlins from 1995–1998 and the Chicago White Sox from 1999 - Present. The team played in York County, South Carolina until 2013, when BB&T Ballpark was built in uptown Charlotte.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913701", "title": "Maguro Fujita", "text": "Maguro Fujita\n\n"}
{"id": "1913714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913714", "title": "List of compositions by Vincent d'Indy", "text": "List of compositions by Vincent d'Indy\n\nThis is a list of compositions by Vincent d'Indy.\n\n\nOrchestral\n\nChamber\n\nPiano\n\nSecular vocal\n\nSongs for voice and piano\n\n"}
{"id": "1913720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913720", "title": "Nakheel Properties", "text": "Nakheel Properties\n\nNakheel (, palms or palm trees) is a property developer based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The current Chairman of Nakheel is Mohammed Al Shaibani and the CEO is Sanjay Manchanda.\n\nNakheel has a portfolio of projects in Dubai across the residential, retail, hospitality and leisure sectors. Master developments include Palm Jumeirah, The World, Deira Islands, Jumeirah Islands, Jumeirah Village, Jumeirah Park, Jumeirah Heights, The Gardens, Discovery Gardens, Al Furjan, Warsan Village, Dragon City, International City, Jebel Ali Gardens and Nad Al Sheba.\n\nNakheel's current and future retail project developments include Ibn Battuta Mall, Dragon Mart 1 and 2, Golden Mile Galleria, Nakheel Mall, The Pointe, Deira Mall, Deira Islands Night Souk, Warsan Souk, Al Khail Avenue, The Circle Mall and Nad Al Sheba Mall, as well as major extensions to Dragon Mart (renamed Dragon City) and Ibn Battuta Mall. The retail profile also includes several neighbourhood community centres.\n\nOn July 6, 2011, Dubai World’s board of directors announced that Nakheel's legal ownership would be transferred to the Government of Dubai upon completion of the company's financial restructuring.\n\nIn the first quarter of 2017, Nakheel announced its highest annual net profits in the company’s history: AED4.96 billion in 2016 – a 13 per cent increase on the 2015 net profit of AED4.38 billion. Nakheel generated a net profit of AED955 million for the last quarter of 2016 – up 22 per cent on the AED781 million posted for the same period in 2015.\n\n\nIn 2017, Nakheel delivered 28 units, all of them are located in Al Barsha South Fourth in Dubai.\n"}
{"id": "1913727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913727", "title": "Theocracy (video game)", "text": "Theocracy (video game)\n\nTheocracy is a real-time strategy game for the PC developed by Philos Laboratories and published by Ubi Soft in 2000. The game takes place in Mexico and Central America in the 15th century. The player controls a tribe in this region, and has 100 years to prepare for a Spanish invasion by expanding their territory across the Central American map, by conquest, or by allying and trading with other tribes.\n\nIn \"Theocracy\", the player is the leader of the Atlan tribe (a fictional tribe), who has escaped from oppression under the Axocopans, and now must improve his/her tribe in order to survive in Central America. As the player's empire's borders expands, the player is able to conduct diplomacy with other tribes.\n\nThe game also allows players to play through several \"Chronicles\", a set of objective-based missions detailing supposed heroes of Aztec history. These mostly serve for tutorial purposes rather than being a serious part of the game however.\n\nThere are two modes of playing: province view, and realm view. \nIn province view, the player view a particular province under their control/attack. Here they assign tasks to their persons, however time stands still here, and the player must go to realm view for time to move and his/her actions to take effect. There is a time-scale in realm view, along with a hand-drawn map of Central America, showing all the province borders, and using colour-code to show which of the eight factions controls it.\nThe player's tribe is represented by the colour blue, while other tribes are red, yellow, green, purple and cobalt. Provinces under control from a random tribe with no possible relations to others are paper-coloured, and provinces controlled by the Spanish (once the Spanish arrive to invade) are grey. Each tribe has a unique 'personality' dictated by its AI; the red tribe the Izhuacans for example are an 'aggressive and warlike theocracy' and will generally be the first tribe to make an aggressive move in the game. The green tribe, the Huaputecs, are more peaceful and will never attack the player unless the player has already initiated hostilities. Tribes also have varying military tactics and units, the Yellow Tribe has an army consisting of almost entirely sword units supported by spearmen, jaguars and nature priests, while the Cyan tribe, the Teotitlans, have enormous crossbow units known as Wonderbows and soul priests supporting their warriors.\nPlayers can also build Aztec-style pyramids to harness the power of magic from the five spheres of Magic: Sun, Star, Moon, Nature and Soul. The amount of magic available to the player is limited and measured in \"Mana\", Mana is used by Priests to cast spells, this Mana can be recharged by performing sacrifices at the Pyramids where priests are trained, the amount of Mana per unit depends on the Unit type. Each sphere of magic has different spells available with a vague focus on a specific type. Sun Priests specialise in attack spells, Moon in defensive ones, Nature Priests in Healing, Star Priests in 'debuff' or distraction and while Soul Priests are equally skilled in all fields.\n\nThe time scale can be used to determine how fast time passes. It can be paused to make time stand still, and at slowest rate, a year passes in approximately 10 or so minutes, and at fastest rate, a year passes in approximately 20 seconds.\n\nEach region can be closely managed in the province view. Here activities can be undertaken such as construction, training and allocation of slaves.\n\nThe majority of the population of each realm is made up of slaves, basic worker units who can undertake any task except fight and transport resources between realms. There are a certain number of new slaves born each year depending on the level of health in the province, how much food the province has and what the current population of the province is.\n\nAs a bare minimum, each province must produce enough food to feed the entire population of the realm. There are two types of food, corn and meat. Corn is produced from small and large farms, and is produced faster and in greater quantity than meat, and is also required to feed llamas. Meat, while taking longer to produce, requires less slaves and is more nutritious than corn, meaning it can feed more people than the same amount of corn. It is therefore more economic to produce meat in a province than corn. Meat is also required to feed tamed jaguars.\n\nThere are a number of different resources that can be used in different ways. The most basic are meat and corn, used to feed people and tamed animals. Next is wood, which every building uses in construction, and is also used to create Wonderbows (similar to ballistas). Also used in construction is stone, which is used to build more advanced buildings. Finally, there is Gold, Jade, and Jewels. Jewels are used as a currency, and to decorate the most advanced buildings. It is made out of Jade and Gold. Either one can be used to create jewels separately, but used together they produce a much greater quantity than when used separately. Corn is produced from small and large farms, meat from ranches (pig farms) and fishing huts. Wood is produced from lumberyards and stone, gold and jade are mined from quarries. Jewels are produced in a workshop from gold and/or jade. There is also mana, however it functions differently from the other resources in that it is used to cast spells, can be accessed anywhere, and is generated from temples in a small continuous trickle. Sacrificing slaves will generate much more and faster, but slaves are the only means of production so they must be sacrificed carefully so as not to ruin the economy of a region. There is a different stockpile of mana for each sphere of magic. \nNote: resources are stored in stockpiles in each region, thus resources for one realm can be used anywhere in that region no matter where they are stored, but must be manually transported to another region in order to be used there. The exceptions are jewels and mana.\n\nThere are a number of different buildings, which can all be broadly categorised into three main types:\n\nThese buildings produce resources, but must be manned to do so. These include ranches and fishing huts, which produce meat, small and large farms, which produce corn, quarries and mines which produce stone, gold and jade and lumberyards, which produce wood.\n\nThese buildings train new types of workers and warriors from slave recruits. They include schools (small, medium and large) which train workers, who speed up production of a particular resource but specialise in that resource. Small schools can train only basic workers, medium schools can train most types of workers and large schools can train any, and train them faster. Small and medium schools can only train one type of worker, but large schools can train every type, but only one at a time. Another type of training building is the barracks: small, medium and large. The small and medium barracks produce warriors from slaves, but can only produce one type of warrior. The medium barracks takes less time to train warriors than the small barracks. The large barracks can produce any of the three types of warriors, but only one at a time. They also train warriors much faster than the small or medium barracks.\n\nThese buildings store all resources except mana and jewels. There are four types, in order of size and cost to produce they are: provision stores, small stores, medium stores and large stores.\n\nTo construct a building, slaves must be sent into an unfinished building. They will build it automatically, using the resources that realm has stored. If the realm does not have enough of one or more particular resource, they will use whatever there is stored, then wait until new resources are delivered to the realm, which must be done manually.\n\nThe development on \"Theocracy\" began when developer Philos Laboratories hired several new employees who had previous experience developing the game \"\". It was decided that they would develop a new strategy title, with the goal of merging aspects of the games \"Command & Conquer\" and \"Civilization\". The setting was decided by the game's graphic artists, deciding on an Aztec theme. Development continued for two years, with a planned release in spring 1999.\n\nHowever, in March 1999 publisher Interactive Magic had decided to abandon boxed releases for their future titles, putting \"Theocracy\" in jeopardy. Philos eventually managed to buy back the publishing rights, and started updating the game to allow for a future release. These changes included redrawing most of the games graphics, switching the game resolution to 800x600, and the addition of \"chronicles\". The French publisher Ubisoft picked up the publishing rights, and work began on finishing the game for release. The game was finally released for both Windows and Linux on March 30, 2000. There was consideration towards a follow up, focusing on as then undecided new civilization and using features thought up after the original game's development entered feature freeze.\n\n\"Theocracy\" received mixed reviews upon its release. Its strongest praise came from Eurogamer, with one reviewer stating that the game's \"mix of real time and turn based strategy means that \"Theocracy\" takes place on a far larger canvas than a purely real time game ever could.\" The reviewer praised its wide scope and original ideas, separating it from many of its contemporaries. The British publication PC Zone was also impressed with the games originality, describing it as being \"as refreshing as a pint of lager after a chicken vindaloo, and definitely worth shouting about.\" Other members of the press were less impressed, causing the game to only score a 72 on MobyGames. Reviewers criticized the game as being simple and archaic, while at the same time others thought that the interface was cumbersome and the learning curve was too steep.\n\nEven though it was mostly unknown outside of Europe, the game managed to sell well enough, especially on Linux where it became a best-seller. One reviewer of the game's Linux port stated that \"the game is a world apart from a lot of the linux games I've been playing lately. It's solid and feels nice to use - the buttons click with a satisfying sound played at the right moment, and it feels... professional.\" The port was also plagued with negative comments however, with many complaining about installation problems and about various technical faults (such as only being able to play the game in 16 bit colours and the lack of a proper full-screen mode). Even with these problems, it still holds an average of four out of five stars at The Linux Game Tome. A review in German print magazine LinuxUser was mostly positive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913728", "title": "Geographic information science", "text": "Geographic information science\n\nGeographic information science or geographical information science (GIScience or GISc) is the scientific discipline that studies the techniques to capture, represent, process, and analyze geographic information. It can be contrasted with geographic information systems (GIS), which are software tools.\n\nBritish geographer Michael Goodchild defined this area in the 1990s and summarized its core interests, including spatial analysis, visualization, and the representation of uncertainty. GIScience is conceptually related to geography, information science, computer science, but it claims the status of an independent scientific discipline. Other overlapping disciplines are: geocomputation, geoinformatics, geomatics and geovisualization. More recent related terms are \"geographic data science\" (named after data science)\nand \"geographic information science and technology\" (GISci&T).\n\nSince its inception in the 1990s, the boundaries between GIScience and cognate disciplines are contested, and different communities might disagree on what GIScience is and what it studies. In particular, Goodchild stated that \"information science can be defined as the systematic study according to scientific principles of the nature and properties of information. Geographic information science is the subset of information science that is about geographic information.\" Another influential definition is that by GIScientist David Mark, which states:Geographic Information Science (GIScience) is the basic research field that seeks to redefine geographic concepts and their use in the context of geographic information systems. GIScience also examines the impacts of GIS on individuals and society, and the influences of society on GIS. GIScience re-examines some of the most fundamental themes in traditional spatially oriented fields such as geography, cartography, and geodesy, while incorporating more recent developments in cognitive and information science. It also overlaps with and draws from more specialized research fields such as computer science, statistics, mathematics, and psychology, and contributes to progress in those fields. It supports research in political science and anthropology, and draws on those fields in studies of geographic information and society.\n\nIn 2009, Goodchild summarized the history of GIScience and its achievements and open challenges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913729", "title": "Skiff", "text": "Skiff\n\nThe term skiff is used for a number of essentially unrelated styles of small boats. Traditionally, these are coastal craft or river craft used for leisure, as a utility craft and for fishing, and have a one-person or small crew. Sailing skiffs have developed into high performance competitive classes. Many of today's skiff classes are based in Australia and New Zealand in the form of , , and skiffs. The 29er, 49er, SKUD and Musto Skiff are all considered to developed from the skiff concept, all of which are sailed internationally.\n\nThe term skiff is also used for a racing shell called single scull for competitive rowing, which is rowed by one rower with two oars. As opposed to sweep boats, where the rowers only have one oar each – coxless pair, coxless four etc. Of course a lone rower must have two oars to row, so sweep oar does not exist for the skiff/single scull.\n\nThe word is related to \"ship\" and has a complicated etymology: \"skiff\" comes from the Middle English \"skif\", which derives from the Old French \"esquif\", which in turn derives from the Old Italian \"schifo\", which is itself of Germanic origin (German \"Schiff\"). \"Ship\" comes from the Old English \"scip\", which has the same Germanic predecessor.\n\nThe term has been used for a number of styles of craft round the United Kingdom, often small river and sea going craft. They varied from double ended rowing boats to small sailing boats. The poet John Milton refers to a 'night foundered skiff' in \"Paradise Lost\" as early as 1670. There are references to skiffs on the River Thames (as a result of accidents) as early as 1812 and 1824 at Oxford. In August 1815, the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley was taken on an expedition by skiff from Old Windsor to Lechlade by Charles Clairmont and Thomas Love Peacock. He subsequently settled at Marlow where he regularly rowed his skiff through the locks. Shelley later drowned sailing in a skiff off the coast of Italy. It was also used in the Lady of the Lake by Sir Walter Scott.\n\nThe Thames skiff became formalised as a specific design in the early part of the 19th century. It is a round-bottom clinker-built rowing boat that is still very common on the River Thames and other rivers in England. Rowing skiffs became very popular in Victorian Britain and a skiff journey up the River Thames features in \"Three Men in a Boat\" by Jerome K. Jerome, These skiffs could carry a sail and could be used for camping. Although general usage has declined, skiffs are still used for leisure and racing. During the year, skiffing regattas are held in various riverside towns in England—the major event being the Skiff Championships Regatta at Henley.\n\nAkin to the skiff is the yoal or yole which is a clinker built boat used for fishing in the Orkney and Shetland Islands. The boat itself is a version of the Norwegian Oselvar which is similar to a skiff in appearance, while the word is cognate with \"yawl\". The French \"\" is a leisure craft similar to the Thames Skiff and is translated as \"skiff\", while the French \"\" translates to a single scull. In Dutch and German, \"Skiff\" also means a single scull, while Czech \"\" refers to sculling boats in general.\n\nRegattas also take place across Northern Ireland with one of the largest being held in Portadown but smaller events take place throughout the year across County Down.\n\nIn American usage, the term is used to apply to small sea-going fishing boats. It is referred to historically in literature in \"Moby-Dick\" by Herman Melville and \"The Old Man and the Sea\" by Ernest Hemingway. The skiff could be powered by sails as well as oars.\n\nOne usage of skiff is to refer to a typically small flat-bottomed open boat with a pointed bow and a flat stern originally developed as an inexpensive and easy to build boat for use by inshore fishermen. Originally designed to be powered by rowing, their form has evolved so that they are efficiently powered by outboard motors. The design is still in common use today for both work and pleasure craft. They can be made of wood or other materials. There is a similar style of craft in Central America and Mexico, generally called a panga.\n\nThe term skiff has been applied to motorized boats of small size and construction used as sea-going vessels for piracy or drug smuggling.\n\nThe skiff with a sail has developed into specific sailing boats bearing the name \"skiff\". In Sydney, the term was used for a number of racing classes (sizes from 6 ft to 23 ft have existed). These were originally heavily crewed and canvassed boats that were relatively short for the canvas and crew carried and were developed from working boats of the time. This style of boat is still active in the form of Historical 10 foot and 18 foot classes.\n\nThe skiff classes developed to become much lighter and faster with relatively smaller (but still very large by any other standards) rigs and smaller crews. 12ft Skiff, 13 ft Skiff, 16ft Skiff, and 18ft Skiff classes are raced in that form. With two crew on the 12 and 13 footer and three on the 16 and 18 these are still heavily crewed boats for their size. Modern developments began with the introduction of carbon fibre reinforced composite hulls, allowing for a significant reduction in weight, and an increase in rigidity. Following this, the use of carbon in masts and rigging allowed for more sail area, and better gust response. Moulded sails are being tested in both 12 ft and 16 ft skiffs, with most modern Australian 18 ft Skiffs utilising the new technology.\n\nBecause the modern 18s have such a high profile, the term skiff is widely used internationally to refer to other high-performance sailing dinghy classes, mostly featuring asymmetrical spinnaker and trapeze which have been strongly influenced by modern skiffs. Examples include: Cherub Skiff, International 14, 29er, and 49er. These boats tend to be less heavily crewed in relation to their length than the traditional Australian Skiff Classes. The term is even used for some single-handed boats like the Musto Skiff which are far removed from the heavily crewed original boats.\n\nThe SKUD 18 is a two-person keelboat which claims strong influence from skiff development. This made its debut in the 2008 Paralympic Games.\n\nIn the International Moth class the term skiff is used to distinguish designs that have an essentially vertical bow from scow designs, which have a broadly horizontal bow.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913743", "title": "SK8", "text": "SK8\n\nSK8 (pronounced \"skate\") was a multimedia authoring environment developed in Apple's Advanced Technology Group from 1988 until 1997. It was described as \"HyperCard on steroids\", combining a version of HyperCard's HyperTalk programming language with a modern object-oriented application platform. The project's goal was to allow creative designers to create complex, stand-alone applications. The main components of SK8 included the object system, the programming language, the graphics and components libraries, and the Project Builder, an integrated development environment.\n\nFor much of its history, SK8 remained a research project, and inspired a number of other Apple projects like AppleScript, as well as seeing use as a prototyping platform. Although around 1993 a team was assigned by the Apple Product Division to release a SK8 runtime, the limitation of the Mac's capabilities as well as the shift to the PowerPC chip made such a large project intractable. With the bulk of the original vision completed and no easy path to release as part of MacOS, active development ended in 1996–1997, and the Macintosh Common Lisp source code for the entire project was released to the public in 1997.\n\nThe SK8 project was created by Ruben Kleiman when he joined Apple in 1987. He had come to Apple to develop a flexible, object-oriented user interface and multimedia development environment. The name of the project derived from his interest in skateboarding. Coincidentally, at this time the HyperCard, with its direct manipulation interface and scripting language, was about to ship. While HyperCard was great for simple applications it used a limited interaction model – the \"stacks\" of cards\" – that limited its potential applicability. SK8 attempted to extend these benefits to a wider programming role.\n\nEarly work on what would become SK8 focused on infrastructure rather than visual programming. Kleiman's first effort was a dynamic, prototype-based object system, MacFrames, a frame/object system with plug-ins for inference engines. Through preferences settings, MacFrames was used to emulate a large variety of object systems, including IntelliCorp's KEE. This research, in concert with users developing actual applications and prototypes at Apple, yielded the object model used in SK8. MacFrames was developed in Coral Lisp, which was acquired by Apple and became Macintosh Common Lisp.\n\nThe Macintosh at that time had no generalized inter-process communication (IPC) system. Kleiman created an IPC init for the Mac to allow MacFrames to communicate with other processes, in particular, HyperCard. This allowed HyperCard to be used as a visual programming front-end for MacFrames. Another goal of MacFrames was to build distributed processing right into the object system. Instead of using an RPC API, one simply set the object's property with the desired value and callback for the results. MacFrames was used by Apple's QA group to create an automated black-box testing system.\n\nThe SK8 Project Builder was created to provide a rich set of direct manipulation tools, including tools for building interactive controls and general but non-invasive glueing. The builder's objective was to provide a visual/direct manipulation interface for building visual development environments. That is, the system could be used to develop completely different development environments tailored to different tasks. The first version of the SK8 graphics system was designed to extend HyperCard, allowing cards to have multiple layers rather than a single \"background\" template.\n\nThe SK8 system was initially programmed in Lisp. This was considered too arcane for general use. Additionally, there was growing concern about the number of different languages in use at Apple. As part of a wider effort to modernize the MacOS, a new unified scripting language was desired. In 1989 Kleiman joined David Canfield Smith and Larry Tesler to design and implement the first version of AppleScript. This version of AppleScript used SK8 objects, and two later the Apple Product Division re-implemented AppleScript using AppleEvents as the glue for communicating with AppleScript objects. The original prototype was then renamed SK8Script, and was itself re-implemented in assembler in 1992.\n\nA number of researchers in the Advanced Technology Group began to use SK8 for their projects. Certain universities and corporations also began to participate. The system was used to develop prototypes for Newton, QuickTime interfaces, interprocess communication, and was used to prototype many titles, including Stagecraft, a learning tool for children.\n\nFor performance reasons, in 1992 and 1993 SK8 was re-implemented from the ground up. Working at Apple's Cambridge Research Center, the Macintosh Common Lisp object store was isolated and directly hooked into SK8's store. The SK8Script debugger was re-implemented at the assembler language level (previously in Lisp) and the compiler and runtime performance improved.\n\nThe SK8 system includes the object system, the graphics and component objects, the SK8Script language, and the Project Builder environment.\n\nThe SK8 object system was, like JavaScript, prototype-based, but unlike JavaScript, object properties were themselves objects. Hence, properties were not simply names that acted as keys to set or retrieve values, but in addition possessed arbitrary behavior. This allowed properties to have intelligent behavior (e.g., trigger an inference engine or serve as endpoints in RPC networking); one could think of them as \"smart properties\". The idea was to allow application programmers to focus on the manipulating objects rather than having to learn APIs—which would be built into the objects. Not implemented was a hierarchical namespace managing property names.\n\nUntil 1989, SK8's scripting language was Lisp. This changed to SK8Script, which was heavily influenced by HyperTalk (HT). Many of the differences between SK8Script and HyperTalk can be considered to be generalization of HT concepts, removing tight integration with particular objects in the HyperCard universe and replacing them with generalized syntax that could interact with any object.\n\nLike HT, a core concept of the SK8Script system are the \"containers\", which roughly equate to objects in conventional systems, and the \"chunking\" system that allowed those containers to be identified and enumerated. HT had introduced the idea of offering multiple ways to address objects and collections, allowing the programmer to select whatever syntax seemed most natural in context, and then use an entirely different syntax somewhere else. SK8Script offered a similar system.\n\nSK8's universe was made up of a multimedia-oriented system using Actors on a Stage. Actors were any objects that were based on the prototype Actor object, which contained the basic framework needed to provide 2D graphics support - the location and size of the object for instance. Actors became visible when they were placed upon the Stage, an invisible background object that captured user events to provide interactivity. In SK8, a traditional window was an object like any other graphics object. When an Actor was on the Stage, it could behave as a window-like object. It was easy to design complex objects that behaved like windows (e.g., a donut-shaped window; its hole's opacity 0%, with content being a text object scrolling around or perhaps a movie playing within its frame). An object known as the \"halo\" provided resize handles and other widgets for manipulation in a visual development environment.\n\nAll SK8 Actors could contain other actors. The hierarchy could be navigated using the chunking expressions, so one could codice_1. The objects could then be made visible in the UI by moving them onto the Stage using the codice_2 command, like codice_3, which would make both the oval and rectangle appear.\n\nGUIs were constructed solely from Actors. A window-like object could be built out of an opaque rectangle containing other objects (e.g., close buttons, widgets). Every Actor's drawing style was controlled by a Renderer, which aided the GUI building process. For instance, the BevelRenderer could be used to bevel the edges around an Actor, producing an effect like Windows 3.x controls or the title bar in NeXTSTEP. Other renderers included color and image fills, gradients, tiles and blends. Although there was no difference in programming terms, basic objects like rectangles were classified as \"geometry actors\" while more traditional GUI elements like buttons were known as \"interface actors\".\n\nThe Stage captured user-generated events like mouse-down clicks and key presses and sent them to the Actors. The visual hierarchy determined which object would receive the message first - the Stage was Z-ordered and objects closer to the front got the messages first. Messages could be passed up the class/prototype hierarchy with the codice_4 command.\n\nProject Builder was an environment for building visual development environments. It provided code editing, debugging, graphics and smart component library, runtime targeting support and a direct manipulation graphical interface builder system. A key element of the Builder system was the \"Overviewer\" panel, which held a categorized list of all of the objects in the currently opened project. These include libraries, user-created functions and methods, variables, and so forth. These could be examined and edited by double-clicking on them, or by clicking in an associated pop-up menu that appeared on the object when it was selected in the GUI builder. The Object Editor that appeared listed the object's \"properties\" (instance and class variables) in one pane, and it's \"handlers\" (methods) in another.\n\nThe GUI builder included a drag-and-drop based system for constructing visual objects. SK8 did not have traditional \"screens\"; it used an invisible \"Stage\" object that served as the background for managing events and visual objects. One interesting aspect was that no windows, in the traditional sense, were needed or expected to display anything. In fact, any visual object could have window-like behavior (through its drag-and-drop and other smart properties). SK8 did, however, include a system for editing and programming complete menu bars, a feature that HyperCard lacked. Another oft-requested feature from HyperCard was a media editor, which allowed Macintosh resources to be moved in and out of the project. SK8 built this functionality into the IDE. Other components of the system included an online documentation system, lists of systemwide objects and commands, and the code editor and debugger windows.\n\nSK8Script offered a system for calling in and out of operating system functions, allowing it to more directly interact with the Macintosh Toolbox. In HyperCard, interacting with arbitrary Toolbox code was handled through custom code resources known as XCMDs and XFCNs which encapsulated the functionality in a black box. These were called and returned in a single operation, with the internal operations invisible. Under SK8, SK8Script could interact directly with the encapsulated code, setting variables, calling functions and returning results. External code could also call into SK8Script, examining and setting variables, or calling functions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913761", "title": "Lyme Bay", "text": "Lyme Bay\n\nLyme Bay is an area of the English Channel situated in the southwest of England between Start Bay in the west and Portland in the east. The counties of Devon and Dorset front onto the bay.\n\nThe area around Lyme Bay is part of a World Heritage Site, the Dorset and East Devon Coast, which is also known as the Jurassic Coast, named for its Jurassic geology.\n\nMany of the earliest discoveries of dinosaur and other prehistoric reptile remains were in the area surrounding Lyme Regis and Charmouth. Notable among these were the discoveries made by self-educated palaeontologist and fossil collector Mary Anning, in the 1820s.\n\nThe weather in the bay is temperate by English standards, and far more temperate than many other places at a similar latitude. The reason for this is the warming action of the Gulf Stream. The area along the coast of Lyme Bay is thus a popular holiday destination. On 22 March 1993, four schoolchildren died in what is known as the Lyme Bay kayaking tragedy.\n\nLyme Bay was the site of Exercise Tiger, a practice run for the D-Day invasion of France in 1944, using the beach called Slapton Sands near Slapton, Devon as the practice landing area. The operation went horribly wrong when German E-boats appeared on the scene and attacked the landing craft, killing 749 American Army and Navy personnel in the middle of the bay.\n\nA ship commissioned in 2007 for the Royal Fleet Auxiliary carries the name of the area, RFA \"Lyme Bay\".\n\nTank wrecks from the D-Day practice provide a venue for diving. Marine life includes the Devon cup coral (\"Caryophyllia smithii\") and rare pink sea fan (\"Eunicella verrucosa\"). The reefs have been under threat from scallop dredging which, if unregulated, might destroy the coral's habitat. Devon Wildlife Trust has been campaigning to protect the reefs, calling for an end to the dredging and trawling within a zone to help the reefs recover. About 20% of this area is now protected by a voluntary agreement made between the DEFRA and the fishermen of the South West Inshore Fishermen's Association.\n\n\nRivers that flow into Lyme Bay include the Exe, Otter, Teign, Sid and Axe in Devon, and the Lim, Char, Brit and Bride in Dorset.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913775", "title": "Rock-a-Doodle", "text": "Rock-a-Doodle\n\nRock-a-Doodle is a 1991 Irish/British/American live action/animated musical comedy adventure film produced by Sullivan Bluth Studios and Goldcrest Films. Loosely based on Edmond Rostand's comedy \"Chantecler\", \"Rock-a-Doodle\" was directed by Don Bluth and written by David N. Weiss. The film features the voices of Glen Campbell, Christopher Plummer, Phil Harris (in his final film role before his retirement and death), Charles Nelson Reilly, Sorrell Booke, Sandy Duncan, Eddie Deezen, Ellen Greene, and Toby Scott Ganger in his film debut. The film was released in the United Kingdom on 2 August 1991 and in the United States and Canada on 3 April 1992.\n\nThe film tells the story of an anthropomorphic rooster named Chanticleer, who lives on a farm and crows every morning to raise the sun. However, he leaves his farm to become a rock star in the city after being tricked by the Grand Duke of Owls, whose kind hates sunshine, into thinking that his crow does not actually raise the sun. Without Chanticleer, rain continues to pour non-stop, causing a massive flood all over the country. The Duke and his henchmen take over in the darkness, and plan to eat all of the barnyard animals. Chanticleer's friends from the farm, along with Edmond, a young human boy who was transformed into a kitten by the Duke, take off on a mission to get Chanticleer to bring back the sun and save the country before it is too late.\n\nOne morning, Chanticleer, a rooster whose singing seems to raise the sun every morning, gets into a fight with a stranger sent by the Grand Duke of Owls, whose kind hates sunlight. Chanticleer defeats his attacker, but forgets to crow, and the sun prematurely rises. Ridiculed and rejected by the other animals, Chanticleer leaves the farm in shame, and the sun goes back down as Chanticleer had not crowed. Afterwards, perpetual darkness and rainfall threaten the farm with flooding. This story turns out to be a fairy tale being read to a young boy named Edmond by his mother. Their family's farm is in danger of being destroyed in a storm, and when his mother leaves to assist the rest of the family, Edmond calls for Chanticleer's return. He is instead greeted by the Duke, who is angered by Edmond's interference and uses his magical breath to transform Edmond into a kitten with the intent to devour him. Edmond is saved by Patou, a bloodhound from Chanticleer's farm, and Edmond manages to drive away the Duke with a flashlight. Edmond then meets several other animals from the farm, all of whom are hoping to find Chanticleer and apologize to him for their behavior. Edmond accompanies Patou, a cowardly magpie named Snipes, and the intellectual field mouse, Peepers, to the city, while the rest of the animals remain at Edmond's house.\n\nHunch, the Duke's pygmy nephew, is assigned by him to stop Edmond and the others from finding Chanticleer. The group narrowly escapes him and enters the city through an aqueduct pipe. Chanticleer, now under the name of \"The King\", has become a famous Elvis impersonator under his manager Pinky Fox, who is employed by the Duke to keep Chanticleer in the city and prevent his friends from finding him. During a concert, he is introduced to Goldie Pheasant as a distraction in case Chanticleer's friends come to find him. Goldie soon grows genuinely attracted to Chanticleer, and realizes Pinky's true intentions when he captures Edmond and the others trying to get a letter to Chanticleer. Meanwhile, the Duke and his party stalk the farm animals at Edmond's house, who continually use Edmond's flashlight to drive them off as long as the batteries hold out. Realizing that she is in love with him, Goldie confesses to Chanticleer that his friends had come to see him, and Pinky blackmails Chanticleer to attend his show or never see his friends again. Hunch inadvertently frees Edmond and the others, and they help Chanticleer and Goldie make a grand escape in a helicopter, which they use to return to the farm.\n\nAfter their batteries run out, the denizens of the farm are nearly made a meal of by the Duke and his minions when they are driven off by the helicopter's spotlight. Edmond and the others try to get Chanticleer to crow, but his ongoing sense of dejection limits his ability. The Duke taunts Chanticleer and tries to drown him, but Edmond starts chanting Chanticleer's name in hopes of reviving his spirit, provoking the Duke into strangling Edmond until he loses consciousness. Impressed by Edmond's bravery, the other animals begin chanting Chanticleer's name, driving an angry Duke to transform himself into a tornado. Chanticleer finally regains his confidence and crows loud enough to raise the sun, diminishing the Duke into a harmless miniature version of himself. He is then chased away by a vengeful Hunch into the distance once and for all. The floods begin to subside and Edmond transforms back into a human. Edmond awakes in the real world, where the sun is shining outside and the floods have ended, but Edmond's mother assumes that his adventures were only a dream. Nevertheless, Edmond picks up Chanticleer's book and thanks him for coming back, before he is magically transported into Chanticleer's world, where he witnesses the rooster singing to make the sun shine.\n\n\nPlans for an animated version of the \"Chanticleer\" tale dated as far back as the early years of the Walt Disney Studios, where several of its artists were interested in combining elements of the story with those about an anthropomorphic fox named Reynard. Though character designs by Marc Davis survive, Walt Disney personally rejected the pitch, and the film was never put into production or animation tests. Don Bluth began pre-production of an animated film about Chanticleer in 1982. In 1985, the film was mentioned as being in development limbo. In the late 1980s, as a response to the success of the film \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", the proposal was revised by a former Disney animator, Don Bluth, who wanted to tell the rooster's story through live action and animation. Originally, the story's first and last scenes were to be shot in black and white, similar to 1939's \"The Wizard of Oz\". The film's opening, which took place at a farm, had Edmond's mother reading the tale of Chanticleer to him. Victor French from \"Get Smart\" and \"Highway to Heaven\" was set to direct these scenes, but terminal lung cancer forced him out of production. Bluth, who had never done anything in this field, took over from this point. However, very little of this footage made it in the final cut. The live-action sequences were done at Ardmore Studios.\n\nIn a 1990 magazine article, Don described the plot of the film thusly. \"ROCK-A-DOODLE is a fantasy, something that we just made up. It's about a character named Chanticleer who thinks that when he crows the sun comes up. The truth is, it does; until one day into the farm yard comes another rooster who fights with Chanticleer and keeps him so busy that the sun, who has a habit of coming up every morning at that time, peeks its little head over the hill. Well, Chanticleer has not crowed and when he sees that the sun has come up without him, he's devastated. All the farm yard animals ridicule and laugh at him, so he walks away and says 'I'm nobody.' The sun becomes very upset after that and hides behind the clouds never to come out again. Meanwhile, the rooster goes away to the city and becomes a rock star, very reminiscent of Elvis Presley. The farm yard animals realize they're in trouble because the rains have come, the world's flooding, and there's no more sunshine. So they go to the city and try to bring Chanticleer home to crow.\" In the final film, however, it is never explained why the sun rises even though Chanticleer does not crow, despite how much the narration of the film tries to explain many things.\n\nThe live-action footage was filmed in 1990 at MGM Studios in Hollywood, California. When the live-action footage was finished during production, Goldcrest Films recruited Sullivan Bluth Studios to animate the rest of the film. Animation took place in both Burbank, California and Dublin, Ireland. Chanticleer's girlfriend, Goldie the Pheasant, was designed to have attributes similar to Jessica Rabbit from \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" (as seen in the original trailer). In response to reactions from mothers during test screenings of her scenes, Goldcrest requested that Sullivan Bluth reanimate the scenes by covering her chest with feathers as cel overlays, or simply painting her cleavage out.\n\nThe live-action and animation sequences were filmed in two separate aspect ratios. The animation was shot on an open-matte full-screen negative, meaning the top and bottom of the image was cropped to fit the theatre screen along with the new Olive Films DVD and Blu-ray releases. However, the live-action scenes, including all animated elements, were shot in hard-matted widescreen. When viewed in full-screen (except the theatre screen and the new Olive Films DVD and Blu-ray releases), all the animated sequences (except for parts of the finale) can be seen in full, but the live-action segments lose information on the sides.\n\nTo avoid a potential PG rating, Bluth edited out the showing of The Duke's \"skunk pie\" (the pie is not seen in full view in the final version), the animators had to replace Chanticleer's glass of wine with a transparent cup of soda in the \"Kiss and Coo\" sequence, and had to draw colored effects into The Grand Duke's breath to make him less scary for young audiences. Test audiences also felt confused by the storytelling so the filmmakers decided to include narration told by the dog character, Patou, voiced by Phil Harris. The crew, because of these changes, had to work overtime to finish the film by Thanksgiving 1990.\n\n\"Rock-a-Doodle\" was originally going to be released by MGM–Pathe Communications Co., but studio partnership was facing financial difficulties, so Bluth rescheduled \"Rock-a-Doodle\" for release around Thanksgiving 1991 and selected The Samuel Goldwyn Company as the film's distributor. However, that date was further moved to April 1992 to avoid competition with Walt Disney Pictures and Walt Disney Feature Animation's \"Beauty and the Beast\", as well as Universal Pictures and Amblin Entertainment's \"\", a sequel to \"An American Tail\", in which Bluth himself was not involved.\n\n\"Rock-a-Doodle\" was the first feature-length family live-action/animated film since 1988's \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", but unlike the live-action characters from that film sharing the screen with animated characters like Roger Rabbit, Edmond is the only live-action character to share the screen with the animated farm animals; this was at the beginning, when The Grand Duke confronts Edmond before turning him into an animated cat, and at the end, where Chanticleer is singing a reprise of \"Sun Do Shine\" like he does at the beginning. Bluth chose this direction because he was influenced by \"Roger Rabbit\".\n\n\"Rock-a-Doodle\" was first released on VHS and LaserDisc on 18 August 1992, as well as on DVD on 20 July 1999 by HBO Video. The first VHS release includes a sneak peek at Don Bluth's next animated feature, \"Thumbelina\", showing a scene where Thumbelina (voiced by Jodi Benson who previously voiced Ariel from Disney's \"The Little Mermaid\") meets Prince Cornelius (voiced by Gary Imhoff) from the Vale of the Fairies and falls in love with him. It also includes a promotional commercial for Wisk laundry detergent, which has a $5.00 mail-in rebate certificate found inside each videocassette. A second edition was released by MGM Home Entertainment through Sony Pictures Home Entertainment on 8 November 2005. In 2010, the film was released along with \"The Pebble and the Penguin\" as a double-sided DVD. For the film's 25th anniversary of its North American release, a third edition was released on Blu-ray and DVD by Olive Films (under license from MGM) on 31 October 2017. That edition marked the film's first widescreen debut in an American home media release (which was the final Don Bluth film to be presented in the widescreen format in an American home media release), apart from digital retailers. However, unlike the previous home media releases, both the new Olive Films DVD and Blu-ray releases were sourced from PAL masters (resulting in a slightly higher audio pitch than normal, despite the running time remaining the same as its NTSC counterpart), although both the 2012 MGM logo and the last half of the end credits were kept in a normal pitch. Despite that, the entire film remains normal-pitched on Vudu (due to being sourced from mid-2000s printings).\n\n\"Rock-a-Doodle\" received generally negative reviews. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 20% of critics gave the film positive reviews based on 15 reviews with an average score of 4/10. In a positive review, the \"Washington Post\" wrote \"The young ones, who certainly don't give a sticky-fingered hoot about animation production values, are likely to have a good time with this. There are many passing delights. Composer T. J. Kuenster has some funny songs. They're not Ashman and Menken (\"The Little Mermaid\" songwriting team), but they're sprightly. The best is probably a Bach-like fugue number, in which the Grand Duke and his owlish goons sing \"Never Let Him Crow\" around a church organ. But in a movie like this, it ain't over till the rooster sings.\" \"Empire\" found it more compelling than Bluth's previous effort \"All Dogs Go to Heaven\", labeling Chanticleer as \"good-natured kitsch,\" its \"successful if unspectacular\" live-action/animation mixture, and the use of the real-life Jordanaires as backing vocalists.\n\n\"Halliwell's Film Guide\" commended its \"excellent animation\", but complained of the \"poor and confusing narrative\" that \"rendered [it] pointless\". Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film two stars out of four. In his review, he gave mild praise to the songs and the animation and said the film may entertain younger audiences, but said the film \"doesn't feel as bright as it should.\" He also called the live-action segments unnecessary. Dave Kehr of the \"Chicago Tribune\" criticized the film's overwhelming amount of characters and subplots as well as its \"frantic\" altering in pacing and tone. However, he acclaimed the hand-drawn animation, calling it superior to the \"shabby rotoscoping techniques\" of \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). \"Hartford Courant\" reviewer Malcolm L. Johnson, while feeling that \"Rock-a-Doodle\" lacked a story, highlighted its \"technical feats\" in animation, such as the use of live-action and moments where the animation \"zoomps] us through layers of action, as though a camera were riding on the back of a freewheeling bird.\" He also praised the voice acting and \"witty\" take of the \"Bach vs. rock\" story.\n\nCharles Soloman, a critic for the \"Los Angeles Times\" disliked the film's writing, reasoning that it was filled with plot holes, forced \"fun\" elements, and rejection of the source material's \"powerful message about the importance of self-knowledge.\" He also criticized its cheap-looking special effects: \"The Grand Duke’s magic breath sprays twinkling stars and crescent moons that look like the glitter sold by the scoop in card shops. The matte lines are clearly visible in the final live-action/animation scenes, and a weird glow suffuses the entire sequence, as if it had been shot at Chernobyl.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" panned \"Rock-a-Doodle\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"limp rock homages,\" forgettable song, \"washed-out\" colors, and the \"cheap\" look of the live-actions sequences.\n\nIn 2011, \"Total Film\" ranked it as 24th among the 50 worst children's films ever made.\n\nThe film took in $11,657,385 at the US box office after an opening weekend gross of $2,603,286, which forced Bluth's studio into liquidation half a year after its release. Moreover, a Hong Kong company, Media Assets, purchased Bluth's next three films, \"Thumbelina\", \"A Troll in Central Park\", and \"The Pebble and the Penguin\". None of these did any better than \"Rock-a-Doodle\" critically or commercially, except \"Thumbelina\" and \"The Pebble and the Penguin\", which both did get slightly better in critical reception. All of them preceded 1997's \"Anastasia\", his comeback hit.\n\nThe soundtrack for \"Rock-a-Doodle\" was composed by Robert Folk and performed by the Irish Film Orchestra, with songs written and produced by T.J. Kuenster, one of the songwriters for \"All Dogs Go to Heaven\". Background vocals on \"We Hate the Sun\", \"Tweedle Te Dee\", and \"The Owls' Picnic\" were all sung by a triple-tracked Kuenster himself. The tracks \"Sun Do Shine\", \"Come Back to You\", \"Rock-a-Doodle\", \"Treasure Hunting Fever\", \"Sink or Swim,\" \"Kiss 'n Coo\", \"Back to the Country\", and \"Tyin' Your Shoes\" contained background vocals by The Jordanaires, who were also known for backing up Elvis.\n\n\nA novelization of the film, written by Don Bluth and Chip Lovitt, was published by Troll Communications LLC (). The film also inspired a Computerized Coloring Book by Capstone Software and IntraCorp called \"The Rock-A-Doodle Computerized Coloring Book\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913785", "title": "Elton, Cheshire", "text": "Elton, Cheshire\n\nElton is a village and civil parish in the unitary authority of Cheshire West and Chester and the ceremonial county of Cheshire, England. It is situated approximately to the northeast of Chester, between Helsby and Ellesmere Port, near to the River Mersey. Its proximity to the River Mersey and the Manchester Ship Canal have contributed to its industrial character. The village is on the north-western edge of the Cheshire plain, approximately from Stanlow Refinery, a Shell facility and the seventh largest oil refinery in Europe. The refinery produces one-sixth of the United Kingdom's petrol.\n\nAt the time of the 2001 Census, the village of Elton had a population of 3,528, increasing to 3,586 at the 2011 Census.\nElton was briefly in the media spotlight in 1997 when one of its residents, Louise Woodward, went on trial for murder in the USA.\n\nBy 2007, 65 hectares of the former Ince Power Station site near the Mersey had been redeveloped as part of a large bottle production factory owned by Quinn Glass, containing two glass melting furnaces and 13 bottle production lines. It was estimated that £250 million was invested into this project and the factory outputs 1.2 billion bottles per year.\n\nIt has recently been proposed that a 95 kilowatt power station and various recycling plants be sited on a water meadow near Elton. The land is owned by Peel Holdings and the proposal is in its embryonic stage.\n\nAn electoral ward in the same name exists. This ward stretches to Little Stanney with a total population taken at the 2011 census of 4,557.\n\nInce & Elton railway station serves both Ince and Elton villages. There are infrequent Monday to Saturday services to Ellesmere Port, Stanlow & Thornton, Helsby, Liverpool Lime Street, and Warrington Bank Quay. The nearest station with better services and facilities is either Ellesmere Port or Helsby.\n\nThe number X2 bus visits Elton hourly in each direction, which runs between Chester via Ellesmere Port to Runcorn Halton Lea bus station. This service is operated by Stagecoach Merseyside & South Lancashire. Elton also has a few morning and evening journeys on service DB8 to and from Chester Business Park.\nPublic transport in Elton is supported by the North Cheshire Rail User Group. It campaigns for better rail services and improved public transport interchange.\n\nThe nearest motorways are the M56 and the M53, and the local road, the A5117, links Elton to North Wales.\n\nSince 1983, Elton has formed part of the Ellesmere Port and Neston parliamentary constituency, presently represented by Justin Madders of the Labour Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913792", "title": "Alfred Meebold", "text": "Alfred Meebold\n\nAlfred Karl Meebold (Heidenheim an der Brenz, Kingdom of Württemberg, September 29, 1863 – January 6, 1952, Havelock North, New Zealand) was a botanist, writer, and anthroposophist.\n\nMeebold worked at his father's factory, in the Württembergische Cattunmanufactur.\n\nHe travelled to India three times, first in 1904, and to New Zealand for the first time in 1928.\nMeebold became a personal student of Rudolf Steiner.\nBetween 1928 and 1938 he spent many months in Budapest, Hungary, where he worked at the first non-German-language Waldorf school in the world. Its founder was Nagy Emilné Göllner Mária (later, in Switzerland known as Maria von Nagy).\n\nMeebold left Europe in 1938, intending to relocate to New Zealand. He was detained in Hawaii because of World War II, and was not able to leave Honolulu until after 1945.\n\nThe Australian plant species \"Darwinia meeboldii\" is named in his honour, as are \"Acacia meeboldii\", \"Geranium meeboldii\" and the genus \"Meeboldina\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913801", "title": "Hans Josephsohn", "text": "Hans Josephsohn\n\nHans Josephsohn (May 1920 - 20 August 2012) was a Swiss sculptor. He lived and worked in Zurich.\n\nJosephsohn was born in Königsberg (today's Kaliningrad), East Prussia. Here he attended elementary school and completed high school in 1937. That same year, he left his homeland and moved to Florence with a small scholarship, in order to study art. Due to his Jewish ancestry, he had to leave Italy a short time later and fled to Switzerland. He arrived in Zurich in 1938 and became a student of the sculptor Otto Müller. In 1943 Josephsohn moved into his first atelier, and starting in 1964 began showing his works in various solo shows within Switzerland. He acquired Swiss citizenship in 1964.\nJosephsohn's works began to attract the attention of a larger audience at the end of the 1990s. The Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam dedicated a large solo exhibition to the artist in 2002. In 2003 Josephson received the art prize of Zurich. Various group and solo exhibitions followed this, among others in the Diözesanmuseum Kolumba in Cologne (2005) and in the Palais de Tokyo in Paris (2007). In 2008, the MMK Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt/Main organized a large solo exhibition of Josephsohn's works.\nIn the years since 2000, Josephsohn's work has increasingly been regarded, also internationally, as a significant contribution to visual art.\n\nPermanent installations of Hans Josephsohn's works can be seen at the museum La Congiunta in Tessin, Switzerland, which was built by Peter Märkli and Stefan Bellwalder and opened in 1992. In 2003 the Kesselhaus Josephsohn in St. Gallen, Switzerland, opened, where a regularly alternating selection of works is presented. At the same time, the Kesselhaus is functioning as a storage and archive for Josephsohn's works and it is located next to the Kunstgiesserei St. Gallen where Hans Josephsohn's works are cast.\n\nHans Josephsohn is represented by the Galerie Felix Lehner and Hauser & Wirth.\n\nJosephsohn's sculptures focused on the human figure as a volume in space. From the beginning of his career he worked, from the model, on sculpture's most timeless, constant themes: Representations of the human figure, standing, sitting, reclining, working on portrait heads or half-figures, made in plaster, some then later, cast in bronze.\n\nJosephsohn's figures are bereft of any portrait-like individualization. And they stand out for their simplicity, for their being limited to the simple postures of the human body. The wish for permanence plays a key role: \"My figures must be enduring in their expression, in their stance\", Josephsohn said, \"A narrative gesture is out of the question\". His works evoke prehistory, ancient stone steles and romanesque figures.\n\nJosephsohn's favourite working material was plaster. He found it ideal - simply it permits directness and spontaneity, both of which were necessary for Josephsohn's working process. Plaster allowed him to repeatedly add material or take it away. The directness of the work process was reflected not only in the immense vitality of the figures but even more by the traces left by this process. For example, finger imprints remain on the surface, referencing the artist's hands as it seeks to mold the material.\n\nHis artistic examination of the human figure was influenced and determined by his own experience, which for him as an artist, shaped above all by his everyday work in the studio but also by the interpersonal relations in his life. He found his models in his own personal world: They were for the most part friends, relatives - almost always women, very often his own life partner. Real persons are the starting point of this work and search for forms but his works hardly ever had portrait-like character or individual traits. Thus, also for those who knew Josephsohn's models personally, when viewing the corresponding works there is little to remind one of the individuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913808", "title": "Heimia salicifolia", "text": "Heimia salicifolia\n\nHeimia salicifolia is a species of flowering plant in the Loosestrife family, Lythraceae. It is native to the Americas, ranging from the southwestern United States (Texas and New Mexico) through Mexico and Central America to Argentina. Common names include shrubby yellowcrest, sinicuichi, sun opener, willow-leaf heimia, sini. The plant has been used for shamanic purposes by native peoples in Central America and Mexico.\n\nUse of \"H. salicifolia\" for shamanic purposes by native peoples of Central America and Mexico has been described. In the method of preparation commonly used, fresh leaves are collected and allowed to wilt. The leaves are put into a cup or jar, cool water is added, and the mixture is placed in the sun to brew and ferment for at least 24 hours. It is said that during the fermentation process, the knowledge of the sun is embedded into the potion, creating the \"elixir of the sun.\"\n"}
{"id": "1913818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913818", "title": "Tony Packo's Cafe", "text": "Tony Packo's Cafe\n\nTony Packo's Cafe is a restaurant that started in the Hungarian neighborhood of Birmingham, on the east side of Toledo, Ohio, at 1902 Front Street. The restaurant became famous when it was mentioned in several \"M*A*S*H\" episodes and is noted for its signature sandwich and large collection of hot dog buns signed by celebrities.\n\nDuring the depression in 1932, Tony Packo used a $100 loan to open his shop, which originally sold only sandwiches and ice cream. In 1935, the Packo family purchased the current wedge-shaped building on the corner of Front and Consaul streets next to the Maumee River, which includes the former Consaul Tavern.\n\nTony's signature \"sausage-and-sauce sandwich\" on rye was first made when he decided to add a spicy chili sauce to his sandwiches for more flavor. Eventually, his creation became known as the \"Hungarian hot dog\", even though no such thing had come from the Old Country. The dish quickly became popular and the cafe is now billed as \"the place where man bites dog\". The \"hot dog\" is really a Hungarian sausage called kolbász, not unlike the Polish kielbasa, about twice the diameter of a conventional hot dog, and slicing the sausage in half yields about the same amount of meat.\n\nNancy Packo Horvath took control of the business in 1962 when her father Tony Packo became seriously ill. Founder Tony Packo died in 1963 at 55 years of age. In 1968, Ms. Horvath's brother Tony Packo Jr. joined the company at age 20. The company had a long period of growth in the late 1960s under the leadership of the siblings.\n\nThe Packos started in the packaged food business in 1980 after Merco Foods agreed to carry a line of pickles.\n\nIn July 2002, Ms. Horvath and her son Robin Horvath (himself a Packo's vice president), sued Mr. Packo and his son Tony Packo III for libel, breach of duty, and trying to force her out of the business. A week later, Mr. Packo and his son counter-sued to dissolve the business claiming that as each family owned 50 percent of the company they were at an impasse. The families settled their dispute in October 2002 by adding an impartial third person to the company's board of directors. Mr. Packo said the problem occurred due to having no formalized succession plan in place. Soon after the dispute was settled, Ms. Horvath was diagnosed with cancer and died on 23 April 2003.\n\nRobert G. Bennett bought Tony Packo's, Inc., in October 2011 for $5.5 million in a court-ordered sale. Bennett died in May 2013.\n\nIn October 2019, Packo's opened up two concept stores in Perrysburg, Ohio, and Holland, Ohio area Kroger grocery stores.\n\nWhen actor Burt Reynolds visited Toledo in 1972, he made a stop at the restaurant on the suggestion of Tony's daughter, Nancy. Reynolds was the first big name to eat at Packo's, and he also began the tradition of \"bun signing\" when he inscribed his signature on a Packo hot dog bun. Ever since then, celebrities who visit the restaurant sign a \"bun\"—now a foam, air-brushed look-alike—and have it placed on the walls of Packo's.\n\nTony Packo's Cafe gained world-wide fame when \"M*A*S*H\" character Maxwell Klinger, who was played by Toledo native Jamie Farr, made mention of the restaurant in six episodes. He first said in a 1976 episode, \"If you're ever in Toledo, Ohio, on the Hungarian side of town, Tony Packo's got the greatest Hungarian hot dogs.\" In one episode, the hospital unit ordered a batch of sausage casings from Packo's to use in a blood-filtering machine (a crude artificial kidney). In another, a wounded soldier from Toledo sends Klinger a shipment of Packo's hot dogs as a thank-you gift. Packo's was also mentioned in the two-and-a-half hour final episode. The restaurant displays several \"M*A*S*H\" mementos on the premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913826", "title": "Pennsylvania Lottery", "text": "Pennsylvania Lottery\n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery is operated by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Lottery was created by the Pennsylvania General Assembly on August 26, 1971; two months later, Henry Kaplan was appointed as its first executive director. The Pennsylvania Lottery sold its first tickets on March 7, 1972 and drew its first numbers on March 15, 1972.\n\nBy Pennsylvania law, at least 40 percent of Lottery proceeds are required to be paid as prizes, with another 27 percent towards funding programs. Currently, the Pennsylvania Lottery exceeds these requirements, as 60.9 percent is paid as prizes, 29.9 percent to programs, 6.7 percent is paid as retailer and vendor commissions and 2.5 percent is consumed as operating expenses.\n\nFor the 2009–2010 fiscal year, approximately $3.065 billion in gross revenue was acquired through proceeds and interest. Approximately $1.87 billion was paid as prizes, $915.7 million to programs, $207 million was paid as retailer and vendor commissions, and $76.6 million was paid to advertising and operations. The gross revenue for fiscal year 2009–2010 represented an increase of approximately 59 percent in sales over fiscal year 2001–02.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery is the only US lottery that targets all of its proceeds to programs for its elderly residents. Since the beginning of the Lottery in 1972, more than $20.1 billion has been contributed to programs.\n\nIn 2017, following a revenue decrease exceeding $75 million for the fiscal year 20162017, Pennsylvania passed a gaming expansion bill that authorized the sale of online lottery products. Governor Tom Wolf's budget plan for 2018 said that he and the state would use new revenues to \"re-establish a $75 million reserve fund.\"\n\nPick 2 is a two-digit (0–9) game which debuted on January 27, 2015. (Concurrent with the introduction of Pick 2, the Daily Number, Big 4, and Quinto were renamed to Pick 3, Pick 4, and Pick 5, respectively.) Pick 2 is drawn twice daily (at 1:10 p.m. ET, with the numbers posted on the Lottery's website after 1:35 p.m. ET, and on a live televised drawing at 6:58:50 p.m. ET), seven days a week. The minimum play is $1, and tickets can be purchased up to seven days in advance.\n\nPick 2 can be played in four basic ways:\n\nPick 3 debuted on March 1, 1977 as \"The Daily Number\". It is a three-digit (0–9) game, drawn twice a day (at 1:10 p.m. ET, with the numbers posted on the Lottery's website after 1:35 p.m. ET, and on a live televised drawing at 6:58:50 p.m. ET), seven days a week. Single tickets can be purchased in increments of 50¢, up to $5.00. Tickets can be purchased up to seven days in advance.\n\nPick 3 can be played in five basic ways:\n\nPick 4 debuted on November 22, 1980 as \"Big 4\". It is a four-digit game, drawn twice a day (at 1:10 p.m. ET, with the numbers posted on the Lottery's website after 1:35 p.m. ET, and on the live televised drawing at 6:58:50 p.m. ET), seven days a week. Single tickets can be purchased for the same amounts as in Pick 3, up to seven days in advance.\n\nPick 4 can be played in two basic ways:\n\nPick 5's first drawing was on August 26, 2008, under the name Quinto. It is a five-digit game, drawn twice a day (at 1:10 p.m. ET, with the numbers posted on the Lottery's website after 1:35 p.m. ET, and on the live televised drawing at 6:58:50 p.m. ET), seven days a week. The minimum play in Pick 5 is $1. Players can purchase tickets up to seven days in advance.\n\nOdds and payouts for Pick 5 are as follows:\n\nThe \"Wild Ball\" is an add-on to the \"Pick 2\", \"Pick 3\", \"Pick 4\", and \"Pick 5\" games introduced on September 13, 2016. Activating the \"Wild Ball\" doubles the cost of the play.\n\nBefore the \"Pick\" games are drawn, one digit 0 through 9 is drawn and designated as the Wild Ball number. The Wild Ball number may then be used by the player to replace any one digit in any of the \"Pick\" games. For instance, if the player selects 123 in the Pick 3 game, and the number actually drawn is 124, but the Wild Ball is a 3, the player may replace the 4 with a 3 to create a winning combination.\n\nBecause the Wild Ball creates additional ways to win, a win using the Wild Ball generally pays a lesser amount than a win using the base play (with the exceptions of the front and back digit plays in \"Pick 2\"), however, a player can win both from the Wild Ball and from the base play if the Wild Ball matches one of the digits naturally.\n\nPayouts using the Wild Ball are as follows:\n\nTreasure Hunt's first drawing was on May 8, 2007. It involves selecting five numbers from a field of 30. It is drawn daily at 1:10 p.m. ET, and the results are released at 1:35 p.m. ET on the Lottery's website. It is the Lottery's only game held exclusively during the non-televised midday drawings, as well as its only game always selected via a computer instead of printed balls. The minimum jackpot is $10,000, although sales often allow the actual prize level to be higher. Prizes are also won by matching four, three, or two of the winning numbers. Treasure Hunt has a payout percentage of 58%.\n\nOverall odds of winning are 1 in 5.45.\n\nCash 5 consists of picking five numbers from 1 through 43 (originally 1-39). It is drawn during the live televised nighttime drawings at 6:58:50 p.m. ET, seven days a week. Games cost $1 each; tickets can be purchased up to seven days in advance. The minimum jackpot $125,000 (originally $100,000), increasing until there is a 5-of-5 winner. Cash 5 jackpots also are always paid in lump sum.\n\nCash 5 has four available prize amounts: \nMatch 6 consists of picking 6 numbers, from 1 through 49. It is drawn during the live televised Lottery drawings at 6:58:50 p.m. ET Nightly Players get three games for $2 (see below); bettors can play in increments up to 26 drawings. The jackpot begins at $500,000; it always is paid in a lump sum.\n\nPlayers automatically receive two free \"quick picks\" for each $2 played; unlike the former game \"Super 6\" (see below), the automatic quick-picks are necessary. This is because, in addition to winning in the normal fashion (matching at least three numbers in one game, \"base play\"), a player also can win by matching enough numbers on all 3 lines (\"combined play\"). In \"combined play\", the 18 numbers across the three lines often repeat. Only when there are enough \"repeats\" across the three lines is it possible to win the highest possible prize in the \"all three lines category\" (see list of prize amounts).\n\nMatch 6 has 11 available prize amounts:\nThe overall probability of winning on a $2 play is approximately 1 in 5.9.\n\nMatch 6 originally ran from January 28, 2004 to March 10, 2009. The final jackpot of this run was $900,000, and was won by one set of six numbers. The jackpot would have rolled down if there had been no winner. Match 6 was replaced by the revival of Super 7, which in turn was retired in April 2010 due to poor sales.\n\nOn June 1, 2010, however, Match 6 returned, this time replacing Mix & Match. Match 6's gameplay did not change from the previous version, although the drawing days are different than before. It was formerly drawn on Mondays and Thursdays, And also formerly Tuesdays and Fridays. It also has an average payout of 57.95%, up from 53% in the previous version. This extra money goes into the jackpot, as the lower tier prize amounts did not change.\n\nOn August 28, 2017, Match 6 increased the frequency of drawings to seven nights per week. This made Pennsylvania one of the fewest lotteries to have all of its draw-games held daily.\n\nPennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf signed a gaming expansion bill on October 30, 2017, making it possible for the lottery to offer Keno.\n\nKeno games went live on May 1, 2018 at hundreds of locations throughout the state.\n\nIn May 2018, the Pennsylvania Lottery launched internet lottery games. The suite of products, known as the Pennsylvania iLottery, includes a variety of scratch-off games that reveal lottery ticket results online.\n\nIn August 2018, seven Pennsylvania casinos filed a lawsuit to shut the iLottery program down, citing similarities to slot machines which casinos have exclusive rights to offering in the state. The lottery has continued to offer these games, as this style of scratch-off tickets are considered sufficiently different from online casino slot machines in other jurisdictions with similar products.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery has been offering Xpress Sports' Racing and Football since the summer of 2018. Similar to keno, the virtual sports games are displayed on monitors at select locations and run every few minutes.\n\nOn November 19, 2019, the Pennsylvania Lottery began offering Derby Cash, a virtual horse racing game. The virtual races run every 5 minutes and can be bought at all lottery retailers and watched at over 2,000 locations.\n\nPennsylvania joined \"Cash4Life\" on April 7, 2015; it began in New Jersey and New York the previous year. (The game also is available in Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Maryland, Tennessee, and Virginia.)\n\nPlayers choose 5 of 60 numbers in one field, and 1 of 4 green \"Cash Ball\" numbers in the second field. Cash4Life drawings are held live on Monday and Thursday evenings at 9pm Eastern Time on Livestream. The top prize (win or share) $1,000-per-day-for-life, or the cash option. Second prize is $1,000-per-week-for-life or the cash option.\n\nMega Millions was originally known as \"The Big Game\", which began in 1996. The current name was adopted in 2002.\nOn October 13, 2009, an agreement was reached between the Mega Millions and Powerball groups. On January 31, 2010, Pennsylvania was among the lotteries that added the \"other\" game, in this case Mega Millions, on the cross-sell expansion date. Forty-six lotteries, including those of the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands, currently offer both games.\n\nThe current Mega Millions game requires players to choose 5 of 75 \"white ball\" numbers, and a gold-colored \"Mega Ball\" from a pool of 15 numbers. Plays remain $2 each, or $3 if the \"Megaplier\" is activated.\n\nThe first Mega Millions drawing that included Pennsylvania (held on February 2, 2010) produced three winners of $250,000; two were in areas new to the game: one each in Connecticut and Pennsylvania. Neither ticket holder had activated the \"Megaplier\", which would have won $1,000,000, as the \"Megaplier\" was 4. Eventually, a second-prize Mega Millions ticket with \"Megaplier\" activated was guaranteed to win $1,000,000, regardless of the multiplier drawn.\n\nPennsylvania joined Powerball in 2002; it was MUSL's most-populous member until Florida joined in 2009.\n\nThe current Powerball game requires players to choose 5 of 69 \"white ball\" numbers, and a red-colored \"Powerball\" from a pool of 26 numbers. Plays are $2 each, or $3 if \"Power Play\" is activated.\n\nThe Millionaire Raffle is normally offered annually. Tickets cost $20; each ticket is assigned a unique eight-digit number starting from 00000001 (quantities being limited). Numbers are assigned in the order that the tickets are purchased; thus, the 100,000th ticket purchased for a given raffle will have the number 00100000. At the drawings, the four $1,000,000-winning ticket numbers, as well as the second prize winners, are drawn by random number generator. As of January 2018, there have been 24 Millionaire Raffles.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery has offered several games which would later be discontinued due to low sales and/or relative obsolescence.\n\nThese games include (in order of introduction):\n\n\"Lotto\" was the third game offered by the Pennsylvania Lottery and replaced the traditional \"passive draw\" games. The first version ran from April 1982 until February 1988.\nThe game was played by selecting 6 numbers from a field of 40. Players got two games for $1, having to play an even number of games. Players won the jackpot, which was paid in 21 annual installments (with no cash option), by matching the first six numbers drawn. Players won by matching at least four of the first six numbers drawn. Players also would win by matching 5 of the first 6, plus a seventh, \"alternate\", number if no game matched the first six numbers.\n\nThe prize structure with one or more jackpot winners was as follows:\n\nThe prize structure with no jackpot winner was as follows:\n\nIn February 1988, the game became Wild Card Lotto (WCL). The game's changes included the addition of two prize categories and a \"permanent\" prize for matching 5 of the first 6 numbers drawn along with the \"alternate\" number (now called the \"Wild Card Number\").\n\nThe new game was played by selecting 6 numbers from 48. Players continued to get two plays for $1, again having to purchase games in pairs. Drawings were now Tuesdays and Fridays. Prizes were won by matching at least four numbers, with or without the \"Wild Card\" number. The jackpot continued to be paid in 21 annual payments with no cash option.\n\nThe first WCL prize structure:\n\nOn October 31, 1995, the Friday drawing was dropped, only to be reinstated on March 12, 1996. On March 26, 1996, Pennsylvania's first cash option was introduced; WCL players were now required when purchasing tickets (instead of after winning, as in present-day Cash4Life, Mega Millions, or Powerball) to choose between receiving a jackpot prize in the 21-payment annuity or in a lump sum.\n\nOn February 24, 1998, the game went through a final overhaul. A seventh prize category was added, a $1 prize for matching 3 of the first 6 numbers. The percentage of sales allocated to the jackpot also increased. The remaining prize categories were decreased as a result.\n\nOn September 11, 1998, the final WCL drawing was held. The game, along with Keystone Jackpot, was replaced with Super 6 Lotto (see below for both games).\n\nSuper 7, a jackpot game similar to keno, was originally introduced on August 14, 1986.\n\nThe original Super 7 was played by selecting 7 of 80 numbers; each game cost $1. On Wednesday nights, the Lottery drew 11 numbers. If all 7 numbers in a game matched 7 of the 11 drawn, they won a jackpot that was paid in 26 installments; unlike the 2009-2010 revival of Super 7, there was no cash option.\n\nOriginally, the first version of Super 7 offered only three prize levels; players needed to match at least 5 of the 11 numbers drawn. Soon after the game began, a $7 prize was created for matching 4 of 11 numbers.\n\nExcept for the $7 prize, all prizes were parimutuel.\n\nThe original Super 7's odds were as follows:\n\n†Originally, Super 7 had only three prize levels.\n\nOn April 10, 1991, the game’s format was changed, with 10 numbers drawn instead of 11 and 74 numbers to choose from instead of 80. Players still selected 7 numbers for each game.\n\nThe prize structure from April 10, 1991, to game’s end was as follows:\n\nOn July 10, 1993, drawings were moved from Wednesdays to Saturdays.\n\nOn October 28, 1995, the Lottery held the last drawing of the original Super 7.\n\nThe original Saturday Spin was weekly beginning on March 7, 1987. Each week, five players who had mailed non-winning instant tickets had their names on a special wheel, the player whose name the wheel stopped on would win $50,000 or $100,000 in cash, or a $1 million annuity.\n\nOn May 5, 1990, Saturday Spin was changed to Million Dollar Spin. In the second version of the game, 10 players who had won a $1 free ticket prize were selected each week, and a second wheel selected a prize of $50,000, $75,000, or $100,000 cash or a $1,000,000 annuity. Each of the other nine finalists received $5,000.\n\nMillion Dollar Spin was played until December 26, 1998. On the final playing, all prize values were doubled.\n\nHearts & Diamonds began on October 5, 1994.\n\nThe game involved selecting 5 of 26 playing cards (from the hearts and diamonds suits only; hence the name). This is the only Pennsylvania Lottery game to date (including raffles) where all ticket selections were by \"quick-pick\". The game was also Pennsylvania's first to be drawn by random number generator (computer) as opposed to mechanical ball machine(s); this method would later be employed to draw midday games.\n\nThe prize structure was:\n\nHearts & Diamonds ended on March 10, 1996.\n\nKeystone Jackpot began on October 29, 1995, replacing the original Super 7. Keystone Jackpot was the first US single-lottery game to draw from two number pools (a la Cash4Life, Mega Millions, or Powerball); it also is the only U.S. game to date using two number pools drawing a total of seven numbers.\n\nKeystone Jackpot was played by selecting 6 of 33 numbers in one pool, and a seventh, blue, \"Key Ball\" from another field of 33. To win, players needed to match 4 or more numbers from the first set, or, as in Mega Millions or Powerball, automatically winning by matching the \"Key Ball\". Jackpots were paid in 26 installments; there was never a cash option (although Pennsylvania's first cash option began during Keystone Jackpot's run). Games cost $1 each.\n\nThe prize structure went as follows:\n\nThe $1 prize for matching the \"Key Ball\" with 2, 1, or 0 white balls was a fixed prize.\n\nKeystone Jackpot underwent no changes during its history; its final drawing was held September 5, 1998, being replaced by Super 6.\n\nSuper 6 began on September 6, 1998, replacing Wild Card Lotto and Keystone Jackpot.\n\nSuper 6 was one of the first jackpot games in North America where players received automatic \"\"Quick Picks\"\", instead of being allowed to choose all of their numbers. Players selected 6 numbers from 69 in each game, receiving two \"free plays\" of automatic Quick-Picks, for a total of 3 plays for $1. Matching all 6 numbers in a game won a jackpot, paid either in 26 installments or, if selected when playing, in a lump sum. Players won by matching at least 3 numbers in a game.\n\nThe prize pool was arranged as follows:\n\nWhen Super 6 began, it was drawn Wednesdays and Saturdays; in June 2002, its drawings were moved to Tuesdays and Fridays as Pennsylvania was joining Powerball.\n\nSuper 6's final drawing was on January 27, 2004. Because there was no jackpot winner, the jackpot pool was added into the lower prize pools instead of into the game's replacement's (Match 6) jackpot, which Pennsylvania had done with previous game changes.\n\nLucky for Life began on September 30, 2004; its first drawing was held October 2.\n\nLucky for Life was played by picking 6 of 38 numbers; each game cost $2. Players won by matching 3 or more numbers, and/or the game's \"instant win\" feature. Matching all 6 numbers won an annuity prize of $3,000 per month, with a $1 million guarantee. There was no cash option, which may have led to the game being retired within three years.\n\nThe prize structure was as follows:\n\nThe game initially was drawn Wednesdays and Saturdays; in August 2005, the draws switched to Mondays and Thursdays.\n\nThe game ended on January 22, 2007, replaced with Mix & Match, which lasted until May 31, 2010.\n\nDespite \"Lucky for Life\" (not related to the current multi-state game of that name) not being a total success, Pennsylvania joined the multi-state Cash4Life on April 7, 2015. Unlike the Pennsylvania LFL, Cash4Life has two lifetime prize tiers; winners of either can choose the lifetime annuity \"or the cash option\".\n\nSuper 7 was re-introduced on March 11, 2009; the first drawing of the Super 7 revival was two nights later. It was a revival of the game of the same name which ran from 1986 to 1995.\n\nThis version of Super 7 was played by selecting seven numbers from a field of 77, with each selection costing $2. Every Tuesday and Friday night during the live evening televised drawings at 6:59 p.m. ET, the Lottery drew 11 numbers from 77 numbered balls. If all 7 numbers on a player’s ticket matched any 7 of the 11 balls drawn, the player won a jackpot that is paid either in 30 annual installments, or in lump sum, depending on the player's choice. Unlike in Mega Millions or Powerball, where the jackpot choice is made after winning, Super 7 players were required to make the choice when playing; the payment option could not be changed after winning. Except for the $2 fifth prize, all payouts were parimutuel.\n\nThe prize structure was as follows:\n\nThe payout percentage in Super 7 is 52.19% (the original Super 7's payout percentage was 49%).\n\nOn April 13, 2010, the Pennsylvania Lottery announced that the revival of Super 7, which had begun just over a year earlier, would hold its final drawing on April 27, 2010. The Lottery cited the addition of Mega Millions to its portfolio early in the year; Super 7 was drawn on Tuesday and Friday nights, the same as Mega Millions. The jackpot was not won the final drawing; the jackpot rolled down to those matching at least 4 numbers (those matching 3 numbers won $2). Super 7 was not replaced, although, about a month later, an updated version of Match 6 replaced Mix & Match.\n\nMix & Match involved selecting five numbers from 1 through 19, as well as the order in which they will be drawn. There were two ways to win: A) for matching three or more numbers in any order (\"mixing\"), and B) for matching at least one number in its correct position (\"matching\".) The jackpot started at $50,000 (lump sum) and was won by matching all five numbers in the order in which they were drawn. Games cost $2 each. Mix & Match was drawn during the live nighttime televised drawings at 6:58:50 p.m. ET Mondays and Thursdays.\n\nOverall odds of winning were 1 in 3.57.\n\nThe Lottery had planned to retire Mix & Match on November 3, 2009, replacing it with a new game, \"Double Play\". These plans were put on hold by Lottery officials the previous month, and Double Play ultimately never materialized.\n\nMix & Match did eventually end, however. It held its final drawing on May 31, 2010, and was replaced by a revival of Match 6.\n\nPennsylvania was among 23 jurisdictions participating in the launch of the \"Monopoly Millionaires' Club\" (MMC) multistate drawing game on October 19, 2014. The game was drawn Fridays beginning October 24. With the December 12 drawing, Texas suspended sales of MMC tickets; the 22 other MMC members participated in two more drawings. (A game show featuring MMC players had episodes taped; they aired beginning March 28, 2015) Pennsylvania's MMC payouts for the final drawing were pari-mutuel, and were much higher than the fixed payouts for each prize tier.\n\nIn late March 2015, MMC returned as a scratch-off game; as of April 6, there were nine lotteries offering it. Pennsylvania had committed to offering the $5 instant game; as with the draw game, players of the MMC scratch ticket could win a trip-for-two to Las Vegas to participate in a taping of the MMC television game show, which was hosted by \"Mike & Molly's\" Billy Gardell, a native of Pittsburgh.\n\nThe MMC scratch game (which varied by state) and TV game show were discontinued in 2016.\n\nBesides offering terminal-based games, the Pennsylvania Lottery has many instant games (such tickets are usually referred to as \"scratch off tickets\"). Approximately 42% of Lottery proceeds are from instant ticket sales. The Lottery website maintains an updated list. \n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery uses an animatronic groundhog called \"Gus\", who claims that he is the \"second-most-famous groundhog in Pennsylvania\" (after Punxsutawney Phil), as the mascot for instant games in television commercials which appear around the beginning of every month.\n\nPennsylvania instant games range in price from $1 to $30. Typically, higher-priced tickets offer better odds of winning, higher top prizes (up to $1 million for a $20 game; $2,500,000 cash or a $3 million annuity for a $25 game, or $3 million cash for a $30 game), and a higher payout percentage. Payouts range from 57% of sales ($1 tickets) to 76.94% ($30 tickets).\n\nOriginally, a winning ticket was denoted by two matching letters in the play area. Later, this was updated to the winning amount being highlighted with parentheses at the top or bottom of the play area, in order, but not necessarily consecutively; for example, a $100 winner would be denoted (1)(0)(0). Still later, three letters were scattered around the play area, spelling out the winning amount; for example, a prize of $100 is denoted H U N; losing tickets are denoted with a combination of: B, J, K, P, Q, and Z. Any prize over $2,500 on newer tickets is denoted with the letters \"C L M\" for \"claim\"; tickets released prior to July 2008 used C L M for amounts over $500. Starting with tickets released at the end of November 2010, tickets no longer have validation codes; an area marked \"Scratch to Cash\" must be scratched off by the player, revealing a bar code. Concurrent with the removal of validation codes, the Pennsylvania lottery also removed \"benday,\" a random pattern of squiggly lines used as a security feature.\n\nOn February 28, 2017, the Pennsylvania Lottery began offering \"Fast Play\" games. A Fast Play game is printed from a lottery terminal, however, it is played in a similar manner to the instant games. Typically, the player must match one or more numbers or symbols to the designated winning symbols in order to win. Currently, Fast Play games are offered at price points of $1, $2, $3, $5, $10, and $20.\n\nCertain Fast Play games may offer a progressive jackpot which increases with each ticket sold until a jackpot winning ticket is generated, at which point the jackpot resets to a base amount.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Lottery maintains seven lottery offices, including its headquarters:\n\n\nPennsylvania Lottery retailers can pay prizes up to $2,500. (Until June 30, 2008, the maximum on such tickets was $500.) Claiming a prize of $600 or more requires filling out a standard claim form and sending it to Lottery headquarters. For instant games that make annuity payments, as well as the top prizes in Cash 5, etc. a claim should be filed at an area lottery office. For Mega Millionaire or Powerball jackpots, a claim must be filed at Lottery headquarters.\n\nWhen filing a standard claim form, the claimant, the retailer, and the Pennsylvania Lottery each receive a copy (the form is triplicate). The Lottery then reports all winnings to the IRS. For federal income tax purposes, any lottery winnings over $2,500 in a fiscal year are taxable. However, when the winning amount is greater than $5,000, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue withholds the proper amount of federal income tax before a check is mailed to the claimant. Pennsylvania Lottery winnings by Pennsylvania residents are exempt from state tax; however, winnings may be subject to local taxes for residents of some municipalities (e.g. Philadelphia).\n\nThe host of the Pennsylvania Lottery drawings, Nick Perry, and seven others participated in a plot to \"rig\" The Daily Number, colloquially known as the \"Triple Six Fix.\" On the night of April 24, 1980, the number 666 was drawn; of the then-record $3.5 million payout, $1.8 million was \"paid\" to those that were in on the fix. Lottery authorities became suspicious after rumors began that the drawing was fixed. Ticket sales showed a heavy bias towards combinations of only 4s and 6s in that drawing. Perry, in conjunction with Peter and Jack Margos, Jerry Hammer, and five other men either were convicted or entered plea-bargains for their involvement. \n\nTo celebrate the Lottery's 25th anniversary in 1997, Jonathan Goodson, who, at the time produced several other lottery game shows, produced a Pennsylvania Lottery game show, with a format similar to \"Illinois Instant Riches\". The show was hosted by former \"American Bandstand\", and later several incarnations of the \"Pyramid\" game show series, Dick Clark, assisted by Gigi Gordon. Players won up to $365,000 on the show; two of its games were \"Vortex\" and \"Freefall\", both from \"Illinois Instant Riches\" (though \"Vortex\" debuted on \"Bonus Bonanza\" in Massachusetts).\n\nThe special show aired on:\n\nLike most US lotteries, the Pennsylvania Lottery broadcasts drawings on a network of broadcast television stations: WTAJ-TV (Altoona), WPXI (Pittsburgh), WGAL (Lancaster), WJET-TV (Erie), WTXF-TV (Philadelphia), and WNEP-TV (Scranton). Portions of the Commonwealth, particularly in the Northern Tier, are unable to see the drawings because they are served by television markets in New York (e.g. the Bradford region, which has some stations from Erie, but not WJET). Regions such as these can see the Mega Millions and Powerball drawings on the national cable and satellite feed of WGN America. Pennsylvania's midday drawings are only viewable online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913832", "title": "Manon Lescaut (Puccini)", "text": "Manon Lescaut (Puccini)\n\nManon Lescaut () is an Italian-language opera in four acts composed by Giacomo Puccini between 1889 and 1892 to a libretto by Luigi Illica, Marco Praga and Domenico Oliva, based on the 1731 novel \"Histoire du Chevalier des Grieux, et de Manon Lescaut\" by the Abbé Prévost. The opera was first performed in 1893 in Turin, at the Teatro Regio.\n\nThe libretto is in Italian, and was cobbled together by five librettists whom Puccini employed: Ruggero Leoncavallo, Marco Praga, Giuseppe Giacosa, Domenico Oliva and Luigi Illica. The publisher, Giulio Ricordi, and the composer himself also contributed to the libretto. So confused was the authorship of the libretto that no one was credited on the title page of the original score. However, it was Illica and Giacosa who completed the libretto and went on to contribute the libretti to Puccini's next three – and most successful – works, \"La Bohème\", \"Tosca\" and \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\nPuccini took some musical elements in \"Manon Lescaut\" from earlier works he had written. For example, the madrigal \"Sulla vetta tu del monte\" from act 2 echoes the \"Agnus Dei\" from his 1880 \"Messa a quattro voci\". Other elements of \"Manon Lescaut\" come from his compositions for strings: the quartet \"Crisantemi\" (January 1890), three \"Menuets\" (probably 1884) and a \"Scherzo\" (1883?). The love theme comes from the aria \"Mentia l'avviso\" (1883).\n\nPuccini's publisher, Ricordi, had been against any project based on Prévost's story because Jules Massenet had already made it into a successful opera, \"Manon\", in 1884. While Puccini and Ricordi may not have known it, the French composer Daniel Auber had also already written an opera on the same subject with the title \"Manon Lescaut\", in 1856.\n\nDespite all the warnings, Puccini proceeded. \"Manon is a heroine I believe in and therefore she cannot fail to win the hearts of the public. Why shouldn't there be two operas about Manon? A woman like Manon can have more than one lover.\" He added, \"Massenet feels it as a Frenchman, with powder and minuets. I shall feel it as an Italian, with a desperate passion.\"\n\nThe first performance of \"Manon Lescaut\" took place in the Teatro Regio in Turin on 1 February 1893; it was Puccini's third opera and his first great success. The opera was first performed at the Metropolitan Opera in New York on 18 January 1907 in the presence of the composer with Lina Cavalieri in the title role, Enrico Caruso as des Grieux, Antonio Scotti as Lescaut, and Arturo Vigna conducting.\n\n\"Amiens: A large public square near the Paris Gate\"\n\n\"Off the square is an Avenue on one side and an Inn on the other, with a balcony. It is evening, townspeople, soldiers and a crowd of male students and girls stroll through the avenue and square while others gather in groups. Some are seated at the tables outside the Inn, drinking and gambling.\"\n\nEdmondo sings a song of youthful pleasure (Edmondo, chorus of students, girls and townspeople: \"Ave, sera gentile\" – Hail gentle evening). Des Grieux enters, and they greet him, but he is melancholic and does not join the others, singing cynically of love (des Grieux, Edmondo, chorus: \"L'amor?, L'amor? ...io non conosco!\" – Love?, Love?...I know nothing of that). They joke with him and provoke him to feign flirtation with the girls (des Grieux: \"Tra voi, belle, brune e bionde\" – Among you beauties, dark and fair); (Edmondo, chorus: \"Ma, bravo!\").\n\nA postillion horn is heard and the carriage from Arras pulls up at the Inn, as the crowd peers in to see who the passengers are (Chorus: \"Giunge il cocchio d'Arras\"! – Here comes the Arras coach!) Lescaut (Manon's brother), then an elderly treasurer-general, Geronte di Ravoir, descend from the coach, Geronte helping Manon, then the remainder of the passengers. The crowd comments (Chorus, Edmondo, Lescaut, des Grieux, Geronte: \"Discendono, vediam!\" – Look, they are getting down!) Edmondo and the students admire Manon (\"Chi non darebbe a quella donnina bella?\" – Who would not give to that beautiful young woman?). Des Grieux is also smitten (\"Dio, quanto è bella!\" – Dear God, such beauty!). The other passengers enter the Inn, while Lescaut signals Manon to wait for him. She sits, as des Grieux, who has been fixated on her, approaches her and declares his feelings for her (des Grieux, Manon,: \"Cortese damigella\" – Gentle lady), only to learn she is destined for a convent at the will of her father. He offers to help her, and when Lescaut calls her he begs her to meet him later; she reluctantly agrees. After Manon leaves, des Grieux sings of his feelings for her (des Grieux: \"Donna non vidi mai\" – Never before have I beheld a woman such as this). The students and girls, who have been observing the couple, comment mockingly on his good fortune (Edmondo, students: \"La tua ventura ci rassicura\" – Your good fortune encourages us).\n\nLescaut and Geronte descend and converse in the square about Manon's fate, observed by Edmondo. Geronte, who also is captivated by Manon, says she would be wasted in a convent. On hearing his fellow traveller's opinion, Lescaut begins to reconsider his task of escorting his sister to the convent. The students invite Lescaut to join in their card game. Geronte observes that Lescaut is preoccupied with the game and discloses his plan to abduct Manon and take her to Paris to the Innkeeper, offering him money for assistance and his silence. Edmondo overhears the plan and informs des Grieux (Edmondo: \"Cavaliere, te la fanno!\" – Sir, they are outwitting you!). He offers to help des Grieux, arranging for the card players to keep Lescaut occupied.\n\nManon slips out of the inn to meet des Grieux as promised (Manon: \"Vedete? Io son fedele alla parola mia\" – You see? I am faithful to my word). He declares his love for her and advises her of the plot to abduct her, while Edmondo arranges for the carriage Geronte has hired to take the couple to Paris. They leave together just as Geronte arrives, ready to execute his plans (Geronte: \"Di sedur la sorellina e il momento!\" – The moment to seduce the little sister has arrived). Geronte is taunted by Edmondo. Realising he has been tricked, Geronte urges Lescaut to follow the departed pair. The more pragmatic Lescaut advises him that the pair will soon run out of money, and then Manon will be his.\n\n\"A room in Geronte's house in Paris\"\n\nManon is now Geronte's mistress. Manon and her hairdresser are in the room when Lescaut enters (Manon, Lescaut: \"Dispettosetto questo riccio!\"); (Lescaut: \"Sei splendida e lucente!\"). She tells him that Geronte is too old and wicked; he bores her. Manon is sad, and her thoughts turn to des Grieux (Manon: \"In quelle trine morbide\"); (Lescaut, Manon: \"Poiché tu vuoi saper\").\n\nMusicians hired by Geronte enter to amuse her (Madrigal: \"Sulla vetta tu del monte\"); (Manon, Lescaut: \"Paga costor\"). Geronte brings a dancing master; they dance a minuet, then she sings a gavotte (Dancing master, Geronte, Manon, chorus: \"Vi prego, signorina [minuet]\"); (Manon, Geronte, chorus: \"L'ora, o Tirsi, è vaga e bella\"). After dancing, Geronte and the musicians leave the house.\n\nDismayed that his sister is unhappy living with Geronte, Lescaut goes to find des Grieux. Des Grieux appears in Geronte's house (Manon, des Grieux: \"Oh, sarò la più bella!\" – This love's own magic spell). As des Grieux and Manon renew their vows of love, Geronte returns unexpectedly. He salutes the couple, reminding Manon of his many favors to her, including some precious jewels. She replies that she cannot love him (Geronte, des Grieux, Manon: \"Affè, madamigella\").\n\nBowing low, he leaves them. Manon rejoices in their freedom (Manon: \"Ah! Ah! Liberi!\"); (des Grieux: \"Ah, manon, mi tradisce il tuo folle pensiero). Lescaut urges them to leave the house at once, but Manon hesitates at the thought of leaving her jewels and pretty frocks. Again, Lescaut enters in breathless haste, making signs that they must depart immediately. Manon snatches up her jewels, and they go to the door. It has been locked by Geronte's order. Soldiers appear to arrest Manon who, in trying to escape, drops the jewels at Geronte's feet. She is dragged away and des Grieux is not permitted to follow her (des Grieux, Manon, Lescaut, sergeant, Geronte: \"Lescaut! – Tu qui?\").\n\nHis various efforts to have Manon released and even to free her by force having failed, des Grieux follows her to Le Havre.\n\n\"A square near the harbor in Le Havre\"\n\nAt dawn Manon is with the other imprisoned courtesans (des Grieux, Lescaut, Manon: \"Ansia eterna, crudel\"). Lescaut has bribed a guard to let des Grieux speak with Manon. Talking to her through the bars, he learns that she is to be deported to Louisiana. A lamplighter passes, singing a song as he extinguishes the lights (Lamplighter, des Grieux, Manon: \"E Kate ripose al re\"); (des Grieux, Manon: \"Manon, disperato è il mio prego\").\n\nThey attempt a rescue, but in vain. The guard appears, escorting a group of women, who are going on the same ship as Manon. She walks among them, pale and sad. The crowd makes brutal comments during the roll call of the courtesans (Chorus, Lescaut, des Grieux, Manon: \"All'armi! All'armi!\"), but Lescaut inspires pity for Manon (Sergeant, chorus, Lescaut, Manon, des Grieux: \"Rosetta! – Eh, che aria!\").\n\nDes Grieux, in despair at the idea of being separated from Manon forever, goes to her side. He tries to seize her but is pushed away by the sergeant. However, the captain of the ship sees his intense grief (des Grieux: \"Pazzo son!\") and allows him to board the ship.\n\n\"A vast plain near the outskirts of the New Orleans territory\"\n\nHaving fled the jealous intrigues of New Orleans, the lovers make their way across a desert to seek refuge in a British settlement. Wandering in the desert, the ailing Manon is exhausted. She falls and cannot go any farther (des Grieux, Manon: \"Tutta su me ti posa\"); (des Grieux: \"Vedi, son io che piango\"); (Manon, des Grieux: \"Sei tu che piangi\").\n\nDes Grieux is alarmed by Manon's appearance and goes to look for water. While he is gone, Manon recalls her past and muses about her fatal beauty and her fate (Manon: \"Sola, perduta, abbandonata\").\n\nDes Grieux returns, having been unable to find water. Manon bids him a heart-rending farewell, however not before complaining about how her life has not been fair and that she is no longer beautiful. Before dying in his arms Manon asks des Grieux to tell her how beautiful she used to be, and how he must forgive her wrongdoings and faults before she dies, not listening to him repeat how much he loves her and will miss her. Overcome by grief at the death of his vain and selfish lover, des Grieux collapses across her body (Manon, des Grieux: \"Fra le tue braccia, amore\").\n\nThe opera is scored for piccolo (doubling 3rd flute), two flutes, two oboes, cor anglais, two clarinets, bass clarinet, two bassoons, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, bass tuba, timpani, triangle, drum, tam-tam, bass drum, cymbals, glockenspiel, celesta, harp, and strings, together with offstage flute, offstage cornet, offstage bell, offstage drum, and offstage sleigh bells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913833", "title": "Nilai", "text": "Nilai\n\nNilai is a town located between Sepang District and Seremban District, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia. Due to its proximity, and connection through the KTM to Kuala Lumpur, Putrajaya, and Kuala Lumpur International Airport, it is a rapidly growing town. Development projects can be seen as one drives around Nilai. Some of Malaysia's most well-known colleges and two universities are located in Nilai: Nilai University, INTI International University, Manipal International University, Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia and Islamic University College of Malaysia. As a result, the town is occupied by students from all over the world. Students from over 30 countries can be seen in Nilai.\n\nNilai has become a popular shopping town with the establishment of several major shopping malls such as Nilai 3 Wholesale Centre, Nilai Square, AEON Mall, Mydin, Giant Hypermarket and Tesco Hypermarket. Then, a new shopping mall was completed and opened on 29 June 2017, which is Mesamall.\n\nThe word \"Nilai\" means \"value\" in Malay.\n\nNilai has its own unique origin and history. Historically, Nilai was under luak Sungai Ujong that was administered by waris di Darat or waris di Air. Under Dato’ Johan from waris di Darat there are three Dato’ Lingkungan that control lead the 3 corak suku Batu Hampar that are concentrated in a few villages. Other lines including those from Bentan that are not based on suku, but are based on the village where they live. As a Lembaga waris Perut Hulu, Waris Telaga Undang Dato’ Johan is not a titian balai because Dato’ Andika is more senior. However the power endowed by Dato’ Kelana Putera to collect tax until the year 1894 shows that the Dato’ Johan position with respect to balai Undang is important.\n\nThe third Dato’ Johan which is Dato’ Maamor is the Dato’ Kelana Putra, the 8th Undang Luak Sungai Ujong. Even while being appointed as Pesaka Dato' Kelana Putera, Dato’ Maamor is still a child. At that time, Pesaka Dato' Kelana Putera position is left vacant since 1887 when Dato' Mohd Yusof, the Undang Luak Sungai Ujong is relieved from duty. Because waris Perut Hulu does not have a son to hold the pesaka, so the anak-anak buah unanimously appointed Dato’ Maamor who was still a child to hold the pesaka Dato' Johan and then titled Dato’ Kelana.\nThe jurisdiction of Dato’ Johan also covers Lenggeng Mukim which includes Mendum Village, Lenggeng Village, Sungai Jai Village, Hulu Beranang Village and Dacing Village. All these villages have their own \"ketua adat\" called ‘Tua Waris’. There are also \"suku\" of Minangkabau people that are concentrated on other \"luak\" in Negeri Sembilan before settling in Lenggeng Village. To ensure their welfare in \"Luak\" Sungai Ujong, all \"suku\" were given ‘Tua Waris’ to be their representative in matters relating to tradition and administration in Balai Undang Luak.\n\nNilai was under Seremban District Council, and then upgraded to Nilai Municipal Council in 2002.\n\nThe Köppen-Geiger climate classification system classifies its climate as tropical rainforest (Af).\n\nChinese make up the majority of the population at 46%, followed by the Malays at 31%, and Indians at 22%.\n\nAn initiative by the state government to turn Negeri Sembilan into an educational hub has also borne fruit as several foreign and local institutions of higher education have agreed to set up operations here.\n\nAmong them are Britain’s Epsom College which has acquired land in Bandar Enstek to set up its first institute outside England, Epsom College in Malaysia and the City University College of Science and Technology which signed an agreement to acquire a 40 ha parcel of land here recently. Another offshore campus is Manipal International University. \n\nThe state would also benefit from the construction of the RM1.2 bil Education Ministry complex which would, among others, house the Aminuddin Baki Institute, Institut Pendidikan Guru Kampus Pendidikan Teknik, English Language Institute, Tunku Kurshiah College and Nilai Polytechnic as well as the International Islamic University Malaysia’s medical faculty and the International University College of Nursing.\n\nSeveral institutions of higher learning that have been built in the area include Nilai University, INTI International University and Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia.\n\nPLUS Expressway exit 214 serves Nilai. Nilai is also the southern end of ELITE which connects it to Shah Alam, the capital of Selangor. Motorists from western Selangor are thus able to get to Negeri Sembilan, Malacca or Johor while bypassing Kuala Lumpur.\n\nKTM Komuter has two stations serving Nilai constituency: Batang Benar and Nilai.\n\nBuses are available from Nilai Komuter station to the nearby KLIA.\n\nBus service will be provided to INTI International University students and Nilai University students for free to different destinations according to the timetable provided by the universities. Students can go to Giant, Tesco or KTM station by referring to the timetable.\n\nNilai is part of the Seremban constituency of the Dewan Rakyat of the Malaysian Parliament, currently represented by Anthony Loke Siew Fook of the Democratic Action Party.\n\nOn the provincial level, Nilai is represented in the Negeri Sembilan State Legislative Assembly by Arul Kumar a/l Jambunathan, also from the DAP.\n"}
{"id": "1913845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913845", "title": "Bahamadia", "text": "Bahamadia\n\nAntonia D. Reed (born April 22, 1966), known professionally as Bahamadia, is an American hip hop artist, rapper and singer. She released her debut album \"Kollage\" in 1996, and followed up with the independently released EP, \"BB Queen\" in 2000, then a full length album, \"Good Rap Music\" in 2005. Since, Bahamadia has released singles \"Dialed Up Vol. 1\" in 2013, \"Here\" in 2015 and \"Dialed Up Vol. 2\" in 2018.\n\nThroughout her career, Bahamadia has been a featured artist on tracks with musicians such as The Roots, Jedi Mind Tricks, Erykah Badu, Morcheeba, Guru, Towa Tei, among others.\n\nIn November 2016 she appeared as a guest client on \"Project Runway\" where her son, Mah-Jing Wong, was a contestant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913848", "title": "Kuala Selangor", "text": "Kuala Selangor\n\nKuala Selangor is a town in Kuala Selangor District, Selangor, Malaysia. The name Kuala Selangor means Estuary of Selangor River.\n\nKuala Selangor is the capital of the Sultanate of Selangor during its early years in the 18th century. It was relocated to Kuala Langat and then Klang in the 19th century.\n\nKuala Selangor town is located at the estuary of the Selangor River, where it drains into the Strait of Malacca. It is located 55 km north-west of downtown Kuala Lumpur, and 42 km north-west of Shah Alam, the capital of Selangor.\n\nKuala Selangor town is the largest town of the coterminous Kuala Selangor region, which also contains the adjacent towns of Tanjung Karang, Ijok, Puncak Alam, Bestari Jaya and Jeram.\n\nKampung Kuantan is well known for its fireflies. Moreover, there has been opinion that magical fireflies are only available at two places in the world and one of it is in Kampung Kuantan.\n\nThe adventure of the fireflies' area began in the early 1970s by a local businessman who saw the commercial potential of this miracle. Now, the adventure has been entrusted to the Kuala Selangor District Council and has expanded rapidly with the addition of 27 small boats for the visitors.\n\nKuala Selangor Nature Park was opened in 1987. With a width of 296 hectare that is divided to two main parts that is a 201 hectare wide Tropical Rainforest and the balance is Swamp Forest. The park is under the management of the Malaysia Nature Lovers Association. Because of that, the natural beauties of the park are preserved without any habitat damage that has been the loyal tenants here.\n\nKuala Selangor is connected to Sungai Buloh and Kepong by national highway 54. The Kuala Lumpur–Kuala Selangor Expressway (LATAR) E25 is another access route from Rawang.\n\nKuala Selangor is also accessible from the royal capital Klang via national highway 5.\n\nKuala Selangor currently is not connected to any rail transit line. However Selangor Omnibus route 100 runs from LRT Masjid Jamek, KTM Kepong Sentral and MRT/KTM Sungai Buloh between 05:00 and 20:00 daily.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913856", "title": "The Conscious Daughters", "text": "The Conscious Daughters\n\nThe Conscious Daughters (TCD) were an American female hip hop duo from the Bay Area, California, United States, consisting of Carla \"CMG\" Green and Karryl \"Special One\" Smith. The duo signed in 1993 to Paris's record label, Scarface Records, after passing him a demo tape at a club. They released their first studio album, \"Ear to the Street\".\n\nThe single and video release of their 1994 single, \"Somethin' to Ride To (Fonky Expedition)\", helped TCD gain national recognition. Soon after, they were signed by Priority/EMI Records and released their second album, \"Gamers\". Many collaborations, projects and television appearances followed, most notably \"Rap City\", MTV Jams, and \"Soul Train\".\n\nIn 2007, Nas released the track \"Where Are They Now (West Coast Remix)\" which featured Breeze, Kam, King Tee, Candyman, Threat, Ice-T, Sir Mix-A-Lot and TCD. \n\nTheir third album, \"The Nutcracker Suite\", was released on Guerilla Funk Records on February 10, 2009. In 2010, TCD severed their relationship with Guerrilla Funk Records, and in 2011 they signed a distribution deal with Phaseone/Sony.\n\nOn December 10, 2011, Smith was found dead at her home. Initially, the cause of death was unknown, but it was eventually determined to be from complications associated with blood clots that reached her lungs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913858", "title": "Ostikan", "text": "Ostikan\n\nOstikan () was the title used by Armenians for the governors of the early Caliphates. In modern historiography, it is chiefly used for the caliphal governors of the province of Arminiya, which included Greater Armenia.\n\nThese are reported as governors under the Caliphs Uthman (r. 644–656) and Ali (r. 656–661), as well as the early Umayyads:\n\nWith the submission of Armenia to Muhammad ibn Marwan after 695, the province was formally incorporated into the Caliphate, and an Arab governor (\"ostikan\") installed at Dvin:\n"}
{"id": "1913859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913859", "title": "Severia", "text": "Severia\n\nSeveria or Siveria (, or , \"Siveria\" or \"Sivershchyna\", ) is a historical region in present-day central-west Russia, northern Ukraine, eastern Belarus. The largest part lies in today's Russia, while the central part of the region is the city Novhorod-Siverskyi in Ukraine.\n\nThe region received its name after the Severians, an East Slavic tribe which inhabited the territory in the late 1st millennium A.D. Their main settlements included the seven cities of today's Russia Kursk, Rylsk, Starodub, Trubchevsk, Sevsk, Bryansk, Belgorod and five cities which lie in today's Ukraine: Liubech, Novhorod-Siverskyi, Chernihiv, Putyvl, Hlukhiv.\n\nAccording to the \"Primary Chronicle\", the Severians paid tribute to the Khazars, along with the neighboring Polans. Prince Oleg of Novgorod (reigned 879–912) conquered them and incorporated their lands into the new principality of Kievan Rus'. By the time of Yaroslav the Wise (1019–1054) the Severian peoples had lost most of their distinctness, and the areas of Severia along the upper course of the Desna River came under the control of Chernihiv.\nIn 1096, Oleg I of Chernigov (also referred to as \"Oleh\") created a large Severian Principality, which stretched as far as the upper reaches of the Oka River. Until the end of the century, the principality served as a buffer state against Cuman attacks. Its most celebrated ruler was Prince Igor (1150–1202), whose exploits are recounted in the 12th century epic \"The Tale of Igor's Campaign\".\n\nAfter the Mongol invasion of Rus', the principality fell into ruin, however it remained intact throughout repeated Tatar invasions. Unfortunately, not much is known about this period as Severia was rarely mentioned in written accounts of the 13th century. By mid the 14th century, it was already part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania as appanage duchy, whose Gediminid princes (Ruthenian-speaking and Orthodox by religion) established their seats in the cities of Novhorod-Siverskyi, Starodub, and Trubchevsk. During the 1501-1503 Lithuanian-Muscovite wars, an ally of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Khan of Great Horde Sheikh Ahmed destroyed the duchy's capital Novhorod-Siverskyi which by that time was controlled by Muscovites. After the Lithuanian defeat at the Battle of Vedrosha, the Severian Principality passed to Moscow. After the war the duchy was controlled by Muscovite subject Prince Vasiliy Shemiachich. After he was imprisoned in Moscow in 1523, the duchy was government by Muscovite voivodes (capetanus).\n\nIn the 18th century, the hetmans of Ukraine established residences in the towns of Baturyn, Hlukhiv, and Pochep. Hlukhiv, in particular, developed into a veritable capital of 18th-century Ukraine.\n\nFollowing the Bolshevik Revolution, the Severian lands, full of architecture of East Slavs, and populated by a mixture of Ukrainians and Russians, were divided between the Ukrainian and Russian Soviet republics, finally breaking up the land of the former Severians.\n\nSince the 16th and 17th centuries, the specific Severian icon-painting style had been forming. It was much influenced by conservative Byzantine specimens which dominated in the Grand Duchy of Moscow. Severian icons are characterized by internal restraint, severeness and asceticism. These features survived during the Baroque epoch: volume and emotions were almost absent. The collection of Severian icons is preserved in the Museum of Ukrainian home icons of the Radomysl Castle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913883", "title": "Project Viper", "text": "Project Viper\n\nProject Viper is a 2002 science-fiction thriller starring Patrick Muldoon, Theresa Russell, Curtis Armstrong and Tamara Davies that debuted as a Sci Fi Pictures TV-movie on the Sci Fi Channel. It was directed by Jim Wynorski under the pseudonym \"Jay Andrews\".\n\nThe space shuttle Olympus is on a routine mission, but with a far-from-routine payload: \"Project Viper\", an experimental hybrid of human genes and computer chips, designed to adapt to any environment, particularly that of the planet Mars. But as the shuttle crew prepares to launch the first prototype, referred to as \"Viper\", into space, an unexpected power glitch occurs, causing the container housing the prototype to break open. Soon the astronauts are killed by Viper, and the Secretary of Defense orders the remaining second prototype Viper destroyed - which is stored in a secure NovaGen Science facility, the manufacturer of the prototype. To do the job, he calls on special agent Mike Connors.\n\nUnaware of these proceedings, Project Viper head Nancy Burnham and her team at NovaGen - Steve Elkins, Sid Bream and Alan Stanton - are celebrating the fruition of their scientific dream. One more member, Cafferty, is on her way - but is killed by a rogue police officer, who is planning to steal the second prototype. Along with his wife, he steals the second Viper from the NovaGen high security lab, shooting several guards and technicians in the process. Mike Connors arrives at the scene, only to chase the thieves into a nearby forest, Thought the rogue police officer is killed, his wife escapes along with Viper's container unscathed and unseen by Connors and military personnel. Along with another accomplice, the thieves steal a small cargo plane and head towards their base, but a catastrophic engine failure causes their aircraft to crash into a forest 50 miles north of the Mexican border near a small town of Lago Nogales. In the crash, Viper's container is broken open and ends up into the environment, killing and devouring the thieves and a couple.\n\nConnors, Burnham and crew arrive at the crash site to investigate and trace Viper's trails of gray, gelatinous remains to the small town. After carrying out tests and experiments, investigating human disappearances caused as Viper feeds, they reach the conclusion that Viper is attracted to the uranium-contaminated town water system, where it has a concentrated point in an abandoned uranium mine. Connors orders an electromagnetic pulse bomb, though he encounters Viper at the police station and battles and kills Steve Elkins who revealed that he deliberately programmed Viper to kill humans and in doing so, rid himself of Bream and Stanton. Along with Burnham and a former suspicious sheriff Morgan, they successfully destroy Viper with the EMP bomb at the mine and escape unharmed, with the exception of the sheriff. Back at the NASA tracking facility, Connors, Burnham and the Secretary of Defense learn that the first prototype Viper aboard the shuttle Olympus re-enters atmosphere and crashed into the Pacific Ocean.\n\n\n\"Project Viper\" debuted as a Sci Fi Pictures TV-movie on the Sci Fi Channel on April 20, 2002. It was also released to DVD and VHS later that year in August, with the DVD including a widescreen transfer.\n"}
{"id": "1913885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913885", "title": "Sequeira Costa", "text": "Sequeira Costa\n\nJosé Carlos de Sequeira Costa (18 July 1929 in Luanda, Angola – 21 February 2019 in Olathe, Kansas) was a Portuguese pianist who is especially renowned for his interpretations of the Romantic repertoire. \n\nAs a child, Sequeira Costa showed exceptional musical talent. When he was eight years old, he moved to Lisbon to become the protégé of José Vianna da Motta who was one of the last pupils of Franz Liszt. Following Vianna da Motta's death in 1948, Sequeira Costa continued his studies in London under another eminent pianist, Mark Hambourg. Sequeira Costa also worked with Marguerite Long and Jacques Fevrier in Paris and Edwin Fischer in Switzerland. Under these teachers, Sequeira Costa was immersed in both the German and French schools of pianism. In his performing career, Sequeira Costa drew upon his understanding of both traditions to develop his personal style of musical interpretation.\n\nAt the age of 22, Sequeira Costa won the second Grand Prix at the Marguerite Long International Piano Competition in 1951. Five years later, he founded the Vianna da Motta International Music Competition in Lisbon. In 1958, Dmitri Shostakovich invited Sequeira Costa to sit on the jury of the inaugural International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow, on which he served a further six times. Both in the years 1960 and 2000 he was part of the jurors of the Chopin International Piano Competition. \n\nIn his later life, Sequeira Costa continued to appear regularly on the panels of some of the world's most prestigious music competitions, while also delivering numerous master classes and giving regular tours. Sequeira Costa recorded the complete cycle of piano concertos by Sergei Rachmaninoff. His final recording was of the complete sonatas of Ludwig van Beethoven.\n\nFrom 1976, Sequeira Costa served as the Cordelia Brown Murphy Distinguished Professor of Piano at the University of Kansas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913886", "title": "Santalum acuminatum", "text": "Santalum acuminatum\n\nSantalum acuminatum, the Desert Quandong, is a hemiparasitic plant in the sandalwood family, Santalaceae, (Native to Australia) which is widely dispersed throughout the central deserts and southern areas of Australia.\nThe species, especially its Edible fruit, is also commonly referred to as Quandong or Native Peach. The use of the fruit as an exotic flavouring, one of the best known Bush tucker (bush food), has led to the attempted domestication of the species.\n\nDesert Quandong is an Evergreen tree, its fruit can be stewed to make pie filling for Quandong pies or made into a fruit juice drink. The seed (kernel) inside the tough shell can be extracted to be crushed into a paste then be used on sore gums or an oral gum boil to ease the pain. In far-west New South Wales being one of the few drought-tolerant fruit trees around, many aboriginal communities and local Australians that know about this fruit like to grow it.\n\n\"Santalum acuminatum\" grows as a tall shrub, or small tree, high and wide. The rough bark is dark grey and the branches ascending in character. Smaller plants formed by suckers from the roots are sometimes found surrounding larger plants. The smaller branches have a more weeping habit. The slender to ovate leaves are pointed at the tip, and are pale yellowish-green bringing a slightly grey and leathery appearance. These are supported on a short leaf stem, 5 – 10 mm long, the leaves themselves being 45 – 115 mm long. They are tapered in outline, and arranged in opposite pairs on the branchlets.\n\nFlowers can be green or creamy white on the outer parts, reddish or yellowish brown on the inner faces; these appear on stems, are just 2–3 mm across, and are fragrant. Fruit is produced after 4 years and is red or sometimes yellow, measuring between 20 and 25 mm across. A 3-mm layer of flesh covers a brain-like nut with a hard shell that encases the seed. This fruit is referred to as a drupe. It ripens from green to a shiny red in late spring or summer, and is globe-shaped and 20 to 40 mm across. The skin of the fruit is waxy.\n\nRoots are adapted to a hemiparasitic mechanism, using a haustorium, on roots able to reach out 10 m to other root systems.\n\nThe species shares the common name quandong with other plants, bearing similar fruit; it may be distinguished as the 'desert' or 'sweet'. The name quandong usually refers to the fruit of \"S. acuminatum\" in commercial usage. Variant spelling includes quondong and quandang. The fruit and plant are also named sweet quandong and native peach.\nThe plant was known to many different indigenous language groups, and is therefore known by many different names. The Wiradjuri people of New South Wales used the name \"guwandhang\", from which the name quandong was adapted. Other indigenous names include; \"wolgol\" (Noongar, South Western Australia) \"gutchu\" (Wotjobaluk, Western Victoria); \"wanjanu\" or \"mangata\" (Pitjantjatjara, Uluru), and \"goorti\" (Narungga).\n\nThe species was first described by Robert Brown, named in \"Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae\" (1810) as \"Fusanus acuminatus\", based on his type collection made at Fowlers Bay, South Australia, in 1802. Brown gave the Latin epithet \"acuminatus\" to denote the leaves – sharpened or pointed. The botanist Alphonse Pyrame de Candolle gave the current name in 1857, placing it in the genus \"Santalum\"; the genus containing Australian sandalwood, \"Santalum spicatum\", and white sandalwood, \"Santalum album\". Several botanical names have been deemed to be synonymous with \"Santalum acuminatum\", as described in \"Flora of Australia\" (1984) and the \"Australian Plant Census\" (2006), these include: \"Santalum preissii\" F.Muell. in \"Fragmenta Phytographiae Australiae\" (1861); \"Santalum cognatum\" and \"Santalum preissianum\" of Miquel (1845); and \"Santalum densiflorum\" Gand. (1919).\n\n\"Mida acuminata\" was given by Otto Kuntze in an attempted revision, as with \"Eucarya acuminata\" (R.Br.) Sprague and Summerh.\n\nA number of cultivars have been named in application for plant breeders' rights, of which two have been accepted and another has been granted. The first named cultivar of the species was named 'Powell's # 1', but application for legal recognition of this name was withdrawn. The second is known as 'Powell's Red Supreme'. Two names are given as accepted applications in the \"Plant Varieties Journal\": 'Powell's Red Supreme' and 'Saltbush Lane'.\n\nOne variety of \"S. acuminatum\" is named in accordance with the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants; following the publication of a description, \"Santalum acuminatum\" 'Frahn's Paringa Gem' became the first cultivar to be receive legal protection.\n\n\"Santalum acuminatum\" is widely distributed throughout most southern regions of mainland Australia, including the arid centre of the country, and in some regions is common. The related Australian sandalwood, \"Santalum spicatum\", was once more populous than this species; commercial exploitation has reversed this position.\n\nThe plant occurs in Western Australia's north to Carnarvon, Western Australia, Karrarthaer (21 N), reaching inland from the coastal plains, and is found throughout Southwest Australia. The number of recorded specimens in this region is low, and mainly restricted to coastal sandplains, its range having been impacted by altered land-use in the wheatbelt.\nSome populations are discontinuous in the distribution range, as with many species of the region, beyond the dispersal range of the seeds. Remote groups of the species are remnant to former distribution ranges, to different climates, and these may be isolated by hundreds of kilometres. The species is one of those in the region to include \"wet outliers\", small populations outside of the usual low rainfall habitat.\n\nOccurrence of the plant is also recorded in South Australia, Victoria, and New South Wales, and Queensland. It is widespread in western New South Wales, eastwards to Dubbo and Culcairn. It is rare in the northwest of the state.\n\nThe plant is hemiparasitic, able to photosynthesize, but using the root system of other plants to acquire nutrients other than sugars. The plant genus \"Santalum\" attaches to other species, in a nondestructive way, sustaining itself by their provision of nitrogen, shade, and water.\nThe roots of the species have pad-like adaptations, that nearly encircle the host's root, which is typical of this genus of sandalwoods. Hosts can be other trees, or grasses, usually several plants are used. The taxa recorded in this relationship are species of genera; \"Acacia\", \"Maireana\", \"Atriplex\", and many others, including hemiparasites such as \"Exocarpos sparteus\". This mechanism allows the plant to acquire 70% of its nitrogen, and some of its water requirements from the roots of other trees and shrubs.\n\nThe tree occupies a diverse and widespread range of habitats, including creek beds, granite, gravel plains, and sandy dunes. It is tolerant of drought, salt, and high temperatures, and need not have a nutrient-rich environment. The seedling can become established in the shade of its host, reaching for full sun once developed, so the plant is usually intermingled with host and other species.\n\nThe environs of the distribution range are subject to frequent bushfires, this requires the plant to regenerate from its roots, so the species is rarely found as an advanced tree. Those specimens exposed to bushfire and soil disturbance occur as sprawling multistemmed shrubs. The plant's regrowth from the root system gives this species a lead over shrubs that recur from seed. Trees with a single main stem are in locations remote from these factors. The habit of older trees may overwhelm the adjacent plants by monopolising the sunlight and parasitising roots of plants beyond its own canopy.\n\nThe foliage, being much paler than other trees and shrubs, makes the plant conspicuous in bushland and scrub. An occurrence of an unmolested specimen is recorded at Woodman Point in Western Australia, an area remote from the high-intensity fires of altered regimens.\n\nEmus eat the fruit, and it forms an important part of their diet; the nut remains undigested in their droppings. This is the usual method of \"S. acuminatum\" seed dispersal, when it is within the emu's range.\n\nA number of species interact with this plant, in a number of complex relationships, a noted example being \"Paraepermenia santaliella\", the quandong moth of the family Epermeniidae. Other creatures, such as larvae of nitidulid beetles and the wood white butterfly, also feed on \"S. acuminatum\".\n\nThe fruit and nut were important foods to the peoples of arid and semiarid central Australia, especially for its high vitamin C content. It is commercially grown and marketed as a bush food and is sometimes made into a jam, an enterprise begun in the 1970s. It is well known as an exotic food.\n\nInadequate knowledge of the plant's ecology led to many early failures in the cultivation of this species. Commercial trials and propagation by enthusiasts have attempted to reproduce the circumstances of its native habitat; well-drained soil, germination techniques, and selection of appropriate hosts have been more successful. Germinating the seed has been more successful, up to 35% when it laid aside for 12 – 18 months. Growers laying seeds into mulch, obtained from host plants, report a high rate of success. Cultivation of this plant has faced other obstacles; for example, the species is susceptible to a number of pests and fungal diseases.\n\nThe research and development of domestication of the species was first undertaken by Brian Powell, at a property in Quorn, South Australia. The successful plants in this trial are classed as \"Significant Trees\" by the state's National Trust. This venture came to be supported by the CSIRO, in the 1970s, eventually becoming part of the research body's Sustainable Ecosystems division.\n\nThe development of horticultural practice for the establishment of commercial orchards is being researched by a number of projects. Research and trials were undertaken in South Australia by grafting 'Frahn's Paringa Gem' onto seedling rootstock; this is how the cultivar is propagated in orchards, and the first sale of the variety was in 1997.\n\nHost plants are needed in the establishment of an orchard; the species selected for this purpose impart factors affecting growth, resistance to infestation, and the harvest. The study of \"Melia azedarach\" (white cedar) as a host to this species revealed that \"S. acuminatum\" acquired insecticidal compounds that increased its resistance to the quandong moth. Researchers then determined that neurotoxins found in the host plant, and other substances harmful to mammals, can pass into the harvested fruit.\n\nSoil-borne agents of disease, such as \"Phytophthora\" and \"Pythium\" fungal species, may be present where the plant's preference for well-drained soil is not provided. Nurseries have found the plant to be responsive to the treatments prescribed, if its presence is suspected, such as phosphorous acid soil applications. A climate of high heat and humidity has occasionally induced black spot on the leaves.\n\nThe fruit and nut of \"S. acuminatum\" are collected from the tree, or the nut from a dropping of the emu; wild harvest remains as the primary source for the widely used fruit. This was the method adopted by the colonists after their introduction to it. The plant produces large amounts of fruit in years of good rainfall; Indigenous Australians would dry this harvest and store the flesh for up to 8 years. \n\nThe establishment of experimental plantations, by the CSIRO in the 1970s, has resulted in a steady increase in supply by orchards to the market. This harvest is able to be protected from infestation, and is an easily identifiable source, meeting the requirements of food safety guidelines for commercial ingredients. \n\nThe plants produce a yield of 10 to 25 kg of fruit, 40% of the total weight is that of the kernel; the fruit is marketed as a fresh or dried product. The kernel is edible when raw, and is also roasted and salted.\n\nThe commercial use of the fruit includes its addition to sweet and savoury foods; the flavour is tart and reminiscent of peach, apricot, or rhubarb.\nIn South Australia \"S. acuminatum\" is called \"wild peach\" or \"desert peach\".\nThe fruit and nut of the plant were featured in a bushfood series of stamps produced by Australia Post.\nIt is well known as an exotic food in foreign markets, sales that greatly exceed the consumption in its own country. The fruit also has free radical-scavenging ability.\n\nThe fruit has been made commercially available, the distinctive flavour is used as an additive, particularly as a uniquely Australian product. This has usually been sourced from wild trees, sometimes by Aboriginal corporations, although the viability of commercial orchards is also being trialled.\nMany Aboriginal peoples are known to have used the fruit, but mainly they gathered the nuts. The undigested nut can be easily gathered from emu droppings.\n\nThe kernel has been identified, analysed, and monitored, as a \"wild-harvested Australian indigenous food\", by Food Standards Australia New Zealand. The product is found to be very high in fats, over half by weight.\n\nThe fruit, containing vitamin C, and the kernel of the nut, containing complex oils, were used by the peoples in whose countries the species occurred. Antibacterial qualities are present in the wood of this, and all the \"Santalum\" species, especially in the roots. A known application of the extract was to heal ailments of the skin. The commercial production of cogenor \"S. spicatum\" is more advanced than this species, although research is being undertaken into the marketing of these medicinal substances.\n\nThe seed is very high in flammable oils, like a candlenut, so it is able to be burnt as an illuminant. The wood is also oily, useful for starting a fire as a friction stick.\n\nThe hard, oily, timber is used for furniture and cabinet making by regional craftsmen, but it is not used extensively. It is a durable material, but lacks the aromatic qualities of other sandalwoods. The hard and wrinkled nuts have been used ornamentally, for necklaces and shirt buttons, and were used as marbles on chinese checkers' boards.\n\nThe oil of sandalwoods, primarily \"Santalum album\", was described and investigated by pharmacologists. The more widely known Australian sandalwood, \"S. spicatum\", was extensively harvested and exported, leaving \"S. acuminatum\" as the more common \"Santalum\" in many regions.\n\nThe established use of the fruit, by Aboriginal peoples, was acknowledged by the early settlers of the colonies; this product was made into jam and chutney. The fruit is frequently mentioned in natural histories and botanical works, such as \"Flowers and plants of Western Australia\", and traded as a commodity, however, the kernel of the seed has, historically, been the most extensively used.\n\nColonial ethnic groups did not attempt to domesticate indigenous plants in Australia, despite being known and occasionally used, but the great demand from export markets to Singapore, Britain, and elsewhere led to financial backing of growers and enthusiasts. The backyard of Dudley and Lyla Frahn in Paringa, South Australia, contained an orchard of quandongs. The couple recorded yield and qualities of the fruit, one of which became the source for the variety registered and marketed as 'Frahn's Paringa Gold'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913897", "title": "Exberliner", "text": "Exberliner\n\nExberliner is an English-language magazine published in Berlin. It is published monthly (except for the July/August double issue) and available for €3.90 at newsstands around the city or by subscription. The magazine offers cultural listings, reviews, journalistic articles, opinion columns and a large classified section which is also continually updated online. It also regularly organizes parties and cultural events (such as the monthly English-language Wednesdays at Burger in Kaffee Burger) in English. The magazine was founded as a free newspaper in 2002 named \"The Berliner\" but was forced to change the name, which was already trademarked. The new name is intended as a play on expatriate (English-speaking expatriates being a major target audience). The publishing house Iomauna Media GmbH also operates Exberliner Flat Rentals, which helps foreigners rent apartments in Berlin, as well as Exberliner Jobs, a job board for internationals in Berlin.\n\nIn February 2013, Exberliner published an article called RANT! \"Sorry, No German!\" which caused a lot of debate around the behaviour of expatriates in Berlin, and also led to discussions about gentrification in Berlin. The article lamented the fact that many expats in Berlin do not learn German. \n\n"}
{"id": "1913899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913899", "title": "KwaNdebele", "text": "KwaNdebele\n\nKwaNdebele was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government as a semi-independent homeland for the Ndebele people. The homeland was created when the South African government purchased nineteen white-owned farms and installed a government.\n\nThe homeland was granted self-rule in April 1981. Siyabuswa was designated as its capital, but in 1986 the capital was relocated to KwaMhlanga. The KwaNdebele legislature expressed interest in seeking independence (as in the cases of Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda and Ciskei) in May 1982 and some preparations were made, but an exceptional lack of viability in economic affairs along with land disputes prevented this from occurring.\n\nKwaNdebele was re-integrated into South Africa after the first democratic election of 27 April 1994. It now forms part of the Mpumalanga province.\n\nDistricts of the province and population at the 1991 census. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913913", "title": "Freedom Union (Poland)", "text": "Freedom Union (Poland)\n\nThe Freedom Union (, UW) was a liberal democratic political party in Poland.\n\nIt was founded on 20 March 1994 out of the merger of the Democratic Union (\"Unia Demokratyczna\", UD) and the Liberal Democratic Congress (\"Kongres Liberalno-Demokratyczny\", KLD). Both of these parties had roots in the Solidarity trade union movement. It represented European democratic and liberal tradition, i.e., it advocated free market economy and individual liberty, rejected extremism and fanaticism, favoured European integration (in the form of European Union membership), rapid privatisation of the enterprises still owned by the Polish state and decentralisation of the government.\nIn the 1991 general elections, the KLD received 7.5% of the vote and 37 seats in the Sejm (out of 460 seats) and the UD got 12.3% of the votes and 62 seats. In 1993 the KLD got 4.0% of the votes and was left without seats; the UD got 10.6% of the votes and 74 seats. In 1997 the UW got 13.4% of the votes and 60 seats.\n\nIn January 2001 some members of the FU decided to move to join the new Civic Platform (\"Platforma Obywatelska\"), which got 12.7% of the votes and 65 seats in the September 2001 general elections whilst the FU failed to cross the 5% threshold required to gain entry to the lower house of Parliament, receiving only 3.1%. Surprisingly, the FU managed to cross the required 5% threshold in the 2004 European Parliament elections, receiving 7% of votes and 4 of 54 seats reserved for Poland in the European Parliament as part of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, of which it was a member.\n\nThe initiative by the FU leadership to found the centre/social-liberal Democratic Party (\"Partia Demokratyczna – demokraci.pl\") attracted a lot of attention. It was cofounded by Władysław Frasyniuk and economy minister Jerzy Hausner, joined by prime minister Marek Belka. Former FU member Tadeusz Mazowiecki also joined the initiative. Legally the centrist Democratic Party, founded 9 May 2005, is the successor of the FU.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913920", "title": "Vanessa cardui", "text": "Vanessa cardui\n\nVanessa cardui is a well-known colourful butterfly, known as the painted lady, or formerly in North America as the cosmopolitan.\n\n\"V. cardui\" is one of the most widespread of all butterflies, found on every continent except Antarctica and South America. In Australia, \"V. cardui\" has a limited range around Bunbury, Fremantle, and Rottnest Island. However, its close relative, the Australian painted lady (\"V. kershawi\", sometimes considered a subspecies) ranges over half the continent. Other closely related species are the American painted lady (\"V. virginiensis\") and the West Coast lady (\"V. annabella\").\n\n\"V. cardui\" occurs in any temperate zone, including mountains in the tropics. The species is resident only in warmer areas, but migrates in spring, and sometimes again in autumn. It migrates from North Africa and the Mediterranean to Britain and Europe in May and June, and from the Red Sea basin, via Israel and Cyprus, to Turkey in March and April. The occasional autumn migration made by \"V. cardui\" is likely for the inspection of resource changes; it consists of a round trip from Europe to Africa.\n\nFor decades, naturalists have debated whether the offspring of these immigrants ever make a southwards return migration. Research suggests that British painted ladies do undertake an autumn migration, making round trip from tropical Africa to the Arctic Circle in a series of steps by up to six successive generations. The Radar Entomology Unit at Rothamsted Research provided evidence that autumn migrations take place at high altitude, which explains why these migrations are seldom witnessed. In recent years, thanks to the activity of \"The Worldwide Painted Lady Migration\" citizen science project, led by the Barcelona-based \"Institute of Evolutionary Biology\" (Catalan: \"Institut de Biologia Evolutiva\"), the huge range of migration has begun to be revealed. For example, some butterflies migrated from Iceland to the Sahara desert, and even further south.\n\n\"V. cardui\" is known for its distinct migratory behaviour. In California, they are usually seen flying from north to north-west. These migrations appear to be partially initiated by heavy winter rains in the desert where rainfall controls the growth of larval food plants. Similarly, heavier than usual rain during the 2018-2019 winter seems to have been the cause of the extraordinarily large migration observed in Israel at the end of March, estimated at a billion individual butterflies. Painted lady migration patterns are highly erratic and they do not migrate every year. Some evidence suggests that global climatic events, such as el Niño, may affect the migratory behaviour of the painted lady butterflies, causing large-scale migrations.\nThe first noticeable wave of migration in eastern Ukraine was noted in the 20s of April 2019. From May 15, numbers began to grow and it was possible to observe hundreds of this species in the Kharkiv region of Ukraine, including in the city streets of Kharkiv.\n\nBased on experimental data, the painted lady's migration pattern in northern Europe apparently does not follow a strict north-west heading. The range of headings suggests that migrating butterflies may adjust their migration patterns in response to local topographical features and weather, such as strong wind patterns. Laboratory-raised autumn-generation painted lady butterflies were able to distinguish a southern orientation for a return migration path. According to the same laboratory-based study, when butterflies were isolated from the sun, they were unable to orient themselves in a specific direction, opposed to those that did have access to the sun. This suggests that \"V. cardui\" requires a direct view of the sky, implying the use of a solar compass to orient its migratory direction and maintain a straight flight path.\n\n\"V. cardui\" displays a unique system of continuous mating, throughout all seasons, including the winter. This may be attributed to its migratory patterns, thus significantly affecting its mating behaviour. During European migrations, the butterflies immediately begin to mate and lay eggs upon arrival in the Mediterranean in the spring, starting in late May. In the United States, painted lady butterflies migrating towards the north experience poor mating conditions, and many butterflies have limited breeding capabilities. The \"local adult generation\" develops during this time, roughly from the middle of May through early June in conjunction with the butterfly progression throughout their flight.\n\nDuring its migratory process, these painted lady butterflies start breeding, and reproduce entirely throughout their migration. Scientists have not been able to find evidence of their overwintering; this may be because they migrate to warmer locations to survive and reproduce. Female painted lady butterflies may suspend their flight temporarily when they are \"ready to oviposit\"; this allows them the opportunity to continually reproduce throughout their migrations. Because these butterflies are constantly migrating, male butterflies are thought to lack consistent territory. Instead of requiring territory to mate with females and developing evolutionary behaviour to defend this territory, the mating butterflies appear to establish a particular \"time and place\" in certain locations that they find to be suitable for reproduction. More specifically, they locate certain perches, hilltops, forest-meadow edges, or other landmarks where they will stay until, presumably, a female arrives to mate.\n\nEqually important for the reproduction of the painted lady butterflies is the males' exhibition of polygynous mating behaviour, in which they often mate with more than one female. This is important for painted lady butterflies because the benefits may supersede the costs of polygyny since no permanent breeding ground is used. Upon mating, which typically occurs in the afternoon, female painted lady butterflies lay eggs one by one in their desired breeding locations. The variety of eclosion locations ultimately dictates the male painted lady behaviour.\n\nFemale painted lady butterflies have been observed to have a relatively \"high biotic potential\", meaning they each produce large numbers of offspring. This perpetual influx of reproduction may be a reason why these painted lady butterflies have propagated so successfully. One interesting aspect that scientists have observed is that these butterflies like to fly towards rain. Further studies have suggested that the large amounts of rainfall may somehow \"activate more eggs or induce better larval development\". \nInhabited locations begin to observe a large influx of new generations of painted lady butterflies in the fall, particularly in September and October. Their reproductive success declines relatively throughout the winter, primarily through November. However, they still continue to reproduce—an aspect of butterfly behaviour that is quite unique. Scientists hypothesize that these extensive migratory patterns help the painted lady butterflies find suitable conditions for breeding, thus offering a possible reason as to why these butterflies mate continuously.\n\nAdult butterflies feed on flower nectar and aphid honeydew. Females oviposit on plants with nectar immediately available for the adults even if it leads to high mortality of the larvae. This lack of discrimination indicates they do not take into account volatile chemicals released from potential host plants when searching for oviposition choices.\n\nThe availability of adult resources dictates preference for specific areas of flowers. Flowers with more available nectar result in a larger number of eggs deposited on the plants. This reinforces the idea that the painted lady butterfly does not discriminate host plants and chooses mainly on availability of adult food sources even if it increases mortality rate of the offspring. The data also suggest that the painted lady butterfly favours quantity of offspring over quality.\n\nPainted lady butterflies have a visual system that resembles that of a honey bee. Adult \"V. cardui\" eyes contain ultraviolet, blue, and green photoreceptors. Unlike other butterflies, such as the monarch or red postman butterflies, painted ladies lack red receptors, which means that they are likely red-green colour-blind. Behavioral studies on the related species, \"Vanessa atalanta\", have demonstrated that \"V. atalanta\" cannot discriminate yellow light from orange light or orange light from red light.\n\nGroups of two to eight painted lady butterflies have been observed to fly in circles around each other for about one to five seconds before separating, symbolizing courtship. Groups of butterflies usually will not fly more than 4.5 m away from the starting point. To establish and defend their territories, adult males perch in the late afternoon in areas where females are most likely to appear. Once the male spots a female of the same species, he begins pursuit of her. If the foreign butterfly is a male, the original male will give chase, flying vertically for a few feet before returning to his perch.\n\n\"V. cardui\" establishes territories within areas sheltered by hedgerows. \"Vanessa cardui\" tend to inhabit sunny, brightly lit, open environments and are often attracted to open areas of flowers and clovers. Adults spend time in small depressions in the ground on overcast days.\n\nLarvae feed on Asteraceae species, including \"Cirsium\", \"Carduus\", \"Centaurea\", \"Arctium\", \"Onopordum\", \"Helianthus\", and \"Artemisia\".\n\nThe painted lady uses over 300 recorded host plants according to the HOSTS database.\n\nThe main defence mechanisms of the painted lady butterflies include flight and camouflage. The caterpillars hide in small silk nests on top of leaves from main predators that include wasps, spiders, ants, and birds.\n\n\"Vanessa cardui\" and other painted lady species are bred in schools for educational purposes and used for butterfly releases at hospices, memorial events, and weddings.\n\nAfter heavy rain produced an abundance of vegetation in the deserts, Southern California saw these butterflies migrating by the millions across the state in March 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913937", "title": "Mediacom", "text": "Mediacom\n\nMediacom Communications Corporation is the United States' fifth largest cable television provider based on the number of video subscribers, and among the leading cable operators focused on serving smaller cities and towns. The company has a significant concentration of customers in the Midwest and Southeast, and is the largest broadband provider in Iowa. Founded in 1995 by Rocco B. Commisso, the current owner of the New York Cosmos and ACF Fiorentina. Mediacom is headquartered in New York and incorporated in Delaware, United States. Formerly a publicly traded firm, it went private in a $600 million transaction in March 2011 and is owned solely by Commisso as of 2011.\n\nMediacom offers service in 22 states (Per Mediacom Employee as posted on workplace wall). About 55% of Mediacom's subscription base is in the 60th through 100th ranked television markets. It is the largest cable company in Iowa and second largest in Illinois.\n\nExamples of cities with Mediacom service include Albany, Columbus, Tifton and Valdosta in Georgia; Iowa City, Cedar Rapids and Des Moines in Iowa; Columbia, Jefferson City and Springfield in Missouri and the Quad Cities on the Iowa/Illinois border, and Baldwin City, Osage City, Lyndon, Douglas County, Osage County, and parts of Shawnee County in Kansas. Mediacom also serves outlying areas on the Florida Gulf Coast and around Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nIn reporting its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2016, Mediacom describes itself as the 5th largest U.S. cable company, with 1,363,000 customer relationships at the end of 2019. In February 2017, Multichannel News reported that Mediacom was the 9th largest multichannel video programming distributor in the U.S. with 828,000 video customers. Of 2,800,000 \"homes passed\" (places where Mediacom service can be ordered), 44% of have subscribed to basic cable with Mediacom, and 27.8% have subscribed to Mediacom Internet service. Of homes with basic cable, 54.8% also have \"digital cable\" service. Counting basic cable, digital cable, high-speed data, and cable telephony as separate revenue, Mediacom had 2,981,000 revenue generating units (RGUs) at the end of 2009. 52% of customers had at least two of video, Internet, and phone from Mediacom, and 18% had all three; over the previous five years, video decreased from 80% of Mediacom's revenue to 64%.\n\nAt the end of 2016, Mediacom announced it would become the first major U.S. cable company to fully transition to the DOCSIS 3.1 platform, a new generation of broadband technology. In January 2017, Mediacom launched 1 Gbit/s internet service across its entire Iowa footprint and as a result, all of the nearly 1 million households in the more than 300 Iowa communities passed by Mediacom’s Iowa network now have access to download speeds that are up to 40 times faster than the minimum broadband definition set by the FCC. \n\nAccording to Mediacom’s website, the 1gig service is available to most communities where Mediacom offers internet service.\n\nAccording to a report published February 20, 2020, Mediacom's revenues were $2,031.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This reflects a 3.8% increase from the prior year period. Additionally, OIBDA or \"operating income before depreciation and amortization\" for the same period was $806.4 million, which had a 8.5% increase from the previous year period. Free cash flow during the same period also saw an increase by 31.1%. This positive cash flow was $418.9 million. \n\nMediacom broadcasts local sports programming on its Connections channel, MC22, along with a simulcast of ESPNEWS. Other sports channels on the Mediacom lineup as of September 2015 include NFL Network, Big Ten Network, SEC Network and the national feed of the YES Network. Mediacom does not carry NHL Network, MLB Network or NBA TV.\n\nMediacom’s Molli was named the 2019 winner in the category of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning at Cablefax's Technology Awards . Mediacom is believed to be the first telecommunication company to create an AI-based system fully integrated with customer service functions. Customers interact with the virtual assistant via SMS text. \n\nTMT Magazine awarded Mediacom Communications the 2018 Telecoms Award for Best Cable Operator & ISP in the United States. \n\nIn 2016, Mediacom Communications was named the Nations Top Communications Provider by the leading industry publication CableFax.\n\nIn a 2016 telecom report conducted by ACSI, Mediacom occupied last place in customer satisfaction among all companies in the ACSI, regardless of industry.\n\nIn a survey conducted by \"Consumer Reports\" magazine in 2012, Mediacom is the worst cable provider in the country according to the 50,000 people polled.\n\nThe September 28, 2012 edition of \"PC Magazine\" named Mediacom one of the nation’s worst 15 fastest internet service providers.\nThe Des Moines \"Business Record\" in its 2012 Best of Des Moines issue gave Mediacom the top award for Best Local Internet Service Provider and Best Company Use of Social Media. \nAs reported in the \"Chicago Tribune\", July 19, 2012, in July 2012, Mediacom was named by the FCC as one of the nation’s top 4 Internet service providers when it comes to delivering advertised speeds to consumers.\n\nThe February 2010 issue of \"Consumer Reports\" ranked Mediacom 15th of 16 in TV service, 24th of 27 in Internet service, and last of 23 in phone service, based on surveys. The deepening of this trend was affirmed in the June 2012 issue of \"Consumer Reports\", in which Mediacom was poorly ranked regarding TV service, phone service and bundled telecom services, and the third worst ISP only above the two satellite internet companies Wild Blue and Hughes Net.\n\nMediacom makes low-cost plans available by participating in the Connect2Compete program via the nonprofit group EveryoneOn. This program offers cost assistance for wired home Internet access to Mediacom footprint residents who have school-aged children in the K–12 range. The purpose of this program is to provide online access to children for educational purposes and to help close the digital divide, a key issue receiving attention from the FCC in 2019. \n\nOn June 1, 2015, Mediacom subscribers in three television markets served by Granite Broadcasting Corporation stations were unable to view those stations over Mediacom cable due to a carriage dispute between Mediacom and Granite Broadcasting over retransmission consent fees. The affected Granite Broadcasting stations included WEEK-TV in Peoria, Illinois, KBJR-TV in Superior, Wisconsin/Duluth, Minnesota, and WISE-TV in Fort Wayne, Indiana, all three of which are primary NBC affiliates. On June 11, 2015, Mediacom and Granite Broadcasting reached an agreement, thereby restoring Granite stations to Mediacom cable systems. The agreement came just in time for Game 5 of the 2015 Stanley Cup Finals which was broadcast on NBC two days later.\n\nOn July 14, 2015, Media General pulled its stations off of Mediacom cable systems across the United States due to a carriage dispute over retransmission consent fees. This carriage dispute saw Media General stations disappear from Mediacom lineups in 14 television markets across the United States and even three of the Fox affiliates owned by Media General were lost to Mediacom subscribers in Hampton Roads, Virginia, Terre Haute, Indiana, and Topeka, Kansas just before the start of the 2015 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. On July 30, 2015, Mediacom and Media General reached a new agreement, thereby restoring Media General owned stations to Mediacom subscribers in the affected areas.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, Mediacom filed a petition with the Federal Communications Commission to limit or prevent blackouts of local broadcast stations during carriage disputes. According to Mediacom CEO Rocco Commisso, the FCC has frequently neglected to address concerns regarding retransmission consent and blackouts of local television stations, particularly in rural areas, where residents have a more difficult time receiving an acceptable over-the-air signal. Commisso's proposal was for local broadcasters not to terminate a cable or satellite provider's carriage of the station's signal at the end of a retransmission consent agreement if the station does not reach a minimum of 90 percent of its local viewers within its DMA either over-the-air or via its online stream. Commisso also made note of the fact that retransmission consent fees double every two or three years – something which never happens in any other industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913944", "title": "Knut Arild Hareide", "text": "Knut Arild Hareide\n\nKnut Arild Hareide (born 23 November 1972) is a Norwegian politician who serves as a member of parliament from Hordaland and as the leader of the Christian Democratic Party from 2011 to 2019. He has served as Minister of Transport and Communications since 2020, and as Minister of the Environment from 2004 to 2005 in the second Bondevik cabinet. In 2007 he announced he would step down from the national political scene for the time being, but he returned when he was nominated as the top candidate for the Christian Democratic Party ticket in Akershus in the 2009 election where he won the county's leveling seat. After Dagfinn Høybråten stepped down as party leader, Hareide was unanimously elected to take his place at the 2011 party convention. In the 2013 election, Hareide was reelected to parliament, this time from his home county of Hordaland.\n\nBefore his tenure as government minister, Hareide had sat through one term in the municipal council of his native Bømlo, served as a deputy representative to the national parliament as well as working two years as a State Secretary. He was also second deputy leader of his party from 2003 to 2007, having come through the ranks of the party's youth organization.\n\nOutside politics Hareide is an economist by education, and he has worked for the media conglomerate Schibsted.\n\nHareide was born in the village Rubbestadneset in Bømlo, Hordaland. He started his higher education in 1992, the same year he graduated from upper secondary school. Enrolled at the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), he graduated in 1997 with a siv.øk. degree. During his time at NHH, he also minored in sociology (1995) at the University of Bergen.\n\nHareide was active in student politics. His involvement included terms as a member of the student parliament at the University of Bergen, as the leader of the Student Union of the Norwegian School of Economics 1994–1995, and as a board member of the national student union 1993–1994. During the period in student politics, Hareide held a Christian democratic middle ground between radical (such as later socialist politician Aslak Sira Myhre) and conservative representatives, an experience he has described as educational.\n\nHareide was active in the Youth of the Christian People's Party, being a member of the national board 1999–2001 before joining the national board of the Christian Democratic Party. He worked as a political advisor in the Ministry of Church Affairs, Education and Research from 1998 to 2000, during the first cabinet Bondevik. He later became State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance from 2001 to 2003 during the second cabinet Bondevik. In 2003 he became second deputy leader of the Christian Democratic Party nationwide.\n\nHe then joined the cabinet during a 2004 reshuffle, serving as the Norwegian Minister of the Environment from summer 2004 to fall 2005. He was the youngest ever cabinet member from the Christian Democratic Party, and the first Christian Democratic to hold the post. The second cabinet Bondevik did not survive the 2005 elections, and as such Hareide had to step down from office that year. His successor was Helen Bjørnøy. Until 2009, Hareide had never been elected to the Norwegian Parliament, but served as a deputy representative during the terms 1997–2001, 2001–2005 and 2005–2009. On the local level of politics he was a member of Bømlo municipality council from 1991 to 1995.\n\nIn 2007 Hareide announced that he had left politics for the time being to pursue a career in the national media conglomerate Schibsted, as an organizational director. His career in the company started with the position of trainee in 1997. Outside politics, his only paid full-time appointments have been in Schibsted. He still works behind the scenes for his party, occasionally commenting on issues in the national media. He did not rule out a return to national politics in the future, and in late 2008 he was selected by his party as the top candidate on the party's ticket in Akershus county. The Christian Democratic Party formerly held a seat in this county, but lost it in 2005. Hareide has never lived in Akershus. Party leader Dagfinn Høybråten hails from Akershus, but he runs on the Rogaland ticket to secure a safe seat.\n\nPrior to the 2009 election, Hareide announced that he would leave national politics if he failed to win a parliament seat. Although the Christian Democrats suffered nationwide setbacks in 2009, Hareide managed to win Akershus' levelling seat after a close race against Dagfinn Sundsbø of the Centre Party. In parliament, Hareide became the chair of the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications.\n\nAfter Høybråten announced that he would not seek reelection as party leader of KrF, Hareide quickly emerged as the leading candidate to succeed Høybråten, after the two other apparent candidates, Dagrun Eriksen and Hans Olav Syversen, announced they would not run. Hareide is considered to belong to the socially liberal wing of the party, and conservative members of the party have demanded that at least one of the deputy leaders be from the party's conservative wing if they are to support Hareide. Hareide supported the efforts to eliminate the rule which requires Christian Democratic party representatives to declare a Christian faith, and a vote gave a clear majority to abolish that rule two years later. Hareide was unanimously voted in as new party leader at the 2011 convention on 30 April 2011. Hareide declined the nomination as parliamentary leader, and Hans Olav Syversen was elected to this position.\n\nOn 18 November 2011 Hareide was appointed to lead the parliamentary committee that is investigating the 2011 Norway Attacks. His nomination to that position was proposed by the red-green parties. On 23 January 2012 Hareide denounced a speech at KrF's local chapter in Sarpsborg that had suggested that the terrorist attacks and the Alexander Kielland disaster were divine warnings or punishments for Norway's policy towards Israel; Hareide said that this was far beyond normal thinking and completely out of line with the party's values.\n\nFollowing the 11th United Nations Climate Change Convention in Buenos Aires in December 2004, Hareide spoke out against the United States and China, whom he saw as \"problems\" in the international work against climate change. Hareide gained a fair level of praise for his role in the convention, from both his own party as well as political opponents.\n\nHareide received heavy criticism for the policy on large carnivores. A decision in early 2005, to uphold the ongoing wolf hunt even though a certain alpha she-wolf \"Gråfjellstispa\" had mistakenly been shot in January that year, was met with protests from the national World Wildlife Fund chapter and other environment organizations, as well as the Swedish Minister of the Environment Lena Sommestad and representatives from the European Union. Hareide described the event as \"regrettable\", but \"not against the law\". The case made headlines in \"BBC\" and \"New Scientist\". A few weeks before, Hareide had been criticized in a parliamentary hearing session for being too wolf-friendly. The environmental organizations went as far as to press charges against the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry was acquitted when the case was finally brought up in late 2006, some time after Hareide left office.\n\nIn July the same year, Hareide received further criticism as the number of licenses to kill large carnivores allegedly was not only at a record high (12 brown bears, 10 grey wolves, 22 wolverines and 13 lynx), but also contradictory to the parliamentary policy on the matter. According to Hareide, the actions were in line with the parliamentary stance on the issue.\n\nIn April 2005 he was criticized for an issue connected to monetary support of environmental projects and organizations. The Ministry approved a $90,000 project support for the Church of Norway, while the pressure group Bellona faced a cut of the same amount. Hareide, being a devout Christian and a member of the Church of Norway, was accused of putting his own religious interests ahead of environmental considerations. The case became a curiosity in the Norwegian media as some of the money was channelled into the church internet site, which, among other things, contained a set of prayers for earthworms – described in such odd terms as \"the blind subterranean workers\", \"small sisters and brothers in the compost\" and \"members of the subterranean congregation\". Hareide responded to the criticism by describing the overall project as \"exciting\".\n\nOne of Hareide's last actions in office was to approve the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the Hatteberg watershed in Kvinnherad, a protected natural area. Most of the criticism went to his successor, Helen Bjørnøy, who neglected to roll back the decision when assuming office. She eventually resigned halfway into her term.\n\nDuring his time as Minister of the Environment, Hareide was parodied in the television comedy program \"Tre brødre som ikke er brødre\". The character Knut Arild Hareide, played by Harald Eia, was portrayed in several sketches as a physically weak person. These parodies were criticized by the authors in a 2005 book about different forms of mobbing; this stirred a minor debate in the Norwegian media. Nonetheless, Hareide himself showed a video clip of one of the parodies when publicly announcing his stepdown from national politics at the 2007 party congress.\n\nIn a poll taken in December 2013, Hareide received a 99 percent approval rating among Christian Democratic voters.\n\nHareide comes from a middle-class background, his father being a transportation manager and his mother a consultant.\n\nAlthough reluctant to comment on the issue, Hareide was likely single during his first tenure in national politics. He has been confronted with rumours of homosexuality by segments of the media, but these have been dismissed. In 2008 he was reported as having a relationship with Solveig Engevik from Kolbotn, which ended in 2010. In the spring of 2011 he was confirmed in a relationship with school teacher Lisa Marie Larsen.\n"}
{"id": "1913945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913945", "title": "M25 Three", "text": "M25 Three\n\nThe M25 Three were Raphael George Rowe, Michael George Davis, and Randolph Egbert Johnson, who were jailed for life at the Old Bailey in March 1990 after being found guilty of murder and robbery. The name was taken from the location of the crimes, which were committed around the M25, London's orbital motorway, during the early hours of 16 December 1988. The original trial took place between January and February 1990, resulting in all three being convicted of the murder of Peter Hurburgh, causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Timothy Napier and several robberies. Each was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder and given substantial sentences for the other offences. Davis also pleaded guilty to separate charges of robbery and Johnson to robbery and rape, offences committed during the commission of an earlier burglary several days before the murder. For these crimes, Davis was sentenced to ten years and Johnson to twelve years. All sentences were concurrent. Rowe also had previous convictions, including malicious wounding.\n\nThe convictions were overturned in July 2000. All three men have consistently maintained their innocence.\n\nAt some time between 11 p.m and 12.30 a.m, an armed gang of three men wearing balaclavas and driving a stolen green Triumph Spitfire approached a car in Chelsham, Surrey in which Peter Hurburgh and Alan Eley were having sex. The gang dragged the two men from the car, tied them up and stripped and beat them. Eley stated that one of the gang was armed with a knife, and another was holding a handgun. The gang then poured petrol over the two men, and Eley lost consciousness. When he regained consciousness, Hurburgh was dead, having sustained five fractured ribs and a fractured sternum, which had bruised his heart leading to death from cardiac arrest. The assailants abandoned the Triumph Spitfire at the scene and stole Hurburgh's car, an Austin Princess which they then drove around the M25 to Oxted, Surrey. Here, at around 3.40 a.m, they broke into a home belonging to Richard Napier, then aged 66, who lived with his wife and 40-year-old son. The gang threatened the family with a knife and two handguns, one of which was described as a revolver. Timothy Napier sustained multiple knife wounds and Mrs Napier was instructed to remove her rings and jewellery. She was told that if she refused her fingers would be cut off. The house was ransacked and after 20–30 minutes, the robbers left, taking Timothy Napier's Toyota Corolla which had been parked near the house. Peter Hurburgh's Austin Princess was found abandoned 100 yards from the Napiers' house.\n\nThe gang then drove around the M25 to Fetcham, Surrey, where at 5 a.m, they broke into the house of Rosemary Spicer and her boyfriend Peter Almond, who were threatened with a handgun, tied up and gagged while the house was ransacked. After between forty-five minutes and an hour the gang left in a Renault 5 and a Vauxhall Cavalier stolen from Spicer and Almond; Timothy Napier's Toyota was later found nearby.\n\nRowe and Davis were arrested on the morning of 19 December 1988 at the probation hostel they shared in Sydenham, London and initially taken to Oxted Police Station. Johnson was apprehended on 6 January 1989, at which time he was found to be in possession of a revolver. Some of the items stolen during the Oxted and Fetcham robberies were recovered from the bail hostel. Davis' fingerprints were found on porcelain figures (unconnected) in a cupboard where property taken during one of the robberies was found. Also arrested were Shane Griffin, Jason Cooper and Mark Jobbins. In total, twelve people at the hostel were arrested. A further suspect, Norman Duncan, was already in police custody.\n\nGriffin and Duncan admitted stealing the Triumph Spitfire used by the gang that murdered Hurburgh, but testified that they had stolen it at the request of Rowe, on 13 December 1988. They claimed that it had been kept at the bail hostel until the evening of 15 December when Rowe, Davis and a third man, whom they did not know but who was alleged by the prosecution to be Johnson, had asked them for assistance to \"bump start\" the vehicle, between 23:00 and 00:00. They also testified that Rowe had asked for balaclavas. This same group of witnesses claimed that Rowe and Davis had returned on the morning of 16 December in the stolen Renault and Vauxhall Cavalier with a quantity of items, the proceeds of the robberies, which they helped to unload and hide. They alleged that they were then asked to dispose of the stolen vehicles, with the warning that they were a \"bit warm\" and that they would have to be burned completely to remove all identification.\n\nA girlfriend of Rowe, 16-year-old Kate Williamson, said that at the time the crimes were committed Rowe had left at approximately 01:30 and not returned until around 06:30, when he returned wearing different jeans and shoes and carrying a Sainsbury's bag, the same type of which had been taken in the Spicer/Almond robberies. Williamson claimed that Rowe took from the bag a pendant with a gold chain, a watch which was later found to be one taken during the Spicer robbery, and muddied jeans and boots. Williamson claimed that Rowe gave her two rings, later found to have been taken during the Napier robbery, a watch found to have been taken from the Spicer robbery, and a watchstrap from the Napier robbery. She handed all of the items to the police on 19 December 1988. Police also found a brooch taken in the Spicer robbery in a waste paper basket in Rowe's room. Williamson gave further evidence that when Rowe had left on the Thursday evening he had been wearing a particular type of distinctive footwear, and imprints made by this type of boot were found in a flowerbed at the Napier home and in blood in the Napier's hall.\n\nA witness for the defence testified that he had seen the green Triumph Spitfire, in the location where it was eventually found, at approximately 00:30 on 16 December. Given Williamson's testimony that Rowe had still been at the bail hostel at this time, this placed Rowe away from the scene and therefore the subsequent crime spree. The judge at the original trial drew this to the jury's attention in his summing up, and also highlighted that the evidence of Jobbins, Duncan and Griffin came from men who essentially were accomplices, and Williamson was by her own admission a handler of stolen goods.\n\nThere were also serious discrepancies between the appearance of the three defendants and the descriptions given by witnesses. All three defendants were black men, but Alan Eley had initially told the police he thought that only one of the assailants was black, the other two being white men, although all three had worn balaclavas throughout the attack. Both Richard Napier and his wife also said that they thought that at least one attacker was white, a view repeated by Rosemary Spicer. However, in both of the robberies, as with the attack on Eley and Hurburgh, none of the men had removed their balaclavas. Part of the prosecution case relied upon a conversation Johnson was alleged to have had with a fellow prisoner, in which he admitted guilt and described one of his accomplices as a \"redskin\". The prosecution pointed out that in his police interviews, Johnson also used the expression \"redskin\", a Jamaican term to describe someone with lightly coloured skin, and that Rowe was lightly coloured.\n\nThere was no physical evidence linking Johnson to any of the scenes of crime or to any property stolen from them.\n\nThe trial judge, Lord Justice Auld, summed up over four days and at the 2000 ruling it was acknowledged that the summation was \"a careful, fair and wholly accurate reflection of the evidence and the issues. His directions in law were impeccable. He drew attention to the weaknesses in the prosecution case as well as its strengths. Having directed the jury as to the burden and standard of proof he said: \"That test is particularly important in a case such as this when so much of the evidence is disputed, where much of the prosecution evidence is itself tainted for one reason or another and where there is considerable uncertainty and inconsistency in important areas.\"\"\n\nCampaigners acting on behalf of the three convicted men raised many questions about the conduct of the investigation and trial. With regard to Jobbins, Duncan and Griffin, they pointed out that the three key prosecution witnesses: \n\nUntil the arrest of Rowe and Davis, the police maintained in their appeals for information that the suspects were two white males and one black male.\n\nFollowing conviction the defendants appealed. The grounds for appeal were based on \n\nThe appeal was heard on 23 July 1993, and it was then disclosed that reward money had been paid for information leading to the three men's conviction but not the name or names of the recipients, which their lawyers claimed was vital to their case, since those alleged to have received payments might also have been suspects, and had been promised immunity from prosecution in return for information. It later emerged that Norman Duncan had received £10,300 in reward money from the Daily Mail, which was not disclosed to the jury when he gave evidence at the original trial.\n\nThe appeal was rejected, with the court stating: \"Taking all the evidence relating to the timing and events on the Thursday night and the succeeding days into account we conclude that, on the whole of the material we have reviewed, there is no basis for saying there is even a lurking doubt about the safety of the convictions of Rowe and Davis, the same applies to Johnson. On the contrary, the case against them all was, and remains, a formidable one.\"\n\nIn 1994, Davis and Rowe made an application to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1997 the Criminal Cases Review Commission appointed an investigating officer from Greater Manchester Police to carry out enquiries into the case, and in January 1999 the investigating officer submitted his report. This disclosed that: \n\nThe report concluded that: \"The new evidence and arguments... create a real possibility that Mr Johnson was not one of those three persons. Whilst there is evidence specifically linking Messrs Rowe and Davis to the robberies, if the prosecution against one of the three, Mr Johnson, might no longer be sustainable, in the Commission's view the Court of Appeal ought at the same time have the opportunity to consider whether the case can still be sustained against Messrs Rowe and Davis.\"\n\nOn 16 February 2000 the European Court of Human Rights returned its judgment in respect of Davis and Rowe. It found that there had been a violation of Article 6 (1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, specifically the failure to disclose Duncan's status as an informant prior to trial together with the fact that he had become eligible for a reward and may have nominated Cooper as one of the robbers before later accusing Johnson.\n\nThe hearing commenced on 14 June 2000. At its conclusion, the court stated that \"We cannot say that any of these convictions is safe. They must be quashed and the appeals allowed. Ten years on it is not appropriate to order a retrial.\"\n\nThey were released from prison on 17 July 2000 when their convictions were overturned after being ruled \"unsafe\" by the Court of Appeal. In the ruling, Lord Justice Mantell, Mr Justice Blofeld and Mrs Justice Rafferty were emphatic that although the convictions were unsafe, they were not declaring the men innocent: \"[T]he case against all three appellants was formidable. The evidence against Rowe was overwhelming... For the better understanding of those who have listened to this judgment and of those who may report it hereafter this is not a finding of innocence, far from it.\" On his release, Davis stated that it had been \"a very long and hard battle to prove my innocence\", and that they were \"innocent\" regardless of what the judges had said. Rowe said: \"I know the judges were involved in a damage limitation exercise. But what they said was diabolical. They didn't say I was guilty, but that's how everyone interpreted it. I have battled every day of the last 12 years to prove I was set up by the police, to prove I am not a murderer. It has been my passion. I am free now, but it's as if I'm still inside. I'm still trying to get my voice heard.\"\n\nRowe is currently an investigative journalist working for the BBC. His documentary on the conviction of Barry George for the murder of Jill Dando was considered a significant factor in his eventual acquittal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913964", "title": "Independence of Finland", "text": "Independence of Finland\n\nFinland declared its independence on 6 December 1917. The formal Declaration of Independence was only part of the long process leading to the independence of Finland.\n\nThe subject of an independent Finland was first mentioned in the 18th century, when present-day Finland was still ruled by Sweden. On 18 March 1742, during the Russian occupation in the Russo-Swedish War (1741–1743), Empress Elizabeth of Russia issued a proclamation in the Finnish language to the Finnish people asking them to create a Finland which would be independent from both Sweden and Russia. This led to preparations to create a Kingdom of Finland in 1742. The Finns elected Duke Peter of Holstein-Gottorp (who later became heir to the throne of Russia and Tsar as Peter III) to be the King of Finland. However, the political situation had outgrown the idea of Finnish independence and it quickly evaporated.\n\nThe Anjala conspiracy was a scheme in 1788–1790 as a response to end Gustav III's Russian War, and it included the independence of Finland to some degree. Several people involved were linked to Walhalla-orden. Russian occupations and plundering of 1713–21 (the \"Greater Wrath\") (Finnish: \"Isoviha\") and 1741–43 (the \"Lesser Wrath\") (Finnish: \"Pikkuviha\") were still in vivid memory when Finns waged partisan warfare against the Russians.\n\nGeorg Magnus Sprengtporten, who took no direct part in the conspiracy, had written a proposal for a Finnish constitution in 1786. Sprengtporten later had a role in forming the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland within the Russian Empire, as he became the first Governor-General of Finland after Sweden ceded the rest of Finland to Russia in 1809 at the conclusion of the Finnish War.\n\nAccording to professor Martti Häikiö, before a nation declares independence, it must develop a national identity and certain institutions. Governing bodies for Finland were developed after 1809, when it was “elevated as a nation among nations” (as declared by Tsar Alexander I) by becoming an autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland under the Russian tsar. The Diet of Finland met regularly since 1863.\n\nNational identity grew simultaneously with Pan-European nationalism. Johan Ludvig Runeberg and Elias Lönnrot created an idealized image of Finnish people and Finnish nature in the 1830s and 1840s. Also J. V. Snellman was a central person in national romanticism and the modern nationality debate. He encouraged the use of the Finnish language (instead of Swedish) among the educated classes during Finland's language strife. The Finnish markka was introduced as currency in 1860 by the Bank of Finland, which Snellman pegged to silver instead of the ruble. During the Famine of 1866–68, Snellman worked to obtain aid and distribute it in a country with low resources and undeveloped communications.\n\nElisabeth Järnefelt held the literary salon \"Järnefelts skola\" (Järnefelt School), which became a center of the Fennoman movement.\nDuring the time 1880–1910 the golden age of Finnish art coincided with the national awakening. The central figure of the time was Akseli Gallen-Kallela. Other notable people were Aleksis Kivi and Albert Edelfelt.\n\nThe fennoman motto was:\n\nThe first period of Russification of Finland (Finnish: \"Ensimmäinen sortokausi\") began in 1899 with the February manifesto of Nicholas II when Nikolay Bobrikov was Governor-General of Finland. As a response, the cultural address \"Pro Finlandia\" was gathered with 523,000 names, and a delegation of 500 people was sent to Saint Petersburg to deliver it. The Kagal resistance movement formed at this time. In 1901 Russia tried to alter the nature of the Finnish army with a new conscription law, which demanded that Finns not only defend Finland, but also fight for Russia on any front. Finnish resistance grew into a mass movement, and only half of the eligible men reported for duty. Bobrikov was shot in 1904 by Eugen Schauman, who shot himself afterwards. The Finnish newspaper \"Päivälehti\", which had been censored before, was closed permanently as a result of an editorial written about the assassination. Jean Sibelius composed \"In Memoriam\" in memory of Schauman. The steamship SS John Grafton unsuccessfully attempted to smuggle large quantities of arms for the Finnish resistance during the Russo-Japanese War (1904-1905). The Finnish general strike of 1905 temporarily halted russification.\nDuring 1905–1908 Leo Mechelin formed a government and created a liberal democracy with the universal right to vote and be elected. In 1906 the unicameral Parliament of Finland was created, with universal and equal suffrage. However, the power of the parliament was limited by the tsar from 1908–1916.\n\nThe second period of Russification of Finland (Finnish: \"Toinen sortokausi\") in 1908 and World War I led activist groups to unite. Under Franz Albert Seyn, Bobrikov's successor as Governor-General, all legislation was moved to the Russian State Duma, which then pushed for laws restricting Finnish autonomy. Russia demanded higher payments and the Senate of Finland was replaced with the \"admiral-senate\" or \"saber-senate\". Nicholas II pushed for complete russification and the end of Finnish autonomy in 1914, but this was halted by the beginning of the First World War. The Jäger Movement was formed and sent first 200, and later 1900, Finnish volunteers to Germany to be trained as Jägers (elite light infantry) for armed resistance. The Finnish Jägers formed the 27th Jäger Battalion and were eventually sent to Libau to fight against the Russian Empire. Sibelius composed the \"Jäger March\" on lyrics written by Heikki Nurmio, who served in the 27th Battalion.\n\nThe February and October Revolutions in 1917 ignited hope in the Grand Duchy of Finland. After the abdication of Tsar Nicholas II on 2 March (15 March N.S.) 1917, the personal union between Russia and Finland lost its legal base – at least according to the view in Helsinki – as he was the Grand Duke of Finland. Negotiations began between the Russian Provisional Government and Finnish authorities.\n\nThe resulting proposal, approved by the Russian Provisional Government, was heavily rewritten in the Finnish Parliament and transformed into the so-called Power Act (Finnish:\"Valtalaki\", Swedish:\"Maktlagen\"), whereby the Parliament declared itself to now hold all powers of legislation, except with respect to foreign policy and military issues, and also declared that it could be dissolved only by itself. At the time of the vote it was believed that the Provisional Government would be quickly defeated by the rebellion in Saint Petersburg. The Provisional Government survived, however, and disapproved of the Power Act and dissolved the Finnish Parliament.\n\nAfter new elections and the ultimate defeat of the Provisional Government in the October Revolution, the Finnish Parliament decided to create a three-man regency council, based on Finland's Constitution, and more precisely on §38 of the old Instrument of Government of 1772, which had been enacted by the Estates after Gustav III's bloodless coup. This paragraph provided for the election of a new monarch in case of the extinction of the royal line and was interpreted in Finland as vesting sovereignty in the Estates, later the Parliament, during such an interregnum. The regency council was never elected, however, because of the strong opposition of Finnish socialists and their general strike of 1917 which demanded more radical action.\n\nOn 2 November (15 November N.S.) 1917, the Bolsheviks declared a general right of self-determination, including the right of complete secession, \"for the Peoples of Russia\". On the same day, the Finnish Parliament issued a declaration by which it assumed, \"pro tempore\", all the powers of the Sovereign in Finland.\n\nThe old Instrument of Government was, however, no longer deemed suitable. Leading circles had long held that monarchism and hereditary nobility were antiquated, and advocated a republican constitution for Finland.\n\nPehr Evind Svinhufvud formed a Senate which started on 27 November 1917. Its goal was to execute independence as soon as possible. The Senate returned to the Parliament with a Declaration of Independence and proposal for a new republican Instrument of Government on 4 December. The Declaration of Independence was technically given the form of a preamble of the proposition, and was intended to be agreed upon by the Parliament. Parliament adopted the Declaration on 6 December with 100 votes against 88.\n\nWith reference to the declaration of 15 November, the new declaration says:\nThe people of Finland have by this step taken their fate in their own hands; a step both justified and demanded by present conditions. The people of Finland feel deeply that they cannot fulfil their national and international duty without complete sovereignty. The century-old desire for freedom awaits fulfilment now; Finland's people step forward as a free nation among the other nations in the world. (...) The people of Finland dare to confidently await how other nations in the world recognize that with their full independence and freedom, the people of Finland can do their best in fulfilment of those purposes that will win them a place amongst civilized peoples.\n\nSvinhufvud immediately asked Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany, and France to recognize Finland's independence. The West, however, said they would wait until the former ruler, Russia, recognized the declaration. They told Svinhufvud to talk to Lenin's Bolshevik Government. Svinhufvud was hesitant to do this, as he did not want to recognize the Bolsheviks as the legal rulers of Russia. Besides, he thought that the Bolshevik government would probably fall soon. So the parliament decided to ask for recognition from the Russian Constituent Assembly. Germany, which was in middle of peace negotiations with Soviet Russia, pressured Finns to talk to Lenin and the Council of People's Commissars. Svinhufvud followed their advice, as Finland wanted Germany's recognition as soon as possible.\n\nOn 18 December (31 December N.S.), the Soviet Russian government issued a decree recognizing Finland's independence, and on 22 December (4 January 1918 N.S.) it was approved by the highest Soviet executive body, the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (VTsIK).\n\nThe independence of Finland was recognized by Germany, Sweden, and France on 4 January 1918, by Norway and Denmark on 10 January, and by Austria-Hungary on 13 January.\n\nHardship burdened the common people, resulting in polarization, and soon ignited the Civil War. The declaration actually addresses this problem:\nThe Government will approach foreign powers to seek the recognition of our political independence. All the complications, famine and unemployment ensuing from the present external isolation make it urgent for the Government to tie direct contacts with foreign powers without delay. Urgent, concrete assistance in the form of necessities for living and industry is our only rescue from imminent famine and industrial standstill.\n\nMany of the necessary ministries and authorities had been founded during years of autonomy, and they continued their activities perhaps after a change of name. The Bank of Finland had the same position as before. As pilotage has military significance, the National pilot office had been subjected to russification. The National Board of Navigation, later called the Finnish Maritime Administration, was founded 15 December 1917, and piloting became its responsibility.\n\nThe attempt to establish a monarchy in Finland failed and in 1919 Kaarlo Juho Ståhlberg became the first president. The first parliamentary elections were held in March 1919.\n\nFrom several suggestions, the parliament selected a blue and white flag, which was flown over the house of parliament on 28 May 1918. The Coat of arms of Finland, with a crowned lion on a red field had existed since Swedish rule.\n\nSelection of the national anthem divided social classes. The conservatives preferred \"Maamme\" by Runeberg and Pacius, while the working class was singing La Marseillaise and The Internationale. After the whites won the Civil war, Maamme was chosen.\n\n6 December was declared the national holiday Finland Independence Day. The bill to make Finland a republic was passed by the Diet in 1919.\n\nThe 90th Anniversary of Finland's Declaration of Independence was selected as the main motif for the €5 90th Anniversary of Finland's Declaration of Independence commemorative coin, minted in 2007. The reverse shows petroglyph aesthetics, while the obverse has a nine-oar boat with rowers as a symbol of collaboration. Musical symbols and Finnish kantele strings are also included in the coin's design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913970", "title": "Highland Railway L Class", "text": "Highland Railway L Class\n\nThe Highland Railway L class, also known as ‘Skye Bogies’ due to their association with the Kyle of Lochalsh Line. They were essentially mixed traffic versions of the earlier \"Duke\" or F class. \n\nNine were built at Lochgorm Works over the period 1882 to 1901. They were never named.\n\nThe cylinders, valve gear and motion were common to the two classes, but they had smaller driving wheels and higher pressure boilers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913971", "title": "Snaplock", "text": "Snaplock\n\nA snaplock is a type of lock for firing a gun or is a gun fired by such a lock.\n\nA snaplock ignites the (usually muzzleloading) weapon's propellant by means of sparks produced when a spring-powered cock strikes a flint down on to a piece of hardened steel. The snaplock is therefore similar to the snaphaunce (sometimes classed as an advanced type of snaplock) and the later flintlock (see below).\n\nIn all snaplocks, the flint is held in a clamp at the end of a bent lever called the cock. When the gun is \"cocked\", the cock is held back, against the pressure of a spring, by a catch which is part of the trigger mechanism. When the trigger is pulled, the catch is released and the spring moves the cock rapidly forwards. The flint strikes a curved plate of hardened steel, called the \"steel\". The flint strikes from the steel a shower of white hot steel shavings (sparks) which fall towards the priming powder held in the flash pan. The flash from the pan's ignited primer travels (unless there is only a \"flash in the pan\") through the touch hole into the firing chamber at the rear of the barrel, and ignites the main charge of gunpowder.\n\nBefore the weapon is fired, the pan has a closed cover: the mechanism for opening this cover (i.e. manual or automatic) can affect whether the weapon is classed as a snaplock. In fact, the term \"snaplock\" may be used in three ways, as follows: \n\nThe snaplock first appeared in the late 1540s, probably in southern Germany. It was cheap and easy to produce, and like all post-matchlock weapons, could be primed and loaded in advance and be fired at a moment's notice. It fell out of favor by about 1640, except in Sweden and Russia, where it lasted far longer.\n\nSnaplocks as a class did not have safety devices, but individual models could be prevented from inadvertent firing by different mechanisms:\n\nRegional varieties include the Baltic Lock, the Russian Snaplock, and the Miquelet lock. The Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus had many matchlock muskets converted to snaplocks during his military reforms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913976", "title": "Hugh VI of Lusignan", "text": "Hugh VI of Lusignan\n\nHugh VI (c. 1039/1043 – c. 1102), called the Devilish, was the Lord of Lusignan and Count of La Marche (as Hugh I), the son and successor of Hugh V of Lusignan and Almodis de la Marche. \n\nDespite his piety, Hugh was in constant conflict with the abbey of St. Maixent. On numerous occasions his disputes with the monks grew so violent that the duke of Aquitaine and the bishops of Poitiers and Saintes had to intercede. At one point, Pope Paschal II threatened Hugh with excommunication. From these conflicts Hugh was dubbed \"\"le diable\"\", the devilish, by the monks of St. Maixent.\n\nIn 1086 the Castilian army was destroyed at the Battle of Sagrajas by the Almoravids. Hugh's Catalan half-brother, Berenguer Ramon II, Count of Barcelona was threatened by the Almoravids. Hugh VI undertook an expedition to Spain in 1087 along with another half-brother, Raymond IV of Toulouse, to assist the count of Barcelona.\n\nHugh took the cross for the First Crusade, along with his brothers Raymond and Berenguer. He participated in the Crusade of 1101 and was killed at the battle of Ramla in 1102.\n\nHugh married in c. 1065, Hildegarde of Thouars, daughter of Aimery IV of Thouars, Viscount of Thouars, and Aurengarde de Mauleon. They had:\n\n"}
{"id": "1913978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913978", "title": "Solow–Swan model", "text": "Solow–Swan model\n\nThe Solow–Swan model is an economic model of long-run economic growth set within the framework of neoclassical economics. It attempts to explain long-run economic growth by looking at capital accumulation, labor or population growth, and increases in productivity, commonly referred to as technological progress. At its core is a neoclassical (aggregate) production function, often specified to be of Cobb–Douglas type, which enables the model \"to make contact with microeconomics\". The model was developed independently by Robert Solow and Trevor Swan in 1956, and superseded the Keynesian Harrod–Domar model.\n\nMathematically, the Solow–Swan model is a nonlinear system consisting of a single ordinary differential equation that models the evolution of the \"per capita\" stock of capital. Due to its particularly attractive mathematical characteristics, Solow–Swan proved to be a convenient starting point for various extensions. For instance, in 1965, David Cass and Tjalling Koopmans integrated Frank Ramsey's analysis of consumer optimization, thereby endogenizing the saving rate, to create what is now known as the Ramsey–Cass–Koopmans model.\n\nThe neo-classical model was an extension to the 1946 Harrod–Domar model that included a new term: productivity growth. Important contributions to the model came from the work done by Solow and by Swan in 1956, who independently developed relatively simple growth models. Solow's model fitted available data on US economic growth with some success. In 1987 Solow was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics for his work. Today, economists use Solow's sources-of-growth accounting to estimate the separate effects on economic growth of technological change, capital, and labor.\n\nSolow extended the Harrod–Domar model by adding labor as a factor of production and capital-output ratios that are not fixed as they are in the Harrod–Domar model. These refinements allow increasing capital intensity to be distinguished from technological progress. Solow sees the fixed proportions production function as a \"crucial assumption\" to the instability results in the Harrod-Domar model. His own work expands upon this by exploring the implications of alternative specifications, namely the Cobb–Douglas and the more general constant elasticity of substitution (CES). Although this has become the canonical and celebrated story in the history of economics, featured in many economic textbooks, recent reappraisal of Harrod's work has contested it. One central criticism is that Harrod's original piece was neither mainly concerned with economic growth nor did he explicitly use a fixed proportions production function.\n\nA standard Solow model predicts that in the long run, economies converge to their steady state equilibrium and that permanent growth is achievable only through technological progress. Both shifts in saving and in populational growth cause only level effects in the long-run (i.e. in the absolute value of real income per capita).\nAn interesting implication of Solow's model is that poor countries should grow faster and eventually catch-up to richer countries. This convergence could be explained by:\nBaumol attempted to verify this empirically and found a very strong correlation between a countries' output growth over a long period of time (1870 to 1979) and its initial wealth. His findings were later contested by DeLong who claimed that both the non-randomness of the sampled countries, and potential for significant measurement errors for estimates of real income per capita in 1870, biased Baumol's findings. DeLong concludes that there is little evidence to support the convergence theory.\n\nThe key assumption of the neoclassical growth model is that capital is subject to diminishing returns in a closed economy.\n\n\nIn the Solow–Swan model the unexplained change in the growth of output after accounting for the effect of capital accumulation is called the Solow residual. This residual measures the exogenous increase in total factor productivity (TFP) during a particular time period. The increase in TFP is often attributed entirely to technological progress, but it also includes any permanent improvement in the efficiency with which factors of production are combined over time. Implicitly TFP growth includes any permanent productivity improvements that result from improved management practices in the private or public sectors of the economy. Paradoxically, even though TFP growth is exogenous in the model, it cannot be observed, so it can only be estimated in conjunction with the simultaneous estimate of the effect of capital accumulation on growth during a particular time period.\n\nThe model can be reformulated in slightly different ways using different productivity assumptions, or different measurement metrics:\n\nIn a growing economy, capital is accumulated faster than people are born, so the denominator in the growth function under the MFP calculation is growing faster than in the ALP calculation. Hence, MFP growth is almost always lower than ALP growth. (Therefore, measuring in ALP terms increases the apparent capital deepening effect.) MFP is measured by the \"Solow residual\", not ALP.\n\nThe textbook Solow–Swan model is set in continuous-time world with no government or international trade. A single good (output) is produced using two factors of production, labor (formula_1) and capital (formula_2) in an aggregate production function that satisfies the Inada conditions, which imply that the elasticity of substitution must be asymptotically equal to one.\n\nwhere formula_4 denotes time, formula_5 is the elasticity of output with respect to capital, and formula_6 represents total production. formula_7 refers to labor-augmenting technology or “knowledge”, thus formula_8 represents effective labor. All factors of production are fully employed, and initial values formula_9, formula_10, and formula_11 are given. The number of workers, i.e. labor, as well as the level of technology grow exogenously at rates formula_12 and formula_13, respectively:\n\nThe number of effective units of labor, formula_16, therefore grows at rate formula_17. Meanwhile, the stock of capital depreciates over time at a constant rate formula_18. However, only a fraction of the output (formula_19 with formula_20) is consumed, leaving a saved share formula_21 for investment. This dynamic is expressed through the following differential equation:\n\nwhere formula_23 is shorthand for formula_24, the derivative with respect to time. Derivative with respect to time means that it is the change in capital stock—output that is neither consumed nor used to replace worn-out old capital goods is net investment.\n\nSince the production function formula_25 has constant returns to scale, it can be written as \"output per effective unit of labour\" formula_26, which is a measure for wealth creation:\n\nThe main interest of the model is the dynamics of capital intensity formula_28, the capital stock per unit of effective labour. Its behaviour over time is given by the key equation of the Solow–Swan model:\n\nThe first term, formula_30, is the actual investment per unit of effective labour: the fraction formula_31 of the output per unit of effective labour formula_32 that is saved and invested. The second term, formula_33, is the “break-even investment”: the amount of investment that must be invested to prevent formula_28 from falling. The equation implies that formula_35 converges to a steady-state value of formula_36, defined by formula_37, at which there is neither an increase nor a decrease of capital intensity:\n\nat which the stock of capital formula_2 and effective labour formula_8 are growing at rate formula_41. Likewise, it is possible to calculate the steady-state of created wealth formula_42 that corresponds with formula_36: \n\nBy assumption of constant returns, output formula_45 is also growing at that rate. In essence, the Solow–Swan model predicts that an economy will converge to a balanced-growth equilibrium, regardless of its starting point. In this situation, the growth of output per worker is determined solely by the rate of technological progress.\n\nSince, by definition, formula_46, at the equilibrium formula_36 we have\nTherefore, at the equilibrium, the capital/output ratio depends only on the saving, growth, and depreciation rates. This is the Solow–Swan model's version of the golden rule saving rate.\n\nSince formula_49, at any time formula_50 the marginal product of capital formula_51 in the Solow–Swan model is inversely related to the capital/labor ratio.\n\nIf productivity formula_53 is the same across countries, then countries with less capital per worker formula_54 have a higher marginal product, which would provide a higher return on capital investment. As a consequence, the model predicts that in a world of open market economies and global financial capital, investment will flow from rich countries to poor countries, until capital/worker formula_54 and income/worker formula_56 equalize across countries.\n\nSince the marginal product of physical capital is not higher in poor countries than in rich countries, the implication is that productivity is lower in poor countries. The basic Solow model cannot explain why productivity is lower in these countries. Lucas suggested that lower levels of human capital in poor countries could explain the lower productivity.\n\nIf one equates the marginal product of capital formula_57 with the rate of return formula_58 (such approximation is often used in neoclassical economics), then, for our choice of the production function\n\nso that formula_60 is the fraction of income appropriated by capital. Thus, Solow–Swan model assumes from the beginning that the labor-capital split of income remains constant.\n\nN. Gregory Mankiw, David Romer, and David Weil created a human capital augmented version of the Solow–Swan model that can explain the failure of international investment to flow to poor countries. In this model output and the marginal product of capital (K) are lower in poor countries because they have less human capital than rich countries.\n\nSimilar to the textbook Solow–Swan model, the production function is of Cobb–Douglas type:\n\nwhere formula_62 is the stock of human capital, which depreciates at the same rate formula_18 as physical capital. For simplicity, they assume the same function of accumulation for both types of capital. Like in Solow–Swan, a fraction of the outcome, formula_64, is saved each period, but in this case split up and invested partly in physical and partly in human capital, such that formula_65. Therefore, there are two fundamental dynamic equations in this model:\nThe balanced (or steady-state) equilibrium growth path is determined by formula_68, which means formula_69 and formula_70. Solving for the steady-state level of formula_28 and formula_72 yields:\nIn the steady state, formula_75.\n\nKlenow and Rodriguez-Clare cast doubt on the validity of the augmented model because Mankiw, Romer, and Weil's estimates of formula_76 did not seem consistent with accepted estimates of the effect of increases in schooling on workers' salaries. Though the estimated model explained 78% of variation in income across countries, the estimates of formula_76 implied that human capital's external effects on national income are greater than its direct effect on workers' salaries.\n\nTheodore Breton provided an insight that reconciled the large effect of human capital from schooling in the Mankiw, Romer and Weil model with the smaller effect of schooling on workers' salaries. He demonstrated that the mathematical properties of the model include significant external effects between the factors of production, because human capital and physical capital are multiplicative factors of production. The external effect of human capital on the productivity of physical capital is evident in the marginal product of physical capital:\n\nHe showed that the large estimates of the effect of human capital in cross-country estimates of the model are consistent with the smaller effect typically found on workers' salaries when the external effects of human capital on physical capital and labor are taken into account. This insight significantly strengthens the case for the Mankiw, Romer, and Weil version of the Solow–Swan model. Most analyses criticizing this model fail to account for the pecuniary external effects of both types of capital inherent in the model.\n\nThe exogenous rate of TFP (total factor productivity) growth in the Solow–Swan model is the residual after accounting for capital accumulation. The Mankiw, Romer, and Weil model provide a lower estimate of the TFP (residual) than the basic Solow–Swan model because the addition of human capital to the model enables capital accumulation to explain more of the variation in income across countries. In the basic model, the TFP residual includes the effect of human capital because human capital is not included as a factor of production.\n\nThe Solow–Swan model augmented with human capital predicts that the income levels of poor countries will tend to catch up with or converge towards the income levels of rich countries if the poor countries have similar savings rates for both physical capital and human capital as a share of output, a process known as conditional convergence. However, savings rates vary widely across countries. In particular, since considerable financing constraints exist for investment in schooling, savings rates for human capital are likely to vary as a function of cultural and ideological characteristics in each country.\n\nSince the 1950s, output/worker in rich and poor countries generally has not converged, but those poor countries that have greatly raised their savings rates have experienced the income convergence predicted by the Solow–Swan model. As an example, output/worker in Japan, a country which was once relatively poor, has converged to the level of the rich countries. Japan experienced high growth rates after it raised its savings rates in the 1950s and 1960s, and it has experienced slowing growth of output/worker since its savings rates stabilized around 1970, as predicted by the model.\n\nThe per-capita income levels of the southern states of the United States have tended to converge to the levels in the Northern states. The observed convergence in these states is also consistent with the conditional convergence concept. Whether absolute convergence between countries or regions occurs depends on whether they have similar characteristics, such as:\n\nAdditional evidence for conditional convergence comes from multivariate, cross-country regressions.\n\nEconometric analysis on Singapore and the other \"East Asian Tigers\" has produced the surprising result that although output per worker has been rising, almost none of their rapid growth had been due to rising per-capita productivity (they have a low \"Solow residual\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913982", "title": "Antonin Nechodoma", "text": "Antonin Nechodoma\n\nAntonin Nechodoma (1877–1928), was a Czech architect who practiced in Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic from 1905 to 1928. He is known for the introduction of the Prairie Style to the Caribbean and the integration of Arts and Crafts elements to his architecture. Nechodoma designed in such style at the historical district of Miramar, Puerto Rico where the town preserves his creation.\n\nAntonin Nechodoma was born in Prague (then part of Bohemia) in 1877.\nIn 1887, Nechodoma's family emigrated to Chicago where he worked as a contractor. In 1905, Nechodoma, already an architect, arrived in Puerto Rico after working for a short period in Florida. In Puerto Rico (1905–1928), Nechodoma became one of the most prominent architects in the Caribbean. His work included private and public buildings: banks, schools, markets, churches and houses. His practice extended to the Dominican Republic where he built the main 'glorieta' in the Parque Independencia in Santo Domingo and the Market in San Pedro de Macoris.\n\nNechodoma's work has been surrounded by controversy. His architectural style varied widely, from Neo-Classical Style for public school buildings, Gothic and Mission Style for his churches and Prairie Style in his houses. The most controversial aspect of Nechodoma's work has been his plagiarism of Frank Lloyd Wright's residential work. Architectural historians Jorge Rigau, Enrique Vivoni Farage, and Nechodoma's biographer, Thomas Marvel have discussed extensively Nechodoma's direct use of Wright's Wasmuth Portfolio as a reference for his residential work in Puerto Rico.\n\nDespite the controversy, Nechodoma made significant contributions to the architecture of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. His integration of arts and crafts motifs to his architecture, ranging from furniture design, ironwork, stained glass, and mosaics, had an enormous influence in the Caribbean architecture of the early 20th century. His prolific production left a wealth of first class public buildings in both the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, notable because of their technical innovations and their contribution toward forming a language of tropical architecture in the Caribbean. Nechodoma's work was published extensively during his lifetime. He also published in 1927 an important article on architecture in Puerto Rico entitled \"Concerning Architecture in Puerto Rico\".\nNechodoma died in a car crash in 1928.\n\n\nThe Architecture and Construction Archives at the University of Puerto Rico (AACUPR) holds the Antonin Nechodoma Collection (1906-1992). Approximately four cubic feet in size, the collection contains architectural drawings, photographs, artifacts, and textual documents. The Architectural Drawings Series holds 20 projects organized chronologically. The documents were transferred to the School of Architecture’s Library in 1986.\n\nThe Antonin Nechodoma Collection electronic finding aid may be consulted through www.hip.upr.edu\n"}
{"id": "1913983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913983", "title": "Eric of Sweden", "text": "Eric of Sweden\n\nEric of Sweden ; Swedish \"Erik\" (also legal spelling after 1900) - may refer to:\n\nMythical kings of Sweden:\n\nSemi-legendary kings of Sweden:\n\nHistorical kings and princes:\n"}
{"id": "1913987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913987", "title": "Kelli Giddish", "text": "Kelli Giddish\n\nKelli Giddish (born April 13, 1980) is an American television, stage, and film actress. She plays the role of NYPD Detective Amanda Rollins in the NBC television legal crime drama series \"\" (2011–present), previously portrayed Di Henry on the ABC soap opera \"All My Children\" (2005–2007), starred in the Fox crime drama series \"Past Life\" (2010); and the NBC crime drama series \"Chase\" (2010–2011).\n\nGiddish was born in Cumming, Georgia. She is the daughter of Charles and Nita Giddish, and has a brother named Eli. Her paternal grandfather nudged her interest in acting along by taking her to the Fox Theatre in Atlanta. Her maternal grandmother was also very supportive of her interests. She was also an athlete and member of her high school's championship softball team. Giddish graduated from the University of Evansville in Indiana, where she majored in Theatre Performance.\n\nGiddish portrayed Diana Henry on soap opera \"All My Children\" from 2005 to 2007. In July 2007, it was confirmed by \"Soap Opera Weekly\" magazine that Giddish and \"All My Children\" parted ways in a mutual decision and that she would make her final appearance as Di on September 19, 2007. Giddish appeared in the thriller film \"Death in Love\" (2008), which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, and played the role of Courtney in the web series \"The Burg\". The same people responsible for \"The Burg\" also created \"All's Faire\" in which Giddish played the role of Cindy.\n\nGiddish, Nicholas Bishop, and Ravi Patel were cast in Fox's reincarnation drama pilot \"Past Life\". The WBTV-produced reincarnation project revolved around past-life investigators. Giddish played a Ph.D. in psychology and cognitive research who believes in reincarnation. It was announced on May 18, 2009 that Fox had ordered \"Past Life\" to series, airing midseason 2010 at 9:00 PM EST on Tuesdays. It premiered on February 9, 2010, and was canceled on February 18.\n\nGiddish starred as the central character, U.S. Marshal Annie Frost, in the police procedural drama \"Chase\", which premiered on NBC in fall 2010. Giddish received rave reviews for her ability to play the lead character in the series, but it was pulled in early February 2011. On April 6, 2011, NBC decided to air five new episodes of \"Chase\" on Saturday nights with the first beginning on April 23, 2011.\n\nIn January 2007, Giddish guest starred on \"\" in the episode \"Outsider\" as rape victim Kara Bawson.\n\nIt was announced on June 27, 2011 that Giddish would join the cast of \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\" for its along with \"Cold Case\" Danny Pino coinciding with Christopher Meloni's departure from the series. Giddish told \"TV Guide\" during summer filming; \"Everybody on the set is really excited and energized. They've lost a family member with Chris Meloni leaving, but they've been very accepting of us. Amanda is thrilled to be here working with these people, and so am I.\"\n\nGiddish made her debut as Detective Amanda Rollins in the 13th-season premiere, \"\", in which the character first works alongside Detective Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay). In an interview with \"TV Guide\", Giddish said about her character, \"My character is in complete awe of Olivia, Amanda's really eager to get in there because she knows her stuff and really eager to learn. She has come from Atlanta and there was a ceiling there, so she's come up to New York.\" Giddish felt great about joining the series in its 13th season, \"I couldn't feel better about it. ... There's no intimidation, what attracted me was the prospect of re-invigorating a franchise that's been so well-known and so well-liked, and then to be the shaker and mover.\" Giddish expressed confidence that viewers would warm up to Rollins and another new character, Nick Amaro (Pino), with time. \"They're going to love us because it's not being forced in their faces,\" she says. \"The more you know about us and the more you see us in your living room, the more you're hopefully going to love us.\"\n\nAt the end of season 13 of \"Law & Order: SVU\", she weighed in on her first season, and she said she and Pino received not only a \"very warm welcome\" from \"SVU\"s cast and crew, but saw their respective characters explored more than they could hope for in their first season. \"They've given me a lot to work with — and I hope they give me more next season,\" says Giddish. \"We're still playing 'musical chairs' in terms of partners, and that's a great way to go about exploring the different characters.\"\n\nGiddish's castmate Ice-T, who has portrayed Detective Odafin Tutuola since the show's second season, praised both Giddish and Pino in the wake of Meloni's departure, \"We had to regroup, like a football team,\" said Ice-T. \"The quarterback changed, but we still had to move the ball down the field. And we did well... Danny came in, strong. Kelli came in, strong. And we shut down the doubters.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Giddish appeared in the music video for “All Love is Lost” by Body Count, Giddish's fellow \"Special Victims Unit\" co-star Ice-T's band from their newest album \"Bloodlust\", which also features Soulfly lead singer and former Sepultura founder Max Cavalera.\n\nGiddish married Lawrence Faulborn on June 20, 2015, in New Smyrna Beach, Florida. She gave birth to the couple's first child, a son named Ludo, in October 2015. Giddish gave birth to the couple's second child, a son named Charlie, in November 2018. Both of her pregnancies were written into \"\".\n"}
{"id": "1913990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913990", "title": "KaNgwane", "text": "KaNgwane\n\nKaNgwane () was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government to be a semi-independent homeland for the Swazi people. It was called the \"Swazi Territorial Authority\" from 1976 to 1977. In September 1977 it was renamed KaNgwane and received a legislative assembly. After a temporary suspension of its homeland status during 1982, the legislative assembly was restored in December 1982. KaNgwane was granted nominal self-rule in August 1984. Its capital was at Louieville. It was the least populous of the ten homelands, with an estimated 183,000 inhabitants. Unlike the other homelands in South Africa, KaNgwane did not adopt a distinctive flag of its own \n\nAn attempt to transfer parts of the homeland, along with parts of the Zulu homeland KwaZulu, to the neighbouring country of Swaziland in 1982 failed following protests. The homeland's territory had been claimed by King Sobhuza of Swaziland as part of the Swazi monarchs' traditional realm, and the South African government hoped to use the homeland as a buffer zone against guerrilla infiltration from Mozambique. This would have given land-locked Swaziland access to the sea. South Africa responded to the failure of the transfer by temporarily suspending the autonomy of KaNgwane, then restoring it in December 1982 and granting it nominal self-rule in 1984.\n\nKaNgwane ceased to exist on 27 April 1994 when the Interim Constitution dissolved the homelands and created new provinces. Its territory became part of the province of Mpumalanga.\n\nGrand Apartheid in Formation: A Brief History of KaNgwane\n\nThe Swazi Territorial Authority was established at Tonga in the Nkomazi Region on\n23 April 1976 by the then Deputy Minister of Bantu Affairs, Development and Education,\nDr F. Hartzenberg (who read the speech on behalf of the then Member of Parliament and\nMinister of Bantu Affairs, Mr M.C. Botha). \n\nIt was established, Pretoria claimed, to cater\nfor the interests of the Swazis within the borders of the Republic of South Africa. \nThe first leader of the Swazi Territorial Authority administration was Chief J.M. Dhlamini of the Embhuleni Royal Kraal in Badplaas (to whom I later, in 1981, served as private secretary). \nThe establishment of the Authority was preceded by disruptive events. In 1975, the forced removals of the people from Kromkrans, Doringkop and elsewhere, in the so-called black spots in white areas, to settlements like Kromdraai (Ekulindeni) started. In 1976, the majority of the people from Kromkrans were settled on the farm Eerstehoek, my birth\nplace. They were dumped on our fields and grazing land.\n\nThe plans for the establishment of the Swazi ‘homeland’ continued, and in October 1977, the Swazi Territorial Authority elected the late Dr E.J. Mabuza to become the Chief Executive Councillor of the ‘homeland’. The ‘homeland’ from there was named KaNgwane\n(a name, it should be added, that the authorities in Swaziland did not have a problem with). \n\nContrasts: KaNgwane and the Inyandza National Movement\n\nThe Inyandza National Movement was the governing party of the then KaNgwane\n‘homeland’ government. It was founded in October 1978 at Lochiel, a village with no more\nthan a filling station a few kilometres from the Oshoek border post. It became a critical\ndriving force of politics. It was through the Inyandza National Movement that KaNgwane\ncontrasted with other ‘homelands’ and refused independence. Inyandza was formed instead\nto politicise and mobilise the masses of our people in furtherance of the aims and objectives\nof the liberation movement: on the one hand, through its relationships with the ANC in\nexile; and, on the other, through its socio-economic development programme, through\nwhich it sought to uplift the standard of living of the ‘citizens’ of that ‘homeland’.\n\nAfter the late Dr Enos J. Mabuza assumed office of Chief Executive Councillor of the\n‘homeland’, negotiations to be granted the second phase of the ‘homeland’s’ development,\ni.e. self-governing status, began. The leadership of KaNgwane had already repeatedly\nindicated that the people of KaNgwane were against so-called independence. The\napartheid government of South Africa was however reluctant to grant the self-governing\nstatus to KaNgwane. They wanted to do so on condition that KaNgwane thereafter opt for\nPretoria's offer of independence.\n\nThe leadership of KaNgwane refused to accept such a condition, and request after\nrequest for self-governing status received no positive responses from Pretoria. Pretoria\nsought to punish KaNgwane for its refusal to co-operate with plans to make ‘homelands’\nindependent, and KaNgwane began to experience extreme under-funding.\n\nBut the Inyandza National Movement had politicised the people. Weekly prayer\nmeetings and rallies were organised. The leadership of the Inyandza National Movement\nintensified the call for the unbanning of the ANC and other political organisations. We\nrejected Pretoria's independence completely. The people were mobilised so that when\nPretoria refused to grant self-governing status to KaNgwane, they stood up and defended\ntheir rights. They did not stand up because they believed in the ‘homelands’. They never\ndesired to opt for independence but to fight until South Africa became free from the\nshackles of apartheid. That is why the capital of KaNgwane in Louieville was just a\ntemporary structure. We did not see any point in building massive and magnificent\nstructures.\n\nAfter some time without responding at all to the intensified mobilisation, the\ngovernment of South Africa found another way to force independence on KaNgwane: it\nannounced the incorporation of KaNgwane territory and Ingwavuma region of the then\n‘homeland’ of KwaZulu into the Kingdom of Swaziland, the so-called land deal between\nthe government of the Republic of South Africa and the Kingdom of Swaziland.\n\nDistricts of the province and population at the 1991 census. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913997", "title": "Okra", "text": "Okra\n\nOkra (, ), \"Abelmoschus esculentus\", known in many English-speaking countries as ladies' fingers or ochro, is a flowering plant in the mallow family. It is valued for its edible green seed pods. The geographical origin of okra is disputed, with supporters of West African, Ethiopian, and South Asian origins. The plant is cultivated in tropical, subtropical and warm temperate regions around the world.\n\nThe first use of the word okra in the U.S appears around 1670, possibly deriving from the Igbo word . In Spanish the same word okra (alternatively: ocra) is also used (albeit less common than other synonyms) either similar to English it derived directly from Igbo via the trans-atlantic slave trade or caught on due to the use in the United States. The word \"gumbo\" (alternatively: \"gombo\") gained popularity in the U.S around 1805 and the usage of the word is more prominent in parts of the Southeastern United States (although usually referring to the dish gumbo) and in anglophone regions of the Caribbean. The word gumbo/gombo derives from American French (most likely Louisiana creole) with similar roots to the Haitian creole word \"gonbo,\" the Spanish word \"quingombo\" (alternatively; \"quimbombó, gombo\", \"guingambó,\" and \"chimbombó\") and the Portuguese word \"quiabo\" (alternatively; \"quiabeiro, gombô, quingombó/ô, quibombó/ô, quigombó, quimbombô,\" and \"quingobó\") all of which stem from the Kimbundu word \"ki-ngombo.\" \n\nIn India, it is known by the name \"vendakkai\" (alternatively: \"bendakkai\") or \"bhindi\".\n\n'Abelmoschus' is New Latin from Arabic أَبُو المِسْك‎ (ʾabū l-misk, “father of musk”).\n\nOkra is an allopolyploid of uncertain parentage (proposed parents include \"Abelmoschus ficulneus\", \"A. tuberculatus\" and a reported \"diploid\" form of okra). Truly wild (as opposed to naturalised) populations are not known with certainty and the species may be a cultigen. The geographical origin of okra is disputed, with supporters of South Asian, Ethiopian and West African origins. The Egyptians and Moors of the 12th and 13th centuries used the Arabic word for the plant, \"bamya\", suggesting it had come into Egypt from Arabia, but earlier it was probably taken from Ethiopia to Arabia. The plant may have entered southwest Asia across the Red Sea or the Bab-el-Mandeb straight to the Arabian Peninsula, rather than north across the Sahara, or from India. One of the earliest accounts is by a Spanish Moor who visited Egypt in 1216 and described the plant under cultivation by the locals who ate the tender, young pods with meal. From Arabia, the plant spread around the shores of the Mediterranean Sea and eastward. The plant was introduced to the Americas by ships plying the Atlantic slave trade by 1658, when its presence was recorded in Brazil. It was further documented in Suriname in 1686. Okra may have been introduced to southeastern North America from Africa in the early 18th century. By 1748, it was being grown as far north as Philadelphia. Thomas Jefferson noted it was well established in Virginia by 1781. It was commonplace throughout the Southern United States by 1800, and the first mention of different cultivars was in 1806.\n\nThe species is a perennial, often cultivated as an annual in temperate climates, often growing to around tall. As a member of the Malvaceae, it is related to such species as cotton, cocoa, and hibiscus. The leaves are long and broad, palmately lobed with 5–7 lobes. The flowers are in diameter, with five white to yellow petals, often with a red or purple spot at the base of each petal. The pollens are spherical with approximately 188 microns diameter. The fruit is a capsule up to long with pentagonal cross-section, containing numerous seeds.\n\n\"Abelmoschus esculentus\" is cultivated throughout the tropical and warm temperate regions of the world for its fibrous fruits or pods containing round, white seeds. It is among the most heat- and drought-tolerant vegetable species in the world and will tolerate soils with heavy clay and intermittent moisture, but frost can damage the pods. In cultivation, the seeds are soaked overnight prior to planting to a depth of . It prefers a soil temperature of at least for germination which occurs between six days (soaked seeds) and three weeks. Seedlings require ample water. The seed pods rapidly become fibrous and woody and, to be edible as a vegetable, must be harvested when immature, usually within a week after pollination. Okra is available in two varieties, green and red. Red okra carries the same flavor as the more popular green okra and differs only in color. When cooked, the red okra pods turn green.\n\nThe most common disease afflicting the okra plant is verticillium wilt, often causing a yellowing and wilting of the leaves. Other diseases include powdery mildew in dry tropical regions, leaf spots, and root-knot nematodes.\n\nThe products of the plant are mucilaginous, resulting in the characteristic \"goo\" or slime when the seed pods are cooked; the mucilage contains soluble fiber. Botanists say to de-slime okra it should be cooked with an acid (like vinegar, tomatoes, etc.); as the pH changes the mucilage will become less viscous. Pods are cooked, pickled, eaten raw, or included in salads. Okra may be used in developing countries to mitigate malnutrition and alleviate food insecurity.\n\nRaw okra is 90% water, 2% protein, 7% carbohydrates and negligible in fat. In a 100 gram amount, raw okra is rich (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) in dietary fiber, vitamin C and vitamin K, with moderate contents of thiamin, folate and magnesium (table).\n\nYoung okra leaves may be cooked in a similar way to the greens of beets or dandelions. The leaves are also eaten raw in salads. Okra seeds may be roasted and ground to form a caffeine-free substitute for coffee. When importation of coffee was disrupted by the American Civil War in 1861, the \"Austin State Gazette\" said, \"An acre of okra will produce seed enough to furnish a plantation with coffee in every way equal to that imported from Rio.\"\n\nGreenish-yellow edible okra oil is pressed from okra seeds; it has a pleasant taste and odor, and is high in unsaturated fats such as oleic acid and linoleic acid. The oil content of some varieties of the seed is about 40%. At 794 kg/ha, the yield was exceeded only by that of sunflower oil in one trial. A 1920 study found that a sample contained 15% oil. A 2009 study found okra oil suitable for use as a biofuel.\n\nBast fibre from the stem of the plant has industrial uses such as the reinforcement of polymer composites. The mucilage produced by the okra plant can be used for the removal of turbidity from wastewater by virtue of its flocculent properties. Having composition similar to a thick polysaccharide film, okra mucilage is under development as a biodegradable food packaging, as of 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1914015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914015", "title": "Ashtamangala", "text": "Ashtamangala\n\nThe Ashtamangala is a sacred suite of \"Eight Auspicious Signs\" endemic to a number of religions such as Hinduism, Jainism, and Buddhism. The symbols or \"symbolic attributes\" () are yidam and teaching tools. Not only do these attributes (or energetic signatures) point to qualities of enlightened mindstream, but they are the investiture that ornaments these enlightened \"qualities\" (Sanskrit: \"guṇa\"; ). Many cultural enumerations and variations of the Ashtamangala are extant.\n\nTibetan Buddhists make use of a particular set of eight auspicious symbols, \"ashtamangala\", in household and public art. Some common interpretations are given along with each symbol although different teachers may give different interpretations:\n\nThe right-turning white conch shell (Sanskrit: ; ) represents the beautiful, deep, melodious, interpenetrating and pervasive sound of the dharma, which awakens disciples from the deep slumber of ignorance and urges them to accomplish their own welfare and the welfare of others.\n\nIn Hinduism, the conch is an attribute of Vishnu along with the Sudarshana Chakra. Vaishnavism holds that Gautama Buddha is an avatar of Vishnu.\n\nThe endless knot (Sanskrit: \"śrīvatsa\"; ) denotes \"the auspicious mark represented by a curled noose emblematic of love\". It is a symbol of the ultimate unity of everything. Moreover, it represents the intertwining of wisdom and compassion, the mutual dependence of religious doctrine and secular affairs, the union of wisdom and method, the inseparability of śūnyatā \"emptiness\" and pratītyasamutpāda \"interdependent origination\", and the union of wisdom and compassion in enlightenment (see namkha). This knot, net or web metaphor also conveys the Buddhist teaching of interpenetration.\n\nThe two golden fish (Sanskrit: gaurmatsya; ) symbolise the auspiciousness of all sentient beings in a state of fearlessness without danger of drowning in saṃsāra. The two golden fishes are linked with the Ganges and Yamuna nadi, prana and carp: In Islam the (alive) fish has a significant role in the meeting between Moses and Khidr.\n\nThe lotus flower (Sanskrit: \"padma\"; ), represent the primordial purity of body, speech, and mind, floating above the muddy waters of attachment and desire. The lotus symbolizes purity and renunciation. Although the lotus has its roots in the mud at the bottom of a pond, its flower lies immaculate above the water. The Buddhist lotus bloom has 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, 64, 100, or 1,000 petals. The same figures can refer to the body's 'internal lotuses', that is to say, its energy centres (chakra).\n\nThe jewelled parasol (Sanskrit: \"chatraratna\"; ), which is similar in ritual function to the baldachin or canopy: represents the protection of beings from harmful forces and illness. It represents the canopy or firmament of the sky and therefore the expansiveness and unfolding of space and the element æther. It represents the expansiveness, unfolding and protective quality of the sahasrara: all take refuge in the dharma under the auspiciousness of the parasol.\n\nThe treasure vase () represents health, longevity, wealth, prosperity, wisdom and the phenomenon of space. The treasure vase, or pot, symbolizes the Buddha's infinite quality of teaching the dharma: no matter how many teachings he shared, the treasure never lessened.\n\nThe iconography representation of the treasure vase is often very similar to the kumbha, one of the few possessions permitted a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni in Theravada Buddhism. The wisdom urn or treasure vase is used in many empowerment (Vajrayana) and initiations.\n\nThe Dharmachakra or \"Wheel of the Law\" (Sanskrit; ) represents Gautama Buddha and the Dharma teaching. This symbol is commonly used by Tibetan Buddhists, where it sometimes also includes an inner wheel of the Gankyil (Tibetan). Nepalese Buddhists don't use the Wheel of Law in the eight auspicious symbols.\n\nInstead of the Dharmachakra, a fly-whisk may be used as one of the Ashtamangala to symbolize Tantric manifestations. It is made of a yak's tail attached to a silver staff, and used in ritual recitation and during fanning the deities in pujas. Prayer wheels take the form of a Dharmachakra guise. The Sudarshana Chakra is a Hindu wheel-symbol.\n\nThe dhvaja (Sanskrit; ) \"banner, flag\" was a military standard of ancient Indian warfare. The symbol represents the Buddha's victory over the four māras, or hindrances in the path of enlightenment. These hindrances are pride, desire, disturbing emotions, and the fear of death. Within the Tibetan tradition, a list of eleven different forms of the victory banner is given to represent eleven specific methods for overcoming defilement. Many variations of the dhvaja's design can be seen on the roofs of Tibetan monasteries to symbolise the Buddha's victory over four māras. Banners are placed at the four corners of monastery and temple roofs. The cylindrical banners placed on monastery roofs are often made of beaten copper.\n\nDifferent traditions order the eight symbols differently.\n\nHere is the sequential order of the Eight Auspicious Symbols of Nepali Buddhism:\n\nThe sequential order for Chinese Buddhism was defined in the Qing dynasty as:\n\nIn Indian and Hindu tradition, the Ashtamangala may be used during certain occasions including: pujas, weddings (of Hindus), and coronations. The ashtamangala finds wide mention in the texts associated with Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. They have been depicted in decorative motifs and cultural artifacts.\n\n\nIn Jainism, the Ashtamangala are a set of eight auspicious symbols. There is some variation among different traditions concerning the eight symbols.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the eight symbols are:\n\nIn the Śvētāmbara tradition, the eight symbols are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914021", "title": "CITR-FM", "text": "CITR-FM\n\nCiTR-FM, is a Canadian FM radio station based out of the University of British Columbia's Student Union Building in the University Endowment Lands, just west of the city limits of Vancouver, British Columbia. Its transmitter is also located on campus.\n\nCiTR is operated by UBC students and community volunteers under the ownership of the Student Radio Society of the University of British Columbia, an entity closely affiliated with UBC's Alma Mater Society. The station's mandate is to provide programming that is alternative to the genres played on mainstream radio. Broadcasting at FM 101.9, its signal encompasses most of the Vancouver Metropolitan Area.\n\nNotable or long-running programmers include Nardwuar the Human Serviette, Steve Edge, Gavin Walker of the Jazz Show, \"Long\" John Tanner, DJ Ebony, DJ Avi Shack, Val Cormier, Luke Meat, Chris-a-riffic, Ska-T, Zena Sharman, Tod Maffin, Bryce Dunn, Jonathon Brown, Spike Chilton of the Northern Wish and the Canadian Way, Bleek Swinney of Exquisite Corpse and Breakfast With The Browns, Pyra Draculea of the Vampire's Ball, Marie Benard of Synchronicity, Caroline of Sexy In VanCity, and many others.\n\nCiTR launched a podcast service in September 2006, allowing listeners to access past shows online.\n\nCITR is a member of the National Campus and Community Radio Association, and hosted the National Campus and Community Radio Conference in 1984 and again in 2007. The NCRC is an annual national gathering of community-oriented radio broadcasters who provide alternative radio to a diverse audience. It has been offered every summer since 1981, and it is one of the core activities of the NCRA/ANREC.\n\nIn 1937, Ozzie Durkin, Dorwin Baird, Victor Freeman, and Malcolm Brown began a variety show called \"Varsity Time\" on CJOR. Then, in 1938 UBC Radio became an official club on campus. In 1942, UBC Radio becomes RADSOC and continues to produce radio programming for CJOR, CKWX-AM, CBR, and CKMO. By 1947, UBC Radio had earned a place in the ultra-new facilities in UBC's Brock Hall.\n\nIn 1949, the budding radio coming out of RADSOC was put on hold after overspending and a bungled radio talent show. The members of RADSOC returned to their station in the fall to discover the doors locked. President Don Cunliffe reinstated RADSOC with no budget and the society continued to broadcast one hour daily despite their financial hardship. A resilient RADSOC partnered with CKWX (BC Association of Broadcasters) to operate a twenty-two-week-long school for commercial radio. Closed-circuit broadcasts to residences begin, and the first full commercials are run on UBC Radio.\n\nNearly twenty years later, in 1969, RADSOC moved into state of the art broadcasting facilities in the newly completed Student Union Building (now the Old SUB) and officially becomes CYVR. True to spirit, CYVR was shut down by the UBC Alma Mater Society for six months for operating without a licence. CYVR had applied for a licence in compliance with CRTC regulations, but continued to broadcast before the licence was approved. When the licence was approved, UBC Radio became Thunderbird Radio: CiTR. Then, in 1975, CiTR began broadcasting at 101.9 MHz.\n\nBy 1981, CiTR had become an AMS service organization and began to work with the community both on and off campus for the first time since the 1940s. CiTR joined the National Campus Radio Organization, which later became the NCRA. From this affiliation, CiTR was able to make connections with University of Alberta Radio and reform the Western Association of Broadcasters, a Western Canadian campus support and information group that had disbanded twenty years earlier.\n\nOn April 1, 1982, CiTR broadcast for the first time at 101.9 FM after receiving approval from the CTRC for their Low Power FM licence the previous September. The first song played was \"Dancing in the Streets\" by Martha Reeves and the Vandellas.\n\nDiscorder hit the streets in 1983.\n\nIn 1985, CiTR proposed a unique licensing plan using a directional radio antenna to allow the use of 101.9 MHz simultaneously in Vancouver and Victoria. In that same year, Discorder was chosen by Seattle's Rocket Magazine as one of the Top 20 Publications in the World. Subsequently, in 1988, Discorder was a finalist in the Western Canadian Magazine Awards competition for both Magazine of the Year (circulation under 20 000) and Cover of the Year (50th issue cover, March '87).\n\nCiTR went high power to 1800 watts in 1989. The first song played was \"Have Not Been the Same\" by Slow.\n\n1990 saw the beginning of CiTR's historical participation in the Vancouver Hip Hop scene with DJ Soundwar Chapter One, a rap competition that saw entrants come from as far away as LA. In 1995, CiTR would go on to publish Elements, a magazine that focuses on local and international Hip Hop culture: MCs, DJs, Breaking, and Graffiti. Elements is only published until 1996.\n\nIn 1993, CiTR broadcast BBC world news for satellite and, in 1994, CiTR became the first radio station in Vancouver to hit the internet with an email address and gopher site. By 2000 the station was live broadcasting on the web in concert with the broadcast at 101.9 FM. In 2001, the CRTC mandated an incorporation of French and third language programming on the CiTR airwaves. This move towards diversifying content continued through to the following decade. The station began broadcasting content produced by the newly formed Women's Collective, Indigenous Collective, and Accessibility Collective which joined the standard News, Arts, and Sports Collectives on the air in 2014.\n\n\"Discorder\" was created in February 1983 by founding editors Jennifer Fahrni and Mike Mines as an alternative music magazine for Vancouver and the program guide for CiTR. With a circulation of 25,000, the first issue included an interview with Stan Ridgeway of Wall of Voodoo by Mark Mushet; article \"Youth Culture in West Berlin\" by Werner Janke; reviews of albums by The Scissors, Los Popularos, and Modernettes by Gord Badanic, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Wall of Voodoo, and Mission of Burma by Dave McDonagh, DOA by Dean Pelkey; and a review of the compilation tape \"Egghead\" by Brent Argo. The magazine has since expanded to become a media institution in its own right, running music reviews, book reviews, interviews, essay-length articles, comics, a mixtape, the CiTR program guide, and CiTR's charts.\n\n\"Discorder\" also serves as an outlet for emerging Vancouver music writers, photographers, and illustrators.\n\nIssues of Discorder have been digitized by the UBC Library and are available at the UBC Library Open Collections site.\n\n\"Discorder\" prints 8,000 copies each month and distributes them across the cities of Vancouver and Victoria.\n\nDiscorder's staff rotates on a regular basis. Each editor's personal style is often reflected in stylistic shifts in the magazine's aesthetics and content.\n\n\"Elements\" was published by CiTR alongside \"Discorder\" through 1995 and 1996. The magazine was edited by J Swing and Mr. Flipout and featured crass copy and near perpetual late publication. The magazine reported on, reviewed, and documented Hip Hop music and culture within Vancouver while tying the city's scene to the goings-on of the American Hip Hop phenomenon. Featured artist included KRS-One, Group Home, Ghostface Killah, A Tribe Called Quest, Outkast, and Busta Rhymes.\n\nSHiNDiG is a long-running battle of the bands competition hosted by CiTR yearly from September to December. Past contestants have included bands such as 3 Inches of Blood, Speedbuggy, Patrick McWilliams, The Organ, Japandroids, They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, You Say Party! We Say Die!, The Choir Practice, Maow, Collapsing Opposites, Hermética and The Salteens.\n\nCiTR provides coverage of the UBC Thunderbirds varsity teams. The sports department produces live coverage of many sporting events during the academic year, such as football, ice hockey, basketball and volleyball. The station has also carried baseball and soccer broadcasts.\n\nCiTR has produced live broadcasts at recent Canadian Interuniversity Sport national tournaments: men's basketball (2009); women's basketball (2004–2008); men's soccer (2007); women's field hockey (2005).\n\nThe station won the Arthur W. Delamont Service Award in 1983 and 1987 for their contribution and service to UBC athletics.\nCiTR has a news department, which produces News 101, a live, volunteer-produced, student and community newscast. The news department provides original coverage of local, provincial, federal, and international news, from an independent perspective. The news department does not cover crime or other sensationalized news stories, choosing instead to cover politics, social justice and environment topics.\n\nNews 101 is broadcast once-weekly, on Fridays at 5pm PST.\n\nCiTR News produced a special series covering the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, including a special 'Eyes on the Street' segment.\nCiTR News also produced notable coverage of the APEC protests at UBC in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1914022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914022", "title": "Sfinks Festival", "text": "Sfinks Festival\n\nThe Sfinks festival is a Belgian festival for world music at Boechout. The festival is held during the last weekend in July.\n\nThe festival was originally held (1975–1994) in a local school park. In 1982 the festival featured exotic music for the first time which changed its appearance forever. In 1992 and 1994, Friday and Thursday were added to the festival to accommodate the expanding program. In 1994, the venue was changed to a larger site, the 'Molenveld' in Boechout to accommodate the larger crowds. The festival currently receives about 40,000 visitors and over 40 bands each year. Since some years the festival has shrunk again to three days.\n\nVermenton Plage, The McCalmans, Marie Jeanne Tellez, Arthus, Fiddle Feaver, Rum, Aristide Padygros, Fiddle Feaver, Stockton's Wing, Fran O'Rourke, Trol, Ossian, Bob Frank en Zussen, Brenda Wootton, Angélique Ionatos, Nino de San Andres y sus Flamenco Orkestra, Rocking Dopsie & The Cajun Twisters.\n\nCromlech, Samboa, Paula Lockheart, Le Quator, André Bialek, Queen Ida & Le Bon Temps, Mandanga, Canto Libre, Carlos Andreu, Akka, Bonga, Juan Jose Mosalini Y Su Gran Orchestra De Tango, Vizönto and Deka.\n\nSuper Combo Créole, Big Bamboo Calypso Band, Lazare Kenmenge, Sacy Perere, Bovick and Partners, Koko Taylor Blues Machine, Makam es Kolinda, Toto Guillaume, Francis Bebey, Manu Dibango, Azuquita y Su Melao\n\nBula Sangoma, Los Salseros, Francis Bebey Quartet, Xalam, Tito Puente, Dudu Pukwana, Lemba, Ronald Shannon Jackson, Abdullah Ibrahim and Touré Kunda, Rip, Rig and Panic\n\nAndy Narell, Idir, Mongo Santamaría, Franco et le T.P.O.K., Machitún, El Kholoud, Baklava, Ekomé, Fawzy Al Aiedy, Sun Ra Arkestra, Orchestre Jazira, Malembe, Lamogoya, Original Bushtown Rumours\n\nSomo Somo, Zazou & Bikaye, Joia, Ástor Piazzolla, Junior Walker, Mashenka, Thoko Mdlaloso, Paulinho Ramos, Djurdura, Thomas Mapfumo and the Blacks Unlimited, Revanche\n\nClaudy & Co, Carte de Séjour, Don Cherry Quintet, Working Week, Tania Maria, The Skyblasters, Eko Kuango, Desmond Dekker, Mahmoud Ahmed ft Neway Debebe & The Roha Band, Carmel, Youssou N'Dour and Waka Wakah\n\nSahl'omon, Lee Perry & The Upsetters, The Real Sounds of Africa, Gil Scott-Heron, Gilberto Gil, Macoubary, Zeebra, Flaco Jiménez su Conjunto, Courtney Pine Quartet, Gonzalo Rubalcaba y su grupo projecto, Kaba Mane and Kalabash\n\nRamiro Naka & N'Kassa Cobra, Andy Sheppard Quintet, David Rudder & Charly's Roots, Nina Simone, Thione Seck & Le Raam Daan, Shalawambe, S. E. Rogie, Toumani Diabate-Ketama ft Danny Thompson, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Abdel Aziz El Mubarak, Alpha Blondy & The Solar System, Yemaya and Ali Farka Touré\n\nGilberto Gil, Umbelina, Pardesi Music Machine, King Sunny Adé, Remmy Ongala & Orchestre Matimila, Cheb Khaled, Panache Culture, Trilok Gurtu, Les Musiciens du Nile, Kristi Rose & The Midnight Walkers, Papa Wemba, Zouk Machine and Chi-Kin-Chee & Akwaaba\n\nIrshad Khan, Toto Bissainthe, Chaba Djena, Les Têtes Brulées, Les Négresses Vertes, Princesse Mansia M'Bila, Sido ft Tamba Kumba, Jemaa, Najma Akhtar, Ivo Papazov & His Bulgarian Wedding Orchestra and Mexe Com Tudo\n\nHossan Ramzy, Caramusa, Super Diamono de Dakar, Aster Aweke, Femi Anikulapo ft Kuti, Mav Cacharel, Xiomara Fortuna & ses Kaliumbe, Seckou & Ramata, the Rebirth Brass Band, Farafina, Sapho, Rubén Blades and Zekle\n\nTaraf de Haïdouks, Staatskoor van de Bulgaarse radio en televisie, Anoosh, Donke, Marisa Monte, Wallias Band, Los Reyes, Fuzue, Stella Rambisai Chiwese and The Earthquake Band, Eduardo Muniz, La Kumpania Zelwer, Lili Boniche, Orchestre Anti Choc de Bozi, Boziana, Olodum, Linton Kwesi Johnson, Paulus Damenië & Band and Phantoms\n\nDonnisulana, Karoline Zaidline, Amina, Ritos, Sarband, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan & Party, Abana Ba Nasery, Lokua Kanza, Jean Emilien, Ghorwane, Classic Swede Swede, Ara Ketu, Les Amazones de Guinée, Donn Pullen's Afro Brazilian Connection, Bauls, Hedningarna, Los Van Van, Barrister, Fabulous Trobadors, Joji Hirota, Julie Mourillon, Molequa de Rua, Mouth Music, Ali Hassan Kuban, Reconciliation, Dmitri Pokrovsky Ensemble, Zap Mama, Super Rail Band de Bamako and Ray Lema et les voix Bulgares de l'ensemble Pirin\n\nN'Java, Simentera, Lo'Jo Triban, Transglobal Underground, Jah Wobble & The Invaders of the Heart, Ngaari Laaw, N'Java, Gary Thomas & Hossam Ramzy, Simentera, Gitans ft Thierry Robin, The Last Poets, Aziza Mustafa Zadeh, Baaba Maal, Tierra Caliente, Snowboy, N'Dai N'Dai, Cheb Mami, Les Quatre Étoiles, Psamim, Gulabo Sapera, Tammurriata Di Scafati, A Filetta, Tuareg Bali, Juan Jose Mosalini Y Su Gran Orchestra De Tango, Cheb Khaled, I Muvrini, Lo'Jo Triban, The Klezmatics, The Western Diamonds, Papa Jube & The Jubelation Band, The Academy Brass Band and Kočani Orkestar\n\nAng Grupong Pendong, Gary Thomas & Hossam Ramzy, Mandé Foli, Youssou N'Dour, Sangit, Tuu, Yat-Kha, Patrick Persée, Balanescu Quartet, Lotfi Bouchnak & Ensemble Al Kindi, Ali Farka Touré, Master Musicians of Jajouka, Mandé Foli, Totó la Momposina, Prophets of Da City, Granmoun Léle, Remmy Ongala & Orchestre Super Matimila, Fanfare Jaïpur, Lulendo, Aurora Moreno, Eric Marchand et Le Taraf de Caransebeş, Mynta, Les Grand-Mères de Djanet, Sabri Brothers, Remmy Ongala & Totó la Momposina, Manu Dibango's Wakafrika Project ft Ray Lema & Mory Kanté & Bonga, Habib Koité et Bamada, Chico Science & Nação Zumbi and Papa Wemba\n\nDanyel Waro, La Vieja Trova, Mestre Ambrosio, Genetic Drugs ft Karma Club, Yawar, Cesária Évora, La Vieja Trova, Kayo Fujino, Langa, Luzmila Carpio y sus Llaqtamasikuna, Noche Flamenco, Kangaroo Moon, The Bollywood Band, Danyel Waro, Up, Bustle and Out, Chaba Fadela & Cheb Sahraoui, Kanda Bongo Man, Tenores di Bitti, Hukwe Zawose & Wagogo Woman Drummers and Dancers, Banyumas Bamboo, Zehava Ben, Mighty Sparrow, Crocodile Style & Yawar, Iwakichi & Noriko Yamashita, Ekova, Yungchen Lhamo, Te Ava Piti, Ferus Mustafov, Mestre Ambrosio, Jaojoby, Mama Ohandja, Detrimental, Malouma Mint Meideh, Flamenco de Jerez, Yulduz Usmonova and Marzieh\n\nLos Activos, Lunar Drive, Sally Nyolo, Tambours Sacrés, Voces Del Al-Andalus, Daniel Abebe, Ailanis, Ensemble Mzetamze, Didg Trio ft. Gary Thomas & Alan Dargin & Phillip Peris, Musafir, Lunar Drive, Gil & The Perfects, Sierra Maestra, The Asian Equation, Angélique Kidjo, Diblo Dibala & Matchatcha, D'Gary, Sékouba Bambino Diabate, Enrique Morento Y Gruppo, Amampondo, Carlinhos Brown, Tchota Suari & Antoni Sanches, Alla, Matlubeh, Sam Mangwana, Los Activos, Ouza Diallo, Sally Nyolo, Anastasia, Cándido Fabré, Psarantonis, Te Vaka, Emil Zrihan & the Israeli Andalusian Orchestra, Natacha Atlas and Radio Tarifa\n\nNēnēs, Zarboutan, Combays, Daúde, Jorge Ben Jor, Maracuta Naçao Pernambuco, Zarboutan, Jimi Mbaye, La Familia Valera Miranda, Avaton, Kadda Cherif Hadria, Monique Séka, Bulgarka Junior ft Ivan Lantos & Missa Primi Toni, Moriba Koita, Shahram Nazeri & Ensemble Dastan, Isabel Bayón, Nēnēs, Tartit, La Charanga Habanera, Wimme, Extra Musica, Gnawa 'Lila', Combays, Ismael Rudas & Daniel Celedon, Sawt El Atlas, Africando, Musa Dieng Kala, Susana Baca, Ismael Rudas & Daniel Celedon, Liu Sola, Nahawa Doumbia, Xu Chao Minh, Musa Dieng Kala, Massa Konate, Liu Sola, Didges ft. Gary Thomas & Alan Dargin & Mark Atkins, Susana Baca, Likembe Geant and Eleftheria Arvanitaki\n\nLeilía, Swédé Lokelé, Bagunçaço, Brotherhood of Brass, Trip do Brasil, Mahnimal, El Hadj N'Diaye, Teófilo Chantre, Alim Qasimov, Belén Maya & Mayte Martín, Sahraouis, Swédé Lokelé, Abdel Ali Slimani, Frédéric Galliano & Néba Solo, Super Cayor De Dakar, Bloque (band), Empire Bakuba, DJ Jungle Jazz, Manos Achalinotopoulos, Urna, La Banda Municipale de Santiago de Cuba, Sertab Erener, Alfredo de la Fé, Dhol Foundation, El Hadj N'Diaye, RDB, Black Star Liner, Dj Master Volume, Dj Ritu, DJ Aki, Joi, The Saint Nicholas Orchestra, The Farlanders, Aterciopelados, Brother Resistance & Rapso Riddum, Mamar Kassey, Jigme Drukpa, Abed Azrié (Suerte), Camerata Romeu, DJ Timmax, Melina Kana & Ashkabad, Leilía, Pact, Sheikh Yasîn Al-Tuhâmi, DJ Cheb i Sabbah, Amadou & Mariam, Sidestepper, DJ Armand, Ashkabad and Hypnotix\n\nConcert tent: The Paradise Bangkok Molam International Band, Dakhabrakha, Akua Naru, Che Sudaka, Buscemi, Daniel Haaksman\nXamanek, Gaby Amarantos, Batucada Sound Machine, Ky-Mani-Marley, Civalizee Foundation, Dj Babybang, Salam Musik, Azalai Project, Guido Belcanto, Terakaft, Gaby Amartontos, Turntable Dubbers, mps PILOT, Coely, The Flexican ft. MC Sef, Captain Steel, Kapitein Winokio, Sana Bob, Lindigo, Ricardo Lemvo & El Bataillon De La Rumba, Clement Peerens Explosition (CPeX)\n\nVroink, Amigos, De Piepkes, Radio Oorwoud, Leki, Palenke Soultribe, Jupiter & Okwess International, Orquesta Aragon, Discobar Galaxie, Tinariwen, Flip Kowlier, Binti, Catrin Finch & Seckou Keita, Bassekou Kouyate & Ngoni Ba, Boddhi Satva, Karol Conka, Lady S., Lefto, Dj Marfox, Broukar...\n\nLos De Abajo, Uproot Andy, Fresku, Jan Leyers, Merdan Taplak, Mr. Fuzz, Mystique, Omulu, Cheikh Lo, Slongs Dievanongs, Discobaar A Moeder, The Flexican ft. Mc Sef, Cookachoo, Zwartwerk, Bunny Wailer, Mashrou Leila, Nomobs, Fs Green & Mc Fit, Dj Satelite, Dj Ike, Olcay Bayir, Noreum Machi, Lady S, Ferro Gaita, Bart Peeters, Nidia Minaj, Pablo Fierro, Bossa Negra, Bachar Mar-Khalifé...\n"}
{"id": "1914035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914035", "title": "Panthera tigris tigris", "text": "Panthera tigris tigris\n\nPanthera tigris tigris is a tiger subspecies in continental Asia comprising the following tiger populations:\n\nA whole-genome sequencing analysis of 32 tiger specimens supported six monophyletic tiger clades and indicated that the most recent common ancestor lived about 110,000 years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "1914046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914046", "title": "Panthera leo leo", "text": "Panthera leo leo\n\nPanthera leo leo is a lion subspecies, which is present in West Africa, northern Central Africa and India. In West and Central Africa it is restricted to fragmented and isolated populations with a declining trajectory. \nIt is regionally extinct in North Africa, southern Europe, and West Asia. India's sole lion population lives in and around Gir National Park.\nThe West African lion population is geographically isolated and numbers fewer than 250 mature individuals. It is listed as Critically Endangered on the IUCN Red List.\n\nIn 2005, a Lion Conservation Strategy was developed for West and Central Africa.\n\nResults of a phylogeographic study indicate that lion populations in West and Central African range countries are genetically close to populations in India, forming a clade distinct from lion populations in Southern and East Africa. In 2017, the Cat Classification Task Force of the IUCN Cat Specialist Group subsumed lion populations to two subspecies, namely \"P. l. leo\" and \"P. l. melanochaita\".\n\nIt has been referred to as the 'Northern lion'.\n\nA lion from Constantine, Algeria was the type specimen for the specific name \"Felis leo\" used by Carl Linnaeus in 1758. In the 19th and 20th centuries, several lion zoological specimens from Africa and Asia were described and proposed as subspecies:\nIn 1930, Reginald Innes Pocock subordinated the lion to the genus \"Panthera\" when he wrote about Asiatic lion specimens in the zoological collection of the British Museum of Natural History.\n\nIn the following decades, there has been much debate among zoologists on the validity of proposed subspecies:\nIn 2017, the Cat Classification Task Force of the IUCN Cat Specialist Group subsumed lion populations in North, West and Central Africa and Asia to \"P. l. leo\", based on results of genetic research on lion samples.\n\nGenome-wide data of a historical lion sample from Sudan showed that it clustered with \"P. l. leo\" in mtDNA-based phylogenies, but with a high affinity with \"P. l. melanochaita\". This result suggested that the taxonomic position of lions in Central Africa may require revision.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, several phylogenetic studies were conducted to aid clarifying the taxonomic status of lion samples kept in museums and collected in the wild. Scientists analysed between 32 and 480 lion samples from up to 22 countries. They all agree that the lion species comprises two evolutionary groups, one in the northern and eastern parts of its historical range, and the other in Southern and East Africa that diverged between 245,000 and 50,000 years ago. They assume that tropical rainforest and the East African Rift constituted major barriers between the two groups.\n\nIn a comprehensive study about the evolution of lions, 357 samples of 11 lion populations were examined, including some hybrid lions. The hybrids had descended from lions captured in Angola and Zimbabwe, and apparently West or Central Africa. Results indicated that four lions from Morocco did not exhibit any unique genetic characteristics and shared mitochondrial haplotypes H5 and H6 with lions from West Africa, and together with them were part of a major mtDNA grouping (lineage III) that also included Asiatic samples. This scenario was well in line with theories on lion evolution: lineage III developed in East Africa and traveled north and west in the first wave of lion expansions about 118,000 years ago. It apparently broke up into haplotypes H5 and H6 within Africa, and then into H7 and H8 in West Asia.\n\nResults of genetic analyses indicate that lions in West Africa and northern parts of Central Africa form distinct lion clades, which are more closely related to North African and Asiatic lions than to lions in Southern Africa and East Africa. Lion samples from North Africa and India clustered into a single clade. Analysis of phylogenetic data of 194 lion samples from 22 countries revealed that Central and West African lions form a phylogeographic group that probably diverged about 186,000–128,000 years ago from the \"melanochaita\" group in East and Southern Africa.\n\nA phylogenetic analysis of lion samples from Africa and Asia showed that they shared a common ancestor probably between 98,000 and 52,000 years ago. Samples from West Africa shared alleles with samples from Southern Africa, and samples from Central Africa shared alleles with samples from Asia. This indicates that Central Africa was a melting pot of lion populations after they had become isolated. They possibly migrated through corridors in the Nile Basin during the early Holocene.\n\nSeveral lions kept in Ethiopia's Addis Ababa Zoo were found to be genetically similar to wild lions from Cameroon and Chad, but differed from lion samples from Ngorongoro Conservation Area and Serengeti National Park. They also differed from lions kept at Sana'a Zoo, which were suspected to be of Ethiopian origin. Likewise, lion samples from Bale Mountains National Park clustered with lion samples from Central Africa, whereas other samples clustered with samples from East Africa.\n\nThe lion's fur varies in colour from light buff to dark brown. It has rounded ears and a black tail tuft. Average head-to-body length of male lions is with a weight of . Females are smaller and less heavy.\n\nZoological lion specimens range in colour from light to dark tawny. Male skins have short manes, light manes, dark manes or long manes. Taxonomists recognised that neither skin nor mane colour and length of lions can be adduced as distinct subspecific characteristics. Then they turned to measuring and comparing lion skulls and found that skull length of Barbary and Indian lion samples does not differ significantly, ranging from in females and in males.\nA few lion specimens from West Africa obtained by museums were described as having shorter manes than lions from other African regions. In general, the West African lion is similar in general appearance and size as lions in other parts of Africa and Asia.\n\nHistorically, lion range encompassed North Africa, southeastern Europe, the Arabian Peninsula and Middle East. In these regions, lions occurred in:\n\n\nThe Barbary lion population in North Africa is extinct since the mid 1960s. Today, \"P. l. leo\" occurs in West and Central Africa and India. It is regionally extinct in Gambia, Mauritania, Sierra Leone, the Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, Palestine, Israel, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Its range has declined to the:\n\nContemporary lion distribution and habitat quality in savannahs of West and Central Africa was assessed in 2005, and Lion Conservation Units (LCU) mapped. Educated guesses for size of populations in these LCUs ranged from 3,274 to 3,909 individuals between 2002 and 2012.\nMale Asiatic lions are solitary or associate with up to three males forming a loose pride. Pairs of males rest, hunt and feed together, and display marking behaviour at the same sites. Females associate with up to 12 females forming a stronger pride together with their cubs. They share large carcasses among each other, but seldom with males. Female and male lions usually associate only for a few days when mating, but rarely travel and feed together.\n\nIn Pendjari National Park, groups of lions range from 1–8 individuals. Outside the National Park, groups are smaller and with a single male.\nIn Waza National Park, three female and two male lions were radio-collared in 1999 and tracked until 2001. The females moved in home ranges of between and stayed inside the park during most of the survey period. The males used home ranges of between , both inside and outside the park, where they repeatedly killed livestock. One was killed and the other shot at by local people. After the pellets were removed, he recovered and shifted his home range to inside the park, and was not observed killing livestock any more.\n\nIn general, lions prefer large prey species within a weight range of . They hunt large ungulates in the range of including gemsbok (\"Oryx gazella\"), Cape buffalo (\"Syncerus caffer\"), blue wildebeest (\"Connochaetes taurinus\"), giraffe (\"Giraffa camelopardalis\"), common eland (\"Tragelaphus oryx\"), greater kudu (\"T. strepsiceros\"), nyala (\"T. angasii\"), roan antelope (\"Hippotragus equinus\"), sable antelope (\"H. niger\"), zebra (\"Equus burchellii\"), bushpig (\"Potamochoerus larvatus\"), common warthog (\"Phacochoerus africanus\"), hartebeest (\"Alcephalus buselaphus\"), common tsessebe (\"Damaliscus lunatus\"), Thomson's gazelle (\"Eudorcas thomsonii\"), waterbuck (\"Kobus ellipsiprymnus\") and kob (\"K. kob\").\nAnalysis of 119 faecal samples of lions collected in Cameroon's Faro National Park revealed that lions preyed foremost on kob and harnessed bushbuck (\"Tragelaphus scriptus\"), and to a lesser extent also on waterbuck, crested porcupine (\"Hystrix cristata\"), bushpig, roan antelope, olive baboon (\"Papio anubis\") and oribi (\"Ourebia ourebi\").\nIn India's Gir Forest National Park, lions predominantly kill chital (\"Axis axis\"), Sambar deer (\"Rusa unicolor\"), nilgai (\"Boselaphus tragocamelus\"), cattle (\"Bos taurus\"), domestic buffalo (\"Bubalus bubalis\") and less frequently also wild boar (\"Sus scrofa\"). Outside the protected area where wild prey species do not occur, lions prey on buffalo and cattle, rarely also on Arabian camel (\"Camelus dromedarius\"). They kill most prey less than away from water bodies, charge prey from close range and drag carcasses into dense cover.\n\nLions probably prey on livestock when wild prey species occur at lower densities, especially during the wet season. An interview survey among livestock owners in six villages in Waza National Park's vicinity revealed that lions attack cattle mostly during the rainy season when wild prey disperses away from artificial waterholes.\n\nIn Africa, lions are killed pre-emptively or in retaliation for preying on livestock. Populations are also threatened by depletion of prey base, loss and conversion of habitat.\n\nThe lion population in West Africa is fragmented and isolated, comprising fewer than 250 mature individuals. It is threatened by poaching and illegal trade of body parts. Lion body parts from Benin are smuggled to Niger, Nigeria, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Guinea, and from Burkina Faso to Benin, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Guinea.\nIn Nigeria, the isolated lion population in Gashaka Gumti National Park is hunted and poisoned by local people.\n\nThe lion population Central Africa is threatened by loss of habitat and prey base and trophy hunting. Between seven and 12 lion trophies were exported from Cameroon every year in the years from 1985 to 2010.\nIn Bénoué National Park, local people were observed at a lion kill cutting off chunks of meat. Local people living in the vicinity of the protected area accounted in interviews that lions frequently attack livestock during the dry season. They use poison on carcasses to kill carnivores. In Waza National Park, two of four radio-collared lions were killed between 2007 and 2008, and probably also an adult female, two other adult males and three cubs. Nomadic herders use bow and arrows poisoned with cobra venom to kill lions in retaliation for attacks on livestock.\nIn northern parts of Cameroon, increased migration of people from Nigeria following the political insecurity in the region posed a threat to the area's lion population.\n\nPoaching of lions by paramilitary forces has been reported by local people living in the vicinity of Ethiopia's Gambella National Park. Local people around Chebera Churchura National Park kill lions, leopards (\"Panthera pardus\") and spotted hyenas (\"Crocuta crocuta\") using traps to retaliate against attacks on their livestock.\n\nIn India, the lion is protected, and included in CITES Appendix I. African lions are included in CITES Appendix II. In 2004, it was proposed in 2004 to list all lion populations in CITES Appendix I to reduce exports of lion trophies and implement a stricter permission process, due to the negative impact of trophy hunting.\n\nIn 2006, a Lion Conservation Strategy for West and Central Africa was developed in cooperation between IUCN regional offices and several wildlife conservation organisations. The strategy envisages to maintain sufficient habitat, ensure a sufficient wild prey base, make lion-human coexistence sustainable and reduce factors that lead to further fragmentation of populations.\nSurveys and interviews with herders around protected areas revealed that improved enclosures for livestock significantly decreased depredation by lions, and hence contributed to mitigating human-lion conflict.\n\nThe effect of lion trophy hunting and whether it is a sustainable conservation measure, has been discussed controversially.\nIn 2016, a group of authors recommended a quota for lion trophy hunting of one lion per in the WAP protected area complex, and to refrain from imposing an import embargo of lion trophies from this region.\nThis recommendation was questioned and strongly opposed, with the argument that the estimate for lion population size in the WAP region is not reliable and therefore the suggested quota inappropriate.\n\nIn 2006, 1258 captive lions were registered in the International Species Information System, including 13 individuals originating from Senegal to Cameroon, 115 from India and 970 with uncertain origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914048", "title": "Eisai (company)", "text": "Eisai (company)\n\nNihon Eisai Co. Ltd. was established in 1941. In 1944, merger with Sakuragaoka Research Laboratory resulted in creation of Eisai Co. Ltd. The American subsidiary of the company, Eisai Inc., was established in 1995.\n\nOn November 25, 1996, Eisai received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for Aricept (donepezil), a drug discovered in the company's labs and co-marketed with Pfizer.\n\nThree years later in 1999, the company received USFDA approval for Aciphex (rabeprazole), a drug co-marketed with Johnson & Johnson.\n\nIn September 2006, the company acquired four oncology products from Ligand Pharmaceuticals.\n\nIn April 2007, Eisai acquired Exton, Pennsylvania-based Morphotek, a company developing therapeutic monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and infectious diseases.\n\nIn December 2007, Eisai acquired MGI Pharma, a company specializing in oncology, for US$3.9 billion. This event brought Dacogen (decitabine), Aloxi (palonosetron), Hexalen (altretamine) for ovarian cancer, and the Gliadel Wafer (carmustine) for brain tumors into the Eisai product portfolio.\n\nIn 2009, Eisai received the Corporate Award from the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) for the development of Banzel.\n\nEisai Co., Ltd. is based in Tokyo, Japan, while its American subsidiary Eisai Inc. is headquartered in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. Eisai maintains medical research headquarters in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey as well as locations in Japan, the United Kingdom, the Research Triangle in North Carolina, and Massachusetts where the Eisai Research Institute and the Genetics Guided Dementia Discovery (G2D2) institute are based.\n\nThe company has manufacturing sites in Japan, North Carolina (USA), Maryland (USA), Bogor (Indonesia), Suzhou (China), Tainan (Taiwan), Visakhapatnam (India) and Hatfield, Hertfordshire (UK). Eisai has marketing operations in 19 European countries as well as the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nSome of the key products that Eisai produces or markets with partners include:\n\n\nAricept accounted for 40% of Eisai's revenue as of March 2010. The main competitor to Aricept is a generic formulation from Ranbaxy Labs. Eisai has pursued development of alternative formulations in order to extend the marketable lifetime of the product.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914049", "title": "SSA Global Technologies", "text": "SSA Global Technologies\n\nSSA Global Technologies (previous NASDAQ symbol: SSAG) was a company developing Enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. On May 15, 2006, SSA Global announced that it would be acquired by Infor Global Solutions. The acquisition was completed on July 28, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914053", "title": "Mu'ayyad al-Din al-Urdi", "text": "Mu'ayyad al-Din al-Urdi\n\nAl-Urdi (full name: Moayad Al-Din Al-Urdi Al-Amiri Al-Dimashqi\")\" d. 1266) was a medieval Syrian astronomer and geometer.\n\nBorn circa 1200, presumably (from the nisba \"al‐ʿUrḍī\") in the village of \"ʿUrḍ\" in the Syrian desert between Palmyra and Resafa, he came to Damascus at some point before 1239, where he worked as an engineer and teacher of geometry, and built instruments for al-Malik al-Mansur of Hims. In 1259 he moved to Maragha in northeastern Iran, after being asked by Nasir al-Din al-Tusi to help establish the Maragha observatory under the patronage of Hulagu. Al-Urdi's most notable works are \"Risālat al-Raṣd\", a treatise on observational instruments, and \"Kitāb al-Hayʾa\" (كتاب الهيئة), a work on theoretical astronomy. His influence can be seen on Bar Hebraeus and Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi, in addition to being quoted by Ibn al-Shatir.\n\nAl-Urdi contributed to the construction of the observatory outside of the city, constructing special devices and water wheels in order to supply the observatory, which was built on a hill, with drinking water. He also constructed some of the instruments used in the observatory, in the year 1261/2.\nAl-Urdi's son, who also worked in the observatory, made a copy of his father's \"Kitāb al‐Hayʾa\" and also constructed a celestial globe in 1279.\n\nAl-Urdi is a member of the group of Islamic astronomers of the 13th and 14th centuries who were active in the criticism of the astronomical model presented in Ptolemy's \"Almagest\". Saliba (1979) identified Bodleian ms. Marsh 621 as a copy of Al-Urdi's \"Kitāb al-Hayʾa\", based on which he argued that Al-Urdi's contributions predated Al-Tusi. Otto E. Neugebauer in 1957 argued that the works of this group of astronomers, perhaps via Ibn al-Shatir, must have been received in 15th-century Europe and ultimately influenced the works of Copernicus.\nThis concerns the \"Urdi lemma\" in particular, an extension of Apollonius' theorem that allowed an equant in an astronomic model to be replaced with an equivalent epicycle that moved around a deferent centered at half the distance to the equant point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914062", "title": "Ryavallen", "text": "Ryavallen\n\nRyavallen is a multi-purpose stadium in Borås, Sweden, mainly used for soccer and track and field athletics. It was inaugurated on 17 August 1941 with a soccer game where IF Elfsborg defeated Team Sweden, 2–1.\n\nIt was the home ground for IF Elfsborg until 2005, when the Borås Arena was Inaugurated. During the 1958 FIFA World Cup, it hosted the matches between USSR and Austria, and between England and Austria.\n\nThe record attendance is 22,654 spectators, when IF Elfsborg played IFK Norrköping in 1961. After Elfsborg had left the arena, the north stand was replaced by an indoor athletics hall. Ryavallen is currently used mostly for athletics. \n\nAs of today (June 2016), Ryavallen has a seating capacity of circa 12 000 spectators.\n"}
{"id": "1914065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914065", "title": "Rodolphe Meyer de Schauensee", "text": "Rodolphe Meyer de Schauensee\n\nRodolphe Meyer de Schauensee (January 4, 1901 – April 24, 1984) was an American ornithologist.\n\nHe was born in Rome, Italy, and his family moved to the United States in 1913. He was curator of birds at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia for nearly fifty years. He was particularly noted for his study of South American birds. He expanded the Academy's collection of bird skins, taking part in collecting trips to Brazil, Thailand, Burma, southern Africa, the East Indies, and Guatemala. He wrote about birds of South America.\n\nDe Schauensee is commemorated in the scientific names of two species of snakes, \"Eunectes deschauenseei\" and \"Hebius deschauenseei\".\n"}
{"id": "1914066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914066", "title": "Lysorophia", "text": "Lysorophia\n\nLysorophia is an order of aquatic Carboniferous and Permian tetrapods within the extinct subclass Lepospondyli. Lysorophians resembled small snakes, as their bodies are extremely elongate. There is a single family, the Molgophidae (previously known as Lysorophidae). Currently there are around five genera included within Lysorophia, although many may not be valid.\n\nThe skull is heavily built but with large lateral openings to accommodate jaw musculature, with small orbits restricted to the anterior edge of the large fenestrae. The intertemporal, supratemporal, postfrontal, and jugal bones of the skull have disappeared. The mandibles are short and robust with a small number of large triangular teeth. Although it was initially thought that the maxilla and premaxilla were freely movable, detailed anatomical studies show that this is not the case. The braincase is extremely robust, suggesting that lysorophians may have engaged in headfirst burrowing. \n\nThe torso is very elongate, the limbs diminutive or absent, and the tail short. There are up to 99 pre-sacral (i.e. not including the hips and tail) vertebrae.\n\nBased on morphology of the cranio-vertebral articulation and internal structure of the head, lysorophians are usually considered to be related to the Microsauria, although the pattern of bones of the skull is somewhat different.\n\nLysorophians are known mainly from the Pennsylvanian and Early Permian of North America. In North America, fossils of lysorophians have been found from places such as the Cutler Formation in San Juan County, Utah and the Mazon Creek fossil beds in Grundy County, Illinois. Carboniferous lysorophians are also known from Europe, having been found from England and Ireland. Possible remains of a lysorophian have also been found from La Machine, France, although they may belong to an aïstopod.\n\nSwim traces referrable to lysorophians have been found at the Robledo mountains of New Mexico, an area famous for its Permian tetrapod trackways. Designated as the ichnogenus \"Serpentichnus\", these marks occur as a series of L-shaped grooves, which are divided into two shafts: a long, diagonal shaft preceded by a shorter, forward-pointing shaft offset at a 150% angle. What seem to be tiny foot impressions occur on either side of the series of groves. When originally described in 2003, \"Serpentichnus\" tracks were argued to have been formed by a long-bodied animal with small limbs, moving in a \"sidewinding\" motion along a riverbed. Lysorophians such as \"Brachydectes\" were considered to be the most likely candidates for these swim traces.\n\nHowever, some paleontologists have argued that \"Serpentichnus\" traces were not actually formed by animals.These sources argue that the grooves were \"tool marks\", meaning that they were formed by rocks or vegetation brushing against the riverbed while being carried by a current.\n\n"}
{"id": "1914074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914074", "title": "Ryan Carnes", "text": "Ryan Carnes\n\nRyan Gregg Carnes (born November 21, 1982) is an American actor. He is most known for playing the adult Lucas Jones on the ABC soap opera \"General Hospital\".\n\nBorn in Pittsfield, Illinois, he attended Duke University, where he was a member of DUMB, the Duke University Marching Band. He is working on collaborations with other musicians.\n\nIn 2003, Carnes was part of a national campaign for Nintendo which was both in print and commercial. Carnes first started acting in 2004 when he became the ninth actor to portray Lucas Jones on the ABC soap opera \"General Hospital\" from July 2004 until September 2005. After he left, \"General Hospital\", he was replaced by Ben Hogestyn. From 2004 to 2006, Carnes had a recurring role on \"Desperate Housewives\" as Justin, the love interest of Andrew Van de Kamp, played by Shawn Pyfrom. Carnes starred in the 2004 film \"Eating Out\" and the 2006 film \"Surf School\". He also starred in the video for the song \"Mistake\" by Australian actress and singer Stephanie McIntosh.\n\nCarnes appeared in two episodes of the British science-fiction drama series \"Doctor Who\"—\"Daleks in Manhattan\" and \"Evolution of the Daleks\", in which he played Laszlo, who was turned into a half-human, half-pig slave. In the 2008 horror film \"Trailer Park of Terror\", based on the Imperium comic series of the same name, Carnes plays an arrogant teenager called Alex. He also starred as the title character in the Syfy miniseries \"The Phantom\", based on Lee Falk's comic strip of the same name.\n\nIt was reported on December 11, 2013, that Carnes would reprise the role of Lucas on \"General Hospital\" returning on January 17, 2014. He then returned for short periods in 2017 and again as recurring from 2018 onward.\n\n"}
{"id": "1914085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914085", "title": "Trachelophorus", "text": "Trachelophorus\n\nTrachelophorus is a genus of weevils in the leaf-rolling weevil family Attelabidae.\n\nSeveral species are known as giraffe weevils because of their elongated \"necks\". The best known species is \"Trachelophorus giraffa\".\n\nSpecies include:\n"}
{"id": "1914087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914087", "title": "The Orange Book: Reclaiming Liberalism", "text": "The Orange Book: Reclaiming Liberalism\n\nThe Orange Book: Reclaiming Liberalism () is a book written by a group of prominent British Liberal Democrat politicians and edited by David Laws and Paul Marshall in 2004. Beside Laws and Marshall, contributors include Vince Cable, Nick Clegg, Edward Davey, Chris Huhne, Susan Kramer, Mark Oaten and Steve Webb.\n\nThe term Orange Bookers refers to those in the party who subscribe to the book's emphasis on greater personal choice and possible market solutions.\n\nIn the book, the group offers liberal solutions—often stressing the role of choice and competition—to several societal issues such as public healthcare, pensions, environment, globalisation, social and agricultural policy, local government, the European Union and prisons. It is usually seen as the most economically liberal publication that the Liberal Democrats have produced in recent times.\n\n\nOrange Book liberalism is a Whiggish liberal ideology, mostly within the Liberal Democrats which seeks to balance the four main strands of liberal thought—social liberalism, economic liberalism, cultural liberalism and political liberalism. Orange Book liberalism is represented within the Liberal Democrats by the pressure group Liberal Reform.\n\nOrange Booker is now a well-used term for identifying Liberal Democrats who adhere more strongly to economic and personal liberal principles, compared to those who more strongly identify with centre-left beliefs such as members of the Social Liberal Forum or the Beveridge Group. Many Orange Bookers were prominent figures in the 2010–2015 Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition government, such as former Deputy Prime Minister Sir Nick Clegg.\n\nSix years after the book's publication, the Liberal Democrats joined with the Conservatives to form a coalition government. Of the nine authors of the book who were elected MPs, one (Mark Oaten) resigned before the 2010 election, one (Chris Huhne) resigned in 2013 having been in the cabinet and the remaining seven were all members of the government in 2015. Edward Stourton from the BBC radio show \"Analysis\" argued that the Orange Book movement within the Liberal Democrats was important in the founding of the Coalition government with the Conservatives. Conservative MP David Davis found a number of \"areas of overlap\" between Conservative policies and the views of the book authors.\n\nHistorian and Labour politician Tristram Hunt said that the \"Orange Book\" debate was a revival of the debates in liberal circles between the classical liberalism of William Gladstone and politicians like David Lloyd George.\n\nRichard Grayson, a member of the Social Liberal Forum, said that such Gladstonian liberalism was replaced in the early 20th century with a commitment to the welfare state because of the work of Thomas Hill Green, Leonard Hobhouse and the economist John A. Hobson; therefore, \"The Orange Book\" writers were seeking to overturn nearly a century of Liberal party history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914090", "title": "New Apostolic Church", "text": "New Apostolic Church\n\nThe New Apostolic Church (NAC) is a chiliastic Christian church that split from the now defunct Catholic Apostolic Church during an 1863 schism in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nThe church has existed since 1863 in Germany and since 1897 in the Netherlands. It came about from the schism in Hamburg in 1863, when it demerged from the Catholic Apostolic Church, which itself started in the 1830s as a renewal movement in, among others, the Anglican Church and Church of Scotland.\n\nPremillennialism and the Second Coming of Christ are at the forefront of the New Apostolic doctrines. Most of its doctrines are akin to mainstream Christianity and, especially its liturgy, to Protestantism, whereas its hierarchy and organisation could be compared with the Roman Catholic Church. The New Apostolic Church is neither Protestant nor Catholic. It is a central church in the Irvingian orientation of Christianity.\n\nThe church considers itself to be the re-established continuation of the Early Church and that its leaders are the successors of the twelve apostles. This doctrine resembles Restorationism in some aspects.\n\nThe official abbreviation in English-speaking countries is \"NAC\" (for New Apostolic Church\"), whereas it is \"NAK\" in German (Neuapostolische Kirche\"), \"ENA\" in French (Église Néo Apostolique\"), and \"INA\" in Portuguese (Igreja Nova Apostólica\") and Spanish (\"Iglesia Nueva Apostólica\").\n\nIn England in 1832, John Bate Cardale was called, through prophecies, as the first apostle of the second sending. Eleven more men from various Christian denominations, social positions and religious training were called to the newly founded apostle ministry from then until 1835. After a long period of combined preparation, these apostles started to travel around the world, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. The main point of their gospel was that the Church had deviated from its origins; only through restoring the Universal Church to its perfect state could the return of Christ be ensured. They were convinced that the restoration of the apostles' ministry was necessary to achieve that perfect condition.\n\nAfter the death of three apostles in 1855, the apostolate declared that there was no reason to call new apostles. During a meeting at Albury in 1860, the German Prophet Heinrich Geyer called two evangelists to be apostles. After deliberation, the apostles rejected this calling, explained the callings of substitutes as coadjutors to the remaining apostles and affirmed that no further callings to the apostolate would be accepted.\n\nLater, on 10 October 1862, while traveling with the Apostle Woodhouse in Königsberg, the Prophet Geyer called Rudolf Rosochaki to be an apostle while staying in his home. As callings in private were no longer accepted by the English apostles, Rosochaki was told to wait patiently until God would confirm his calling in the presence of witnesses. In December, Geyer informed Angel (Bishop) F.W. Schwartz, of the Hamburg congregation, that Rosochaki had been called and Angel Schwartz then invited both of them to Hamburg. In the afternoon service of 4 January 1863, Schwartz asked the men to describe what had happened and Schwartz, along with most of the congregation, accepted this calling of Rosochaki to the apostolate.\n\nA few days later Apostle Rosochaki became doubtful of the divine origin of his calling as an Apostle after meeting with some of the other apostles. Eventually, he subordinated himself once more to Apostle Woodhouse and left the schismatics, returning to the Catholic Apostolic congregation on 17 January 1863. On 26 January 1863 Angel Schwartz met with Apostle Woodhouse and Archangel Rothe in Berlin and expressed his belief in the need to continue the Apostle ministry. Therefore, on 6 February 1863 Apostle Woodhouse informed the Hamburg congregation, in writing, of its expulsion from the Catholic Apostolic Church. This is commonly known as the \"Hamburg Schism\". The Hamburg congregation, along with Prophet Geyer, split off to form the \"Allgemeine Apostolische Mission\" (General Apostolic Congregation) in 1863, and shortly thereafter the Dutch branch of the Restored Apostolic Mission Church, at first known as \"Apostolische Zending\" and officially registered as \"Hersteld Apostolische Zendingkerk\" (HAZK) in 1893. Today, 4 January 1863 is considered the date on which the New Apostolic Church was established.\n\nAs Rosochaki had returned to the Catholic Apostolic Church, this left the newly independent Hamburg congregation without apostolic authority: no more believers could be sealed; no ministers could be ordained. On 12 April 1863, a deacon delivered a prophecy calling Priest Carl Louis Preuss as an Apostle. Prophet Heinrich Geyer confirmed this calling a little later. On 25 May 1863, Friedrich Wilhelm Schwartz was also called as an Apostle through many prophetically gifted members in the congregation, and also through Prophet Geyer. Thus began the work of the Apostles of the New Order, with German \"apostles\" spreading \"the word\" around the world.\n\nThe Prophet Geyer initiated the first schism in the new body for the same reason as the schism from the English Apostles and as for leaving the Catholic Apostolic congregations, namely Apostles not validating the Prophet's call for an Apostle. Friction existed between the Prophet Geyer and Apostle Preuss concerning whether Prophets or Apostles had higher authority, and when Apostle Preuss died on 25 July 1878, open conflict broke out. Geyer had already called the coal dealer Johannes F.L. Gueldner as an apostle in a private meeting four months before apostle Preuss' death. Apostle Preuss had refused to recognize this calling and, on his deathbed, designated Elder Wichmann as his successor. However, he was not able to stop Geyer because \"the word of a prophet carried more weight in those days than the word of the Lord\".\n\nGeyer called Gueldner again as an apostle, and as the successor of Preuss, in a service on 4 August 1878. The majority of the Hamburg congregation protested, Wichmann stepped up to the altar and, without much ado, relieved Geyer from his ministry. The ensuing tumult led to a flurry of apostle callings. Wichmann's wife, supported by her son, called him an apostle through prophecy. A maid called her master as an apostle, also by prophecy. Other prophetic people called a fourth person as an apostle. The result of this chaos was that none of those who were called could prevail. Wichmann told Geyer that he had to leave, so Geyer left the church with his followers, taking their vestments and several sacramental items with them. A successor for Preuss was not selected at this time (this happened later in 1880). Going by a prophecy, the remaining Hamburg congregation gave themselves under the care of Apostle Menkhoff but the congregation had suffered severe losses from the schism.\n\nGeyer and his followers founded a new congregation in Hamburg named Apostolische Mission (Apostolic Mission). They built a chapel and \"served\" together with Gueldner, also in Silesia. His congregation never gained any importance, and wasted away after his death in 1896. The remainder of the Hamburg congregation adopted the name Allgemeine Christliche Apostolische Mission (General Christian Apostolic Mission).\n\nAfter the death of Apostle H.F. Schwartz, the remaining active Apostles of the New Order formed a central, ruling ministry in the form of the \"Chief Apostle\" in either 1895, 1896 or 1897, and designated Friedrich Krebs to this office. It is important to note that this office did not exist before Schwartz's death. He had been an Angel (Bishop) in the Catholic Apostolic Church, which was opposed to designating any one person as head of the church, citing that Christ is the head of the Christian Church. In contrast, the role of the Chief Apostle ministry was not intended to usurp the leadership of Christ, but more realistically aimed to continue the succession of Simon Peter, as Christ's immediate subordinate on Earth.\n\nIn 1895, there were only six active Apostles, three in Europe and one each in South Africa, Australia, and Indonesia. With the establishment of a higher Apostolic office, the Chief Apostle appointed all subsequent Apostles as opposed to prophetic calling, which had been fundamental since the formation of the Catholic Apostolic Church. By 1899, the traditional limit of twelve apostles had been discarded and more men were ordained as Apostles. Parallel to the progress of the New Apostolic denomination, schisms occurred on several occasions elsewhere in the world. The reasons for those divisions were different but mainly related to disputes regarding the central ministry of the Chief Apostle.\n\nIn August 1906, Chief Apostle Niehaus ordained Apostle Helper Johann Gottfried Bischoff as District Apostle of the Middle Germany and Württemberg district, replacing the late Apostle Ruff. He also renamed the \"Neuapostolische Gemeinde\" (New Apostolic Congregation) as \"Neuapostolische Kirche\" (New Apostolic Church) and created a public corporation for it. He ordained numerous young ministers and regularly convened conferences of apostles. He founded the periodical church publication \"Apostolisches Sonntagsblatt\" (Apostolic Sunday Paper), later \"Neuapostolische Rundschau\" (New Apostolic Review), in 1907 as an additional weekly publication to go along with \"Der Herold\" and \"Wächterstimme von Ephraim\" (Watchman's Voice of Ephraim). In 1908 he issued the \"Allgemeinen Hausregeln\" (General House Rules) and in 1916 he wrote the first textbook about the New Apostolic faith \"Fragen  &  Antworten\" (Questions &  Answers). This book still exists in its revised 1992 version, but will be replaced by the new catechism.\n\nAs the first of the Chief Apostles, Apostle Niehaus and Apostle Carl August Brückner visited United States congregations on 19 August 19, 1909. The outbreak of war in 1914 brought high exposure to the church. The soldiers at the frontlines were administered the Holy Communion by field post as bread hosts with three drops of wine on them. This practice was established in every congregation in 1917 and remains to this day. While the Holy Communion had originally been celebrated separately with bread and wine, the current practice uses unleavened bread wafers which are manufactured with three drops of wine trickled onto each.\n\nThe name \"Neuapostolische Kirche\" (New Apostolic Church) came into use in North America as early as 1918. A variety of names had been used there previously, including \"German Apostolic Church\" and \"Apostolic Church\". This name was uniformly adopted in Germany in the late 1920s as well.\n\nOn 25 January 1930, the day before his 25-year anniversary as Chief Apostle, he fell down the stairs in an accident and was pressed to give up his duties. He remained diligent but was finally retired by the council of apostles on 21 September 1930. He died on 23 August 1932 at the age of 84 years.\n\nIn 1905, Chief Apostle Niehaus oversaw six Apostle Districts with 488 congregations. At the end of his tenure, there were twelve European Apostle Districts with about 1,600 congregations and further 200 congregations overseas. The New Apostolic Church in Germany counted 138,000 members in 1925.\n\nThe initially deep ecumenical conviction, which was cultivated in the Catholic Apostolic Church and then by Heinrich Geyer, had declined over time due to heavy conflicts with other Christian denominations, perhaps because the theologian education of ministers in the Catholic Apostolic Church may have been lacking (only a few had been Catholic Apostolic ministers before), or there may have been rejection by the national churches.\n\nThe lower social classes, from which important ministers were drawn, were essential for the growth of the church. Nationalistic appeals can be found in hymnaries and theological scriptures from that time. Also, significantly for that period, the church's structure became increasingly hierarchical. The most charismatic element of the Catholic Apostolic Church, prophecies, became rarer (the last oral lore dates from the 1980s) and the Prophet Ministry disappeared. In fact, a total reform of the evangelical pattern can be observed and which became apparent by expelling Catholic Apostolic influences.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church, like many other small organizations and societies, had to accept compromises with the National Socialist regime to avoid being prohibited or persecuted. Even though the Christian faith and basic principles of the New Apostolic Church fundamentally contradicted the world view of National Socialism, the church was not prohibited, unlike a number of other religious communities or sects. The extent which National Socialist views and attitudes were spread within the church, and whether this happened out of fear of reprisals or one's own expulsion, is today still a controversial subject between the church and its critics.\n\nDespite the National Socialist propaganda which the church spread, some sources tell of converted Jews in the congregations being helped by the New Apostolic Christians. Although many of the Apostles joined the NSDAP for reasons of fear, there were a few Apostles and District Apostles who publicly expressed their adverse attitude toward the regime.\n\nAccording to Nazi requirements, all divine services had to be concluded with a \"Heil Hitler\". Some ministers' congregation chiefs did not obey those orders, especially in rural areas. This led to several congregations being closed repeatedly over time. According to church accounts, prohibitions were cancelled partially, with hardship. This became apparent by other measures adopted. The Nazis burdened the New Apostolic Church with inordinately high duties, suppressed youth care, arbitrarily rejected purchases of land and establishment of chapels, did not allow collection of offerings and prohibited the release of church publications as well as printing of bibles and hymnaries.\n\nThis attitude was explained in 1996 by Chief Apostle Richard Fehr, while church spokesman Peter Johanning elaborated on it in 2003. Johanning gave an account of a \"Jugendfreund\" article of July 1933, in which \"allegiance\" was already invoked shortly after Hitler's seizure of power. By referencing Sir 10 EU, that text legitimized the relation of church and state, \"It may be regarded as naïve today, but age back then revealed different reasonings\".\n\nAt that time ministers of the church were actually implored by church guidelines to abstain from political representation. \"This avowal for non-political work of the church\" signalled \"the purposeful idea of the church administration to abstain unambiguously from any political representation, even though here and there the reality looked different\". Furthermore, the spokesman described Richard Fehr's explanations concerning this issue, regarding the church administration's adaptation as on purpose \"in order to perform more preaching of the Gospel\".\n\nOn Christmas Day 1951, during service in Giessen, Germany, Chief Apostle J.G. Bischoff delivered his \"Botschaft\" (\"message\"), announcing that the Lord had made known to him that he would not die before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ, during which the chosen people were to be taken into His kingdom (the First Resurrection). In 1954, this teaching became the church's official dogma. Those ministers, especially the apostles, who did not preach this message lost their positions and were excommunicated from the New Apostolic Church. Approximately one quarter of apostles active during this time resigned or retired early, several schisming to form their own denomination. The most important \"victim\" of this policy was Peter Kuhlen, who had been ordained in 1948 as the successor to J.G. Bischoff. The impact of this message varied regionally; all of the Apostles active in South Africa resigned or retired (1954), both Apostles in South America resigned (1957), several apostles in Europe (1954–55) resigned, but no schism formed in North America. When Chief Apostle Bischoff died on 7 July 1960, his dogma about Christ's return had not been fulfilled. In the service on 10 July 1960, Walter Schmidt was introduced as the new Chief Apostle and, during that service, the admonition to the members was to answer external critics with silence regarding the Bischoff Prophecy.\n\nEven today, the church administration has not renounced the \"Botschaft\", but has set it at liberty for every church member to make his/her own opinion. According to Chief Apostle Wilhelm Leber it is \"no dogma anymore\". The excommunicated ministers and members have not been reinstated. The first official removal of all exclusions, apology for opponents of the Botschaft prophecy—not for the prophecy itself—and attempted rapprochements regarding the prophecy were started in 2005 and 2006, in Switzerland and Saarland. Since then members of \"Apostolische Gemeinde des Saarlandes\" have been visiting New Apostolic divine services. Until end or 2007 the NAC and United Apostolic Church (UAC) were reviewing common historical topics, supported and encouraged by liberal members. On December 4, 2007 the NAC held a broadcast information evening where the German apostles were blamed to be the only guilty persons for the circumstances and splits in 1955. As a result, the talks were suspended by the UAC.\n\nOn 13 May 2013, Chief Apostle Wilhelm Leber finally addressed the Bischoff message on behalf of the New Apostolic Church. Leber stated that over fifty years had passed leaving plenty of time for a \"sober analysis\" in order to address the situation properly.\nLeber formally apologized for all the suffering that had taken place due to the \"message\", and declared the New Apostolic Church no longer considered the message a \"divine revelation\" or a situation of God \"changing his will\". The statement closed with the remark that each individual is left to come to their own conclusions on the subject.\n\nNew Apostolic Christians believe in the Triune God: God the Father, the Creator of the world; the Son, Jesus Christ the Son of Man, personified God, redeemer and Head of the Church; and the Holy Spirit, who guides the church by His revelations, gives knowledge to the believers and acts universally. In this, NAC hardly differs from other Trinitarian churches.\n\nThe religion accepts the Apostles' Creed, believes in the sacramental nature of Holy Communion and baptism, considers the Bible as the authority of the Word of God, the next coming of Christ and the gifts of the Holy Spirit.\n\nAccording to French Bishop Jean Vernette, the New Apostolic members are \"strict millenarists\", but sociologist Gilles Séraphin stated their millenarism is less pronounced than that of Jehovah's Witnesses and Adventists, and that this is a \"\"église de Réveil\"\", which retains a Pentecostal look from its origins.\n\nIn December 2012, the New Apostolic Church's catechism was made available. It \"contains a detailed description of the New Apostolic doctrine and expresses the Church’s position on various topics\".\n\nIn the New Apostolic Church the Bible is granted a high authority, because its writers were inspired by the Holy Spirit. The English congregations have officially used the New King James Version since 1998. It is the duty of the Apostles to watch over the regular exegesis. The apostles interpret the Bible in the same way as Protestantism and Catholicism, except for their interpretation of Holy Sealing and beliefs about the departed.\n\nThe District Apostles' meeting from 22–24 September 2004 in Nice emphasised again that the Holy Scripture is recognised and regarded as the doctrinal basis of the NAC. In particular, the statements of the New Testament, especially the gospel of Jesus and the epistles of the Apostles, are of definitive importance. Individual Biblical books and passages, along with statements of Apostles and ministers of the New Apostolic Church, must have grounding in the Holy Scriptures. The doctrine and its proclamation must not contradict the fundamental statements of the gospel.\n\nThe church regards the basis of this faith as being found in the Bible, including the Apocrypha. In 2005, a District Apostles Meeting declared that \"the Apocrypha are just as binding for the faith and doctrine of the New Apostolic Church as the other writings of the Old Testament\" (see official statement here).\n\nThe New Apostolic Church knows three sacraments:\n\nThe Holy Baptism with water is part of the spiritual rebirth, and a prerequisite for receiving the Holy Spirit in the Church. Both children and adults can be baptised. A person baptised as a child will later confess the baptism, at the age of 14–16, by confirmation. The baptism can be performed by priestly ministries.\n\nHoly Baptism is taught to be the first and fundamental act of grace of the Triune God, bestowed on a person believing in Christ. The act of this sacrament includes the remission of the original sin. In this respect, the candidate for baptism has a share in Christ's merit, and experiences his first close relationship with God. The person becomes a (visible) Christian and is thus adopted into the fellowship of those who believe in Jesus Christ and avow themselves to him. Baptisms performed by other Christian churches are recognised as long as they were performed with water consecrated for the purpose and in the name of the Triune God.\n\nThe sacrament of Holy Communion is celebrated \"as a feast of joy and thankfulness\" in every service.\n\nThe Church teaches that this commemorates the sacrificial death of Christ, Son of God, who allowed himself to be crucified for the sins of mankind despite his innocence. Holy Communion preserves the eternal life of the soul and accords it the security of remaining in the fellowship of life with its redeemer Jesus Christ. For the New Apostolic Church, the \"body and blood\" of Jesus are dispensed as bread and wine in the form of a consecrated wafer. By partaking of it in faith, an individual assimilates the nature of Jesus and receives \"strength from God\". The Holy Communion is available not only for members but also baptised members of the Church and those who have been invited as guests. Priestly ministries direct the Holy Communion.\n\nHoly Sealing is the dispensing of Holy Spirit. By this act the believer is filled with Holy Spirit as a strength of God, not as the third person of the Triune God. It is carried about through prayer and laying on of hands of an apostle, provided that the believer has been first baptised with water.\n\nThe Holy Baptism with water and the Holy Sealing together constitute the rebirth out of water and Spirit; by this the \"childhood in God\" is attained. As a child of God the believer is granted the opportunity to participate in the Second Coming of Christ. From this moment on the believer is an adherent of the New Apostolic Church. The Holy Sealing is also dispensed to children whereby the parents must profess their faith in the doctrine of Jesus and the apostles.\n\nThe church interprets the sacrament for example with the biblical text of 8:14–17 and .\n\nBecause Holy Sealing is an institutional manner of giving the Holy Spirit, conducted by the apostles of Early Christianity, New Apostolic Church considers the \"childhood in God\" possible for other Christians as well referring to the overall acting of the Holy Spirit (John 3:8, Romans 18:7, 1. John 4:2).\n\nNAC represents the most frequent form of premillennialism. The Church teaches that the Second Coming of Jesus Christ is imminent, and the goal of faith is to be worthy to be the Bride of Christ when He returns.\n\nEschatology in the New Apostolic Church has been refined recently to this end-time sequence:\n\nThe spiritual leaders of the New Apostolic Church are called \"Apostles\". They are considered to be indispensable to preparing their members for the goal of faith. This goal is to be led into eternal community with God at the Second Coming of Christ. It takes center stage of a New Apostolic Christian's faith.\n\nThe Apostles of the New Apostolic Church consider themselves as successors of the first Apostles during Early Christianity, who had been sent by Jesus Christ. In their tradition, they act as missionaries, who go to all men to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to prepare them for the Second Coming of Christ and eternal life. According to the NAC, the apostles are the only ones on earth who have the mission to forgive sins and baptise with the Holy Spirit. It is also a duty of the apostles, and all the ministers of the NAC, to affirm corporate feeling within the church and to support the members with pastoral care.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church teaches that Apostles are necessary for salvation. That means that God has re-established the apostle ministry in order to collect all the Christians for the Second Coming of Christ. Therefore, the expression \"necessary for salvation\" indicates the plan of God that the apostle ministry must act on earth until His son returns. The question, \"Who will attend the Second Coming of Christ?\" is not answered with it. Because the Holy Spirit acts in other churches as well, God alone forgives sins, and may find His \"Children\" without Holy Sealing. The NAC considers the affiliation of non-members to the Second Coming of Christ to be possible.\n\nThe NAC also claims they would not contradict other churches who teach that final salvation is granted on day of Last Judgement. The NAC sees the period of activity of the apostles to reach to the Second Coming of Christ, but no further. By Last Judgement, there will be no visible church, but the faith in Christ will be the sole element. Thus the NAC denies any claim of absoluteness or religious totalitarianism.\n\nA distinctive and controversial feature of the New Apostolic Church is its doctrine about the dead. A special divine service of remembrance and intercession in prayer takes place three times annually. In such divine services the apostles also administer the sacraments to a living subsidiary minister. Regarding this, New Apostolic Christians refer to several biblical texts such as . \nThere are no limitations to whom in the beyond may be baptised by apostles.\n\nThe Holy Communion is administered each Sunday in divine services held by a District Apostle or the Chief Apostle. It is possible for the dead to find grace before God and have their sins forgiven. It is also possible, by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, that the dead can find faith. Just as it is possible to be saved without finding the New Apostolic faith, the dead can be saved another way by Christ's grace, therefore without help of Apostles. The New Apostolic Church clearly states that most questions regarding this issue cannot be fully answered.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church emphasises the personal accountability of its members for their actions. The individual is responsible to God for his behaviour. The gospel of Christ, and the system of values inherent in the Ten Commandments provide clear orientation in this respect. However, the church itself is politically neutral and independent. It is financed by the voluntary donations of its members.\n\nThis is the New Apostolic Creed circa 2010:\n\nCommittees (project groups) within the NAC meet from time to time, under the authority of the Chief Apostle, to discuss and revise some fundamental or exclusive views of the church concerning authority, historical or linguistic background. They frequently cite examples of the regular activity of large churches. This has led to corrections and clear distinctions to previous doctrines. The Chief Apostle describes these corrections as \"focusing\", because the church believes in a constant act of the Holy Spirit, who gives knowledge.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church does not have any objections to blood or organ donation, provided that either the donor consents or that brain death has already taken place.\n\nThe Church regards fertilisation as the beginning of life. Each embryo is said to deserve urgent protection whether inside or outside the womb; it is not suitable material for research or destruction. However, the Church approves research with adult stem cells.\n\nConcubinage, or a so-called trial marriage, is not approved by the New Apostolic Church if it consists of a couple living together in intimate relations in a common domicile, without having been married, without Church blessing and without intending to marry eventually. The Church recommends marriage and emphasises the importance of the marriage blessing for living together. Members in concubinage are not permitted to practice a ministerial or teaching function unless they intend to marry. Such lifestyle is not considered exemplary to others.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church is open toward the ecumenical movement. Contacts on local and institutional levels serve principally to facilitate better mutual acquaintance and to dismantle prejudices. Due to differences in doctrinal statements, it is not possible for the Church to participate in ecumenical divine services or acts of blessing. The New Apostolic Church has reinforced its efforts to cultivate good neighbourly relationships with other churches and denominations. This occurs primarily through invitations to both the community and church congregations for special events, and through combined benefit events for charitable purposes. The question as to whether this may lead to membership status in the ecumenical movement cannot be answered at this time.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church does not consider the broad theory of evolution to be a suitable explanation for the creation of life, because this theory does not take into consideration the presence of God as the Creator. However the Church does not consider scientific insights on evolution to be in contradiction to the statements of the Bible.\n\nThe Church is careful to distinguish between evolutionary theory and evolution itself. While the theory in scientific terms does describe the laws according to which evolution takes place, it does not give any explanation as to the origin of the creation. By contrast, evolution — the continuing development within the living and the inanimate world — occurs according to the divinely prescribed laws of nature and does not contradict the statements of the Holy Scripture.\n\nThe Church maintains that it is solely for God to determine whether, and to what extent, a person acquires guilt before God through the practice of his or her homosexuality. In this regard, the Church expressly states that sexual orientation has no relevance in pastoral care.\n\nThe Church however states that its members who are \"practicing homosexuals\", or living in a \"homosexual partnership\", cannot carry out ministerial but may serve in other duties of the church such as teaching religion instruction to Sunday school children.\n\nAccording to the understanding of the Holy Scriptures, suicide is sin, because life is a gift of God. No human being has the right to take his or her own life, or that of any other human being. Likewise, no one has the right to condemn someone who has committed suicide. Only God is able to see all the factors involved, and He can also be gracious to such a soul according to His will.\n\nChurch activities are mainly focused on divine services and pastoral care of the membership. In addition, the New Apostolic Church engages in charitable activities within the bounds of its limited resources. If, in individual cases, help is urgently required, it is given directly and according to the need.\n\nThe liturgy of the New Apostolic Church was originally consistent with the liturgy of the Catholic Apostolic Church, which contained strong elements of the Roman Catholic and Anglican rite. This lasted until 1885, when emphasis of the divine services shifted towards the \"liturgy of the word\" under the influence of Dutch Calvinism. Today, only a few aspects of the Catholic Apostolic tradition remain in the New Apostolic liturgy.\n\nThe Church does not use its own publications during services and members are discouraged from bringing their Bible, as they could be distracted from the sermons. Internal circulars and documents explaining the church's guidelines, which come from the Chief Apostle and are considered to have the same authority as the Biblical epistles, are supposed to provide the correct meanings of the Bible. They are not available to ordinary members, only to elders. According to religious anthropologist Thomas Kirsch, elders are seen as the \"source of denominational knowledge\", and members are connected to their religion's headquarters \"through chains of referentiality in the form of textual quotations\".\n\nThe remission of sins (absolution) is conducted in every single divine service, in the name of Jesus, by an apostle or by a lower minister under order of the apostle. Mistakenly, many New Apostolic Christians assume that absolution belongs to the sacrament of Holy Communion or is even a sacrament on its own. Chief Apostle Leber clearly stated in 2009 that this special mission of absolution is bound to the apostle ministry, but not that other Christians or human beings would have no access to God's forgiveness. The forgiveness of sins, with or without absolution, is eventually a sovereign decision of God himself.\n\nThis is the outline of a New Apostolic divine service:\n\n\nThe New Apostolic ministers preach without a manuscript. They prepare themselves for the sermon with the small \"Divine Service Guide\" publication released monthly by the church administration. The Guide was reformatted in December 2007 to give the officiant a structured introduction to the subject matter along with background knowledge about the biblical word, historical knowledge, cross-references, additional sources and so on. The contents of one topic may be spread across several divine services within a month so that each divine service can cover a subtopic and build upon the main topic, in order to teach and guide the listeners better.\n\nA theological education is not necessary to hold a New Apostolic ministry. Continuing the tradition of Apostle Peter, the Holy Spirit is believed to act through the ministers during the sermon, but the Church does not consider the ministers to be infallible. One criticism has been that ministers under stress preach habitual content and verbiage between sermons. Also, ministers with insufficient instruction in New Apostolic theology and doctrines have accidentally preached false teachings, leading to misunderstandings. The Church has counteracted this with numerous seminars, and it requests that ministers of each congregation coordinate their sermon topics together.\n\nAnywhere from 20 to 100% of the officially registered members of the Church attend the divine services regularly. While attendance statistics in Central Europe are declining, in Eastern and Western Europe, South America and Africa attendance numbers are relatively high. Regular participants frequently engage in church life and stand out due to their feelings of togetherness. A particular care exists for children, youth, and seniors. The Church culture tends towards formal dress and appearance, although all are welcome and a \"come as you are\" attitude exists.\n\nThe choir of each congregation meets for regular choir rehearsal whenever possible, as do the various orchestras and instrumental groups. Music is promoted to a great extent in the New Apostolic Church.\n\nThe cultural life of the NAC has continued to develop, just as it has opened to the public. In addition to traditional church choirs, which are sometimes known among other denominations due to their quality, there are progressive music groups and ensembles which also perform publicly. Musical works of the nineteenth century or later are an essential part of the church's music literature.\n\nPortions of the New Apostolic music literature have been revised and supplemented by literature from other Christian churches. Most of the hymns in the New Apostolic songbook are also sung in the Roman Catholic Church or Protestant Churches. A new songbook, which replaced the one from 1925, has been used since Easter 2005 in the Germanic countries and since September 2008 in the Anglophone countries.\n\nThe church and delegates of other denominations regard the communal fellowship of the New Apostolic Christians as one of their biggest strengths. \"`We stick together. We help each other, we are on first-name terms with each other, we all know each other. If one of us builds a garage, we muck in. We are a little family.`\" says Andreas Fincke, former religious scholar of the Protestant Church of Berlin. Many New Apostolic Christians have deep friendships within their congregation or district.\n\nThe emblem of the church portrays a white Latin cross, hovering above stylised waves on blue background. The sun rises at the horizon of those waves, symbolised by 10 rays. There is no definite interpretation of its meaning. According to Peter Johanning, spokesman of the church, the various elements can be interpreted as Crucifixion of Jesus Christ (cross), Holy Baptism (water) and as Holy Sealing (sun), referring to the three sacraments of the church. Sunrise or sunset in the emblem could also be regarded as the immediate Second Coming of Christ. The first official emblem was created by Chief Apostle Schmidt in 1968 and can still be found on many church buildings. It was changed to a more modern appearance by Chief Apostle Richard Fehr in 1995.\n\nThe church ministers have no formal theological training. In addition to their family, professional and social obligations, they perform their pastoral duties in an honorary capacity. One of their most important duties is to give pastoral care to the believers assigned to them.\n\nThe NAC does not perform ordination of women. Regardless, many women teach in the Sunday Pre-School, Sunday School and Confirmation School, provide other religious education and hold leading positions in administrative duties and in music. Some congregations and districts have women who have a similar role to a deacon. At the end of his term, Chief Apostle Richard Fehr said that he considered the potential \"ordination of women as deaconesses\", and the apostles are still considering the issue.\n\nTo become a minister, a male member of a congregation must accept an offer of ordination from a senior minister. It is the desire of the Church for these candidates to be elected with the assistance of prayer. This happens with the higher ministers, although ministries like priests or deacons are given to those with adequate circumstances (time, job, etc.). If the candidate accepts, an apostle will ordain him during a divine service. Apostles and also bishops, if possible, are ordained by the Chief Apostle.\n\nThe congregations are the centre of religious life. They are in the care of Shepherds, Evangelists or Priests commissioned by the Apostles. The Rectors of the congregations are assisted by Priests, and Deacons.\n\nIf a minister spreads teachings which are clearly against New Apostolic doctrines or canonical Christian interpretation of the bible he may be suspended temporarily, or be released from his ministry. A minister may also ask for time off or resign from his ministry voluntarily.\n\nPolitical neutrality:\nThe New Apostolic Church abstains from all political statements. It expects its members to fulfill the laws and the civil obligations of their countries as long as divine laws are not transgressed. The church attaches importance to open and trusting relations with governments, authorities and the general public. New Apostolic Christians are free to engage in public life.\n\nThe ministries in the NAC are hierarchical. The highest minister present in a congregation conducts the service. The different ministries are:\n\nApostles:\n\nPriests:\nThe different priestly ministries work in the local congregations and have responsibility for the direct spiritual care of the congregations. Priestly ministries can carry out Holy Baptism and Holy Communion. The ministries that are considered priestly are as follows:\n\nDeacons:\n\nThe international office of the New Apostolic Church is located in Zürich, Switzerland, and is the seat of the New Apostolic Church International Apostle Unity (NAKI). The members of NAKI are the Chief Apostle, the District Apostles and the Apostles and the worldwide church is led from there. The church is divided into several regional churches (districts), covering entire countries or continents. Depending on national laws, the District Apostles are the heads of the regional churches (often incorporated) and have sole fiscal authority for their district. The NAC is financed by voluntary gifts from the church members and does not collect taxes. Money received is used for building maintenance, social aid and aid for the developing countries. The church is politically neutral and expects its members to comply with local laws.\n\nThe Chief Apostle and the District Apostles meet regularly to consult each other on church matters of international significance. Every three years all Apostles gather for an international general assembly.\n\nThe international church is financed by allocations from District Apostle areas, and arranges for financially weak areas to receive aid from financially strong ones. The lion's share of earnings are used for construction and maintenance of church buildings, which are maintained by District Apostle areas. A considerable part of the budget is also spent on missionary work. The church aims to manage its affairs with as little administration as possible financial records are publicly available upon request or published on church websites or in \"Our Family\", the official magazine of the Church. Bookkeeping and accounting requirements are largely handled by independent Certified Public Accountants.\nPastoral and organisational duties in the congregations are carried out in an honorary capacity. All acts and blessings performed by the Church, e.g. baptisms, wedding ceremonies or funeral services are carried out free of charge. Generally Bishops and Apostles are the only ministers employed full-time by the church with their salary coming from offerings and authorised by accountants.\n\nIn keeping with the needs of the congregations, there are a great many other services provided. It is important for church activities to cater to the needs of children (Sunday Pre-school, Sunday School and religious instruction), youth (youth evenings, youth services, youth events) and senior citizens (senior events). Thus, fellowship is cultivated and the bonds between members of the Church strengthened.\n\nFriedrich Bischoff, son of Chief Apostle Johann Gottfried Bischoff, founded the \"Friedrich Bischoff Verlag Gmbh\" in the 1930s. The company is located in Frankfurt am Main, Germany and attached to NAC Southern Germany. Considered a Christian publisher, it publishes three church-internal magazines for the NAC:\n\n\"Our Family\" has an international circulation of 350,000 copies. It is released twice a month in German, French, English, Spanish, Portuguese and Indonesian and once a month in another 21 languages. The content includes accounts of the Chief Apostle's divine services or travelogues, religious or historical background knowledge, stories about different congregations and advertisements. \"Our Family\" has had a German web presence since 2008.\n\n\"We Children\" has an international total circulation of 18,000 and is released twice a month in German, English, French, Russian, Portuguese and Dutch. It covers topics about \"Christians and the Bible\". The magazine contains children's magazine material such as reading texts, pictures to colour, handicrafts instructions, brainteasers and public activities.\n\n\"Spirit\" is a magazine particularly for young New Apostolic Christians. Current issues are discussed and examined for religious and critical purposes. The magazine also publishes many accounts of other denominations. It has a German web presence.\n\nThere are many opportunities for children within the Church. They usually pass through several stages of education. In Sunday Pre-School (5 and younger) and Sunday School (6–10 years old) children are introduced to the general Christian faith and Bible stories. After this, children continue to Religious Education, which covers Christian and denominational history. Finally, children attend the Confirmation School, which explains New Apostolic belief in detail. A 14- or 15-year-old can be confirmed with the blessing of the Church. During these years, children are provided with many educational materials including a bible. There are many children's activities besides Church education, one of the better examples being the famous \"Cape Town Children's Choir\".\n\nChildren celebrate the Holy Communion just as adults do. However, in some congregations appointed \"priests for children\" give them the sacred wafer in a separate room after a little explanation of the process.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church conducts annual national youth days with a special divine service. Stadiums, conference halls or similar venues are used for these events. Youth days are usually split into two main parts. A divine service is held for the youth in the morning by the District Apostle or Chief Apostle followed by a common lunch and afternoon program. There are choirs, orchestra or bands playing music. Religious issues are presented in the form of movies, theatre pieces or workshops. Many organisers are making heavier use of youth opinions and suggestions about church matters.\n\nA special youth day for the whole of Europe, \"European Youth Day 2009\", took place in May 2009 in the LTU Arena in Düsseldorf, Germany.\n\nVarious youth activities take place within each district, namely monthly divine services, local or regional youth hours, choir rehearsal, sporting events and leisure activities. Many youth organise their own activity groups for photography, journalism, ecumenism, etc. There are also many youth websites for the New Apostolic Church.\n\nThe main bakery is located in Bielefeld, Germany. One host is produced every 1.5 seconds, thus almost 130,000 hosts can be produced per day. In 2007, 230 million hosts were delivered to 50 countries in Europe, the Americas and a few in Asia and Africa. The bakery was founded in 1925 by a New Apostolic master baker named Pflug from Herne, Germany.\n\nChief Apostle Niehaus had the first hosts produced for New Apostolic Christians at the front lines during World War I. Before this, Holy Communion had been celebrated according to the Catholic Apostolic custom, with a piece of bread and a draught from a special wine jar.\n\nA further host bakery was built in Cape Town, South Africa in 2003. It supplies the southern states in Africa with hosts, producing 240,000 of them per day.\n\nCharitable and social work is growing in significance, including donations of food, medicine and clothing. Ministers hand on many donations. In poor countries and regions, Kindergartens, schools, orphanages, hospitals, retirement homes and clinics receive financial support. One such example is the \"Amazing Grace\" children's homes in South Africa. The church also supports interdenominational missionary and charitable organisations. The head office of \"NAK-karitativ\", association for relief projects of the church, is located in Dortmund, Germany. It is officially valued as an \"exemplary social organization\".\n\nAn initiative group called \"Regenbogen-NAK\" (Rainbow-NAC in English) was founded in 1999 by gay, lesbian, and transsexual believers of the NAC. The main issues are the particular problems which affect them in public and in the church. The committee for special affairs of the church holds a dialog with the German and Swiss representatives.\nThis does not mean that this group forms part of the NAC and maintains this website: http://cms.regenbogen-nak.org/index.php?id=162.\n\n\"nacworld\" is the social networking website of the New Apostolic Church International, and enables Christians from all over the world to come into contact. It is geared towards members of the New Apostolic Church. Members of other churches or religious communities are also welcome to join, and the site is open to all who are interested. nacworld can be used in German, English, Spanish, French, Portuguese, and Dutch. An nacworld account is free of charge. There are no premium features, and nacworld has no income from advertising or sponsorship.\n\nChief Apostle Richard Fehr (1988–2005) founded the \"\"Ecumenism Project Group\"\" in 1999 to represent the Church among other Christian denominations, establish contacts with other denominations and churches and involve the NAC in common activities and affairs. The church administration may consider changing some rather exclusive ecumenical doctrines, but they also have to maintain their own profile.\n\nIn 1963, the World Council of Churches asked Chief Apostle Schmidt to send some deputies to a session in Geneva, Switzerland. He declined the offer because the ecumenical movement of that time was not politically neutral and also because he feared the Roman Catholic Church would have too much control. Later on, he explained publicly that participating in ecumenism would have triggered conflicts and criticism between the church and larger denominations.\n\nAn interest in ecumenism only came about when Chief Apostle Hans Urwyler sought to contact other Apostolic Denominations. In 2000, Richard Fehr called an \"Apostolic Council\" which embraced discussion about common social and religious topics and interests. A general rapprochement between Apostolic denominations has been underway since 2005. This brought about some conflicts, but both sides want to continue and strive for reconciliation. All official \"excommunications\" of excluded members have now been cancelled.\n\nIn 1994 the church refused an ecumenical offer of \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft Christlicher Kirchen\" (English: Council of Christian Churches; today Churches Together in Britain and Ireland) with the justification that the ecumenical way of Christian unity would not be an appropriate way of religious life according to the sense and goals of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe recently founded \"Ecumenism Project Group\" has officially contacted other churches and has reached amicable relations with various congregations. The first dialogues were held in Southern Germany, where the New Apostolic congregations in Memmingen and Aschaffenburg have joined the ecumenical institution \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft Christlicher Kirchen\". The New Apostolic district Thun, Switzerland is also a guest member. The leaders of this institution published a brochure about the New Apostolic Church in April 2008. The church has had discussions with various other churches, particularly with the Protestant Church, Methodists, Seventh-day Adventist Church, Anglican Church and the Roman Catholic Church. Although there are contacts and memberships in local communities there are no such on the regional or even national level in Germany where there is a strong opposition because of fundamental theological issues (services for the dead, exclusivity and nature of the church, the apostle ministry etc.).\n\nEcumenical efforts are also underway in the USA, Argentina and South Africa. The NAC is regarded as one of the national churches in Argentina. The District Apostles Freund and Barnes had meetings with deputies of other churches, leading to good results. The District Apostle of the USA, Leonard Kolb, stated in an interview that New Apostolic Christians can learn a lot from other churches and that he will seek more ecumenical contacts.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church is not currently a member of the World Council of Churches.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church allows all people, no matter their denomination, to participate in the Holy Communion. It also allows New Apostolic Christians to participate in the Eucharist of another church. The New Apostolic Christians pray the New King James Version of the \"Our Father\", since Pentecost 2008. This is very similar to most other churches.\n\nThe New Apostolic baptism is recognised by Protestant churches and the Roman Catholic Church, because it is carried out in the name of the Triune God. Also the NAC recognizes every baptism which is carried out in the name of the Triune God and with water. This means that the NAC does not recognise baptism by Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons. After noting this doctrinal change, Martin Baumann said the NAC seems to be becoming a free Church.\n\nThe Church does not attend ecumenical divine services because the church administration regard acts of blessing as \"not sharable\". But they regard prayers or greetings at the altar as possible (e.g. during a wedding). If a New Apostolic Christian marries another Christian in their church, the blessing of that church is fully recognised. The New Apostolic Church lends its buildings to other denominations and makes the buildings available for public events. They also try to sell unused churches to religious organisations. The New Apostolic Church is considered modern and progressive in comparison with other free churches or religious groups.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church believes in the Universal action of the Holy Spirit (Christian church), given the fact that elements of truth can be found in other Christian churches.\n\nOn 24 October 2005 Chief Apostle Leber encouraged ministers to engage in ecumenism, which means approaching one another and talking together.\n\nIn 2018, the New Apostolic Church claimed to have about 9 million members worldwide, thus being by far the largest Catholic Apostolic movement. The church's origins are in Europe, where about 475,000 New Apostolic Christians live. Almost 333,315 believers live in the origin country Germany and more than 5,200 in Austria. The church established itself in Switzerland in 1895 by founding the community of Zürich-Hauttingen. In 2009, Switzerland had 35,000 New Apostolic Church members in 218 communities. Membership in Central Europe is slightly decreasing due to obsolescence and emigration, whereas in Eastern Europe it is growing.\n\nThe largest number of New Apostolic Christians live in Africa. Nearly 3 million are located in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and roughly 12% of the inhabitants of Zambia are New Apostolic. The Church also maintains high membership in Ghana, Nigeria, Namibia, Angola, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Mozambique and South Africa.\n\nNearly 0.6 million members live in Asia. The New Apostolic faith initially was brought by European emigrants to Indonesia, where 20,000 believers live today. From the beginning of the 1970s, missionaries of the Church spread their faith in other countries as well. Most Asian believers live in India and Pakistan. About 25,000 believers live in China, and 15,000 in Thailand.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church in North America was built by German ministers in the 1870s who had emigrated to the United States or Canada. The church has grown in the United States, counting 35,000 members in the country in 1994. The church has grown from its beginnings, especially among the population of German immigrants.\n\nSome German ministers emigrated to Southern Argentina in the 1920s, where they evangelised to other European emigrants. Most of the more than 200,000 believers in Argentina today are a result of this. There are 60,000 believers living in Brazil and 35,000 in Peru.\n\nThere are 360 apostles of the church more than the half living in Africa.\n\n\nThere are the numbers of believers between 1960–2018:\nAccording to a survey led in 2008 by Namini and Murken, the high amount (43%) of young NAC members under 15 who had lost their fathers could be explained by the theology of the father and the figure of the Chief Apostle at the top of the hierarchy.\n\nThe NAC was very introverted until recently and has had strict guidelines, so recently it has had to face sharp criticism. Many aspects of this criticism have been shown, through multiple professional assessments, to derive from the \"ancient\" period, i.e. from the 1960s to the 1990s. The opening process of ecumenism has led the church to change many doctrines and guidelines, some drastically, making the church look more modern today in comparison to other churches.\n\nBy the 1990s, the church was fighting the following controversies which made them look like a sect in public.\n\nResting upon the statement that only direct discipleship leads to eternal life, the Primitive Church established a system of obedience toward Jesus' apostles just after Jesus' death. The strict thought of obedience toward the apostle ministry is intended to continue this tradition. The social instruction strictly to obey a predecessor was so distinct that members had to obtain information from their \"leaders\". That information bound them, if only unconsciously, so that the ministers controlled the lives of many members, telling them that their information matched God's will.\n\nA new generation of free thinkers appeared in Europe in the 1950s, but that development passed by the church. This was partly because the church publicly withdraw into a hedgehog-like defensive position through fear of attacks from other churches, and thus social change became impossible. That dictatorial hierarchy remained until the 1980s and the ecumenical opening. The linking of obedience in faith to participation in the Second Coming of Christ was often strongly criticised.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century until the ecumenical opening under Chief Apostle Hans Urwyler, some common prohibitions from ministers became known internally as \"rules\" e.g.: Having a television; Going to discos, cinemas or sporting events; Growing a beard or long hair for men; Women wearing jeans or shorts during church attendance; Making a journey outside the church or marrying someone from outside the church, from \"the World\". Ministers often threatened members that if they did not follow these rules they would not get to participate in the Second Coming of Christ. Although the majority ignored those rules from the beginning, it resulted in psychological problems for others even under Chief Apostle Richard Fehr.\n\nNumerous former members, especially in Germany, criticised the Church for confining women to roles such as church cleaning, parental tasks such as Sunday school, and choir participation. Recently, New Apostolic women have been granted much greater importance. Women in several congregations have partly taken over the tasks of deacons or administrators. Although women cannot be ordained ministers, this point of criticism is no longer topical. Some critics charge that there were ministers who held out the prospect of divine blessing to donors, while threatening to deny blessing to those who did not donate.\n\nHowever, the death of Chief Apostle Bischoff triggered a slow but continual change, which brought, among other things, the term \"self-reliance\" – every single believer is personally responsible for the salvation of his soul – by Chief Apostle Urwyler in 1986. This has led to contacts with other churches, especially religious groups who split from NAC because of the \"Botschaft\". The spectrum has broadened in the last ten years and made it apparent there is a conservative wing and a liberal wing among the church members.\n\nThe French Commission on Cults registered the New Apostolic Church as a cult in its reports in 1995 and 1999 (see Governmental lists of cults and sects). In 1997, the Belgian parliamentary commission established a list of 189 movements, including the New Apostolic Church. In its report of 2001, the Mission Interministérielle de Lutte contre les Sectes did not agree with the official recognition of the New Apostolic Church in 1984 in New-Caledonia.\n\nMany former members criticise the behaviour of the church at the time of the \"Botschaft\" as the most controversial subject in New Apostolic history. Furthermore, the official political attitude toward the regimes of Nazi Germany and in the German Democratic Republic (GDR) are heavily questioned, which seems to be a result of ignorance. Independent historians from various Apostolic churches investigated these topics, providing reliable and objective results.\n\nThe Protestant and Roman Catholic churches criticise the following doctrinal points, which have not yet been rejected: the assertion that the New Apostolic apostle ministry corresponds with that of the Primitive Church, and the doctrine that genuine kinship to God can only be received by the New Apostolic apostle ministry.\n\nThe beliefs about the dead also cause trouble, but the NAC has a chance to explain that via ecumenical approaches. Another criticism is that the hierarchy of the church has no theological education. Religious scholar considers the NAC sermons as monotone with little depth and virtually no exegesis or theology.\n\nThe important role of the Chief Apostle, frequently identified with Christ, is often criticised by mainstream Christianity. For example, in a hymnal published by the Church in 1933, 106 songs out of 200 were devoted to the apostle.\n\nSiegfried Dannwolf, former member from Germany, describes in his book \"Gottes verlorene Kinder\" how he was defamed with lies and misrepresentations in his congregation after he left the church. \"Even my wife didn't believe me anymore. That figures, says Dannwolf. The problem goes beyond the family, marriages break up. I haven't had any contact with my parents for years. Further possible mental consecutive symptoms of membership in the NAC and individual difficulties of quitting are described by Olaf Stoffel in his book \"Angeklagt\".\n\nSuch negative experiences with the New Apostolic Church are made light in a statement from a commissioner of the Protestant Church in Germany who states \"Aside from the fact that such cases occur in every church, in the NAC they are relatively seldom when faced with its large membership.\"\n\n\"It is quite a difference, whether a tree withers at the roots and thus is the entire tree lost, or whether some branches which have withered break away from the tree\", commented Chief Apostle Schmidt the importance of single critics who have left the church.\n\nThis is also confirmed by the cult commissioner of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Freiburg, Albert Lampe. He sees no comparison with dangerous groups such as Scientology, because \"for this, there are too many New Apostolic Christians leading a normal life and not standing in absolute dependence\".\n\nAlthough Lampe perceives a lack of comparison to cult groups, rhetorical and theological scholars as well as persons who have left the church strongly disagree. One member who left the church explained \"I grew up in a church district where a lack of total commitment to the church and frequent attendance of services results in a shunning experience. Pictures of the apostles were expected to be framed in members homes in a place of prominence. However, the most frightening belief engrained in members is unless one is a devout New Apostolic Church member, they will not be allowed into heaven.\"\n\nChief Apostle Leber explained at a news conference, what adjustments he would undertake and how he would take criticism, \"In the past individual persons or groups have spread a vehement temper against the church. The peak of that criticism of former members was over long ago. (...) But we have learned as well to be able to take criticism. This must be learned, this is a process as well\". On the point \"readiness to engage in dialogue\" he said, \"If there are factual requests, I will always espouse that answers are given. For this, I will always be on hand. But if frontiers of fair contact were trespassed or polemical arguments appear, a continuation of the dialogue would make no sense then\".\n\nAfter Apostle Preuss' death in 1878, a dispute over succession caused a separation between the majority of Hamburg's congregation with Prophet Heinrich Geyer and Apostle Johannn Friedrich Gueldner on one side (still under the name \"Allgemeine christliche apostolische Mission\") and the Apostles Friedrich Wilhelm Menkhoff, Eduard Wichmann, and Fritz Krebs on the other.\n\nThe second schism occurred with the HAZK in 1897 in the Netherlands due to the introduction of the office of the Chief Apostle. by The group following the Chief Apostle adopted the name \"Hersteld Apostolische Zendinggemeente in de Eenheid der Apostelen\" (HAZEA) after the schism of 1897 and continued to use it until the 1960s.\n\nNiemeyer and later Carl Georg Klibbe began to criticize the worshipping of Chief Apostle Hermann Niehaus' person, resulting in Niehaus' announcement of Wilhelm Schlaphoff as Klibbe's replacement in 1913. Another point of view says this was a misunderstanding. The ship on which Klibbe was believed to be traveling, after a conference of apostles, sank. He was believed to have drowned, although he had actually chosen another ship. Nevertheless, Schlaphoff declined to resign his Apostle Ministry\n\nAfter his exclusion, Klibbe went on working under the name New Apostolic Church. In 1926, an agreement was reached between the followers of Klibbe and Schlaphoff. As part of the settlement, Klibbe renamed the church he had founded in 1889 as Old Apostolic Church of Africa. According to court papers filed, the Klibbe group became independent from the New Apostolic Church in 1915. At the time of Klibbe's death in 1931 the Old Apostolic Church had more than 1 million adherents.\n\nOn 10 October 1920 Chief Apostle Hermann Niehaus appointed Apostle J. G. Bischoff as Chief Apostle Helper and on 14 December 1924 he assigned Bischoff to succeed him, even though the Saxon Apostle Carl August Brueckner had already been declared as his successor. After 1914, Niehaus was led more and more by emotions, dreams and visions. Brueckner became the focus for all those who criticised the spiritual views of the Chief Apostle and the worshipping of his person. The different opinions led to the exclusion of Apostle Brueckner and several thousand believers in 1921. The excluded founded the \"Reformiert-Apostolischer Gemeindebund\". A further schism occurred when the Australian Apostle Hermann Niemeyer was excluded from the church on his way home after a conference of apostles. Like Brueckner, he had opposed the claim to power of the Chief Apostle. After his return he founded the Apostolic Church of Queensland. As a reaction to these crisis-hit times, Niehaus had all of the Apostles cast a vote of confidence in him and gathered them in his own association, the \"Apostelkollegium der Neuapostolischen Gemeinden Deutschland\".\n\nOther splits of the New Apostolic Church occurred in Switzerland \"Vereinigung Apostolischer Christen \", South Africa (again) \"Apostle Unity\" and the Netherlands (where a large group of 26,500 members, forming 90% of total membership, left the New Apostolic Church in 1946) \"Apostolisch Genootschap\" and later again approximately 1200 Dutch members left in 1954 \"Apostolische Geloofsgemeenschap\", and in West-Germany \"Apostolische Gemeinschaft\" and \"Apostolische Gemeinde des Saarlandes\" in 1955 due to a 1951 teaching of the then-Chief Apostle Johann Gottfried Bischoff. This teaching presumed that he would not die before Jesus Christ returned to take the predestined into his kingdom (First Resurrection). In 1954 this teaching, called \"The Botschaft\", became an official dogma. Those ministers, especially the apostles who declined to preach this, even after several interlocutions, lost their offices and were excluded from the New Apostolic Church. Chief Apostle Bischoff died in 1960 without his prophecy being fulfilled. but there was no restoration of the excommunicated ministers. The various communities and congregations like the Apostolic Church of Queensland or the Apostolic Church of South Africa - Apostle Unity which evolved out of these conflicts in different countries merged in 1956 as the \"United Apostolic Church\".\n\nAnother, earlier, split was the break with the \"Apostelamt Juda\" in 1902, from which the \"Apostelamt Jesu Christi\" emerged.\n\nOn May 1, 2005 a document of the first steps of reconciliation was signed by the Swiss New Apostolic Church and the United Apostolic Church in Switzerland (Vereinigung Apostolischer Christen).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914096", "title": "Lynn Townsend White Jr.", "text": "Lynn Townsend White Jr.\n\nLynn Townsend White Jr. (April 29, 1907 – March 30, 1987) was an American historian. He was a professor of medieval history at Princeton from 1933 to 1937, and at Stanford from 1937 to 1943. He was president of Mills College, Oakland, from 1943 to 1958 and a professor at University of California, Los Angeles from 1958 until 1987. Lynn White helped to found the Society for the History of Technology (SHOT) and was president from 1960 to 1962. He won the Pfizer Award for \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" from the History of Science Society (HSS) and the Leonardo da Vinci medal and Dexter prize from SHOT in 1964 and 1970. He was president of the History of Science Society from 1971 to 1972. He was president of The Medieval Academy of America from 1972–1973, and the American Historical Association in 1973.\n\nWhite began his career as medieval historian focusing on the history of Latin monasticism in Sicily during the Norman Period but realized the coming conflict in Europe would interfere with his access to source materials. While at Princeton he read the works of Richard Lefebvre des Noëttes, and Marc Bloch. This led to his first work in the history of technology, \"Technology and Invention in the Middle Ages\" in 1940.\n\nNoettes was a retired French cavalry officer who made his hobby the history of horses. He wrote that the utilization of animals in antiquity was inefficient because the ancients were limited by the technologies of their period, specifically the lack of horseshoes and a bad harness design. White expanded Noettes’ conclusions into a thesis of his own that encompassed the relationship of the newly realized efficient horse and the agricultural revolution of the time.\n\nWhite pointed to new methods of crop rotation and plowing and tied them to the rise of manor-based collective farming and the shift in European prosperity and power from the Mediterranean to the North. White also touched on the stirrup, the lateen sail, the wheel barrow, the spinning wheel, the hand crank, water-driven mills and wind mills. He concluded: \"The chief glory of the later Middle Ages was not its cathedrals or its epics or its scholasticism: it was the building for the first time in history of a complex civilization which rested not on the backs of sweating slaves or coolies but primarily on non-human power\" and he credited this as well as Western primacy in technology to Western theology's \"activist\" tradition and \"implicit assumption of the infinite worth of even the most degraded human personality\" and its \"repugnance towards subjecting any man to monotonous drudgery.\"\n\nIn 1942, White published a paper titled \"Christian Myth and Christian History\" in which he wrote about the relationship between historians and Christianity. He wrote: \"Having lost faith that God revealed himself uniquely at one single point in history, we are relapsing into the essentially static or repetitive view of the time-process typical of antiquity and of the East\" and \"the Virgin Mother, undefiled yet productive, bearing Christ into the world by the action of the Spirit of God, is so perfect an analogue of the most intimate experience of the soul, that powerful myth has sustained dubious history; for, to the believer, myth and history have been one\" and \"Christianity above all other religions has rashly insisted that its myth really happened in time\" and \"we stand amid the debris of our inherited religious system.\" White held out hope for a Christianity that celebrated its myths and made no pretensions to history, and saw Catholicism as the most progressive in this respect.\n\nAt Mills College, White published on education and women, including \"Women's Colleges and the Male Dominance\" (1947), \"Unfitting Women for Life\" (1949), \"Educating Women in a Man's World\" (1950), and \"The Future of Women's Education\" (1953).\n\nAt UCLA, he used a set of lectures from 1957 to form his best-known work, \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" in 1962. This book revisited almost all the themes from \"Technology and Invention in the Middle Ages\" 22 years earlier, but included a controversial theory about the stirrup. White contended in the first section of the book that the stirrup made shock combat possible, and therefore had a crucial role in shaping the feudal system. He believed this was the motivation for Charles Martel to accelerate confiscation of church-held lands and distribute it to his knights, who would bear the cost of themselves with expensive horses in to support him in battle. In the second section of the book, White explained the shift in power from the Mediterranean to Northern Europe as a result of increased productivity due to technological changes that produced a \"heavy plow,\" better harnesses for horses to pull the plow, and a three-field crop rotation scheme. In the third part of the book, he examined medieval machines that converted motion and energy. The most notable was the compound crank. The work elicited over 30 reviews, many of which were hostile. P. H. Sawyer and R. H. Hilton wrote the most scathing of the early reviews, beginning with:\n\n\"Technical determinism in historical studies has often been combined with adventurous speculations particularly attractive to those who like to have complex developments explained by simple causes. The technical determinism of Professor Lynn White Jr., however, is peculiar in that, instead of building new and provocative theories about general historical development on the basis of technical studies, he gives a misleadingly adventurist cast to old-fashioned platitudes by supporting them with a chain of obscure and dubious deductions from scanty evidence about the progress of technology.\"\n\nNevertheless, the book remains in print and still stands as a seminal work in the field.\n\nIn 1967, White conjectured that the Christian influences in the Middle Ages were at the root of ecological crisis in the 20th century. He gave a lecture on December 26, 1966, titled, \"The Historical Roots of Our Ecologic Crisis\" at the Washington meeting of the AAAS, that was later published in the journal \"Science\". White's article was based on the premise that \"all forms of life modify their context\", i.e. every living organism in some way alters its environment or habitat. He believed man's relationship with the natural environment was always a dynamic and interactive one, even in the Middle Ages, but marked the Industrial Revolution as a fundamental turning point in our ecological history. He suggests that at this point the hypotheses of science were married to the possibilities of technology and our ability to destroy and exploit the environment was vastly increased. Nevertheless, he also suggests that the mentality of the Industrial Revolution, that the earth was a resource for human consumption, was much older than the actuality of machinery, and has its roots in medieval Christianity and attitudes towards nature. He suggests that \"what people do about their ecology depends on what they think about themselves in relation to things around them.\" Citing the Genesis creation story he argued that Judeo-Christian theology had swept away pagan animism and normalized exploitation of the natural world because:\n\n\nHe posited that these beliefs have led to an indifference towards nature which continues to impact in an industrial, \"post-Christian\" world. He concludes that applying more science and technology to the problem will not help, that it is humanity's fundamental ideas about nature that must change; we must abandon \"superior, contemptuous\" attitudes that makes us \"willing to use it [the earth] for our slightest whim.\" White suggests adopting St. Francis of Assisi as a model in imagining a \"democracy\" of creation in which all creatures are respected and man's rule over creation is delimited.\n\nWhite's ideas set off an extended debate about the role of religion in creating and sustaining the West's destructive attitude towards the exploitation of the natural world. It also galvanized interest in the relationship between history, nature and the evolution of ideas, thus stimulating new fields of study like environmental history and ecotheology. Equally, however, many saw his argument as a direct attack on Christianity and other commentators think his analysis of the impact of the Bible, and especially Genesis is misguided. They argue that Genesis provides man with a model of \"stewardship\" rather than dominion, and asks man to take care of the world's environment. Others, such as Lewis W. Montcrief, argue that our relation to the environment has been influenced by many more varied and complex cultural/historical phenomena,and that the result we see today cannot simply be reduced to the influence of the Judeo-Christian tradition. Later responses to his article include criticism not just of the central argument but also of the validity of his suggestion \"I propose Francis as a patron saint for ecologists.\" Jan J Boersema's article \"Why is St Francis of Assisi the patron saint of ecologists?\" in \"Science and Christian Belief\" 2002 (vol 14 pp. 51–77). Boersema argues that the historical evidence for Francis's status as such a patron saint is weak both in Francis' own writings and in the reliable sources about his life.\n\nWhite was an historian, but had also earned a master's degree at Union Theological Seminary and was the son of a Calvinist professor of Christian Ethics, and considered religion integral to the development of Western technology. From his \"Technology and Invention in the Middle Ages\" of 1940, through his \"Dynamo and Virgin Reconsidered\" of 1958, to his \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" (Oxford University Press, 1962), his work refuted the assumption that the Middle Ages were too preoccupied with theology and/or chivalry to concern themselves with technology, the assumption behind Henry Adams' antitheses of Virgin vs. dynamo, but widespread elsewhere as well.\n\nHis work tied together that of many predecessors, above all that of Marc Bloch, to whose memory \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" is dedicated. White argued, \"Since, until recent centuries, technology was chiefly the concern of groups which wrote little, the role which technological development plays in human affairs has been neglected,\" and declared, \"If historians are to attempt to write the history of mankind, and not simply the history of mankind as it was viewed by the small and specialized segments of our race which have had the habit of scribbling, they must take a fresh view of the records, ask new questions of them, and use all the resources of archaeology, iconography, and etymology to find answers when no answers can be discovered in contemporary writings.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914105", "title": "William Hill (bookmaker)", "text": "William Hill (bookmaker)\n\nWilliam Hill plc is a bookmaker based in London, England. It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.\n\nThe company was founded by William Hill in 1934 at a time when gambling was illegal in Britain. It changed hands many times, being acquired by Sears Holdings in 1971, then by Grand Metropolitan in 1988, then by Brent Walker in 1989. In September 1996, Brent Walker recouped £117m of the £685m it had paid for William Hill when Grand Metropolitan were found to have exaggerated the company's profits at the time of the sale.\n\nJapanese investment bank Nomura mounted a £700m leveraged buyout of William Hill in 1997, when Brent Walker collapsed with debts exceeding £1.3bn after an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office which saw two directors given prison sentences. In February 1999, a proposed stock market flotation was abandoned due to \"weak interest\" and Nomura offloaded the company to funds managed by private equity firms Cinven and CVC Capital Partners for £825m instead.\n\nThe company was eventually listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2002. The following year Chief Executive David Harding was awarded a £2.84m bonus, making him the UK's fifth highest paid company director in 2003. It acquired Sunderland Greyhound Stadium in 2002 and Newcastle Greyhound Stadium in 2003. In June 2004, Chief Executive David Harding sold £5.2m of shares to fund his divorce, precipitating a decline in the company's stock that wiped £75m off the value of the company. In 2005, William Hill bought 624 betting offices in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Isle of Man and Jersey from Stanley Leisure for £504 million: the acquisition briefly took the company past Ladbrokes into first position in the UK betting market in terms of shops but not revenue. The Office of Fair Trading made William Hill sell 78 of the 624 Stanley shops due to concerns over anti-competitive practices.\n\nAmidst fears that William Hill had overpaid for the Stanley shops, the company was relegated from the FTSE 100 Index in December 2005. In 2008, Ralph Topping was appointed Chief Executive. After having dropped out of Strathclyde University as a self-confessed 'rascal', Topping had taken a Saturday job at a William Hill betting shop near Hampden Park, Glasgow, in 1973 and worked his way up through the ranks. In November 2008, William Hill went into partnership with Orbis (latterly OpenBet), and Israeli software company Playtech, to remedy its own failing online operation.\n\nUnder the terms of the deal, William Hill paid Playtech's founder Teddy Sagi £144.5m for various assets and affiliate companies. These included several online casino sites which William Hill continues to run under the name WHG. Playtech took a 29% stake in the new William Hill Online entity. The company wrote-off a reported £26m when scrapping their previous in-house system. In June 2009 William Hill backed Playtech despite their partner having a quarter of its stock market value wiped out following a profits warning.\n\nThe company operates worldwide, employing approximately 14,000 people with main offices in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar, offering betting by phone and Internet together with their 1,568 UK-wide Licensed Betting Offices. Its telebetting call centres, which are located in Rotherham, South Yorkshire took 125,000 bets on the 2007, Grand National and according to the company its betting shops process more than one million betting slips on an average day.\n\nIn addition to its online sportsbook operations, the company offers online casino games, 'skill games', online bingo and online poker. Since the Gambling Act 2005, gaming machines have strengthened profits to counteract falling revenues in other areas. In August 2010, William Hill launched a training programme for its 10,000+ workforce to combat underage gambling in its retail outlets.\n\nIn November 2008, analysts at UBS noted \"concern\" at the company's level of debt, which stood at over £1bn and was later reported as £1.5bn. In 2009 the company enacted both a rights issue and a corporate bond issue, in an effort to restructure its debt.\n\nThe company operates 2,300 betting shops.\n\nIn 2009, William Hill moved its online and fixed-odds games division to Gibraltar, for tax avoidance purposes. In Gibraltar William Hill is a member of the Gibraltar Betting and Gaming Association.\n\nIn March 2009, William Hill closed 14 of its shops in the Republic of Ireland with the loss of 53 jobs. In February 2010 it announced that the remaining 36 Irish shops were \"under review\" pending the possible introduction of controversial gaming machines to Irish shops.\n\nWilliam Hill had pulled out of Italy in 2008 after just two years, a failure which cost the company £1m in wasted investment. The company's joint venture in Spain ended in January 2010 with partners Codere buying William Hill's 50% stakeholding for €1, after both parties had invested an 'initial' €10m in April 2008. William Hill lost £11.6m in 2008 and £9.3m in 2009 on the venture.\n\nIn September 2009, the company participated in the bidding for the first online gambling licence in India, expressing their interest to enter the Indian betting market via the remote Himalayan state of Sikkim.\n\nIn June 2012, William Hill expanded to Nevada, the only U.S. state to allow full-fledged sports wagering, buying three chains of sportsbooks: Lucky's, Leroy's, and the satellite operations of Club Cal Neva, for a total of $53 million. The deals at the time gave the company control of 55 percent of the state's sportsbook locations, and 11 percent of statewide book revenue. All three chains were to be rebranded under the William Hill name.\n\nIn 2013, three Australian brands, Sportingbet, Centrebet and Tom Waterhouse, were purchased by the company and later rebranded as William Hill Australia in 2015. Both Sportingbet and Centrebet were acquired in March of the year for $660m and $132m, respectively, while tomwaterhouse.com was brought in during August 2013, for an initial $34m. Tom Waterhouse was appointed Chief Executive Officer of William Hill Australia in July 2014.\n\nIn March 2018, William Hill sanctioned the sale of its Australian business to CrownBet holdings for an estimated value of AU $300 million. The sale ended the company's time in Australia after entering the market in 2012.\n\nFollowing the decision of the US Supreme Court regarding the case of \"Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Association\" in June 2018, the state of New Jersey effectively legalised gambling on athletic events due to a previously successful state ballot initiative. William Hill entered arrangements to provide bookmaking services to both Monmouth Park Racetrack and Ocean Resort Casino in the state of New Jersey. In January 2019, William Hill's stock value declined following the announcement that U.S. Attorney General Steven Engel reversed a 2011 view of the Federal Wire Act, stating all online gambling was illegal under federal law.\n\nIn 2007, William Hill threatened to withdraw its sponsorship of various horse races, in their dispute with racecourses over TurfTV. William Hill, who had been the strongest critic of TurfTV, were later forced into a humiliating climbdown and subscribed to the channel in January 2008.\n\nIn August 2009, William Hill became the shirt-sponsor of Málaga CF, a football team in Spain's La Liga on a 3-year deal which was terminated early the following season due to the new club owner's religious objections.\n\nThe company sponsors the annual William Hill Sports Book of the Year award, dedicated to rewarding excellence in sports writing.\n\nIn May 2008, The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) banned William Hill from running a television advert which they found \"condoned gambling behaviour that was socially irresponsible\". In October 2009, the ASA banned a poster and National press advert which promised \"£100 OF FREE BETS\". The advert was found to be \"likely to mislead\" and in breach of a Committee of Advertising Practice code relating to \"truthfulness\".\n\nIn March 2010, an advert stating \"William Hill best prices FACT\" was banned by the ASA. It had breached several Committee of Advertising Practice codes, including those relating to \"substantiation\", \"truthfulness\" and \"honesty\". In September 2011, William Hill made a television advert featuring the 2005 single \"A Bit Patchy\". In December 2012, adverts stating \"Best Prices on the Best Horses\" and \"Best Prices on the Best Teams\" were banned by the ASA. It had breached several Committee of Advertising Practice code, including those relating to \"misleading advertising\", \"Substantiation\" and \"Comparisons\". The ASA also banned a different advert claiming \"Best Odds Guaranteed\" because it was misleading.\n\nThe company has been criticised by trade unions Community and Unite for its treatment of shop-workers. In particular the practices of exposing staff to risk by forcing them to work in the offices alone, and requiring staff to undertake unpaid work after the end of their working day have been identified.\n\nFrom 2001 until 2009, William Hill paid George Howarth MP £30,000 pa. to act as a Parliamentary advisor. While on William Hill's payroll he tabled amendments to the 2003 budget proposing tougher levels of taxation for person-to-person betting exchanges. Howarth left the role in the wake of the 2009 expenses scandal. In May 2015, William Hill presented prototype of \"Get In The Race\" - a virtual horse racing application. On 2 August 2016, it acquired Grand Parade, the betting and gaming digital solutions company for £13.6m in cash and shares.\n\nIn 2018, William Hill was fined £6.2 million by the Gambling Commission for systematic failures regarding anti-money laundering and problem gambling. The operator was found to have accepted large deposits of cash linked to criminal activity between 2014 and 2016, resulting in £1.2 million in financial gains. William Hill was ordered to return the £1.2 million profit, plus pay a penalty of £5 million for breaching regulations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914112", "title": "Magnaporthe", "text": "Magnaporthe\n\nMagnaporthe is a genus of ascomycete fungi. Several of the species are cereal pathogens. There are five species in the widespread genus.\n"}
