{"id": "1902031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902031", "title": "Siege of Maastricht (1673)", "text": "Siege of Maastricht (1673)\n\nThe Siege of Maastricht on 15 - 30 June 1673 took place during the Franco-Dutch War of 1672–1678, when the Dutch garrison of Maastricht, a fortress city, surrendered to a French army nominally commanded by Louis XIV. The siege is now chiefly remembered for the introduction of the 'siege parallel' by French military engineer Vauban, a concept that remained in use until the middle of the twentieth century, and the death of Charles de Batz de Castelmore d'Artagnan, the hero of \"The Three Musketeers\".\n\nIn the 1667-1668 War of Devolution, France captured parts of the Spanish Netherlands and the entire Franche-Comté but was forced to relinquish the bulk of these gains in the 1668 Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle with the Triple Alliance of the Dutch Republic, England and Sweden. Before making another attempt, Louis XIV strengthened his diplomatic position by paying Sweden to remain neutral, while England agreed an alliance against the Dutch in the 1670 Treaty of Dover.\nWhen the French invaded the Dutch Republic in May 1672, they initially seemed to have achieved an overwhelming victory, quickly capturing the major Dutch fortresses of Nijmegen and Fort Crèvecœur near 's-Hertogenbosch after having occupied Utrecht without a fight. However, by late July, the Dutch position stabilised behind the Holland Water Line and concern at French gains brought them support from Brandenburg-Prussia, Emperor Leopold and Charles II of Spain. This forced Louis to divide his forces; in August 1672, he sent his best general Henri de La Tour d'Auvergne, Viscount of Turenne with 50,000 troops to the Rhineland.\n\nMaastricht is located on the extreme eastern edge of what contemporaries loosely referred to as Flanders, a compact area 160 kilometres wide, the highest point only 100 metres above sea level, and dominated by canals and rivers, most of which run east to west. Until the advent of railways in the 19th century, goods and supplies were primarily transported by water and campaigns fought over the control of rivers such as the Lys, Sambre and Meuse. Maastricht more precisely, is situated on high bedrock where the Maas has started running south to north. Historically, it is one of a series of strategic fortress cities, controlling the Meuse valley and the east to west roads crossing this river, such as Sedan, Namur and Liège. It was captured in 1632 from the Habsburgs by the Dutch stadtholder Frederick Henry of Orange, its fortifications afterwards being considerably expanded until 1645. The town was especially important due to its location on both banks of the Meuse and one of the few garrisoned in peacetime. Dutch engineer Menno van Coehoorn began his career there in 1657, as a young Lieutenant in his father's company. \n\nIn 1672, Maastricht was a key position in the Dutch defensive strategy. They had already noticed that the French were preparing forward supply bases in the Bishopric of Liège for a swift advance to the north. The Dutch concentrated a large part of the mercenary troops available to them in Maastricht, some eleven thousand men, hoping that a prolonged siege would gain them sufficient time to prepare the six Rhine fortresses defending the eastern border of the Republic. The French reached Maastricht on 17 May 1672 but, on advice of Turenne, avoided a direct assault, instead occupying the satellite forts of Tongeren, Maaseik and Valkenburg. They thus basically by-passed Maastricht to quickly overrun the Rhine fortresses, leading to a collapse of the Dutch defences. They maintained only a small observation force, a few thousand men, near the fortress. Not capturing Maastricht had its draw-backs because the fortress threatened the extended French supply lines. In November 1672, stadtholder William III of Orange advanced from Holland to Maastricht, taking part of its garrison with him, and he continued through the Spanish Netherlands to attack Charleroi, the French city at the start of the supply route.\n\nThe capture of Maastricht was made the primary objective for the French 1673 campaign. Apart from logistical considerations, Louis XIV desired a conspicuous military victory to enhance his personal glory, in person accompanying the army. He also deeply enjoyed sieges. On the campaign, he took his wife with him, Maria Theresa of Spain, and two of his mistresses: Louise de La Vallière and Françoise-Athénaïs, Marquise de Montespan, although they were housed at Tournai, distanced from the actual fighting. \n\nWhile Louis assembled his forces around Kortrijk, another French army was concentrated in the west for a feint attack against Bruges, to prevent Spanish troops from further reinforcing Maastricht. Officially, the Spanish Netherlands were neutral in the conflict between France and the Dutch but it was generally understood that Louis intended to attack and conquer them in the near future. For this reason, the administration of the Spanish Netherlands closely cooperated with the Dutch, providing them diplomatic and military support to the extent their limited means allowed. Louis first moved to the east to threaten Brussels, the seat of their governor Juan Domingo de Zuñiga y Fonseca, but continued his advance, reaching Maastricht over Sint-Truiden. The siege is often indicated to have begun on 15 June, when the first assault trenches were dug.\n\nMaastricht was the first siege where the famous French engineer Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban directed operations, rather than being a technical advisor. He was not a military commander and according to the custom of the time, subordinate to the senior officer present, in this case Louis XIV. Louis had forbidden his generals de Condé or Turenne to be present at the siege to prevent them from sharing in the glory. Louis regularly visited the trenches, exposing himself to enemy fire and was closely followed by painters and poets who had to immortalise his exploits for posterity, as well as the court historian Paul Pellisson.\n\nAlthough commonly remembered for the fortifications he built, Vauban's greatest innovations were in the field of offensive operations. Some years before the capture of Maastricht he had expressed his thoughts on siege warfare in a manuscript, that after his death, in 1740, was published under the title \"Mémoire pour servir d’instruction dans la conduite des sièges et dans la défense des places\". This has provided modern researchers some insights about the general principles de Vauban probably applied. The 'siege parallel' had been in development since the mid-16th century but Maastricht saw him bring the idea to practical fulfilment. Three parallel trenches were dug in front of the walls, connecting the perpendicular assault trenches, the earth thus excavated being used to create embankments screening the attackers from defensive fire, while bringing them as close to the assault point as possible (see Diagram). The transverse parallels allowed a much larger number of troops to participate simultaneously in an assault to overwhelm the defenders, while avoiding choking points that often had led to costly failures. Artillery was moved into the trenches, allowing them to target the base of the walls at close range, with the defenders unable to depress their own guns enough to counter this; once a breach had been made, it was then stormed. This remained the standard for offensive operations until the early 20th century.\n\nVauban was unusually sympathetic to the impact of war on the poor, on one occasion requesting compensation be paid a man with eight children whose land was taken to build one of his forts. However, his siege works required large numbers of unpaid workers, with severe punishments for those who tried to evade service; 20,000 local farmers were conscripted to dig his trenches at Maastricht.\n\nThe Treaty of Dover included an agreement by Charles II to supply a brigade of 6,000 English and Scottish troops for the French army. It also contained secret provisions, not revealed until 1771, one being the payment to Charles of £230,000 per year for these troops. While Charles was anxious to ensure Louis felt he was getting value for money, there were considerable doubts as to the brigade's reliability if asked to fight the Protestant Dutch on behalf of the Catholic French. As a result, it formed part of Turenne's force in the Rhineland but several officers, including the Duke of Monmouth and John Churchill, future Duke of Marlborough were present at Maastricht as volunteers and given prominent positions by Louis to gratify his English ally. The attacking forces numbered about forty thousand men.\n\nThe garrison was commanded by Jacques de Fariaux, an experienced French Huguenot exile in Dutch service. Due to the serious situation of the Dutch, many regiments had been withdrawn from Maastricht after May 1672. In June 1673, eight regiments of States infantry, three regiments of States cavalry, an engineer company and a grenadier company remained. The Dutch troops had been reinforced by a Spanish Division containing a regiment of Italian infantry and two regiments of Spanish cavalry. The defenders totalled about five thousand men. This was about three thousand men below the strength that the city commanders had already in 1671 indicated as the minimum for a successful defence. \n\nBetween 1645 and 1672, the fortifications had been completely neglected, falling into disrepair. They largely consisted of earthworks that were susceptible to erosion. Makeshift repairs in 1672 and 1673 had only partly improved the situation. Wooden palisades were constructed to reinforce weak spots. A lunette had been added in front of the vulnerable Tongeren Gate.\n\nOn 5June, the first French troops reached Maastricht, advancing towards the west bank of the Maas. The next day, troops from Turenne appeared on the east bank, outside the Wijck suburb. On 7June, the construction of two ship bridges was started, to the north of the city, to connect both forces. Simultaneously, a host of at least seven thousand peasants began to dig the contravallation and circumvallation, even though no relief army was expected. The defenders that day made a sally, followed by a second sortie on 9June, killing a limited number of French. On 10 June, Louis XIV arrived. The following day, after the completion of the bridges during the night, he was joined by his brother Philippe I, Duke of Orléans and camped at Wolder, a village to the southwest of the city, in an enormous tent able to accommodate four hundred courtiers. De Fariaux was demanded to surrender the city but refused.\n\nOn 13 June, the French began to prepare large amounts of wood and digging materials on the west-side of the city. The north of the fortress was protected by a deep and wide moat, directly connected to the river Maas, while the south was covered by the Jeker rivulet, which would flood trenches. The obvious attack route therefore was from the west, over the high and rocky ridge leading to the ford that had in Roman times been the origin of the settlement. Frederick Henry in 1632 had attacked this side also. The drawback of the location was that deeper trenches of the type de Vauban preferred had to be dug through more or less solid rock; this was still feasible, however, because the layers consisted of relatively soft marlstone. In this sector two main gates were present, the Brussels Gate in the north and the Tongeren Gate (\"Tongersepoort\", \"Porte Tongres\") in the south.\n\nAround 14 June, the circumvallation was in principle finished. Due to difficult terrain large gaps remained, which was not seen as a problem as the structure served no real function. In 1632, Frederick Henry's circumvallation had been much more extensive. The same day a third bridge was completed to the south of the city. On 16 June, gun batteries were positioned, two in front of the Tongeren Gate and one on the north slope of the St Pietersberg which offers an ideal vantage point over the fortress. The guns, once in place, immediately opened fire, spending three thousand shot in the first six hours. It now became clear that the Tongeren Gate was the main object. It formed a weak point in the defences as it was protected by a small ravelin only and the city wall behind this was still mediaeval in form, without a full height backing earthwork, though a cavalier was present, the Tongerse Kat. Furthermore, there was only a dry moat to its north. In front of the ravelin a new lunette had been constructed but to obtain the necessary earth, to the south a nearby redoubt protecting the Jeker sluice inlet had been levelled. Vauban later criticised this, claiming that if the redoubt had still be present he had not dared to attack at this point because of its enfilading fire. Such fire was still provided by a large protruding hornwork to the north of the gate and the Groene Halve Maan, a demi-lune to its south.\n\nAt 21:00, 17 June, the two assault trenches towards the Tongeren Gate were opened. Work progressed at a steady pace under the cover of darkness and already in the late night a start could be made with the first parallel, their connecting trench, which was finished the next day. During 19 and 20 June, the second parallel was constructed. De Fariaux considered a sally to destroy the trenches but decided against it because they were too extensive and had been reinforced by artillery. The French gun batteries smashed the palisades, silenced the Dutch cannon on the Tongerse Kat, and created small breaches in the main wall. This caused much nervousness among the city population, as traditionally soldiers had the right to plunder a city once its wall had been breached. On 23 June, the left and right assault trenches reached their farthest point, about 160 metres from the forward defences, beyond effective musket range. During the night of 23/24 June, the third parallel was finished and about 2500 troops were assembled in it to storm the gate.\n\nIn the city a rumour circulated that Louis was in haste to end the siege in order to celebrate mass in its St Janskerk on the nativity of Saint John the Baptist, 24 June. At 17:00, five cannon shots were fired to mark the start of the assault. As a diversionary attack, first Wijck was assaulted, on the other side of the river, to draw away the defenders. The assault force at the Tongeren Gate was divided into three separate parts. The Marquis de Montbrun commanded the main effort against the lunette. There were two diversionary attacks. The one on the right was led by Charles_de_Montsaulnin,_Comte_de_Montal, against the Groene Halve Maan. The Duke of Monmouth commanded that on the left, which included some fifty English volunteers and a company of \"Mousquetaires du roi\" under Captain-Lieutenant D'Artagnan, directed against the hornwork. Louis had tried to dissuade Monmouth from participating, fearing that his death might deteriorate relations with England, but ultimately the king felt obliged to give his permission. De Vauban had ordered that the secondary attacks had to be only feints, but to his disgust Monmouth attempted to scale the hornwork and was beaten off with heavy losses, over a hundred casualties. At the first contre-escarpe, an artificial escarpment offering the defenders a forward covered transverse communication line, and the Groene Halve Maen, the French too suffered many losses, especially among their officers. The lunette was taken, quickly recaptured by a counterattack and then taken again. In the late evening, French engineers connected the lunette to the third parallel via a provisional communication trench. \n\nPart of the defences of the city were permanent tunnels that had been dug under the marl plateau to the west. During the period of neglect after 1645, these had partly collapsed but prior to the siege some hasty repairs had been carried out. As the French troops were being relieved at daybreak on the early morning of 25 June, the Dutch let a mine explode under the lunette, killing about fifty attackers. Immediately the defenders made a sally and recaptured the lunette for a second time. In response the British and French attacked again, Monmouth circling the lunette from the left, D'Artagnan from the right, while the 2nd Musketeer Company assaulted the front. After a period of confused fighting, the defenders were driven back but several English officers were killed and others wounded, including Churchill. D'Artagnan was fatally hit in the head by a bullet, while passing through a breach in the first contre-escarpe palisade. Of the three hundred musketeers deployed, over eighty had been killed and over fifty severely wounded. In their honour, a later ravelin erected on this location was to be called the \"demilune des mousquetaires\". In this critical phase of the battle, de Vauban lost his confidence. It had been assumed that the morale of the garrison was low but it now proved to be much more aggressive than expected. Also he worried about the possible extent of the tunnelling. He wrote to François-Michel le Tellier, Marquis de Louvois, the French minister of war, that if the Dutch managed to recapture the lunette for a third time, it was a distinct possibility that the siege would have to be lifted. At first the attackers had only a tenuous hold on the lunette and it would take them over five hours to bring up reinforcements. Another sortie would not materialise however, the population beginning to fill the gate with manure.\n\nDuring 26 and 27 June, the French reorganised, rebuilding their assault teams. It was decided that, before the ravelin in front of the gate could be stormed, first the hornwork and the Groene Halve Maan would have to be reduced to prevent enfilading fire. Gun batteries were placed between the lunette and the hornwork, to bombard it from a short distance. These gun emplacements also could interdict a possible sally from the gate. On 27 June, Louis was in a contemplative mood, silently observing for hours the bombardment of the city, standing on the north slope of the Sint Pietersberg. French engineers dug a tunnel under the hornwork and in the night of 27/28 June they a let a mine explode. The Italian defenders panicked and allowed the ramparts to be scaled. They then rallied, counterattacking with hand grenades, but ultimately were forced to leave possession of the earthwork to the French. The French captured several engineers who revealed the position of mined tunnels. Before the attackers could penetrate the tunnel network, the defenders blew five mines under the hornwork. Although the French readied themselves for a sally, none took place. The understrength garrison was now too weakened. On 28 June, a delegation of burghers requested de Fariaux to surrender. An additional gun battery was placed opposite the gate. In the night of 28/29 June French troops infiltrated to the ravelin which proved to have been abandoned.\n\nOn 29 June, a trumpeter again demanded the surrender of the city and de Fariaux again refused. Subsequently, the French batteries intensified their bombardment of both the inner city and the defence works. The batteries on the north slope of the Sint Pietersberg concentrated their fire on the southwest corner of the city wall which collapsed into the moat behind the Groene Halve Maan. This demi-lune was abandoned by the Dutch during the night of 29/30 June. As the situation of the garrison was hopeless, strong moral pressure was applied by the population to de Fariaux not to continue the fight. They reminded him that during the Siege of Maastricht of 1579, on the 29th of June the Spanish troops of Alexander Farnese, Duke of Parma began to sack the city, in three days murdering a thousand of its inhabitants. They begged him to prevent a repeat of these tragic events.\n\nIn the early morning of 30 June, de Fariaux send a message that he was ready to negotiate. After two hours of talks, he surrendered the city on relatively favourable terms. The garrison was given free passage, with drums beating and colours flying, to the nearest Dutch-held territory in 's-Hertogenbosch, 150 kilometres to the north-west; they included Van Coehoorn, who had been wounded during the siege. There would be no plundering. Maastricht was a condominium of the Duchy of Brabant, the rights of which had been subsumed by the Dutch Republic, and Liège and the bishop of Liège, Maximilian Henry of Bavaria, was Louis's formal ally in the war. Also, the French king claimed to be the rightful Duke of Brabant already, as the title would be part of the dowry of his wife. In any case, he intended the city to be a permanent French possession. Immediately after the surrender two French regiments occupied the \"Duitse Poort\" in the east Wijck suburb and, in the west, the Brussels Gate through which Louis would make his triumphal entry.\n\nLosses on both sides had been heavy. The number of troops arriving in 's-Hertogenbosch is exactly known: 3118. If the number of defenders was indeed five thousand, their casualties must have numbered at about 1700. Estimates of the French losses vary considerably. They have been estimated at nine hundred dead and fourteen hundred wounded; at roughly about twice the number of Dutch casualties; or by contemporary Dutch accounts at six thousand killed and four thousand wounded. The Dutch at the time, for propaganda reasons, published long lists of French officers killed.\n\nThe quick fall of Maastricht meant that Louis had some time to spare. To keep the king occupied he attacked the Electorate of Trier, without a declaration of war, on the pretext the bishop had allowed the entry of some companies of imperial troops. The city of Trier was besieged and largely destroyed. William III had feared that 's-Hertogenbosch or Breda would be the next French target and had assembled an allied States-Spanish army of thirty thousand at Geertruidenberg to relieve any of these cities. The French had indeed considered an attack on 's-Hertogenbosch but decided against it because success could not be guaranteed in view of the marshy terrain. Although losing Maastricht was a blow to Dutch morale, the Trier siege it gave cause to would be very favourable to them. Public opinion in the German states was outraged by the French conduct. The emperor moved his army into the Rhineland and Louis in response withdrew most of his troops from the Holland Water Line, dangerously weakening his hold on Utrecht and Gelderland.\n\nShortly after the fall of Maastricht, the Dutch agreed the August 1673 Treaty of The Hague with Emperor Leopold and Spain, joined in October by Charles IV, Duke of Lorraine, creating the Quadruple Alliance. At the Water Line William III of Orange recaptured the fortress town of Naarden on 13 September. With the war expanding into the Rhineland and Spain, French troops withdrew from the Dutch Republic, retaining only Grave and Maastricht. Grave was recaptured by the Dutch in 1674.\n\nThe alliance between England and Catholic France had been unpopular from the start and although the real terms of the Treaty of Dover remained secret, many suspected them. In early 1674, Denmark joined the Alliance, while England and the Dutch made peace in the Treaty of Westminster. William III tried to recapture Maastricht in 1676 but failed, the French having greatly improved the fortifications according to a plan drawn by de Vauban. Immediately after the siege, de Vauban spent three weeks surveying the city and its surroundings to create detailed maps of the terrain. Then a large-scale maquette of the fortress was made. After much controversy among historians, the present consensus is that this model was discarded relatively early and is not identical to the extant Maastricht maquette in the Paris Musée de l'Armée which shows the situation in the middle of the eighteenth century. In 1673, de Louvois had written that Louis would sooner give up Paris or Versailles than ever return Maastricht, but the city was nevertheless returned to the Dutch when the Treaty of Nijmegen ended the war in 1678. The French used the city as a bargaining chip to seduce them to cease supporting the Spanish war aims. The Dutch had promised that after a victory, the city would be ceded to the Spanish Netherlands, but refused when peace had been signed, claiming that otherwise the treaty conditions would be violated.\n\nThe siege was the subject of a set of paintings by Charles Le Brun on the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors in Versailles. Adam Frans van der Meulen also dedicated a series of paintings to the event. Louis had the Porte Saint-Denis redesigned to commemorate this siege also, a plaque dedicating it \"LUDOVICO MAGNO, QUOD TRAJECTUM AD MOSAM - XIII. DIEBUS CEPIT\", \"to Louis the Great, for capturing Maastricht in thirteen days\". The reliefs depicting the siege were made by Michel Anguier.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902032", "title": "Triple Gold Club", "text": "Triple Gold Club\n\nThe Triple Gold Club is the group of ice hockey players and coaches who have won an Olympic Games gold medal, a World Championship gold medal, and the Stanley Cup, the championship trophy of the National Hockey League (NHL). The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) considers them to be \"the three most important championships available to the sport\".\n\nTomas Jonsson, Mats Näslund, and Håkan Loob became the first members on 27 February 1994 when Sweden won the gold medal at the 1994 Winter Olympics. The term first entered popular use following the 2002 Winter Olympics, which saw the addition of the first Canadian members. On 8 May 2007, the IIHF announced it would formalize the club and recognize the players who had won the three championships. The induction ceremony was held, with all 22 members at the time present, at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, on 22 February 2010.\n\nThere are 29 player members of the Triple Gold Club—eleven Canadians, nine Swedes, seven Russians, and two Czechs. Eleven of the players are defencemen and the remaining players are forwards; to date, no goaltender has achieved the honor. From the time of their first victory, Niklas Kronwall, Mikael Samuelsson and Henrik Zetterberg took the least time to join the club, winning the Olympics and World Championships in 2006 (as members of the Swedish national team) and the Stanley Cup in 2008 (as members of the Detroit Red Wings). In contrast, it took Russian Viacheslav Fetisov 19 years from his first victory to become a member. Jonathan Toews is the youngest player to accomplish the feat, winning the third championship (the Stanley Cup) at the age of 22 years, 42 days; Pavel Datsyuk is the oldest, winning Olympic gold at 39 years, 220 days. Fetisov, his countryman Igor Larionov, and Swede Peter Forsberg are the only players to have won each of the three championships more than once. Nine members of the Triple Gold Club have won the Stanley Cup as part of the Detroit Red Wings, more than any other NHL team.\n\nMike Babcock became the first, and so far only, coach to win all three components of the Triple Gold Club on 28 February 2010 when he led Canada to a gold medal at the 2010 Winter Olympics. He won the World Championship in 2004 and coached the Red Wings to a Stanley Cup win in 2008. In 2015, Sidney Crosby became the first Triple Gold Club member to captain all three of his winning teams. On 12 June 2019, Jay Bouwmeester became the latest member of the club, playing for St. Louis Blues in the 2019 Stanley Cup Finals.\n\nThe IIHF considers the components of the club to be \"the three most important championships available to the sport\". The club has been described as \"a modern fraternity\" because NHL players were not allowed to play in the World Championships until 1977 and not allowed in the Olympics until 1988 (with NHL co-operation beginning in 1998), as both were amateur championships. The Soviet and Czechoslovak teams were populated with amateur players who were actually full-time athletes hired as regular workers of a company (aircraft industry, food workers, tractor industry) or organization (KGB, Red Army, Soviet Air Force) that sponsored what would be presented as an after-hours social sports society hockey team for their workers. Additionally, many Eastern bloc players were not allowed (some defected) to play in the NHL and win the Stanley Cup before the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989.\n\nFive Canadians won an Olympic gold medal in 1920, 1924 or 1928 as well as a Stanley Cup. Those Olympic ice hockey tournaments are also World Championships as there was not a separate world championship tournament until 1930. The five are Frank Frederickson, Haldor Halderson, Dunc Munro, Hooley Smith, and Dave Trottier. The IIHF does not recognize these players as members of the Triple Gold Club.\n\nThe men's tournament was first held at the 1920 Summer Olympics and integrated in the Winter Olympic program starting with the 1924 Winter Olympics. The Olympic Games were originally intended for amateur athletes, so the players of the NHL and other professional leagues were not allowed to play. Canada dominated the first three decades, winning six of seven gold medals. The Soviet Union first participated in 1956, and overtook Canada as the dominant international team, winning seven of the nine tournaments in which they participated. The only two tournaments that the Soviets failed to win, in 1960 and 1980, were hosted and won by the United States. Other nations to win gold include Great Britain in 1936, Sweden in 1994 and 2006, and the Czech Republic in 1998.\n\nMany of Canada's top players were NHL professionals, so the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) pushed for the ability to use professional and amateur players. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) voted to allow all athletes to compete in Olympic Games held after 1988. The NHL was initially reluctant to allow its players to compete because the Olympics are held in the middle of the NHL season. An agreement was later reached and NHL players began competing in 1998. The NHL rescinded their agreement for allowing their players to participate beginning at the 2018 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe Ice Hockey World Championship is an annual tournament organized by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). The tournament held at the 1920 Summer Olympics is recognized as the first Ice Hockey World Championship. Between 1920 and 1968, the Olympic hockey tournament was also considered the World Championship for that year. The first World Championship that was held as an individual event was in 1930 in which twelve nations participated. The modern format for the World Championship features 16 teams in the championship group. The teams play a preliminary round and the top eight teams play in the playoff medal round.\n\nCanada was the first dominant team, winning the tournament 12 times between 1930 and 1952. The Soviet Union first participated in 1954 and from 1963 until 1991 was the dominant team, winning 20 championships. During that period, only three other nations won medals: Canada, Czechoslovakia and Sweden. Russia first participated in 1992 and the Czech Republic and Slovakia joined in 1993. In the 2000s the tournament became more competitive as the \"big six\" teams (Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia, Sweden and the United States) became evenly matched.\n\nThe Stanley Cup is the championship trophy awarded to the National Hockey League (NHL) playoffs champion. The Stanley Cup is the oldest professional sports trophy in North America and is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions. Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned. It is the only trophy in professional sports that has the name of the winning players, coaches, management and club staff engraved on its chalice.\n\nOriginally inscribed the \"Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup\", the trophy was donated in 1892, by then Governor General of Canada Lord Stanley of Preston, as an award for Canada's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club. The competition for the Cup went through several eras, with teams challenging for it, inter-league competition, and finally the NHL championship. After a series of league mergers and folds, it became the \"de facto\" championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and the official trophy in 1947.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902033", "title": "Johnny &quot;Red&quot; Floyd Stadium", "text": "Johnny &quot;Red&quot; Floyd Stadium\n\nJohnny \"Red\" Floyd Stadium is a stadium in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, United States. It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field of the Middle Tennessee State University Blue Raiders. It also serves as the stadium for the Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Association's (TSSAA) State High School Football Championships. It previously served as the home stadium for Riverdale and Oakland high schools, for a long period when those schools did not have stadiums. It later was the home stadium for Siegel High School for a short period, when construction for a stadium was delayed. The stadium is named for Middle Tennessee State University football coach Johnny Floyd.\n\nThe stadium was officially named Johnny \"Red\" Floyd Stadium/Horace Jones Field in 1968. Set on the northwest end of campus, Floyd Stadium has undergone a multimillion-dollar renovation over the past few years to make it one of the premier facilities in the region and the Conference USA. The stadium opened its doors on October 14, 1933, with a scoreless tie against Jacksonville State. Originally built as two sideline grandstands on either side of an outdoor track, it was enlarged in 1940, 1960, 1968, and most recently in 1998 to bring it to its current configuration as an octagonal bowl.\n\nThe move to NCAA Division I-A (FBS) football was the catalyst for the most recent renovation to Floyd Stadium. On August 24, 1995, the University announced plans for a renovation, which was approved by the State Building Commission. After a lengthy bid process, ground was officially broken for the stadium in January 1997 with Turner Construction handling the project.\n\nUpon completion, the stadium featured 30,788 seats with only the east side grandstands remaining from the original structure. The old press box gave way to a five-story tower including luxury suites on the third level, a large press area and a few suites on the fourth level, and a camera deck on the fifth level. The renovation also included the addition of more chair-back seats as well as a club level.\n\nThe first game in the renovated stadium took place on September 5, 1998. The game, in which Middle Tennessee hosted local rival Tennessee State, drew a then-school record 27,568 fans. The attendance helped push Middle Tennessee over the top for its I-A qualifying attendance of 17,000 per game.\n\nThe most recent upgrade came during the summer of 2007 when a new state-of-the-art video board was installed. The Daktronics display board enhances the overall atmosphere and bring fans even closer to the action.\n\nDuring the summer of 2006, a new synthetic surface was installed to replace the outdated artificial turf. The school decided to use the Sportexe PowerBlade, a special monofilament polyethylene infilled system designed to maximize player speed and performance and provide superior shock absorbency. Middle Tennessee was the first school in the country to use this top-of-the line surface. In 2012, a new stadium club was built from a $1 million donation from Jeff Hendrix.\n\nIn mid-2014, the field surface was again renovated with the installation of Shaw Sports Turf's Legion 46 synthetic turf.\n\nIn addition to the spectator facilities, the stadium complex includes a team meeting room, position meeting rooms, a weight room for all Middle Tennessee teams, an academic center for Blue Raider student-athletes, and access to Murphy Athletic Center from the stadium via a walkway. The stadium also allows for further expansion that would provide an increase of approximately 40,000 seats, putting capacity over the 70,000 mark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902034", "title": "Arma Christi", "text": "Arma Christi\n\nArma Christi (\"Weapons of Christ\"), or the Instruments of the Passion, are the objects associated with Jesus' Passion in Christian symbolism and art. They are seen as arms in the sense of heraldry, and also as the weapons Christ used to achieve his conquest over Satan. There is a group, at a maximum of about 20 items, which are frequently used in Christian art, especially in the Late Middle Ages. Typically they surround either a cross or a figure of Christ of the Man of Sorrows type, either placed around the composition, or held by angels. \n\nThe prime member, the Cross, had been introduced to Christian art in the 4th century as the \"crux invicta\", a symbol of victory. As a group they have a long tradition in iconography, dating back to the 9th century; the Utrecht Psalter of 830 is an example, though the only one from the Early Middle Ages known to Gertrud Schiller. This reflected an increase in theological interest in the sufferings of Christ at the time. The Middle English poem \"Arma Christi\", which appeared before the end of the 14th century, exists in fifteen manuscripts, attesting to its popularity, of which seven are engrossed in highly unusual scroll form, designed to be displayed in church as a pictorial aid to public devotion; manuscripts of \"Arma Christi\" are generally accompanied by illustrations of the instruments, viewing of which, according to the texts, granted indulgence of a certain number of days in Purgatory to come. \n\nRelics of the most important items had a long history, dating back to the Empress Helena's discovery of the True Cross in the early 4th century. Relics claiming to be the Holy Lance, Holy Sponge, Holy Chalice and nails from the cross were all venerated well before 1000, and were to proliferate in later centuries. There was a wave of new relics in the West at the time of the Crusades, and a further wave as the Instruments became featured more prominently in devotional literature and practices in the 14th century. \n\nIn art the Instruments either surrounded an image of Christ in andachtsbilder subjects such as the Man of Sorrows, or might appear by themselves - often the image of Christ's face on the Veil of Veronica was the focal point of the image. In both cases the purpose of the representations was to symbolize the sufferings of Christ during his Passion. They had the practical advantage for less accomplished artists of being much easier to represent than human figures, and were no doubt often treated as a subject an apprentice could be left to do. Possibly the earliest representation of the isolated instruments laid out across a space is in a drawing in a German manuscript of about 1175, where they are to one side of a Christ in Majesty. In devotional books they were sometimes, by the Late Middle Ages, shown one at a time, accompanying one of the many texts that devoted meditations in turn to the episodes in which each had been used, before culminating in a figure subject with Jesus. Miniature versions of the objects were attached to rosaries and crucifixes, and used as aids to contemplation of the suffering of Christ.\n\nDepictions of the Instruments of the Passion may include many combinations of those following (though the cross of Jesus is almost always represented). A primary group of the most frequently used instruments can be distinguished:\n\n\nOther common ones are: \n\nThe principal group of the Instruments appear in other contexts as well. The lance and sponge on a stick are held as though they are standards or weapons by the archangels flanking the throne of Christ in a 6th-century mosaic from Ravenna (now Belin), and are often shown in this way thereafter, especially in scenes of the Last Judgement. In Eastern Orthodox art they are often on or around the Hetoimasia or \"empty throne\" of judgement. The Crown of Thorns sometimes hangs alone on the cross; it has been suggested that the Celtic cross originated from this motif. The minor Instruments generally did not developed a sufficient ability to be recognised and understood in this way, and appear only in groups. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902036", "title": "List of Wii games", "text": "List of Wii games\n\nThis is a list of released video games for the Wii video game console.\n\nThere were 22 games released on the same day as the launch of the Wii on November 19, 2006. The last game for the Wii, \"Just Dance 2020\", was released on November 5, 2019.\n\nNintendo would also have re-prints for various retail Wii games under the Nintendo Selects label at later dates, but they do not count as new releases. For a list of Wii games re-released digitally on the Wii U, see the list of Wii games on Wii U eShop.\n\nThe original Wii was backward compatible with games made for its predecessor, the GameCube. For a list of GameCube releases, see List of GameCube games. For a list of Wii games that use the Classic controller or the GameCube controller, see List of Wii games with traditional control schemes. This list does not include games released on Virtual Console or WiiWare, instead see Lists of Virtual Console games or List of WiiWare games for those lists respectively.\n\nThis list is sorted by game titles, their developer(s), publisher(s), released for and release date by Japanese, European, Australian, and American regions respectively. A game title without a region abbreviation in superior letters is a North American title and may be shared in another region if there is no secondary title with a matching region in superior letters.\n\nThe \"Japan\" column involves NTSC-J software, which is compatible with Hong Kong, Taiwan and other selected Asian consoles, besides South Korea. This kind of software would not be compatible with South Korean Wii consoles. \"Europe\" and \"Australia/Asia\" are both under PAL/SECAM. \"North America\" is under NTSC territories, including Central and South Americas, and sometimes, in the case of various Nintendo-published titles, in Southeast Asia and the Middle East.\n\nFor a chronological list, click the sort button in any of the available regions' columns.\n\nThere are games on this list.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902044", "title": "Chris Riggott", "text": "Chris Riggott\n\nChristopher Mark \"Chris\" Riggott (born 1 September 1980) is an English former professional footballer who played as a defender. He began his career at Derby County, before moving to Middlesbrough, with whom he won the League Cup in 2004. He also had spells with Stoke City, Cardiff City and Burton Albion and represented England nine times at under-21 level.\n\nRiggott is currently coaching the under-13s for Derby County \n\nBorn in Derby, Riggott played at Derby County where he came through the youth system, whilst studying at St Benedict's RC secondary school in Derby. Whilst at Derby he was coached by future England manager Steve McClaren and Middlesbrough coaches Steve Round and Bill Beswick. He made his debut for the club on 14 May 2000 as a substitute in place of Steve Elliott during a 4–0 defeat to Chelsea. He went on to make 100 appearances for Derby in all competitions and scored 7 goals during his spell at the club. At the end of the 2000–01 season he was named Derby's Player of the Year.\n\nAfter being strongly linked with Liverpool in the 2001–02 season, he eventually joined Middlesbrough, along with Malcolm Christie for a combined fee of 3 million pounds in January 2003, with the potential to rise to 5 million.\n\nRiggott immediately became popular among the fans, scoring twice on his second appearance in the Tees-Wear derby against Sunderland at the Stadium of Light, which Middlesbrough won 3–1. He was also part of the 2004 League Cup final squad but did not play in the final. In the 2004–05 season he made 32 appearances, mostly covering for the much injured Ugo Ehiogu, contributing to the team's most successful season since the Premier League was established.\n\nIn the 2005–06 season, Riggott became the first choice central defensive partner for Gareth Southgate, in a successful season which saw the club reach the UEFA Cup final he stood out and was generally regarded as being one of the outstanding players for Middlesbrough during the season. In the UEFA Cup semi final against Steaua Bucharest, Boro found themselves 3–0 down on aggregate and needing four goals to get through to the final. Riggott crucially scored the third of the four needed as Middlesbrough miraculously reached the final.\n\nThe next season, new manager Southgate strengthened his defence by signing England and Germany internationals Jonathan Woodgate and Robert Huth, from Real Madrid and Chelsea respectively. This cast into doubt Riggot's place in the starting line up, and a series of injuries and the form of Middlesbrough's new defensive partnership of Woodgate and player of the year Emanuel Pogatetz limited his appearances that season. At some points he was even relegated to fourth choice centre-back, behind new signing Huth, who himself had injury problems. During the close season he was linked with a move to former club Derby, who had been promoted to the Premiership the previous season, but the rumours proved unfounded and he remained at Middlesbrough. Riggott joined Stoke City on loan on 29 February 2008, until the end of the season, in the hope of assisting the Potters in their promotion race, which he succeeded in doing. He returned to Middlesbrough on 2 May.\n\nRiggott decided against signing a new deal with the club, turning down a new contract. Middlesbrough manager Gordon Strachan later stated: \"\"He wants to change his whole lift in terms of life, the club and the area he lives in. He's got great experience and he's had a rough time with injuries.\"\" Riggott spent time on trial at his former club Derby County but eventually joined Cardiff City on 17 September following a rigorous fitness test. On 26 December, Riggot made his long-awaited Cardiff City debut against Coventry City before coming off in the second half in his bid to regain full fitness. Cardiff City won the game 2–0. On 1 February, his contract at Cardiff was cancelled by mutual consent due to ongoing injuries.\n\nAhead of the 2011–12 season, Riggott has been training with his hometown club Derby County in an attempt to regain fitness. He scored the only goal in a 2–1 pre-season friendly defeat at Crewe Alexandra, a game which was his sole appearance during his trial period. As was anticipated for much of pre-season, particularly after undergoing a back operation at Derby County's expense, Riggott signed a one-year contract with the club on 10 August 2011. However, he fell victim to his recurring injuries and didn't play football again until mid-November, when he appeared in a reserve fixture against Sheffield United. On 22 December 2011, Riggott left Derby as his contract was cancelled by mutual consent, the contract was formally terminated on 1 January 2012.\n\nAfter training with them for a week, Riggott joined Burton Albion on 9 February 2012 on a short-term deal. The contract ran until the end of the 2011–12 season. However, he never made an appearance for the club and was forced to retire from the game on 20 March 2012, after failing to overcome a persistent back injury.\n\nSource:\n\nMiddlesbrough\n"}
{"id": "1902068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902068", "title": "Morgantina", "text": "Morgantina\n\nMorgantina (Μοργάντιον / Μοργαντίνη in ancient greek) is an archaeological site in east central Sicily, southern Italy. It is sixty kilometres from the coast of the Ionian Sea, in the province of Enna. The closest modern town is Aidone, two kilometres southwest of the site. The site consists of a two-kilometre long ridge running southwest-northeast, known as Serra Orlando, and a neighboring hill at the northeast called Cittadella. Morgantina was inhabited in several periods. The earliest major settlement was made at Cittadella and lasted from about 1000/900 to about 450 BCE. The other major settlement was located on Serra Orlando, and existed from about 450 BCE to about 50 CE. Morgantina has been the subject of archaeological investigation since the early 20th century.\n\nSerra Orlando was identified as Morgantina by Kenan Erim following the discovery of a number of coins bearing the Latin word \"HISPANORUM\". Erim used these coins and passages from Livy to argue that the city found at Serra Orlando was in fact the ancient city of Morgantina.\n\nThe name appears in different forms among different authors: Morgantia, Murgantia and Morgantium in scholarship; in ancient sources Strabo used the name and Diodorus Siculus used . The name is variously written by Latin writers as Murgantia, Murgentia and Morgentia. The inhabitants were called \"Murgentini\" by Cicero and Pliny the Elder.\n\nAccording to Strabo Morgantina was founded by a pre-Roman Italian group known as the Morgetes of Rhegium. Dionysius of Halicarnassus wrote that the Morgetes were led by a king named Morges. The earliest historical date associated with Morgantina is 459 BCE, when Ducetius, leader of the indigenous Sicel population of central Sicily, attacked the city and captured it. Morgantina was probably still under Ducetius' control when he was defeated at Nomai by Syracuse in 449 BCE.\n\nNo later mention of Morgantina is made until Thucydides lists it as part of the terms of a truce in the war of 427–424 BCE between Syracuse and the Dorian cities of Sicily on one side, and Kamarina, the Khalkidian cities of Sicily, the Sikels, and Athens on the other side. Thucydides says that Syracuse agreed at the Congress of Gela to give Morgantina to Kamarina in return for payment of an indemnity. Kamarina was destroyed in 405 by the Carthaginians. Morgantina therefore must have been independent from at least this date, although it was soon recaptured by Dionysios of Syracuse in 396. Syracuse retained (occasionally more nominal than actual) control of Morgantina until the Second Punic War. In 317, Morgantina received the tyrant Agathocles, then in exile, and offered him help in returning to Syracuse. He was elected \"praetor\" at Morgantina, and later \"dux\".\n\nAs part of the Syracusan kingdom of Hiero II, Morgantina fell under the hegemony of Rome when Hieron became a Roman vassal in 263. In 214, Morgantina switched its allegiance from Rome to Carthage. Morgantina remained autonomous until 211, when it became the last Sicilian town to be captured by the Romans. It was given as payment by Rome to a group of Spanish mercenaries. In 133, Morgantina was the place where Eunus, the leader of the slave rebellion known as the First Servile War, died. In the Second Servile War, Morgantina was besieged and taken by slaves. The final mention of Morgantina comes again from Strabo, who notes that in his own time, the first century CE, the city had ceased to exist.\n\nA few literary sources describe Morgantina and its economy. Most famous of these are the references to the \"vitis murgentina\", a strain of grape mentioned by Cato, Columella, and Pliny the Elder. These grapes were prized for their wine — Pliny called it \"the very best among all those that come from Sicily\" — and had been transplanted from Sicily to mainland Italy by the 2nd century BCE.\n\nThe earliest excavations at Morgantina were undertaken by Luigi Pappalardo in 1884. He uncovered part of a necropolis, a large terracotta drain and two houses. One of the houses he found, the Pappalardo house, was named for him by later American excavators.\n\nPaolo Orsi recorded stray finds from Morgantina and excavated trial trenches in 1912. He located a terrace of nine steps, walls, as well as what he called 'a Roman house'.\n\nMorgantina has been the principal site of American research on classical Sicily. Currently there are two other sites on the island with significant American presences: the Soprintendenza BB.CC.AA. di Catania's excavations at Palike, and the work undertaken by Stanford University and Northern Illinois University as part of a consortium of primarily Scandinavian institutions at Monte Polizzo. In 1955, a major project was begun by Princeton University, under the supervision of Professors Erik Sjöqvist and Richard Stillwell. The excavations on the (then unidentified) town were intended to serve as training for graduate students in Princeton's Department of Art and Archaeology. Major figures who participated in work at Morgantina include Kenan Erim, Donald White, T. Leslie Shear, Jr., Ione Mylonas Shear, R. Ross Holloway, Stephen Miller, Paul Deussen, and Karl Erik Östenberg. Special mention should also be made of Sweden's King Gustaf VI Adolf, who came to Morgantina on several occasions in the 1950s at the invitation of Sjöqvist, his former secretary, to work at the site.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Princeton graduate student Hubert L. Allen assumed a role in the administration of the excavations. Upon receiving his doctorate, Allen was hired by the University of Illinois, which then began to co-sponsor the Morgantina project. The death of Sjöqvist and retirement of Stillwell in the early 1970s led to Princeton's withdrawal from direct involvement in the excavations. Allen continued to lead the project until 1975, when he was denied tenure at Illinois and took a position with University of Illinois computer sciences. At that point, American work at Morgantina was put on hold.\n\nThe excavations had produced vast amounts of artifacts and data, but as yet there was no final publication. In 1978, Malcolm Bell, III, professor of classical art and archaeology at the University of Virginia, took over the project with the goal of publishing the Morgantina material. Bell was a former Princeton graduate student (Sjöqvist had been Bell's advisor until his retirement) who had written his dissertation on terracotta figurines found at Morgantina. He has conducted investigations on Serra Orlando since 1982, each time with the intention of answering specific questions raised by earlier work. Bell used his dissertation as the basis for the first book in the \"Morgantina Studies\" series published in 1983. Six volumes have appeared in the series, which is the main vehicle for the definite publication of the excavation results.\n\nIn 1990, Carla Antonaccio, then on the faculty of Wesleyan University but now at Duke University, herself a Princeton graduate, assumed responsibility for publishing the post-7th century BCE settlement on Cittadella. Since that time, both Virginia and Wesleyan, along with many other American and Italian institutions, have sent scholars and students to conduct research. Notable scholars currently working on the project include Barbara Tsakirgis of Vanderbilt University on the houses of Serra Orlando, Jenifer Neils of Case Western Reserve University on figured pottery, Barbara Barletta of the University of Florida on architectural moldings, Rosa Maria Albanese Procelli and Enrico Procelli, both of the University of Catania on the Bronze Age material, John Kenfield of Rutgers University on architectural terracottas, and Robert Leighton of the University of Edinburgh on the protohistoric settlement on Cittadella.\n\nThe site's archives are currently housed at the Department of Art and Archaeology at Princeton University, though some materials also exist at the University of Illinois.\n\nSince 2003 Sandra K. Lucore (formerly of the University of Tokyo, now an independent scholar) has led excavations of the 3rd century BC North Baths complex that have produced interesting results including evidence of one of the earliest examples of dome and barrel vault construction.\n\nThe bouleuterion in Morgantina is a rectangular building located west of the agora of the city. It was founded during the 3rd century BC, a period of great prosperity for Morgantina, which, from 5th century BC on had acquired a profoundly Hellenic character.\n\nThe building had a bipartite plan. A walled forecourt led through a stoa to the main entrance, centrally located at the east wall of the auditorium. A rectangular substructure held wooden benches where the assembly sat to listen to the speakers. Stone buttressing, connected to this substructure, supported the south retaining wall.\n\nToday, only the foundation and parts of the south side of the auditorium are preserved.\n\nA regional museum was opened in Aidone in 1980 to house finds from Morgantina. The building, dating from the 17th century, is a former Capuchin monastery. The museum is run by the Soprintendenza BB.CC.AA. di Enna. There are two floors of exhibits, covering the site's prehistoric, archaic, and classical periods, along with a thematic display that draws attention to aspects of ancient daily life.\n\n\nThe Morgantina Studies series:\n\n"}
{"id": "1902071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902071", "title": "List of former Jim Crockett Promotions personnel", "text": "List of former Jim Crockett Promotions personnel\n\nJim Crockett Promotions was a professional wrestling promotion headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, United States that traded from 1931 to 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902074", "title": "Willis Avenue Bridge", "text": "Willis Avenue Bridge\n\nThe Willis Avenue Bridge is a swing bridge that carries road traffic northbound (and bicycles and pedestrians both ways) over the Harlem River between the New York City boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx, United States. It connects First Avenue in Manhattan with Willis Avenue in the Bronx. The New York City Department of Transportation is responsible for maintaining and operating the bridge.\n\nThe bridge is part of the course for the annual New York City Marathon. The runners, after crossing over from Manhattan to The Bronx via the bridge - which they have dubbed \"the wall\" because it marks the 20-mile point on the run - then follow a short course through the borough and return to Manhattan for the race's final leg via the Madison Avenue Bridge.\n\nThe bridge opened in 1901, at an original construction cost of $1,640,523.11 and a land cost of $803,988.37. Major reinforcing work was done in 1916. However, in 1941, the bridge failed monthly inspection and therefore was converted to one-way operation northbound on August 5, 1941 on the same day the Third Avenue Bridge was similarly converted to one-way southbound.\n\nDue to its poor condition, the bridge was replaced starting in 2007 and converted to pedestrian-only traffic for three years, and then was dismantled once a sidewalk was put in on the new bridge.\n\nIn November 2005, New York City sought to replace the bridge. In an effort to preserve the structure, the city offered it for sale for $1, with free delivery within 15 miles. Due to the difficult logistics of moving the structure, there were no bids as of March 2007. On April 12, 2011, granite from the structure was given to a nearby park while the metal part was moved via tug to Jersey City. The steel was melted down and the concrete parts were made into fill.\n\nThe Department of Transportation opted to construct a new structure to the south of the existing bridge at a projected cost of $417 million. On March 8, 2007, when bidding for construction was opened, of the two bids offered, the lowest came in at $612 million. Iris Weinshall, the department commissioner, said that the city had to go forward with the project because maintenance of the existing bridge was too expensive and the design of the ramps contributed to frequent accidents. This was the most costly bridge construction project by the New York City Department of Transportation. Weinshall expected the project to last five years with construction beginning around the end of 2007.\n\nThe replacement bridge was constructed at Port of Coeymans, 10 miles south of Albany. On July 13, 2010, the bridge was shipped down the Hudson on two barges that were welded together. The new bridge is 350 feet long, 65 feet high and 77 feet wide; it required three tugboats to propel it. The sight of the floating bridge caused a stir among onlookers all along the Hudson. After a stay at Port Jersey in Jersey City it was towed up the East River to its destination in the morning on July 26. Motor traffic was shifted to the new bridge on October 2, 2010, though the walkway of the old bridge continued to serve pedestrians and cyclists for a few weeks.\n\nJust upstream, the Third Avenue Bridge carries southbound traffic across the Harlem River from the Bronx to Manhattan as the other side of a one-way pair. That bridge was replaced in 2004.\n\n\"Willis Avenue Bridge\" is the name of a song by David Berkeley from his 2009 album \"Strange Light\"\n\n\"Beneath the Willis Bridge\" is the name of the 2015 album released by 80 REEF\n\nIn a famous publicity photo for the film Midnight Cowboy, Joe Buck and Ratso Rizzo (Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman) are seen walking on the old Willis Avenue Bridge.\n\nThe Willis Avenue Bridge carries the bus route operated by MTA New York City Transit. The route's average weekday ridership is 19,951.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902090", "title": "Marion Byron", "text": "Marion Byron\n\nMarion Byron (born Miriam Bilenkin; March 16, 1911, Dayton, Ohio – July 5, 1985, Santa Monica, California) was an American movie comedian.\n\nAfter following her sister into a short stage career as a singer/dancer, she was given her first movie role as Buster Keaton's leading lady in the film \"Steamboat Bill, Jr.\" in 1928. From there she was hired by Hal Roach to co-star in short subjects with Max Davidson, Edgar Kennedy, and Charley Chase, but most significantly with Anita Garvin, where tiny (4'11\" in high heels) Marion was teamed with the 5'9 Anita for a brief three-film series as a \"female Laurel & Hardy\" in 1928–1929.\n\nShe left Roach Studios before it made sound films, then worked in musical features, like the Vitaphone film \"Broadway Babies\" (1929) with Alice White, and the early Technicolor feature \"Golden Dawn\" (1930).\n\nHer parts slowly got smaller until they were unbilled walk-ons in movies like \"Meet the Baron\" (1933), starring Jack Pearl and \"Hips Hips Hooray\" (1934) with Wheeler & Woolsey. Her final screen appearance was as a baby nurse to the Dionne Quintuplets in \"Five of a Kind\" (1938).\n\nShe married screenwriter Lou Breslow in 1932, and they had two sons, Lawrence Samuel Breslow (born 1939) and Daniel Robert Breslow (1944–1998). Marion Byron Breslow is buried at Hillside Memorial Park in Culver City, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902095", "title": "Project Management Professional", "text": "Project Management Professional\n\nProject Management Professional (PMP) is an internationally recognized professional designation offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). As of August 2019, there are 932,720 active PMP certified individuals and 300 chartered chapters across 218 countries and territories worldwide. The exam is based on the PMI Project Management Body of Knowledge.\n\nThe PMP exam is based on the \"PMP Examination Specification\", which describes tasks out of five \"performance domains\":\n\n\nThe exam consists of 200 multiple choice questions written against the PMBOK specification and the PMP Code of Ethics. The exam is closed book; no reference materials are allowed. Twenty-five of the 200 questions on the exam are \"sample\" questions used to fine-tune the degree of difficulty and precision of the exam and as such are not counted for or against a test taker. These questions are placed randomly throughout the exam. The test taker is only graded on their proficiency on 175 questions. The numbers in parentheses describe the percentage of questions for each domain.\n\nAnnounced in June 2019, the \"PMP Examination Content Outline\" will undergo significant re-categorization, effective July 2020, which prescribe 3 all new \"performance domains\":\n\n\nEach exam item (a question with its possible answers) has at least two references to standard books or other sources of project management. Most of the questions reference the PMI \"A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge\" (\"aka\" the PMBOK Guide). The PMBOK Guide is currently (2018) in its sixth edition, and the PMP exam changed in March 2018 to align with the updated guide.\n\nThe Project Management Framework embodies a project life cycle and five major project management \"Process Groups\":\n\nencompassing a total of 49 processes.\n\nMapped to these five process groups are ten project management \"Knowledge Areas\":\n\nThe processes of these knowledge areas are described by their inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs. The PMBOK also emphasizes the interaction and interdependence between different process groups. For example, the outputs from one process may be used by one or more other processes as inputs.\n\nGovernment, commercial and other organizations employ PMP certified project managers in an attempt to improve the success rate of projects in all areas of knowledge, by applying a standardized and evolving set of project management principles as contained in PMI's PMBOK Guide.\n\nIn December 2005, the PMP credential was number 7 of ZDNet's \"10 best IT certifications\". In 2012 the PMP credential was ranked as a top certification by CIO. In 2015, the PMP credential was ranked as the #4 certification by Global Knowledge, behind 3 Security certifications.\n\nThe global network of Pearson VUE testing centers provides the PMP exam as a computer-based test. They also offer a paper-based option for locations with no nearby Prometric testing centers. The exam consists of 200 questions (\"\"items\"\"). 25 are pre-release items, which are not included in exam scoring. Prometric calculates the score based on the other 175 items. Each multiple-choice item has one correct answer and three incorrect answers.\n\nCandidates who take the computer-based test receive their results (passed or not passed) immediately upon completion. PMI also evaluates proficiency levels in each project management process group in 4 levels. \"Above Target\", \"Target\", \"Below Target\", and \"Needs Improvement\". Examiners provide these results to the candidate on a score report after the examination. Candidates who take paper-based tests receive their test results and score reports typically within 4 weeks.\n\nResearch shows that the most difficult Knowledge areas of the PMP® exam are Quality Management, Integration Management, and Time Management.\n\nPMI conducts application audits to confirm the experience and/or education documented on certification applications. The purpose of the audit is to enhance the credibility of the certification program and of the certification holders. For each certification, a specified percentage of applications are randomly selected for audit.\n\nItem writing is an ongoing process at PMI, and they periodically add new four-choice questions (\"items\") and remove others. Item writers use the \"PMP Examination Specification\" to identify item contents and references (project management texts or standards) to verify correctness. Individuals who are active in the field of PMP exam preparation (trainers, courseware developers, book authors, \"etc.\".) may not participate in item writing.\n\nCandidates must meet the prerequisites in one of the following groups to be eligible for PMP Certification:\n\n\n\nContinuous credential requirements are also called CCRs. To maintain the PMP qualification, 60 professional development units (PDUs) must be earned over a three-year cycle, from activities such as researching, authoring articles, speaking on project management-related topics, or being engaged full-time in project management.\nCredential holders may earn PDUs towards the maintenance of their credential through formal academic courses or courses offered by a provider (R.E.P. or Component). However, these are only two of the five categories of PDU earning opportunities in which a credential holder may participate.\n\nEffective 1 December 2015, CCRs will be updated to align with the employer-identified skills depicted in the PMI Talent Triangle, a combination of technical, leadership, and strategic and business management expertise, to ensure credential holders are equipped with skills relevant in a continually changing business environment.\n\nThe US Department of Education and the National Science Foundation have deemed all United States professional certifications to be at level 50 in the Mapping The World of Education, Comparable Database System (Volume Two: Codes for Program Completion Awards by Country). The Level 50 code addresses \"Postsecondary Programs and Awards of No More Than 2 Years. Programs and awards that are designed to represent no more than 2 years of study; constitute postsecondary education as operationally defined in CDS; and are not second (graduate-level) programs and awards.\"\nPMP (Project Management Professional) is one of eight credentials offered by PMI:\n\n\nPRINCE2 could be seen as a competitor of Project Management Professional (PMP). In general, the US and American countries prefer PMP, and UK, Australia and Europe prefer PRINCE2. Asia, Africa and the Middle East area have no strong preference for PMP or PRINCE2.\n\nPRINCE2 and PMP acknowledge each other's existence in their advertising material and attempt to position themselves as complementary products – PRINCE2 as a \"methodology\" and PMP as a \"standard\" – which can be used alongside each other. In practice, companies and practitioners choose one system or both due to the project environment, their geographical location and costs involved.\n"}
{"id": "1902105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902105", "title": "Mike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium", "text": "Mike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium\n\nMike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium is a baseball venue located in Tallahassee, Florida, United States, located adjacent to Doak Campbell Stadium on the campus of Florida State University. It is the home field of the Florida State Seminoles baseball team of the NCAA Division I Atlantic Coast Conference. It opened in 1983 and was renovated in 2004. The two-year, $12 million renovation project expanded the seating capacity to 6,700.\n\nIn 1988, the stadium portion of the venue was named after Florida State's first baseball All-American, Dick Howser, also a former head baseball coach of the program. The stadium was originally called Seminole Stadium. In 2005, the field itself was dedicated to current Florida State head coach Mike Martin.\n\nThe stadium has played host to 35 NCAA Regional Tournaments since opening in 1983. In 2012, college baseball writer Eric Sorenson ranked the facility as the third best big game atmosphere in Division I baseball and, in 2014, the stadium was rated as one of the top 100 best stadium experiences across all sports in the United States and Canada.\n\nFlorida State's baseball program has had many outstanding players and has enjoyed much success throughout the decades. To commemorate their storied baseball program, they have built a large tradition room to honor players, coaches, and the University program as a whole. The Mike Loynd Tradition Room is located next to the Griffin Family Clubhouse under the first base stands. The trophy room as stated above showcases the stories of the great players in Florida State baseball history telling of their stories and successes. The room holds awards, plaques, championships, and more. Inside of the tradition room is a lounge area with multiple televisions that continually broadcast historic moments that have occurred within the baseball program throughout the years. On the walls of the tradition room there are tributes to the Seminole teams that made twenty-one appearances to the College World Series, and appeared in seventeen conference championship games. In addition to team awards certain individuals were signaled out and awarded for their excellence. The individual awards are showcased in glass cases; they include the four Golden Spikes Awards (an award given to the best NCAA division one player in the country) won by, Mike Loynd, Mike Fuentes, J. D. Drew, and Buster Posey. Additionally other individual awards that are on display include the coveted Gold Glove Award, an award that honors the best defensive player in the country at their given position. Buster Posey most notably won both the Golden Spikes Award and the Golden Glove Award. He was the first Seminole baseball player to be presented with the award in only its second year of being given as an award.\n\nThe Mike Loynd Tradition Room was built as a part of the nearly $12 million, two-year renovation project that ended in 2004 giving rise to the Dick Howser Stadium we see today. The room was built in large part because of a generous donation by former Golden Spikes Award winner Mike Loynd.\n\nThe Section B Animals of Florida State baseball is a tradition for the Seminoles. Existing since 1977 the animals are a group of Florida State baseball fans that come to the games and cheer on the Seminoles. Some old fans believe that they evolved out of a fan group that existed even before that time and was organized around supporting an individual player, a first baseman. That group carried a paddle with the player's picture on it and waved it during games. The reason for their name Section B Animals is because when Dick Howser Stadium opened in 1983 they took accustom to section B. The name animals came when a man would bring bad doughnuts to the games and eventually the group of fans threw the doughnuts at the man who brought the doughnuts and they were called animals, so the name stuck. The Animals consist of students, alumni, business people, families, public servants, and anyone else who has a passion for Florida State Baseball. The animals job is to use cheers and songs to pump up the crowd and intimidate the opposing team. They strategically serenade the opposition by choosing songs from their official 63-song “Animals of Section B” songbook. Section B does unusual things like displaying the Canadian flag and singing \"O Canada\" in the bottom of the fifth inning. The Animals have been featured on ESPN, Sports Illustrated, The Sporting News Online, Seminole Uprising, The Mike Martin Show, WTXL 27, WCTV 6, Fox SportsSouth, The Tallahassee Democrat, The Florida Times Union, FSView, The Last Word, Gainesville Sun, Durham Herald Sun and Wakulla Digest. The Section B Animals have worked hard to establish a reputation of originality, positive energy,and of the #1 cheering section in college baseball. In recent years, the Animals website, Section B Online has begun generating hundreds of thousands of hits per month and is the premier source of Florida State Baseball on the Internet.\n\nThe stadium annually ranks among the top 10 nationally in attendance and set records in 2003 for total and average attendance.\n\nThe single-game attendance record of 6,789 spectators was set on April 19, 2008, when Florida State defeated then-No. 1 Miami 9–5. During the week of April 14–20, 2008, 30,179 fans watched Florida State play a total of five games against intrastate competition, the (Florida Gators, North Florida Ospreys, and Miami Hurricanes). The series record is 19,062, set in that week's Miami series.\n\nThe following is a list of the ten highest single-game attendance figures in the venue's history, as of the 2019 season. \n"}
{"id": "1902110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902110", "title": "Doug Kingsmore Stadium", "text": "Doug Kingsmore Stadium\n\nDoug Kingsmore Stadium (known prior to 2003 officially as Beautiful Tiger Field) is a baseball park in the southeastern United States, located in Clemson, South Carolina. It is primarily used for NCAA and is the home field of the Clemson Tigers of the Division I Atlantic Coast Conference.\n\nOpened in 1970, it has a record single-game attendance of 6,524 (set on March 6, 2016, against South Carolina). Doug Kingsmore has ranked in the top 20 in attendance for 15 consecutive seasons. The Tigers have an .810 winning percentage in games played there all time and are in NCAA Tournament games there since the NCAA changed its post-season format in 1999 (with a record in NCAA Tournament games all time).\n\nFormer Clemson baseball player and Board of Trustees Emeritus Doug Kingsmore gave the Clemson athletic department a $1 million gift towards renovation of Clemson's baseball stadium, formerly known as Tiger Field. George Bennett, former executive director of IPTAY, made the announcement in 2000. Bennett also announced that the facility would be called Doug Kingsmore Stadium.\n\nThe stadium has hosted three Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournaments (1976, 1977, 1978), 13 NCAA regionals (1994, 1995, 1996, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2016, 2017, 2018), and four NCAA super regionals (2000, 2002, 2006, 2010).\n\nRenovations to Doug Kingsmore Stadium began in the summer of 2002. The design was done by HOK Sport (now Populous) and construction by Yeargin Potter Shackelford Construction. The stadium has a brick facade that surrounds every entrance. A green roof that covers much more of the stands and a press box that is twice as large adds to the comfort of fans attending the game and the media covering it. The press box, which is accessible by elevator, includes four large booths for broadcasting and a separate media center that accommodates 13 writers.\n\nThere is also a patio area outside the press box that is above the existing stands along the first and third-base lines. It is used for receptions and other events throughout the year.\n\nTwo ticket booths, concession stands with an adjoining picnic area, and enlarged restrooms make the facility easily accessible and fan-friendly. Reserved seats were also added to the grandstand. A grand stairway leading from the McFadden parking lot to the main entrance is an added feature from a convenience and aesthetic aspect.\n\nThe players also realize improvements, as four batting cages have been constructed beyond the right-field fence. The dugouts have been almost doubled in length and width. And the players have a newly renovated locker room and lounge.\n\nPrior to 2005, PawVision, the giant replay screen that was used in the football stadium (1997–2004), was moved to Doug Kingsmore Stadium.\n\nThe facility is also equipped with a \"Super-Sopper,\" which cuts down on rainouts. Clemson is one of a few schools with this machine that removes water from the field.\n\nNew Stadium Features:\n\nThe diamond has an unorthodox southerly alignment (home plate to center field); the recommended orientation is The elevation of the field is approximately above sea level.\n\nIn 2013, the Tigers ranked seventh among Division I baseball programs in attendance, averaging 4,751 per home game.\n\nThe attendance record for Doug Kingsmore Stadium was set on March 6, 2016, when 6,525 watched the Tigers defeat \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902117", "title": "List of former World Championship Wrestling personnel", "text": "List of former World Championship Wrestling personnel\n\nThis is a list of professional wrestlers and personalities that performed in World Championship Wrestling from 1988 to 2001. They are listed in alphabetical order of their real name. Before World Championship Wrestling was formed, Jim Crockett Promotions existed. For alumni of that promotion, see List of former Jim Crockett Promotions personnel.\n\nDeceased individuals are indicated with a dagger (†).\n"}
{"id": "1902126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902126", "title": "Shah Shuja (Mughal prince)", "text": "Shah Shuja (Mughal prince)\n\nShah Shuja (, ), \n(23 June 1616 – 7 February 1661) was the second son of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan and Empress Mumtaz Mahal. He was the governor of Bengal and Odisha and had his capital at Dhaka, presently Bangladesh.\n\nShah Shuja was born on 23 June 1616, in Ajmer. He was the second son and child of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan and his queen Mumtaz Mahal.\n\nShuja's siblings were Jahanara Begum, Dara Shikoh, Roshanara Begum, Aurangzeb, Murad Baksh, Gauhara Begum and others. He had three sons - Sultan Zain-ul-Din (Bon Sultan or Sultan Bang), Buland Akhtar and Zainul Abidin and four daughters - Gulrukh Banu, Roshanara Begum and Amina Begum.\n\nShah Shuja married firstly Bilqis Banu Begum, the daughter of Rustam Mirza, on the night of Saturday, 5 March 1633. The marriage was arranged by Princess Jahanara Begum. Rupees 1,60,000 in cash and one lakh worth lakh of goods were sent as sachak to the mansion of Mirza Rustam. On 23 February 1633, the wedding presents worth Rupees 10 lakhs were displayed by Jahanara Begum and Sati-un-nissa Khanum. The following year she gave birth to a daughter, and died in childbirth. She was buried in a separate mausoleum named Kharbuza Mahal, at Burhanpur. Her daughter was named Dilpazir Banu Begum by Shah Jahan, and who died as an infant.\n\nOn the death of his first wife, he married Piari Banu Begum, daughter of Azam Khan, second governor of Bengal during Shah Jahan's reign. She was the mother of two sons, and three daughters, namely, Prince Zain-ud-din Mirza born on 28 October 1639, Prince Zain-ul-Abidin Mirza born on 20 December 1645, Gulrukh Banu Begum (wife of Prince Muhammad Sultan), Raushan Ara Begum, and Amina Banu Begum. In 1660, she fled to Arakan with her husband, sons, and three daughters. Shuja was murdered in 1661. His sons were put to death. Piari Banu Begum, and her two daughters committed suicide. The remaining daughter, Amina Banu Begum, was brought into the palace, where from grief she died an early death. According to another source, one of Shuja's daughters was married to King Sanda Thudhamma. A year later he scented a plot and starved all of them to death, while his wife was in an advanced stage of pregnancy by himself.\n\nHis third wife was the daughter of Raja Tamsen of Kishtwar. She was the mother of Shahzada Buland Akhtar who was born in August 1645.\n\nShazada Muhammad Shah Shuja was appointed by Shah Jahan as the Subahdar of Bengal and Bihar from 1641 and of Orissa from 25 July 1648 until 1661. His father Shah Jahan appointed his deputy The Rajput Prince of Nagpur Kunwar Raghav Singh(1616-1671). During his governorship, he built the official residence Bara Katra in the capital Dhaka.\n\nAfter the illness of Shah Jahan in September 1657, a power crisis occurred among the brothers. Shah Shuja proclaimed himself as Emperor, but Aurangzeb ascended the throne of Dehli and sent Mir Jumla to subjugate Shuja. Shuja was defeated in the Battle of Khajwa on 5 January 1659. He retreated first to Tandah and then to Dhaka on 12 April 1660. He left Dhaka on 6 May and boarded ships near present-day Bhulua on 12 May heading Arakan. Mir Jumla reached Dhaka on 9 May 1660 and was then appointed by Aurangzeb as the next Subahdar of Bengal.\n\nWhen Shah Jahan fell ill, a struggle for the throne started between his four sons - Dara Shikoh, Shah Shuja, Aurangzeb and Murad Baksh. Shuja immediately crowned himself the emperor and took imperial titles, November 1657.\n\nHe marched with a large army, backed by a good number of war-boats in the river Ganges. However, he was beaten by Dara's army in a hotly contested Battle of Bahadurpur near Banares (in modern Uttar Pradesh, India). Shuja turned back to Rajmahal to make further preparations. He signed a treaty with his elder brother Dara, which left him in control of Bengal, Orissa and a large part of Bihar, 17 May 1658.\n\nIn the meantime, Aurangzeb defeated Dara twice (at Dharmat and Samugarh), caught him, executed him on a charge of heresy and ascended the throne. Shuja marched again to the capital, this time against Aurangzeb. A battle took place on 5 January 1659 at the Battle of Khajwa (Fatehpur district, Uttar Pradesh, India) where Shuja was defeated.\n\nAfter his defeat, Shuja retreated towards Bengal. He was pursued by the imperial army under Mir Jumla. Shuja put up a good fight against them. However, he was finally defeated in the last battle in April 1660. After each defeat, he had to face desertions in his own army, but he did not lose heart. He, rather, reorganised the army with renewed vigor. But when he was going to be surrounded at Tandah, and when he found that reorganisation of the army was no longer possible, he decided to leave Bengal for good and take shelter in Arakan.\n\n\nShuja left Tandah with his family and retinue in the afternoon of 6 April 1660 and reached Dhaka on 12 April. After remaining for a month, they departed the city and boarded Arakanese ships on 12 May at Bhulua (near present-day Noakhali, Bangladesh). The party first arrived at Chittagong and remained for some time. From here, they took the land route to Arakan, which is still called Shuja Road. Thousands of palanquins were used to carry Shuja's harem, and he himself performed Eid prayers at an Eidgah in Dulahzara.\n\nShuja and his entourage arrived in Arakan on 26 August 1660, and were greeted at the capital, Mrauk U, with courtesy. The Arakanese king, the powerful Sanda Thudhamma, had previously agreed to provide ships for Shuja and his family to travel to Mecca, where the prince had planned to spend the remainder of his life. The half a dozen camel-loads of gold and jewels that the Mughal royals had brought with them was beyond anything that had previously been seen in Arakan.\n\nAfter eight months and numerous excuses however, Sanda Thudhamma's promise of ships had not materialised. Finally, the latter demanded the hand of Shuja's daughter in marriage, which the prince refused. Sanda Thudhamma responded by ordering the Mughals to leave within three days. Unable to move and being refused provisions at the bazars, Shuja resolved to attempt to overthrow the king.\nThe prince had two hundred soldiers with him, as well as the support of the local Muslims, giving him a good chance of success. However, Sanda Thudhamma was forewarned of the coup attempt. Shuja was therefore forced to set fire to the city in the hopes of cutting his way out in the confusion. Much of his entourage was captured, and though he himself initially escaped into the jungle, he was later captured and executed.\n\nShuja's wealth was taken and melted down by Sanda Thudhamma, who took the Mughal princesses into his harem. He married the eldest, an event that was subsequently celebrated in song and poetry. The following year however, suspicious of another coup, Sanda Thudhamma had Shuja's sons decapitated and his daughters (including the pregnant eldest) starved to death. Aurangzeb, angered by the deaths, ordered a campaign against the kingdom. After an intensive siege, the Mughals captured Chittagong and thousands of Arakanese were taken into slavery. Arakan was unable to return to its previous dominance and Sanda Thudhamma's eventual death was followed by a century of chaos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902129", "title": "Phaya Naga", "text": "Phaya Naga\n\nIn Southeast Asian folklore, the Phaya Naga (; ; literally: lord of nāga) are nāga, serpent-like creatures, believed by locals to live in the Mekong river or estuaries. Common explanations of their sightings have been attributed to oarfish, elongated fish with red crests; however, these are exclusively marine and usually live at great depths. People in both Laos and Thailand attribute the naga fireballs phenomenon to these creatures. Their appearance resembles Vietnamese dragons to some extent. \n\nThai folklore holds the Phaya Naga to be semi-divine, demi-creatures, which possess supernatural powers as has been described in Buddhist and Hindu cosmology. The \"Kamchanod Forest\" (ป่าคำชะโนด; ) Ban Dung District, Udon Thani province, which is held in high reverence and fear across Thailand, is believed to be the border between the human world and the netherworld, and is frequently depicted in Thai folklore as the site of many hauntings, but more frequently is considered to be the home of the Naga.\n\nIn Shan folklore of Nanzhao Kingdom (now southern China and Southeast Asia during the 8th and 9th centuries, which was centered on present-day Yunnan in China.) believed Erhai lake is inhabited of Naga and is the creator of the Mekong.\n\nMany people, particularly in Isan (northeastern region of Thailand), believe that the Naga are responsible for unnatural wave phenomena occurring in the rivers or lakes in the vicinity. It is also frequently claimed that the serpent-like demigods are responsible for marks on common objects, such as car hoods or house walls.\n\nA police office has also claimed to be in contact with the Naga, although the implications of this contact is not thoroughly explained.\n\nIn attempts to explain these phenomena scientists and researchers at the Faculty of Science of Chulalongkorn University have attributed these seemingly preternatural phenomena to standing waves in water, and posit that the existence of Phaya Naga is similar to belief in Loch Ness Monster in Scotland or Ogopogo in Canada, and further maintain that the serpent-like tracks of the Phaya Naga are very possibly forged by humans.\n\nLao mythology maintains that the Naga are the protectors of Vientiane, and by extension, the Lao state. The Naga association was most clearly articulated during and immediately after the reign of Anouvong. An important poem from this period \"San Lup Bo Sun\" (or San Leupphasun Lao: ສານລຶພສູນ) discusses relations between Laos and Siam in a veiled manner, using the Naga and the Garuda, to represent Laos and Siam, respectively.\nThe Naga is incorporated extensively into Lao iconography, and features prominently in Lao culture throughout the length of the country, not only in Vientiane.\n\nMany Lakorn (Thai television soap opera) are based on a Phaya Naga legend, such as \"Poot Mae Nam Khong\" (ภูติแม่น้ำโขง) in 2008, \"Manisawat\" (มณีสวาท) in 2013 or \"Nakee\" (นาคี) in 2016.\n\nA search for the Phya Naga was recently featured in a \"Destination Truth\" episode on the SyFy (formerly Sci-Fi Channel) series in Series 01 (episode 02).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902134", "title": "Litvinov", "text": "Litvinov\n\nLitvinov or Litvinoff () is a Russian surname derived from the term \"Litvin\", meaning Lithuanian person (Litva/Литвa). The female form of this surname is Litvinova ().\n\nNotable persons with that name include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902144", "title": "Portuguese legislative elections", "text": "Portuguese legislative elections\n\nSince 1974, the year of the Carnation Revolution, fifteen legislative elections were held in Portugal.\n\nThe parliament is usually elected to a four-year term, and currently () there are 230 Members of the Parliament, elected in Party's lists in 22 constituencies, corresponding to the 18 continental districts, 2 autonomous regions, one constituency for the Portuguese living abroad in Europe and the last one for the Portuguese living abroad in the rest of the world.\n\nEach constituency elects a number of MPs proportional to its registered voters number, ranging from the 48 MPs in Lisbon to the 2 in Portalegre.\n\nThe Assembly of the Republic has 230 members elected to four-year terms. Governments do not require absolute majority support of the Assembly to hold office, as even if the number of opposers of government is larger than that of the supporters, the number of opposers still needs to be equal or greater than 116 (absolute majority) for both the Government's Programme to be rejected or for a motion of no confidence to be approved.\n\nThe number of seats assigned to each district depends on the district magnitude. The use of the d'Hondt method makes for a higher effective threshold than certain other allocation methods such as the Hare quota or Sainte-Laguë method, which are more generous to small parties.\n\nFor the 2019 legislative elections, the MPs distributed by districts were as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902146", "title": "War Memorial Stadium (Wailuku, Hawaii)", "text": "War Memorial Stadium (Wailuku, Hawaii)\n\nWar Memorial Stadium is a stadium located in Wailuku, Hawaii that opened in 1969 and holds 23,000 people. It is primarily used for American football, and from 1998 through 2005 was the venue for the Hula Bowl, a college football all-star game. When the stadium originally opened in 1969 it held fewer than 7,000 people. It was expanded due to the efforts of the then-mayor of Maui, Linda Lingle, to host the Hula Bowl.\n\nWar Memorial Stadium is also home to the Maui Interscholastic League (MIL) High School Football association and soccer matches are played in the stadium. \n\nWar Memorial Stadium is also equipped with a state of the art 440 yard track, long jump, triple jump, high jump, and pole vaulting pits. In 1972, the stadium was the site of the first State High School Track and Field Championships held outside of Honolulu, chosen in part because of the new state of the art rubberized asphalt surface.\n\nThe football field has a grass surface. Plans to replace the grass with artificial turf were abandoned in 2014 when bids came in 50% above the expected $1 million.\n\nThe War Memorial Stadium Complex includes 1,500 plus seat Maehara Stadium adjacent to War Memorial Stadium. It is home to the Maui Interscholastic League Baseball and American Legion Games.\n\nThe complex also houses training facilities for H.P. Baldwin High School, additional soccer fields, softball fields, Soichi Sakamoto Pool and 2,000+ seat War Memorial Gymnasium. The complex was dedicated in 1965 to honor the Veterans of Maui County (comprising the Islands of Maui, Moloka'i and Lana'i) who gave their lives in service of their country.\n\nThe stadium complex is located on the windward side of the island between the towns of Kahului and the county seat Wailuku, on the Valley Isle of Maui and is adjacent to H. P. Baldwin High School.\n"}
{"id": "1902149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902149", "title": "Fender Eric Clapton Stratocaster", "text": "Fender Eric Clapton Stratocaster\n\nThe Fender Eric Clapton Stratocaster is the signature model electric guitar of English guitarist Eric Clapton. It was the first signature model guitar released by Fender.\n\nEric Clapton played a range of different Fender and Gibson models while playing in The Yardbirds and Cream. In 1970, for his landmark \"Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs\" with Derek and the Dominos, Clapton started using a sunburst 1956 Stratocaster which he later nicknamed \"Brownie\" that he had bought in May 1967 while in Cream. While on tour with the Dominos, Clapton visited Sho-Bud Music in Nashville where he bought a further six mid-50s Stratocasters for around $100 each. On his return to the UK he gave one to George Harrison, one to Pete Townshend and a third to Steve Winwood. The remaining three each had attractive qualities that Clapton combined in a single instrument. He took the body from a black 1956 Stratocaster he liked the look of, the neck from a 1957 Stratocaster he liked the feel of and the electronics loaded pickguard from another Stratocaster that sounded better than the others, constructing \"Blackie\" that was to be his main instrument from 1970 until its retirement from active service in 1985.\nIn 1985, Dan Smith approached Clapton to discuss a plan to create a signature guitar built to his own specifications. Clapton asked Fender to make a guitar with the distinctive V-shape neck of his Martin acoustic as well as a \"compressed\" pickup sound. Based on Clapton's brief, Fender made two early prototypes: one with a neck based on measurements taken from Blackie and one with a slightly softer V shape which Clapton ultimately deemed preferable. Both prototypes featured electronics based on the Elite Stratocaster including its 12 dB MDX mid-boost circuit intended to make the Stratocaster's single-coils sound more like a humbucker. Clapton liked the boost circuit but asked for more dynamic range, prompting Fender to replace the \"Elite\" pickups with Gold Lace Sensor pickups and an updated MDX circuit that had been tweaked up to deliver 25 dB of boost in the midrange at around 500 Hz.\n\nClapton first used Gold Lace Sensors on three prototype signature models built by George Blanda and Michael Stevens – one was finished in Torino Red and the other two in Pewter Grey Metallic – in the \"Prince's Trust Concert\", in June 1986.\n\nThe first early prototypes made around 1986–87 featured a 21-fret neck, a 21 dB mid-boost circuit, an active/passive toggle switch (which has been deleted on the final release) and Schaller locking strap buttons. The final product (released in 1988) is essentially a vintage 1957 reissue Stratocaster featuring a deeply contoured select alder body, a 1-piece soft \"V\"-shaped maple neck fitted with 22 vintage-style frets, flat 9,5\" radius and BiFlex truss-rod system, a \"blocked\" original American Vintage synchronized tremolo, Gotoh/Kluson tuning machines, 1-ply white pickguard and three Fender Gold Lace Sensor pickups powered by an active MDX mid-boost circuit with 25 dB of gain and TBX tone controls, which helped augment the tone of the sound delivered, opening up a wider tonal range Clapton desired.\n\nOne of the unique features of this guitar was the inclusion of an original vintage synchronized tremolo bridge blocked off to tremolo arms by a small piece of wood wedged into the bridge cavity. This idea came about as Clapton liked the tone and tuning stability of hardtail Stratocasters and had no use for the whammy bar. In 1991 Clapton agreed to have his signature model with a rosewood fretboard as well to suit the needs of players disliking the feel of maple-neck models. Only 94 of these short-lived guitars were made and their production finally came into a halt.\n\nThe Lace Sensors in the Clapton Signature Stratocaster were replaced with Fender Vintage Noiseless pickups in 2001 (although Clapton began using the new pickups on his personal guitars in March 2000 and was occasionally seen playing Lace Sensor-equipped Stratocasters until 2010). The Vintage Noiseless pickups were previously available as a standard equipment material on the Fender American Deluxe Series guitars produced before 2004. The Custom Shop version (introduced in 2004) is available in Midnight Blue, Mercedes Blue, Black and Gold Leaf with gold-plated hardware (also available with a \"Thinskin\" nitrocellulose lacquer finish in Olympic White, Torino Red and Pewter, as well as a left-handed version). The Eric Clapton Custom Journeyman Relic Stratocaster, introduced in 2017, features a 2-piece select ash body, available in 2-Colour Sunburst and Aged White Blonde.\n\nSince their introduction in 2004, all Custom Shop Clapton Stratocasters (Team Built and Master Built) used a standard tone control instead of a TBX tone circuit. The TBX feature has been re-introduced in 2009 on \"Team Built\" versions; only the \"Master Built\" models had a normal tone control.\n\nSeveral variations of Clapton's personal guitar were made by the Fender Custom Shop throughout the years, including fancy versions with ash bodies, quilted or maple tops, abalone dot position inlays, matching headstocks, gold hardware and white pearloid pickguards, made by Senior Master Builder J. W. Black. Many of these guitars were sold for charity auctions for the Crossroads Centre of Antigua, the drug and alcohol addiction rehabilitation facility founded on the small, idyllic Caribbean island in 1998. They include the Gold Leaf Stratocaster of 1996 (used during the Legends and Montserrat concerts in 1997) and the Crashocasters (signature model Stratocasters hand-painted by New York-based street artist John Matos, better known as Crash), used by Clapton from 2001 to 2004.\n\nThe Gold Leaf Stratocaster\n\nThe original Gold Leaf guitar was built by Fender Master Builders Mark Kendrick and John Luis Campo as a custom order for Eric Clapton at the time of the 50th Anniversary of the firm in 1996. Clapton used the guitar for his 1997 Far-Eastern tour, the European \"Legends\" jazz concerts with Marcus Miller, Joe Sample, Steve Gadd and David Sanborn and the Montserrat benefit concert at the Royal Albert Hall before selling it to Christies for US $455,000.\n\nThe Fender Custom Shop reissued the Gold Leaf Stratocaster after 8 years of absence as a limited-edition run of 50 pieces. Each guitar was built to Eric's exacting specifications, with Fender's Vintage Noiseless pickups and a standard tone control instead of the Gold Lace Sensor pickups and TBX tone circuit (re-introduced in 2009) found on the original 1996 model.\n\nThe John Matos \"Crashocasters\"\n\nIn January 2007, visual artist John \"Crash\" Matos finished painting the 50th guitar body for a limited edition run of Stratocasters (50 total) from the Fender Custom Shop. The project, which Matos began in late 2004, was inspired by the graffiti-style Stratocaster bodies he had painted for Eric Clapton, one of which, known as Crash-3, was sold in the 2004 Christie's Eric Clapton Crossroads Auction for $321,000.\n\nSince the beginning of the Custom Shop project in 2004, Crash has chronicled his work on the 50 Fender Custom Shop guitars (referred to in this article as the Fender Custom Shop Crashocasters) in his online Modern Guitars journal titled \"Crash Pad\".\n\nFender introduced a matching set of limited-edition Crossroads instruments, which consisted of an Eric Clapton Crossroads Signature Stratocaster (better known as the \"Sun Strat\" and produced in a limited run of 100 instruments globally) and a Crossroads '57 Twin-Amp (produced in a limited run of 50 pieces). Each guitar is crafted to Clapton's exacting specifications and bear a unique \"Crossroads Antigua\" smiling sun graphic designed and originally hand-drawn by Eric Clapton himself.\nThe commemorative Crossroads '57 Twin-Amps are modeled after the original '57 Twin. This limited-edition amplifier features a custom engraved commemorative \"Crossroads 2007\" badge autographed by Eric and his \"Crossroads Antigua\" graphic is artistically embedded on the grill cloth.\nBearing in mind the number of changes he makes with regards to neck dimensions, Clapton fans purchasing this will be getting an exact replica as used at the Crossroads Guitar Festivals 2007, 2010, 2013 & 2019.\n\nIn 2009, the Custom Shop released an exact representation of Clapton's Daphne Blue Stratocaster used during his recent Australasian tours held from February 12 to March 10, 2009, as well as a faithful replication of the EC Grey model he uses since his 2006/07 world tours. The EC Grey finish is slightly darker than Pewter. These limited-edition guitars featured a select alder body, a soft V-shape maple neck with 22 vintage frets, bone nut, three Vintage Noiseless pickups, active mid-boost circuit and a \"blocked\" original vintage synchronized vibrato. Discontinued in 2011.\n\nIn 1978 Fender introduced the Antigua finish on a number of models from the flagship Stratocaster to the classic Coronado Bass. Described as a \"rich antique-white finish with halo-mist shading\", it became highly prized among collectors around the world. The first Antigua prototype model was awarded to its creator Martin DeCasas who worked on color schemes for Fender from July 1964 till its closing in Fullerton, California in February 1985.\n\nIn 2008 Sam Ash Music incorporated the spirit of the Eric Clapton Stratocaster with the spirit of the Crossroads Centre, commissioning a limited run of only 100 pieces of the signature model in the classic Antigua finish along with a commitment to donate $100,000 to the Crossroads Centre. This exclusive instrument is currently being built by the Fender Custom Shop to Clapton's exacting specifications.\n\nFeatures include a select alder body, 1-piece maple neck with soft \"V\" shape, 22 vintage style frets, 3 Vintage Noiseless pickups, “blocked” American Vintage synchronized tremolo, active mid-boost circuit (with a TBX tone control as of 2009) and vintage black case. Each instrument is individually numbered from 1 through 100 and comes with an official certificate of authenticity.\n"}
{"id": "1902151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902151", "title": "Robert Smythson", "text": "Robert Smythson\n\nRobert Smythson (1535 – 15 October 1614) was an English architect. Smythson designed a number of notable houses during the Elizabethan era. Little is known about his birth and upbringing—his first mention in historical records comes in 1556, when he was stonemason for the house at Longleat, built by Sir John Thynne (ca. 1512-1580). He later designed Hardwick Hall, Wollaton Hall, Burton Agnes Hall, and other significant projects. Historically, a number of other Elizabethan houses, such as Gawthorpe Hall have been attributed to him on stylistic grounds.\n\nIn Britain at this time, the profession of architect was in its most embryonic stage of development. Smythson was trained as a stonemason, and by the 1560s was travelling England as a master mason leading his own team of masons. In 1568 he moved from London to Wiltshire to commence work on the new house at Longleat for Sir John Thynne; he worked there for almost eighteen years, carving personally much of the external detail, and he is believed to have had a strong influence on the overall design of the building. In 1580 he moved to his next project—Wollaton Hall. At Wollaton he was clearly more a \"surveyor\" (the term at that time for an architect) than a stonemason, and was in charge of overall construction.\n\nSmythson's style was more than a fusion of influences; although Renaissance, especially Sebastiano Serlio, Flemish and English Gothic notes can be seen in his work, he produced some ingenious adaptations, resulting in classically detailed, innovative domestic buildings. Hardwick in particular is noted for its use of glass.\n\nSmythson died at Wollaton in 1614 and is buried in the parish church there; his memorial includes these words \"Architecter (sic) and Surveyor unto the most worthy house of Wollaton with divers others of great account.\" His son John Smythson (Bolsover Castle) and grandson Huntingdon Smithson (as he spelt the family name) were also architects.\n"}
{"id": "1902152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902152", "title": "Ladd–Peebles Stadium", "text": "Ladd–Peebles Stadium\n\nLadd–Peebles Stadium (formerly Ernest F. Ladd Memorial Stadium) is a stadium located in Mobile, Alabama.\n\nOpened in 1948, it has a seating capacity of 33,471. It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field for the Senior Bowl, the LendingTree Bowl, and, through the 2019 season, the University of South Alabama Jaguars. After the 2019 season, the Jaguars will move to the new on-campus Hancock Whitney Stadium. In addition to football, the stadium is also used for concerts (maximum capacity 50,000), boxing matches, high school graduations, trade shows, and festivals. Numerous entertainers have performed at Ladd–Peebles Stadium.\n\nThe stadium was constructed in 1948 with private funding from a local banker wishing to create a permanent honor to his mentor, Ernest F. Ladd, a local banking magnate who died in 1941, with the stadium initially carrying the name \"Ernest F. Ladd Memorial Stadium\". On May 4 and 5 of 1955, a tour headlining country and western stars Hank Snow, Faron Young, The Wilburn Brothers, Mother Maybel, The Carter Sisters (including June, the future Mrs Johnny Cash), Jimmy Rogers Snow, The Davis Sisters, Onie Wheeler and a still unknown Elvis Presley played two nightly shows there. More than 40 years later, in 1997, it was renamed \"Ladd-Peebles Stadium\", continuing to honor Ladd, but also honoring E. B. Peebles, a civic leader who was instrumental in the revitalization of the Senior Bowl.\n\nIn 1997, Ladd–Peebles Stadium underwent a $8.1 million renovation that resulted in a new press box featuring a 120-seat club level and luxury suites, new scoreboards, new PA and lighting systems, new locker rooms, new restrooms, an expansion of the concourse areas, and new concession stands, as well as the stadium offices.\n\nIn 2004, the stadium selected and installed FieldTurf as its new playing surface.\n\nOn December 6, 2008, the Board of Trustees at the University of South Alabama approved adding football to its intercollegiate athletics program. The move came with the announcement that the team would call Ladd–Peebles Stadium home for at least seven years; in fact it remains the program's home as of 2018.\n\nThe stadium underwent a $2.2 million facelift which also includes the construction of 11 luxury sky boxes on the stadium's west side. The project was finished at the beginning of the 2009 season.\n\nThe stadium's first game was in 1948, between the Alabama Crimson Tide and the Vanderbilt Commodores on October 2, with the Tide scoring on the final play for a From 1948 to 1968, with the exceptions of 1960 and 1962, the Crimson Tide played one game per year in Ladd Stadium. In 1958, legendary head coach Paul \"Bear\" Bryant coached his first game as Alabama's head coach in Ladd Stadium when the Crimson Tide fell 13–3 to LSU. Notable Tigers that year were Billy Cannon and Johnny Robinson.\n\nThe Senior Bowl played its inaugural edition at the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville in January 1950, then moved to Mobile, where it was played in Ladd–Peebles until January 2020. The game will move to the University of South Alabama's on-campus Hancock Whitney Stadium in 2021.\n\nLadd–Peebles Stadium also played host to numerous other major college games over the years. Auburn played eight games at Ladd from 1948–55, playing the likes of Clemson, Florida, and Ole Miss. The University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg was also a consistent Ladd Stadium tenant, as the Golden Eagles played seventeen games there from 1950 through 1974; opponents included Texas A&M, Florida State, and Alabama.\n\nBeginning in 1974, the stadium began hosting the Gulf Coast Classic, an Alabama State University homecoming game against a fellow Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC) opponent.\n\nIn 1988, the stadium hosted the first-ever Alabama-Mississippi All-Star Classic, an annual football event that features the best senior high school players and top collegiate prospects from Mississippi against the best from Alabama. The event has since been moved to Montgomery and is now played in December.\n\nIn December 1999, the stadium hosted the inaugural Mobile Alabama Bowl. Held annually since then, the game has undergone several name changes due to sponsorship agreements; it is known as the LendingTree Bowl. Formerly matching teams from the Mid-American Conference and Conference USA, the bowl announced a new agreement in 2009 to annually feature teams from the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Mid-American Conference beginning with the 2010 game. The agreement, however, was canceled after one year and the bowl's matchup now consists of the Mid-American Conference facing the Sun Belt Conference.\n\nOn September 13, 2014, attendance at a game between the South Alabama Jaguars and the Mississippi State Bulldogs was 38,129; it was the first sell-out in the Jaguars' football history, however the Bulldogs won, 35–3.\n\nOn August 21, 2015, from 20,000 to 30,000 people gathered at the stadium for a rally for 2016 presidential candidate Donald Trump.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902162", "title": "Galbally, County Limerick", "text": "Galbally, County Limerick\n\nGalbally () is a village in southeast County Limerick, Ireland, on the border with County Tipperary. It is located at the foot of the Galtee Mountains and at the western approach to the Glen of Aherlow. The Aherlow River, flowing down from the Galtee mountains, runs by the village, to meet the Suir at Kilmoyler a short distance north of Cahir.\nGalbally is in a valley overlooked by the Galtee Mountains.\n\nA number of archaeological sites and buildings in the Galbally area are included in the Record of Protected Structures. Among these is \"Darby's Bed\", a passage tomb which sits on a nearby hill in the townland of Duntryleague. It is cited in Irish legend as one of the places where Diarmuid and Grainne spent a night during their flight from the angry Fionn MacCumhaill.\n\nAlso located just outside the village is Moor Abbey. This Franciscan friary was founded in the thirteenth century by Donach Cairbreach Ua'Briain. The only standing building from site is the friary's church, which was built in 1471. The site had a tumultuous history, matching the ebbs and flows of Irish politics and religious freedoms, and was inhabited until 1748, though with periods of desertion. Present in the church is the remains of a tomb, which is perhaps that of the founder.\n\nIn the centre of Galbally's village square is a statue of a soldier, erected in memory of named local volunteers who lost their lives during the War of Independence in 1921. The south side of the square was the site of a poor house during famine times. Charles Bianconi's carriages used to drive through the village, and the stables they used still stand on the north side of the village square.\n\nThe Barons Massy of Duntryleague had their original seat in the area and their Charnel house (burial place) is still extant. The Massy's, an English family of Norman descent, received land in county Limerick in the Cromwellian plantation, and settled in Duntryleague, in the parish of Galbally. The family played a prominent role in the Anglo-Irish ascendancy class up to the 20th century. Their Summer house, Massy Lodge, stands near the neighbouring village of Anglesborough.\n\nAlso located at Duntryleague are the remains of a Protestant church tower and a graveyard. A number of the graves are occupied by the Bennett family, who had owned nearby Gleneffy House Estate (also known as Castle Creagh) from the 1680s until the 1920s. William H Massy Bennett, a Justice of the Peace, was the last Bennett to live there. He died in 1920 and it was sold by his son George Latham Massy Bennett in an auction in July 1920. The family moved to London. Senator Thomas Westropp Bennett, second Cathoirleach of Seanad Éireann (the Irish Senate or second house of parliament) and his brother George Bennett, TD for Limerick, 1927 to 1948 and Senator, 1948-51 were cousins of William H Massy Bennett. In 1826 the Rev P Fitzgerald referred to Castle Creagh as \"a very handsome seat of the Bennet family, now in ruins\" in his History of Limerick. The current Gleneffy House was built for William's father, George Latham Bennett by the architect Charles Frederick Anderson in the 1850s, it stands on the site of the older castle, mentioned by the Rev Fitzgerald, and is located on the hillside of the Glen of Aherlow to the north of Galbally. It is now a private residence.\n\nGalbally hosts amenities and services include a number of pubs, a carpenters, undertakers, shops, a chipper, a number of B&Bs, a village museum/gallery, and an equestrian centre. The village's sporting facilities include: pitches for field sports, a community field, and \"all weather\" astro-turf facilities.\n\nThe village's Catholic church, the Church of Christ the King, is within the ecclesiastical parish of Galbally & Lisvernane which straddles the Limerick-Tipperary border. Its 'sister' village within this parish is the village of Lisvernane, which lies in the Glen of Aherlow in County Tipperary.\n\nAlthough the Gaelic Athletic Association usually has one club in each parish, there are two in this parish: Galbally, on the Limerick side, and Aherlow, across the border in Tipperary. While each club plays hurling to some extent, gaelic football is the primary sport, and both clubs have won their respective county senior football championships, Aherlow winning the Tipperary title for the first time in 2006. Galbally were first-time winners of the Limerick Senior Football Championship in 1994 and repeated the feat in 1997. Galbally also won the 1995 County Junior B Hurling title, captained by John Kiely, who went on to manage the Limerick county hurling team to victory in the 2018 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship Final.\n\nGalbally Camogie Club fields teams from under 12 to Senior. Galbally is also home to the Mooreabbey Milers AC running club.\n\nIn 1994, Galbally was selected as the 'prettiest town in Ireland' in the annual Irish Tidy Towns Competition, and has won the Limerick competition nine times.\n\nA folk ballad, \"The Galbally Farmer\", tells of the trials suffered by a hired labourer working for the miserly farmer of the title, Darby O'Leary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902163", "title": "Lean software development", "text": "Lean software development\n\nLean software development is a translation of lean manufacturing principles and practices to the software development domain. Adapted from the Toyota Production System, it is emerging with the support of a pro-lean subculture within the Agile community. Lean offers a solid conceptual framework, values and principles, as well as good practices, derived from experience, that support agile organizations.\n\nThe term lean software development originated in a book by the same name, written by Mary Poppendieck and Tom Poppendieck in 2003. The book restates traditional lean principles, as well as a set of 22 \"tools\" and compares the tools to corresponding agile practices. The Poppendiecks' involvement in the Agile software development community, including talks at several Agile conferences has resulted in such concepts being more widely accepted within the Agile community.\n\nLean development can be summarized by seven principles, very close in concept to lean manufacturing principles:\n\nLean philosophy regards everything not adding value to the customer as waste (\"muda\"). Such waste may include:\n\n\nIndustry research revealed these software development wastes:\n\nIn order to eliminate waste, one should be able to recognize it. If some activity could be bypassed or the result could be achieved without it, it is waste. Partially done coding eventually abandoned during the development process is waste. Extra features like paperwork and features not often used by customers are waste. Switching people between tasks is waste. Waiting for other activities, teams, processes is waste. Relearning required to complete work is waste. Defects and lower quality are waste. Managerial overhead not producing real value is waste.\n\nA value stream mapping technique is used to identify waste. The second step is to point out sources of waste and to eliminate them. Waste-removal should take place iteratively until even seemingly essential processes and procedures are liquidated.\n\nSoftware development is a continuous learning process based on iterations when writing code. Software design is a problem-solving process involving the developers writing the code and what they have learned. Software value is measured in fitness for use and not in conformance to requirements.\n\nInstead of adding more documentation or detailed planning, different ideas could be tried by writing code and building. The process of user requirements gathering could be simplified by presenting screens to the end-users and getting their input. The accumulation of defects should be prevented by running tests as soon as the code is written.\n\nThe learning process is sped up by usage of short iteration cycles – each one coupled with refactoring and integration testing. Increasing feedback via short feedback sessions with customers helps when determining the current phase of development and adjusting efforts for future improvements. During those short sessions, both customer representatives and the development team learn more about the domain problem and figure out possible solutions for further development. Thus the customers better understand their needs, based on the existing result of development efforts, and the developers learn how to better satisfy those needs. Another idea in the communication and learning process with a customer is set-based development – this concentrates on communicating the constraints of the future solution and not the possible solutions, thus promoting the birth of the solution via dialogue with the customer.\n\nAs software development is always associated with some uncertainty, better results should be achieved with a \"set-based\" or \"options-based\" approach, delaying decisions as much as possible until they can be made based on facts and not on uncertain assumptions and predictions. The more complex a system is, the more capacity for change should be built into it, thus enabling the delay of important and crucial commitments. The iterative approach promotes this principle – the ability to adapt to changes and correct mistakes, which might be very costly if discovered after the release of the system.\n\nAn agile software development approach can move the building of options earlier for customers, thus delaying certain crucial decisions until customers have realized their needs better. This also allows later adaptation to changes and the prevention of costly earlier technology-bounded decisions. This does not mean that no planning should be involved – on the contrary, planning activities should be concentrated on the different options and adapting to the current situation, as well as clarifying confusing situations by establishing patterns for rapid action. Evaluating different options is effective as soon as it is realized that they are not free, but provide the needed flexibility for late decision making.\n\nIn the era of rapid technology evolution, it is not the biggest that survives, but the fastest. The sooner the end product is delivered without major defects, the sooner feedback can be received, and incorporated into the next iteration. The shorter the iterations, the better the learning and communication within the team. With speed, decisions can be delayed. Speed assures the fulfilling of the customer's present needs and not what they required yesterday. This gives them the opportunity to delay making up their minds about what they really require until they gain better knowledge. Customers value rapid delivery of a quality product.\n\nThe just-in-time production ideology could be applied to software development, recognizing its specific requirements and environment. This is achieved by presenting the needed result and letting the team organize itself and divide the tasks for accomplishing the needed result for a specific iteration. At the beginning, the customer provides the needed input. This could be simply presented in small cards or stories – the developers estimate the time needed for the implementation of each card. Thus the work organization changes into self-pulling system – each morning during a stand-up meeting, each member of the team reviews what has been done yesterday, what is to be done today and tomorrow, and prompts for any inputs needed from colleagues or the customer. This requires transparency of the process, which is also beneficial for team communication.\n\nThe myth underlying with this principle is \"Haste Makes Waste\". However, Lean implementation has provided that it is a good practice to deliver fast in order to see and analyze the output at the earliest.\n\nThere has been a traditional belief in most businesses about the decision-making in the organization – the managers tell the workers how to do their own job. In a \"Work-Out technique\", the roles are turned – the managers are taught how to listen to the developers, so they can explain better what actions might be taken, as well as provide suggestions for improvements. The lean approach follows the Agile Principle \"build projects around motivated individuals [...] and trust them to get the job done\", encouraging progress, catching errors, and removing impediments, but not micro-managing.\n\nAnother mistaken belief has been the consideration of people as resources. People might be resources from the point of view of a statistical data sheet, but in software development, as well as any organizational business, people do need something more than just the list of tasks and the assurance that they will not be disturbed during the completion of the tasks. People need motivation and a higher purpose to work for – purpose within the reachable reality, with the assurance that the team might choose its own commitments. The developers should be given access to the customer; the team leader should provide support and help in difficult situations, as well as ensure that skepticism does not ruin the team’s spirit. Respecting people and acknowledging their work is one way to empower the team.\n\nThe customer needs to have an overall experience of the System. This is the so-called perceived integrity: how it is being advertised, delivered, deployed, accessed, how intuitive its use is, its price and how well it solves problems.\n\nConceptual integrity means that the system’s separate components work well together as a whole with balance between flexibility, maintainability, efficiency, and responsiveness. This could be achieved by understanding the problem domain and solving it at the same time, not sequentially. The needed information is received in small batch pieces – not in one vast chunk - preferably by face-to-face communication and not any written documentation. The information flow should be constant in both directions – from customer to developers and back, thus avoiding the large stressful amount of information after long development in isolation.\n\nOne of the healthy ways towards integral architecture is refactoring. As more features are added to the original code base, the harder it becomes to add further improvements. Refactoring is about keeping simplicity, clarity, minimum number of features in the code. Repetitions in the code are signs of bad code designs and should be avoided. The complete and automated building process should be accompanied by a complete and automated suite of developer and customer tests, having the same versioning, synchronization and semantics as the current state of the System. At the end the integrity should be verified with thorough testing, thus ensuring the System does what the customer expects it to. Automated tests are also considered part of the production process, and therefore if they do not add value they should be considered waste. Automated testing should not be a goal, but rather a means to an end, specifically the reduction of defects.\n\nModern software systems are not simply the sum of their parts, but also the product of their interactions. Defects in software tend to accumulate during the development process – by decomposing the big tasks into smaller tasks, and by standardizing different stages of development, the root causes of defects should be found and eliminated. The larger the system, the more organizations that are involved in its development and the more parts are developed by different teams, the greater the importance of having well defined relationships between different vendors, in order to produce a system with smoothly interacting components. During a longer period of development, a stronger subcontractor network is far more beneficial than short-term profit optimizing, which does not enable win-win relationships.\n\nLean thinking has to be understood well by all members of a project, before implementing in a concrete, real-life situation. \"Think big, act small, fail fast; learn rapidly\" – these slogans summarize the importance of understanding the field and the suitability of implementing lean principles along the whole software development process. Only when all of the lean principles are implemented together, combined with strong \"common sense\" with respect to the working environment, is there a basis for success in software development.\n\nLean software development practices, or what the Poppendiecks call \"tools\" are restated slightly from the original equivalents in Agile software development. Examples of such practices include:\n\n\nSince Agile Software Development is an umbrella term for a set of methods and practices based on the values and principles expressed in the Agile Manifesto, Lean Software Development is considered an Agile Software Development Method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902166", "title": "Stuart Snell", "text": "Stuart Snell\n\n(Geoffrey) Stuart Snell (1920–1988) was a British Anglican bishop. He was born in Devon on the 25 October 1920 and educated at Exeter School and St Peter's College, Oxford. Snell entered the Anglican ministry from the parish of Emmanuel, Northwood, London where he was a member of the laity. He had already done some training under Donald Coggan, and in the early 1960s decided to go forward for ministry. The Bishop of London suggested that he remain in his own house and serve as a second curate in the Parish of Emmanuel. He brought to the ministry immense gifts of mind and heart, and the then vicar, Martin Parsons declared \"it was a joy to have him and Margaret with us in the work.\"\n\nEventually some years later in 1977 Snell was made Bishop of Croydon, and Parsons was greatly honoured when he was asked by the Archbishop to preach the sermon at Snell's consecration. The Rt. Revd. Stuart Snell was also Bishop to the Forces and in 1983 visited the Falkland Islands to conduct a memorial service for all those who died in the conflict. He also consecrated cemeteries on the Islands. Snell died in Westminster in July 1988, aged 67 years old.\n\nSnell married Margaret Lonsdale Geary. Their son Adrian Snell is a songwriter and another son, Christopher Snell, died on 14 June 2008 of cancer. He was an actor.\n"}
{"id": "1902170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902170", "title": "New Bad Things", "text": "New Bad Things\n\nNew Bad Things (later No Bad Things) were a Portland, Oregon, indie rock band active during the 1990s. They recorded for Candy Ass Records, Rainforest Records, Lissy's Records, Pop Secret, Punk in my Vitamins Records, Kill Rock Stars, and Freewheel Records.\n\nThe band formed in 1992 for a one-off opening set at a Sebadoh concert in Portland, and initially comprised Matthew \"Hattie\" Hein, Luke Hollywood, \"Prince\" Mattie Gaunt, Jasin Fell and Dave French. Their first single was \"I Suck\" (backed with \"Concrete\" and \"Knott St.\"), which was picked up by BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel, and reached number sixteen in the 1993 Festive 50. They recorded their debut album, \"Freewheel!\" in 1992, released on the local indie label Candy Ass Records. The album was described as having a \"sloppy charm\", and drew comparisons with the likes of Beat Happening. Second album \"Society\" followed in 1994, released on the United Kingdom label Lissy's. \"Ennui Go\" was released in 1997, by which time the band's sound was more pop-oriented, and in the same year Hein left to pursue a solo career. An album of previously-unreleased and rare tracks, \"C-sides\", was released in 1999, containing tracks ranging chronologically from their earliest recordings to their latest.\nLater band members included: Christine Denkewalter, Lars Holmstrom, Eric von Borstel and Andrew Leavitt. The band toured Europe twice and recorded John Peel sessions for Radio One in the UK each time. The band name changed to No Bad Things in 2001.\n\nMembers also recorded as: Matthew Hein (solo), Wallpaper (David French), Awesome (Luke Hollywood with guest appearances from other NBT alumni), Gashdig, Popewyrm, Incinerators & Diamond Tuck (Jasin Fell), Denk (solo), The Loach Clips (Lars), and Prince Mattie Gaunt (solo). Leavitt later joined The Fairways.\n\nNew Bad Things feature in the documentary film \"X-Ray Visions: a Look Inside Portland's Legendary X-Ray Café\".\n\nThe bands' songs have been covered by Hefner (\"Goethe's Letter to Vic Chesnutt\"), The Delgados (\"The Dirge\") and Tullycraft (\"Misgiving\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1902171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902171", "title": "Evergreen Marine", "text": "Evergreen Marine\n\nEvergreen Marine Corporation () ( ), is a Taiwanese container transportation and shipping company headquartered in Luzhu District, Taoyuan City, Taiwan. Its principal trading routes are the Far East to North America, Central America and the Caribbean; the Far east to northern Europe and the east Mediterranean; Europe to the east coast of North America; the Far East to Australia, Mauritius, South Africa and South America; and an intra Asia service linking ports in Asia to the Middle East, Persian Gulf and the Red Sea. With over 150 container ships it is part of the Evergreen Group conglomerate of transportation firms and associated companies. Evergreen calls on 240 ports worldwide in about 80 countries, and is the fifth largest company of its type. The company's activities include: shipping, construction of containers and ships, management of ports, and engineering and real estate development. Subsidiaries and divisions include Uniglory Marine Corp. (Taiwan), Evergreen UK Ltd. (UK), and shipping company Italia Marittima S.p.A. (Italy). \n\nIn 2007, Hatsu, Italia Maritima, and Evergreen were merged into the single \"Evergreen Line.\"\n\nThe majority of Evergreen's shipping containers are painted green with the word \"Evergreen\" placed on the sides in white letters. Uniglory containers are similarly painted and marked, but those containers are bright orange. Evergreen's refrigerated \"reefer\" containers have a reverse color scheme (white containers with green lettering).\n\nThe company was founded 1 September 1968 by Yung-Fa Chang. Services began with a single cargo vessel named \"Central Trust\", which operated a \"go-anywhere\" service. A second vessel was added in 1969, and used on Middle East services. Additional vessels were acquired through the 1970s, and routes to East Asia and Central America were added. Service to the U.S. began in 1974, with the establishment of Evergreen Marine Corporation (New York) Ltd.\n\nIn 1981, the parent company changed its name to Evergreen International S.A. (EIS), as the company increased its global expansion efforts. Evergreen Marine began its first circumnavigation shipping services in 1984. This service is bi-directional, covering both westbound and eastbound routings.\n\nSince then, Evergreen Marine has expanded to include other shipping companies such as the Uniglory Marine Corp. (Taiwan) in 1984, the Hatsu Marine Ltd. (U.K.) in 2002, and the Italian shipping company Italia Marittima (previously Lloyd Triestino, and founded as \"Österreichischer Lloyd\" in 1835) in 1993. Uniglory was made a division of the company in 1999. Evergreen Marine has also become a partner of EVA Airways, founded in 1989, and Uni Air, founded in 1998.\n\nIn 2002, Evergreen Marine operated 61 container vessels, with a total fleet size totaling 130 vessels with 400,000 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent units). By 2008, Evergreen Marine operated 178 container vessels. In 2009, the company announced plans to build 100 additional vessels, in anticipation of a global economic recovery by 2012.\n\nEvergreen Marine's operations primarily center around five general routings:\n\nThe shipping line's busiest routings are in the first category, East Asia to North America and Central America. Within this area, common traffic is between China, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan with the U.S. West Coast, along with routings to the East Caribbean via Panama.\n\nEvergreen Marine (including Uniglory, Lloyd Triestino & Hatsu) operated 153 container ships with on 1 May 2005. In total, Evergreen Marine operated 178 container ships in 2008.\n\nThe following are Evergreen containership classes since 1975:\n\nThe following are vessels transferred between Evergreen Marine and Uniglory Marine (Taiwanese or Panamanian flag) and subsidiaries: \nEvergreen Marine operates four major transshipment hubs, and multiple container terminals.\n\n\n\nSince 2007, the following have been merged into the single Evergreen Line.\n\nEvergreen Marine's worldwide service network is handled through the following agencies:\n\n\nSea Containers NZ\n\n"}
{"id": "1902173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902173", "title": "The Northern Trust", "text": "The Northern Trust\n\nThe Northern Trust, formerly The Barclays, is a golf tournament in the New York City area on the PGA Tour. Since 2007, it has been played as the first tournament of the playoff system for the FedEx Cup. The field is limited to the top 125 players on the FedEx points list for the regular season.\n\nMany of the world's top players have won The Northern Trust including Sergio García, Adam Scott, Jason Day, Matt Kuchar, Patrick Reed, Dustin Johnson and 2018 champion Bryson DeChambeau, who captured a four-stroke victory and became the tournament's youngest winner in the FedEx Cup era. Since the tournament's inception in 1967, The Northern Trust has generated nearly $50 million for New York/New Jersey Metropolitan-area charities, including a record $1.865 million in 2018.\n\nThe 2019 edition of The Northern Trust was held August 8–11 at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey, for the third time in the tournament's history.\n\nIn 2018, the PGA Tour announced that The Northern Trust will rotate between the New York/New Jersey and Boston areas in 2019 and 2020. The tour will return to New England and TPC Boston in 2020; the course hosted the Dell Technologies Championship from 2003 through 2018.\n\nThe event began in 1967 as the Westchester Classic, played at the Westchester Country Club in Rye, New York, a suburb northeast of New York City in Westchester County. Beginning in 1976, it underwent a series of name sponsorships (detailed below), not unlike other PGA Tour stops. The name of the event evolved to the point that, by 1990, it no longer contained the name of its host course or location. However, among golfers on tour and many fans, it was still known by its traditional name, \"The Westchester.\"\n\nThe tournament was usually played during June of each year, either the week before (in even-numbered years) or the week after (in odd-numbered years) the U.S. Open. It had its greatest attendance in 2001 when Tiger Woods participated, although two days of heavy rains disrupted play. It had one of its more exciting finishes in 2005, when Pádraig Harrington eagled the par-5 final hole with a putt to win the title. The most frequent winner of the tournament is Vijay Singh, with four trophies.\n\nBeginning in 2008, it left the Westchester Country Club and began being rotated amongst different clubs in the New York metropolitan area (also detailed below).\n\nIn 2011, Hurricane Irene shortened the tournament to 54 holes, which was played that year at the Plainfield Country Club in Edison, New Jersey. The tournament ended by noontime on Saturday, August 27, allowing ample time for players and spectators to evacuate the golf course.\n\nThe tournament has traditionally closed CBS Sports's PGA Tour television schedule, due to the network's commitment to airing SEC and NFL football during the fall months; until 2014, the network also had rights to the U.S. Open tennis tournament, which begins the Monday prior to Labor Day. (The 2019 changes to the PGA Tour calendar, which resulted in The Northern Trust being moved up two weeks due to the PGA Tour's desire to complete the FedEx Cup Playoffs by the end of August, will not affect this tournament ending CBS's golf season, even though the tournament now takes place three weeks before the first week of the college football season.) Jim Nantz, who calls the final two rounds of The Northern Trust on television, is also the lead play-by-play announcer for the NFL on CBS.\n\nIn 2017, Chicago-based financial services company Northern Trust replaced Barclays, which had sponsored the tournament since 2005. Northern Trust had previously been the title sponsor of the Los Angeles Open at Riviera for nine years, known as the \"Northern Trust Open\" from 2008 through 2016.\n\nIn 2019, the FedEx Cup Playoffs will feature three events, instead of four, and the Playoffs will conclude by the end of August. Therefore, The Northern Trust will be played earlier in August (August 5–11, 2019), followed by the BMW Championship, August 12-18 (70 players); and the Tour Championship August 19–25 (30 players).\n\nIn 2015, Brian Harman became only the third player in PGA tour history to record two holes-in-one in the same round.\n\n\" Indicates a win in a playoff\"<br>\n\"^ Indicates weather-shortened to 54 holes\"<br>\n\"Note: Green highlight indicates scoring records.\"<br>\nMain sources\n\nSix men won the tournament more than once through 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902174", "title": "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad Marge", "text": "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad Marge\n\n\"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad Marge\" is the twenty-first episode of \"The Simpsons\" eleventh season. It first aired in the United States on the Fox network on May 14, 2000. After a failed marriage attempt with Otto, Becky (played by guest actress Parker Posey) stays with the Simpson family. However, Marge begins to get paranoid at her family's newfound love of Becky, and begins to think that she is seducing Homer.\n\nThe episode was directed by Steven Dean Moore and written by Larry Doyle. Doyle was assigned to write the episode based on actress Drew Barrymore's desire to appear in a \"Simpsons\" episode; Barrymore instead appeared in a later episode and the guest role of this episode was given to Posey.\n\nEach student in Bart's class is given a video camera for a school project to create a movie. Otto drives the school bus to a drive-through restaurant where his girlfriend Becky works. Otto proposes to her, and she accepts. On Bart's suggestion, they decide to have the wedding at the Simpson house and sends out flyers. Marge reluctantly agrees, since she still has everything from Apu's wedding. The wedding is a success up until the point when Otto gets a Poison tribute band (called Cyanide) to play \"Nothin' but a Good Time\". Becky admits to Marge that she hates heavy metal music. At the wedding, Marge suggests to Becky that she gives Otto an ultimatum: either her or heavy metal. Otto chooses heavy metal, and breaks up with Becky.\n\nBecky stays with the Simpson family, on Bart's suggestion. Marge consoles her, but when Becky begins to help out around the house and is praised for her contribution, Marge begins to worry that her family likes Becky more than her. Eventually, she becomes paranoid and suspects that Becky is trying to kill her, after her car will not stop on a steep road. Later, Becky and the rest of the family meet without Marge at an ice cream parlor, and Becky tells everyone that she has found a new apartment and is moving out. After she buys an unusually large bowl of ice cream, Homer freaks out upon the presence of so much ice cream and suddenly collapses. Becky gives him mouth-to-mouth but Marge comes in, thinking she is kissing him. She grabs a cone and smashes it like a glass bottle, to attack Becky. Marge is arrested and declared insane.\n\nWhen Marge escapes from the courtroom and goes to the library to see who Becky really is, she realizes that she is insane and being unfair to Becky, after finding nothing bad about her and a newspaper tablet of how Marge ruined Becky's marriage. Finally, she returns home, only to find the family and Becky enacting an S&M scene: Lisa is stuck to the wall, Maggie is stuck in a cage, and Becky about to sacrifice a tied-up Homer with a knife. Before she can kill him, Marge snatches the knife from her and attempts to strangle her, but the scene is revealed to be a sequence Bart is filming for his school project. Homer also reveals that while he was fixing Marge's car, he accidentally drained the brake fluid. Marge apologizes to Becky, who admits that she did intend going to kill Marge and steal her family, but decided not to after she could not get a shovel. Suddenly, the mental hospital doctors show up and shoot three tranquilizer darts into Marge's neck, which do not take effect; Marge tells them that she has too much work to do to take a nap. She instructs Lisa to take Maggie out of the cage, and tells Homer to scrub and mop the room, since he is dressed for the job. As Marge giggles, Homer fires a dart borrowed from the doctors into her, which sends her straight to sleep.\n\nThe writers of \"The Simpsons\" were told that actress Drew Barrymore wanted to guest star in the series and pitched several possible episodes for her. These included what became the plot of this episode, with Barrymore voicing Becky, as well as another which would see her voice Krusty the Clown's daughter. The latter idea was used for the season twelve episode \"Insane Clown Poppy\", with Barrymore appearing as Krusty's daughter. Parker Posey was selected to voice Becky instead. Larry Doyle wrote the episode's script and named Becky after his wife.\n\nPosey came in for at least two or three sessions worth of recording. For Cyanide, the Poison tribute band, the producers unsuccessfully attempted to get Poison lead vocalist Bret Michaels to play the singer. Marc Wilmore, a writer on the show, voices one of the psychologists, formally known in the script as \"Extra Guy\". Scully gave the guest role to him as a thanks for his practical joke he played on fellow writer Matt Selman regarding East St. Louis and the season ten episode \"They Saved Lisa's Brain\". The producers got a censor note for the scene where Chief Wiggum teachers Ralph how to hold a gun in order to achieve a \"kill shot\".\n\nSteven Dean Moore directed the episode. The episode's couch gag involves Korean animators coloring blank paint-by-numbers figures of \"The Simpsons\"; these caricatures are based on Korean animators who worked in the United States at Film Roman, the show's animation production company. The jimmies that Marge throws at the busboys are all variations of the character design that was used for the Squeaky Voiced Teen since the series' inception. At the time, the \"Simpsons\" writers thought the word \"usurper\" was funny, hence its numerous appearances in the episode. Selman, in the episode's audio commentary, recalled that it was hard to write so many misunderstandings; Scully commented, \"It gives us a new appreciation for \"Three's Company\".\"\n\n\"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad Marge\" features several references to popular culture. In the episode, Otto meets Becky at Woodstock 1999, where he is on fire and the fire itself is put out by the water in her water bottle. This was a reference to a controversy about the high cost of water at the festival, and Otto being on fire references the large number of fires that occurred. Otto holds up a boombox and blares Poison's \"Every Rose Has Its Thorn\" whilst proposing to Becky. When Otto plays air guitar, it is completely accurate fingering: John Achenbach, a storyboard artist on the show, is an accomplished guitarist and provided demonstrations for the animators. When Krusty interviews Marge, it is a television static image of her face with an impersonator's lips in place of hers; this was an homage to a recurring skit from the show \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in which Robert Smigel's lips would be placed on those of Bill Clinton or other famous people. The idea was created by Brent Forrester, a former writer for \"The Simpsons\" who - in the early days of \"Late Night\" - sent the joke to Conan O'Brien, also a former writer for \"The Simpsons\". Patty and Selma's line \"the bitterness is strong in this one,\" is a reference to Darth Vader's line \"the Force is strong in this one\" from the film \"\" (1977).\n\nThe episode itself is a loose parody of \"The Hand That Rocks The Cradle\", a film mentioned by Marge's sister Selma. Becky's name appears to be a reference to the star of the movie, Rebecca DeMornay.\n\nThe episode originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 14, 2000. On October 7, 2008, it was released on DVD as part of the box set \"The Simpsons – The Complete Eleventh Season\". Staff members Mike Scully, George Meyer, Ian Maxtone-Graham, Matt Selman, Larry Doyle, and Steven Dean Moore participated in the DVD audio commentary for the episode. Deleted scenes from the episode were also included on the box set.\n\nWhile reviewing the eleventh season of \"The Simpsons\", DVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson commented that \"Unusually, \n'Mad' provides a pretty concise focus on only one story. The lead bit with Otto directly leads to the Marge plot, and it doesn’t go off on the usual tangents [...] And it works pretty well. 'Mad' isn’t the most inspired tale, but it does fine for itself.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1902179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902179", "title": "Rams RFC", "text": "Rams RFC\n\nRams RFC is an English rugby union club based near the village of Sonning on the outskirts of Reading in the county of Berkshire. The first XV play in the third level league of the English rugby union system, National League 1, following their promotion from National League 2 South as champions at the end of the 2018–19 season. Up until 2018, the club was previously known as Redingensians and then Redingensians Rams before being renamed simply as Rams for the 2018–19 season onwards.\n\nRams consist of five senior teams of differing playing ability and a full complement of mini and junior sides. The first team currently plays in National League 1 (level 3) of the rugby union league structure. The second team play in Canterbury Division 3, the third team play in Berks/Bucks & Oxon Prem A, and the fourths in Berks/Bucks & Oxon 1. The fifth team participates in the Thames Valley Invitational Leagues. Both the under-17s and colts play in division 1 of their respective Berks/Bucks & Oxon leagues. Rams RFC is also renowned for its Rugby 7s capability and participates in several major international tournaments across Europe from March through to August.\n\nRams play home fixtures at Old Bath Road in the village of Sonning on the north-east outskirts of Reading. As it is next to the A4 travel links are decent, with parking available at the ground and regular bus services going into Reading which is accessible by train. \nThe ground consists of a main pitch next to a modern club-house, along with a number of other pitches for second XV and junior rugby. The capacity is approximately 1,250 (all standing) around the main pitch and on the club-house balcony.\n\n1st team:\n\n2nd team:\n\n4th team:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902180", "title": "Digital reference", "text": "Digital reference\n\nDigital reference (more commonly called virtual reference) is a service by which a library reference service is conducted online, and the reference transaction is a computer-mediated communication. It is the remote, computer-mediated delivery of reference information provided by library professionals to users who cannot access or do not want face-to-face communication. Virtual reference service is most often an extension of a library's existing reference service program. The word \"reference\" in this context refers to the task of providing assistance to library users in finding information, answering questions, and otherwise fulfilling users’ information needs. Reference work often but not always involves using reference works, such as dictionaries, encyclopedias, etc. This form of reference work expands reference services from the physical reference desk to a \"virtual\" reference desk where the patron could be writing from home, work or a variety of other locations.\n\nThe terminology surrounding virtual reference services may involve multiple terms used for the same definition. The preferred term for remotely delivered, computer-mediated reference services is \"virtual reference\", with the secondary non-preferred term \"digital reference\" having gone out of use. \"Chat reference\" is often used interchangeably with virtual reference, although it represents only one aspect of virtual reference. Virtual reference includes the use of both synchronous (i.e., IM, videoconferencing) and asynchronous communication (i.e., texting and email). Here, \"synchronous virtual reference\" refers to any real-time computer-mediated communication between patron and information professional. Asynchronous virtual reference is all computer-mediated communication that is sent and received at different times.\n\nThe earliest digital reference services were launched in the mid-1980s, primarily by academic and medical libraries, and provided by e-mail. These early-adopter libraries launched digital reference services for two main reasons: to extend the hours that questions could be submitted to the reference desk, and to explore the potential of campus-wide networks, which at that time was a new technology.\n\nWith the advent of the graphical World Wide Web, libraries quickly adopted webforms for question submission. Since then, the percentage of questions submitted to services via webforms has outstripped the percentage submitted via email.\n\nIn the early- to mid-1990s, digital reference services began to appear that were not affiliated with any library. These digital reference services are often referred to as \"AskA\" services. An example of an AskA services is at the Internet Public Library.\n\nProviding remote-based services for patrons has been a steady practice of libraries over the years. For example, before the widespread use of chat software, reference questions were often answered via phone, fax, email and audio conferencing. Email is the oldest type of virtual reference service used by libraries. Library services in America and the UK are just now gaining visibility in their use of virtual reference services using chat software. However, a survey in America revealed that by 2001 over 200 libraries were using chat reference services. \nThe rapid global proliferation of information technology (IT) often leaves libraries at a disadvantage in terms of keeping their services current. However, libraries are always striving to understand their user demographics in order to provide the best possible services. Therefore, libraries continue to take notes from current cyberculture and are continually incorporating a diversified range of interactive technologies in their service repertoires. Virtual reference represents only one small part of a larger library mission to meet the needs of a new generation, sometimes referred to as the \"Google Generation\", of users who have grown up with the internet. For instance, virtual reference may be used in conjunction with embedded Web 2.0 (online social media such as Facebook, YouTube, blogs, del.icio.us, Flickr, etc.) applications in a library's suite of online services. As technological innovations continue, libraries will be watching to find new, more personalized ways of interacting with remote reference users.\n\nThe range of cost-per-transaction of reference interactions has been found to be large, due to the differences in librarian salaries and infrastructural costs required by reference interviews.\n\nWebforms are created for digital reference services in order to help the patron be more productive in asking their question. This document helps the librarian locate exactly what the patron is asking for. Creation of webforms requires design consideration. Because webforms substitute for the reference interview, receiving as much information as possible from the patron is a key function.\n\nAspects commonly found within webforms:\n\n\nSeveral applications exist for providing chat-based reference. Examples include QuestionPoint inside the library field and Tutor.com outside the library field. These applications bear a resemblance to commercial help desk software. These applications possess functionality such as: chat, co-browsing of webpages, webpage and document pushing, customization of pre-scripted messages, storage of chat transcripts, and statistical reporting.\n\nInstant messaging (IM) services are used by some libraries as a low-cost means of offering chat-based reference, since most IM services are free. Utilizing IM for reference services allows a patron to contact the library from any location via the internet. This service is like the traditional reference interview because it is a live interaction between the patron and the librarian. On the other side the reference interview is different because the conversation does not float away but instead is in print on the screen for the librarian to review if needed to better understand the patron. IM reference services may be for the use of in-house patrons as well as patrons unable to go to the library. If library computers support IM chat programs, patrons may IM from within the library to avoid losing their use of a computer or avoid making embarrassing questions public.\n\nSuccessful IM reference services will:\n\nAt times, IM becomes challenging because of lack of non-verbal cues such as eye contact, and the perceived time pressure. Moreover, formulating the question online without the give and take of nonverbal cues and face to face conversation presents an added obstacle. In addition, to provide effective reference service through IM, it is important to meet higher level of information literacy standards. These standards include evaluating the information and its source, synthesizing the information to create new ideas or products, and understanding the societal, legal, and economic issues surrounding its use.\n\nVirtual service software programs offered by libraries are often unique, and tailored to the individual library's needs. However, each program may have several distinct features. A knowledge base is a chunk of information that users can access independently. An example of this is a serialized listing of frequently asked questions (FAQ) that a user can read and use at his or her leisure.\n\nOnline chat, or instant messaging (IM) has become a very popular Web-based feature. Instant messaging is a real time conversation that utilizes typed text instead of language. Users may feel a sense of satisfaction with the use of this tool because of their personalized interaction with staff.\n\nThe use of electronic mail (email) in responding to reference questions in libraries has been in use for years. Also, in some cases with the IM feature, a question may be asked that cannot be resolved in online chat. In this instance the staff member may document the inquiring patron’s email address and will the user a response.\n\nWith the increase in use of text messaging (SMS), some libraries are also adopting text messaging in their virtual reference services. Librarians can use mobile phones, text-to-instant messaging or web-based services to respond to reference questions via text messaging.\n\nCo-browsing, or cooperative browsing, is a virtual reference function that involves interactive control of a user’s web browser. This function enables the librarian to see what the patron has on his or her computer screen. Several types of co-browsing have been offered in mobile devices of late; libraries may have software that incorporates dual modes of co-browsing in a variety of formats. For instance, it is possible to browse on a mobile device within and between documents (such as Word), webpages, and images.\n\nVirtual reference services are growing in popularity in the UK with more institutions accepting queries via email, instant messaging and other chat based services. A study of the use of virtual reference within UK academic institutions showed that 25% currently offer a form of virtual reference, with 54% of academic institutions surveyed considering adding this service.\n\nUK public libraries were instrumental in some of the first steps towards UK-wide internet collaboration amongst libraries with the EARL Consortium (Electronic Access to Resources in Libraries) in 1995, in a time where internet access was a rare commodity for both library staff and the public. Resources were collated and lines of communication opened between libraries across the UK, paving the way for services all over the world to follow suit. There are now a number of area-specific reference services across the UK including Ask A Librarian (UK-wide, established in 1997), Ask Cymru (Welsh and English language service), Enquire (Government funded through the People's Network, also UK-wide), and Ask Scotland. Ask Scotland was created by the Scottish Government's advisory body on libraries, SLIC (Scottish Library and Information Council), using QuestionPoint and funded by the Public Library Quality Improvement Fund (PLQIF) in June 2009.\n\nThe definition formulated by the American Library Association's (ALA) 2004 MARS Digital Reference Guidelines Ad Hoc Committee contains three components:\n\n\nIn January 2011 QuestionPoint and the ALA were in talks about offering a National Ask A Librarian service across the whole United States of America.\n\nIn Europe some countries offer services in both their own national language and in English. European countries include: Finland, the Netherlands (in Dutch only), Denmark, and France.\n\nOther countries which offer virtual reference services include: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the state of Colorado in the United States.\n\nA collaboration between UK and Australian library services, entitled Chasing the Sun, was initiated using QuestionPoint software to provide an all-hours digital reference chat service. Targeted at health libraries where reference queries from health professionals could occur at any time of the day or night due to medical emergencies, the collaboration between the two countries meant that someone would be on hand to field the query at any time.\n\n\n\n\nThe following provide software and technology infrastructure for digital/virtual reference.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902185", "title": "Defence Research Agency", "text": "Defence Research Agency\n\nThe Defence Research Agency (DRA) was an executive agency of the UK Ministry of Defence (MOD) from April 1991 until April 1995. At the time, the DRA was Britain's largest science and technology organisation. In April 1995, the DRA was combined with five other MOD establishments to form the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency.\n\nThe DRA was formed on 1 April 1991 as an amalgamation of the following Defence Research Establishments: \n\nDRA's headquarters was created at the RAE site at Farnborough, but the other major sites maintained a great deal of independence.\n\nDRA's first Chief Executive was Nigel Hughes, followed by John Chisholm who took over in August 1991.\n\nIn April 1995, the DRA was combined with five other MOD establishments to form the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (DERA), DRA's John Chisholm becoming Chief Executive of the enlarged DERA (split in July 2001 into DSTL and QinetiQ).\n\n"}
{"id": "1902195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902195", "title": "Srđa Trifković", "text": "Srđa Trifković\n\nSrđa Trifković (, ; born 19 July 1954), also known as Srdja Trifković and Serge Trifkovic, is a Serbian-American writer on international affairs and foreign affairs editor for the paleoconservative magazine \"Chronicles.\" He was director of the Center for International Affairs at the Rockford Institute until his resignation on 31 December 2008. Trifković was an unofficial spokesman for the Republika Srpska government in the 1990s and a former adviser to Serbian president Vojislav Koštunica and Republika Srpska president Biljana Plavšić.\n\nTrifković is the author of many books, among which is \"Sword of the Prophet\", a book on the history, doctrines, and impact of Islam on the world. He comments on Balkan politics and is a regular columnist for several conservative publications in the United States.\n\nTrifković earned a BA (Hon) in International Relations from the University of Sussex in 1977 and another, in Political Science, from the University of Zagreb in 1987. Since 1990 he has held a PhD in modern history from the University of Southampton, and in 1991-1992 he pursued post-doctoral research on a Title VIII grant from the U.S. Department of State as a Visiting Scholar at the Hoover Institution in California.\n\nBeginning in 1980, he has been a radio broadcaster for BBC World Service and Voice of America and later a correspondent covering southeast Europe for \"U.S. News & World Report\" and the \"Washington Times\" during which time he was an editor for the Belgrade magazine \"Duga\". In 1994–95 he acted as an \"unofficial spokesman\" for the Bosnian Serb government (while preferring to describe himself as a \"Balkan affairs analyst with close links to the Bosnian Serbs\"). He has published op-eds and commentaries in \"The Times\" of London, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"American Conservative\", the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\", and \"The Alternative Right\". He has been a commentator on numerous national and international TV and radio programs, including MSNBC, CNN, CNN International, Sky News, BBC Radio 4, BBC World Service and CBC. He has contributed to \"Liberty\", the newspaper of the Serbian National Defense Council of America.\n\nHe has been an adjunct professor at the University of St Thomas in Houston, Texas (1996–1997), and, in August 1997, joined the faculty of Rose Hill College in Aiken, South Carolina. He has worked as a political consultant to Aleksandar Karađorđević, Crown Prince of Serbia, and to Former Yugoslav President Vojislav Koštunica, as an adviser to Biljana Plavšić and as unofficial representative of the Republika Srpska in London.\n\nIn February 2000, he testified to the Canadian House of Commons on the situation in the Balkans. In July 2000 he took part in a Congressional briefing organized by Rep. Dennis Kucinich.\n\nIn January 2003, Stephen Schwartz published an article in Frontpage magazine that falsely accused Trifković of supporting Slobodan Milošević. The magazine published an apology. In March 2003, he testified as a defense witness for Milomir Stakić at his trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. Stakić was later convicted of extermination, murder and persecutions (but acquitted of genocide) and sentenced to 40 years' imprisonment.\n\nIn June 2006, he was one of two dozen people who presented works at a symposium on the Holocaust in Yugoslavia, 1941–1945, co-organized by two Serbian institutions and held at Yad Vashem Center in Jerusalem. In September 2008, he testified as a defense witness for Ljubiša Beara in the Popović et al. trial. Beara was later convicted of genocide, extermination, murder, persecutions and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn August 2011, responding to the claim that his work inspired Norwegian murderer Anders Behring Breivik, Trifković rejected the idea that his work was a basis for the actions of this \"mentally deranged narcissistic psychopath\" any more than the \"Beatles have inspired Charles Manson.\"\n\nIn 2013 he testified on behalf of Radovan Karadžić. Trifković denied being a former spokesman for Karadžić at a time he was a journalist and analyst reporting on Karadžić's activities.\n\nHe is also professor in Faculty of Political Science of University of Banja Luka in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nTrifković is the author of \"Sword of the Prophet: The Politically Incorrect Guide to Islam\", a book about the history and tenets of Islam which identifies the rise of Islamic fundamentalism as the greatest danger to Western values since the end of the Cold War. According to James Bissett, former Canadian ambassador to Yugoslavia and a close associate of Trifković, Trifković sees the source of this threat in the absence of separation of church and state under Islam - because Islam is a way of life, Muslims are required to subordinate themselves to the teachings of Allah and live as members of the total Islamic community, calling into question their ability to give their political loyalty to a non-Muslim state. Trifković considers this to be a particularly important issue for the countries of Western Europe, with a population of over 50 million Muslims, and the United States (approx. 3.3 million).\n\nIn February 2011, Canadian authorities refused to allow Trifković entry into Canada to address a meeting at the University of British Columbia at Vancouver.\n\nTrifković reported in the journal \"Chronicles\" that he was refused entry to Canada on 24 February 2011 on the \"transparently spurious\" grounds that he was \"inadmissible on grounds of violating human or international rights for being a proscribed senior official in the service of a government that, in the opinion of the minister, engages or has engaged in terrorism, systematic or gross human rights violations, or genocide, a war crime or a crime against humanity within the meaning of subsections 6 (3) to (5) of the Crimes Against Humanity and War Crimes Act.\"\n\nHe claimed his \"inadmissibility\" was due to contacts with the Bosnian Serb leaders in the early 1990s but claimed that the Canadian authorities' grounds for refusing him admission were \"transparently spurious\" and they had in fact yielded to a Bosniak-inspired campaign against him. The Canadian Institute for the Research of Genocide alleged that Trifković was promoting hatred, antisemitism and Islamophobia and accused him of publicly denying what \"New American\" termed the \"alleged\" massacre of Bosniaks at Srebrenica in July 1995, found by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to be a crime of genocide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902202", "title": "Keyboard, Oh Lord! Why Don't We?", "text": "Keyboard, Oh Lord! Why Don't We?\n\nKeyboard, Oh Lord! Why Don't We? is the third album by Norwegian stoner rock band Thulsa Doom. The title is a quote from the Paul McCartney and Stevie Wonder hit single Ebony and Ivory. Since the last album, lead singer Papa Doom has left the band, and guitarist Doom Perignon has become the lead singer.\n\nThe album has received good reviews in the Norwegian press.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902205", "title": "Ireland Yearly Meeting", "text": "Ireland Yearly Meeting\n\nThe Ireland Yearly Meeting is the umbrella body for the Religious Society of Friends in Ireland. It is one of many Yearly Meetings (YM's) of Friends around the world.\n\nA notable aspect of the Ireland YM is that it encompasses meetings with widely divergent Christian viewpoints from theologically conservative (evangelical) to theologically liberal. All meetings under its care are in the unprogrammed tradition. It also includes meetings both in the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn Ireland there are 27 local (preparative) meetings. These are grouped into 7 regional Monthly meetings, which are in turn grouped together in 3 provincial (quarterly) meetings. The three quarterly meetings together constitute the Ireland YM. There are between 1000 and 2000 Friends in Ireland.\n\n\"The Friendly Word\" is a bimonthly magazine published by Quakers in Ireland. The Friends Burial Ground, Dublin is in Temple Hill, Blackrock, Co. Dublin.\n\nThe Religious Society of Friends was introduced to Ireland by William Edmundson. He was born in Westmorland, England in 1627 but moved to Ireland in 1652. On a return trip to England, Edmundson was convinced of the truth of Quakerism under the teaching of James Nayler He went back to Ireland and set up a business in Lurgan, County Armagh. The first Friends meeting in Ireland took place in Edmundson's home there in 1654.\n\nIrish Quakers were known for entrepreneurship, setting up many businesses in Ireland, with many families such as the Goodbodys, Bewleys, Pims, Lambs, Jacobs, Edmundsons, Perrys and Bells were involved in milling, textiles, shipping, imports and exports, food and tobacco production, brewing, iron production and railways industries.\nWilliam Penn the founder of Pennsylvania, converted to Quakerism while dealing with his father's estates in Ireland. He attended meetings in Cork.\n\nThe Quakers founded the town of Mountmellick, Co. Laois, in 1657 led by William Edmundson. There is a quaker burial ground in Rosenallis, Co, Laois.\n\nBallitore in Co. Kildare, in 1685 was planned as a Quaker town, it was here a Quaker school was founded by Abraham Shackleton (ancestor of the polar explorer Ernest Shackleton) in 1726, many Quakers from all over Ireland attended as did many non-Quakers. Among the famous non-Quakers to go there were Henry Grattan, Cardinal Paul Cullen, James Napper Tandy and Edmund Burke.\n\nIn 1692 the Quakers opened a meeting house in Sycamore Alley, off Dame Street in Dublin, these premises expanded with the purchase of property backing on to Eustace Street. The Quakers building on Eustace Street, purchased in 1817, is the former \"Eagle Tavern\", it is where the Dublin Society of the United Irishmen was formed in 1791. In 1988 they sold some of their property on Eustace Street, which became the Irish Film Institute.\n\nThe Cork Street Fever Hospital, Dublin was founded by Quakers in the early 19th century. The Royal Hospital, Donnybrook in Dublin, was also originally a Quaker hospital. There was a Quaker grave yard in Cork street, and one in York Street off St. Stephen's Green which was sold and for the Building of the Royal College of Surgeons.\n\nThe Quakers were known for setting up relief measures in their localities during the Great Famine \n\nQuaker Senator James G. Douglas was chairperson of the committee that drafted the Constitution of the Irish Free State in 1922.\n\nThe Society was one of the six religious denominations recognised by article 44.1.3 of the Irish Constitution, which was adopted by popular plebiscite in 1937. This reference was deleted from the constitution via the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland in 1972 along with that of the other recognised denominations and the \"special position\" of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. \n\nThe Society decided at Ireland Yearly Meeting 2018 to allow same-sex marriages in their Meetings for Worship. The Society was represented at the second inauguration of the President of Ireland Michael D. Higgins in 2018.\n\nThe Archives of the Religious Society of Friends are held in Quaker House, Stocking Lane, Rathfarnham, Dublin 16 and Meeting House, Lisburn, Co. Antrim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902206", "title": "Nansen Refugee Award", "text": "Nansen Refugee Award\n\nThe UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award is awarded annually by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to an individual, group, or organization in recognition of outstanding service to the cause of refugees, displaced or stateless people. It was established in 1954.\n\nThe UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award is named after the intrepid Norwegian polar explorer, statesman and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Fridtjof Nansen. As the first High Commissioner for Refugees at the League of Nations, Nansen's achievements made significant strides in giving a voice to the forcibly displaced.\nThe award consists of the Nansen Medal and a $100,000 US dollar monetary prize donated by the governments of Norway and Switzerland in support of a project of the recipient's choice to assist displaced people, developed in consultation with UNHCR.\nThe Swiss and Norwegian governments, the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) and the IKEA Foundation support the UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award programme.\n\nEvery year, the UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award is presented at a dignified ceremony in Geneva, Switzerland, the \"world's humanitarian capital\". Held at the Bâtiment des Forces Motrices, the ceremony coincides with the annual UNHCR Executive Committee (Excom) meeting.\n\nIn 2011, UNHCR collaborated with the Université of Genève (UNIGE), the Foundation Pour Genève, and the Académie de droit international humanitaire et droits humains à Genève (ADH) to organize the first Nansen panel discussion. Now an annual event, the discussion engages the Geneva intellectual community, media and youth about the refugee cause and the work of UNHCR.\n\nIn 2012, the discussion entitled \"Les femmes et la reconstruction de la Somalie: du trouble à l'espoir\" (\"Women and the Reconstruction of Somalia: From Turmoil to Hope\") featured Leymah Gbowee, the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, secretary-general of the NRC Elisabeth Rasmusson, and UNHCR Honorary Lifetime Goodwill Ambassador Barbara Hendricks as panelists.\n\nThe strongest candidates are those who have gone beyond the call of duty, who have demonstrated perseverance and courage, and who have personally, directly and significantly helped forcibly displaced people.\n\nNominations must be submitted through the UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award website. Current or former UNHCR staff are not eligible. Self nominations, including intra-organizational nomination, are strongly discouraged.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902208", "title": "Reading Abbey R.F.C.", "text": "Reading Abbey R.F.C.\n\nReading Abbey R.F.C is an English Rugby Union club. Although the club is named after, and historically connected with, the Berkshire town of Reading, it is now located between Reading and Peppard and just over the boundary into the county of Oxfordshire.\n\nReading Abbey was born in the early 1950s as a youth side meeting the playing demand of boys who went to non-rugby playing schools. As a consequence when they wanted adult rugby they were uncomfortable with the established hierarchy at the two clubs in town. So in 1956 they formed Abbey RFC and played in the Town's public park moving from pub to pub for changing and post match refreshments.\n\nBy 1971 life had become more heterogeneous and the club scraped together the wherewithal to buy 22 acres of ground and by their own efforts three pitches and a clubhouse were built. With all the energy released by the change of venue and an ever-growing membership, it rapidly established itself as a leading club in the area for adult and youth rugby, three of whom have represented England at various youth levels.\n\nLeague rugby saw Abbey start in South West 1 East with a declared policy of amateurism aiming to cultivate rugby within the community; membership has thrived and leading it to adopt the name Reading Abbey; the club is proud that its finances are sound and the 22 acres are owned outright without any borrowings. Its playing fortunes have been equally stable for, bar a couple of years in one level below and one level above, Abbey has remained a constant dynamic force at the same level at which it entered the leagues.\n\nAbbey currently play four senior teams as well as a colts and a vets team. The first team and second team train together as a squad on Tuesdays and Thursday nights and the third team and fourth team train together as a development squad on Thursdays. All the senior teams, apart from the colts, play their matches on Saturday with the colts playing on Sundays. The first team play in South West 1 East, second team play in Berks/Bucks & Oxon Premier A and the Berkshire Cup, the thirds play in the Thames Valley Invitational League Division A and the colts play in the English Colts Club Knockout Cup and the OBB Colts Division one.\n\nEvery Sunday the club is taken over by the mini and junior rugby. Mini's rugby is from under-5s to under-12s. They play in their age groups, mainly working on their core rugby skills and playing in semi-competitive friendly matches against other clubs. The juniors, who are under-13s to under-17s, train on Wednesday evenings and play matches on Sundays.\n\nWomen's and girls' rugby is a growing force at Abbey. Each Sunday Abbey hosts a girls only training session for girls from 8 to 11 with an open door policy where any age girl can come and not be turned away. The women's team play as Abbey Nuns and train Monday and Wednesday night. Having been promoted after their first season in a league, the Nuns now compete in Women's National Challenge (NC) South East West 1 league from the 2016–17 season.\n\n1st team:\n\n3rd team:\n\n4th team\n\nAbbey Nuns:\n\nU13s:\n"}
{"id": "1902211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902211", "title": "At Mrs. Lippincote's", "text": "At Mrs. Lippincote's\n\nAt Mrs. Lippincote's is a 1945 novel by Elizabeth Taylor, her first novel. It was published again in 1988 by Virago Press, containing an autobiographical sketch of the author.\n\nJulia and her husband, Roddy Davenant, along with their young son, Oliver, and Roddy's cousin, Eleanor, are temporarily living at Mrs. Lippincote's, a house filled with old mahogany furniture and other reminders of earlier wealth. Julia and the others have joined Roddy, who is an officer in the Royal Air Force.\n\nShe must be mother and, above all, an officer's wife. Roddy, a \"leader of men,\" requires that she fulfill her role impeccably. Julia accepts the pompousness of Armed forces service life, but her honesty and sense of humour prevent her from taking her role too seriously.\n\nIn a 1946 book review in \"Kirkus Reviews\" the review called the book \"special social comedy\" to be \"subtle\" and \"stylised,\" but \"lacking particular pattern or purpose.\" Kirkus also noted \"we also expected it to interest only discriminating tastes.\" In a retrospective of Taylor, \"The Guardian\" wrote the book \"was for many years well reviewed and commercially successful.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1902220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902220", "title": "Crossroads Mall (Mumbai)", "text": "Crossroads Mall (Mumbai)\n\nCrossroads, renamed and known as Sobo Central, currently as Brand Factory is a shopping mall in Mahalaxmi, Mumbai. Opened in September 1999 by Piramal Holdings Ltd., a subsidiary of a major pharmaceutical group, it is India's second oldest mall management company, from Chennai's Spencer Plaza. The mall covers an area of , spread over four buildings in the city centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902223", "title": "ENGIE Brasil", "text": "ENGIE Brasil\n\nENGIE Brasil formerly Tractebel Energia is a major Brazilian utility company, headquartered in Florianópolis, Santa Catarina. It is one of the largest private electricity producers in Brazil. Its 11 plants, six of them hydroelectric and the remainder thermal, have an installed capacity of 6,977 MW in operations ave an installed capacity of around 9,000 MW. ENGIE Brasil's major shareholder is ENGIE, the Paris-based utility company.\n\nThe company originated as Gerasul, short for Centrais Geradoras do Sul do Brasil SA ('Power plants of the South of Brazil' in English) which was sold to Tractebel by Brazil's Eletrosul in 1998. Gerasul held Eletrosul's power generation assets in the southern Brazilian states of Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná and Mato Grosso do Sul. Gerasul changed its name to Tractebel Energia in 2002.\n\nENGIE owns around 68% of ENGIE Brasil stocks, which is traded on B3, the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902224", "title": "Monoscope", "text": "Monoscope\n\nA monoscope was a special form of video camera tube which displayed a single still video image. The image was built into the tube, hence the name. The tube resembled a small cathode ray tube (CRT). Monoscopes were used beginning in the 1950s to generate TV test patterns and station logos. This type of test card generation system was technologically obsolete by the 1980s.\n\nThe monoscope was similar in construction to a CRT, with an electron gun at one end and at the other, a metal target screen with an image formed on it. This was in the position where a CRT would have its phosphor-coated display screen. As the electron beam scanned the target, varying numbers of electrons were reflected from the different areas of the image. The reflected electrons were picked up by an internal electrode ring, producing a varying electrical signal which was amplified to become the video output of the tube.\n\nThis signal reproduced an accurate still image of the target, so the monoscope was used to produce still images such as test patterns and station logo cards. For example, the classic Indian Head test card used by NBC, shown on the right was often produced using a monoscope.\n\nMonoscopes were available with a wide variety of standard patterns and messages, and could be ordered with a custom image such as a station logo. Monoscope \"cameras\" were widely used to produce test cards, station logos, special signals for test purposes and standard announcements like \"\"Please stand by\"\" and \"\"normal service will be resumed\"...\". They had many advantages over using a live camera pointed at a card; an expensive camera was not tied up, they were always ready, and were never misframed or out of focus. Indeed, monoscopes were often used to calibrate the live cameras, by comparing the monoscope image and the live camera image of the same test pattern.\n\nPointing an electronic camera at the same stationary monochrome caption for a long period of time could result in the image becoming burnt onto the camera tube's target — and even onto the phosphor of a monitor displaying it in extreme cases.\n\nMonoscopes were used as character generators for text mode video rendering in computer displays for a short time in the 1960s. The monoscope declined in popularity during the 1960s due to its inability to generate a colour test card, and the development of solid state TV test pattern signal generators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902234", "title": "Bend-skin", "text": "Bend-skin\n\nBend-skin (\"bend skin\") is a kind of urban Cameroonian popular music. Kouchouam Mbada is the best known group associated with the genre. Several other artists have over the years contributed to the growth and popularity of bend skin. It is related to mangambeu, and is played using only drums and maracas (often made from soda cans), with a vocalist who both sings and raps. It is often sung in Medumba which is the language of the Bangangte people and in many other Bamileke dialects.\n\nBend-skin became popular in 1993 in the New-Bell Banganté's neighbourhood, amid a time of economic depression. Although gaining grounds in most urban settings in Cameroon, Bend-skin is closely associated with the Western Province of Cameroon (the Bamileke people), who have been responsible for developing and promoting this genre of music.\nThe genre regained popular acclamation in the 21st century with artists like Marole Tchamba, Keng Godefroy, Michael Kiessou, Featurist and many others.\n"}
{"id": "1902235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902235", "title": "Wet grinder", "text": "Wet grinder\n\nA wet grinder can refer to either a tool for abrasive cutting of hard materials, or a food preparation appliance used especially in Indian cuisine for grinding food grains to produce a paste or batter. A wet grinder for abrasive cutting uses fluid for lubrication or cooling, whereas one for food preparation uses water to combine with ground grain to produce batter.\n\nSome angle grinders, most tile saws, and some grinders for sharpening blades used in woodworking are wet grinders. The fluid helps with lubrication of the cutting process and with cooling to avoid cracking or damaging the cutting tool or the workpiece.\n\nWet grinding is rare in western cuisine but common in Indian cuisine. Wet grinders are used to make pastes from grains and lentils, such as those used in cooking dosas and idlis in South Indian cuisine. These grinders generally consists of a few granite stone plates that are rolled against another stone plate with the items to be ground between them. Wet grinders have two advantages over electric mixers or blenders. First, the stone grinder generates less heat than a mixer; heat affects the flavor of the food. Second, the stones remain sharp for a greater time than do metal blades.\nWet grinders are largely manufactured in Coimbatore because granite is easily available in this region. Beginning in March 2006, the label \"Coimbatore Wet Grinder\" is a registered geographical indication for Tamil Nadu.\n"}
{"id": "1902244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902244", "title": "Royal Commonwealth Society", "text": "Royal Commonwealth Society\n\nThe Royal Commonwealth Society (RCS) is a non-governmental organisation with a mission to promote the value of the Commonwealth and the values upon which it is based. The Society upholds the values of the Commonwealth Charter, promoting conflict resolution, peace-making and democracy to improve the lives of citizens across the member states of the Commonwealth.\n\nWhat is now The Royal Commonwealth Society was founded in 1868, as a non-political, learned organisation; a royal charter was granted in 1869, and a clubhouse opened in 1885. The Society's name slowly evolved: from \"The Colonial Society\" (1868-1869), to \"The Royal Colonial Society\" (1869-1870), to \"The Royal Colonial Institute\" (1870-1928), to \"The Royal Empire Society (1928-1958)\"; \"The Royal Commonwealth Society\" was adopted in 1958.\n\nThe Society may be seen from early on to have been progressive in its time towards equality and diversity. A woman was first invited by The Royal Colonial Institute to read a research paper in 1894, and The Royal Colonial Institute was one of the first learned organisations to admit women as full Fellows, in 1922. The Society's first Asian member was Ji ju Sanjo, son of the Japanese prime minister (Sanjo Sanetomi), in 1872; the first African member was Samuel Bannerman, of the Gold Coast, in 1879.\nThe identity of the Society was for more than a hundred years inseparably bound up with its Library. At a meeting on 26 June 1868, Chichester Parkinson-Fortescue recommended \"the formation of a colonial library, to which all interested in the welfare of the colonies should have access,\" an aim affirmed by the Society's first elected chairman, Viscount Bury. The Society's first librarian was appointed in 1869, and the first salaried librarian, Australian-born Joseph Sylvester O'Halloran, in 1885. The person mainly responsible for the Library's remarkable development and international reputation was Evans Lewin, Master Librarian for thirty-six years, 1910–1946.\n\nThe Society's first home was above a shirt shop at No. 15 The Strand, London, where it remained from 1870 until 1885. It was in this modest space that the organisation's Library collection began to be assembled. The Society's Library quickly increased in size and reputation, and the organisation moved in 1885 to 25 Northumberland Avenue in Central London, where it would remain until 2013. The site was completely rebuilt in 1936 to the design of architect Sir Herbert Baker, providing a greatly extended Library. The expanded and renovated premises was formally opened on 12 November 1936 by the Duke and Duchess of York, later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth.\n\nThe Blitz had a devastating effect on the Society's Northumberland Avenue headquarters and Library. On the night of 16/17 April 1941 the building was struck by a two-ton bomb. Seventy-four people were present at the time; one member was killed and another injured, and two members of staff badly hurt. Fire ignited by the blast and the large quantity of water pumped in to extinguish it meant some unique collections were destroyed; examples, painstakingly assembled over more than seventy years, included: the Library of Overseas Law, the contents of the Newspaper Room, and sections covering the general British Empire, foreign colonies, the First World War, Malta and Gibraltar. The lost collections on the German colonial empire, the French colonial empire, the Dutch Empire, the Italian Empire, and Belgian overseas colonies - mainly in foreign languages and published overseas - were unique in the United Kingdom. Numerous early accounts of exploration, voyages and travel were likewise destroyed. Out of a collection of 260,000, total losses were estimated at approximately 35,000 books and 5,000 pamphlets. On the night of 10/11 May 1941, the hardest night of the Blitz, the Northumberland Avenue address was again severely damaged.\n\nThe Society persevered, adopting the ‘Business as Usual’ motto characteristic of Britons targeted in the Blitz. The subsequent issue of the Society's journal \"United Empire\", May–June 1941, reported the resumption of activities including its Saturday afternoon dances for members of the Overseas Armed Forces. Determined attempts were made to replace the Library's losses, drawing helpful donations from institutions and individuals and an award from the War Damage Commission, but many items proved irreplaceable. Full restoration of the Society's Northumberland Avenue headquarters was completed in 1957; the building was officially re-opened by Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and a grand Festival organised to celebrate the event. \"The Sunday Times\" of 14 April 1957 noted that the nose of the 16/17 April 1941 bomb was displayed in a prominent position, reflecting \"the true spirit of British sportsmanship.\"\n\nThe name \"The Royal Commonwealth Society\" was adopted in 1958. Enthusiasm may seem to have surrounded the Commonwealth in the 1950s, but political tides began to flow against the Society; for example, newsroom space was taken for the fledgling Voluntary Service Overseas (1961-3), which began life under the wing of the Royal Commonwealth Society.\n\nThe Society's library, despite the damage caused by the German bombing offensive in World War II, grew to over half a million items; \"The Contemporary Review\" described the collection as \"the most comprehensive single source for the history of the world's greatest empire from its 16th century beginnings to its present fifty-nation Commonwealth.\" Cambridge University Library recognised the collection as a \"treasure-trove\" of information on the Commonwealth and Britain's former colonial territories, comprising over 300,000 printed items, about 800 archival collections (including manuscript diaries, correspondence, pictures, cine films, scrapbooks and newspaper cuttings) and over 120,000 photographs. From 1956 to 1987 the society's librarian was Donald Simpson (1920-2002), who had joined the staff in 1945. He was in advance of other librarians of his time in recognising the importance of photographs and ensured that photographic collections were identified and catalogued. He was the author of \"Dark Companions\" (1975), a book about the indigenous associates of explorers.\nFrom the late 1960s, however, increasing financial problems, combined with severe flood damage, led to the conclusion that it was no longer viable for the Society to maintain its Library. Cambridge University Library acquired the Library's collection in 1993. There had been a sign of things to come when a notable chairman of the Library, Sir Alan Burns (who in 1948 had published a study called \"Colour Prejudice\", a groundbreaking contribution to the subject), resigned from his post in protest at the Society's attempt to sell off Library books in order to supplement its income.\n\nCambridge Library's intervention enabled the Society to clear its debts and, in 1994, to redevelop the grand clubhouse in Northumberland Avenue to the design of architect Linda Morey Smith. This was sold and the RCS purchased a former bank next door, however with no accommodation.\n\nBy 2012, unfortunately, financial pressures again presented a challenge. The Society found it necessary in 2013 to sell its headquarters at Northumberland Avenue, and it moved in 2014 to a new London office, at Pall Mall, London, with a view to focusing on its charitable work.\n\nThe Royal Commonwealth Society is now the centre of an international network of more than 10,000 members, spread across 100 countries and territories, and linked by around seventy self-governing Society branches and Commonwealth societies, in forty-three countries and territories. Through its educational, youth and outreach programmes, the Society aims to encourage young people to develop skills and, with an increased understanding of their role as global citizens, to engage with challenges facing the international community. It aims to bring alive the principles of the modern Commonwealth - tolerance, diversity, freedom, justice, democracy, human rights, and sustainable development - to a generation living in an increasingly interconnected world. Society projects aim to enable young people to engage with their counterparts across the Commonwealth in youth leadership programmes, and creative writing and film-making projects. Through its charitable programmes and its international network, the Society's remit is to work towards the continued growth and resilience of Commonwealth civil society.\n\nThe Society is one of three bodies supporting The Queen's Commonwealth Canopy, a project launched in 2015 to preserve and promote forested areas throughout the Commonwealth.\n\nThe Society's Hong Kong office was opened in 1983 and has existed outside of the Commonwealth realm since 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902253", "title": "Matthew 2:9", "text": "Matthew 2:9\n\nMatthew 2:9 is the ninth verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. King Herod has dispatched the magi to Bethlehem to find the infant Jesus. In this verse they follow the Star of Bethlehem to find the infant.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:9\n\nUnlike the previous mention of the Star of Bethlehem this verse clearly indicates that it guided the magi to their destination. In combination with the next verse it seems to be clear that the star pointed out the specific house Jesus was in, or perhaps the entire village. How it did this is unspecified in the text, and artists have portrayed a wide array of means.\n\nThe phrase \"went before\" can mean either that the star was moving throughout their journey or that it remained stationary and served only as a fixed guide. However the phrase \"came and stood\" unambiguously means that it ceased moving and came to a rest at this point. Hill comments that the undeniably miraculous behaviour of the star in this verse defies all the various attempts to rationalize the star it as a natural nova or conjunction. This might be a reference to the pillar of cloud that guide the Israelites through the wilderness. Fortnas notes that the astronomical theory of the time thought of the stars a points of light moving along a fixed heavenly dome. This made it far easier to imagine a star stopping its motion.\n\nIt is unclear exactly how long after Jesus' birth the magi arrived. Traditionally they were seen to arrive at most a few days after the birth of Jesus as the Gospel of Luke has Jesus leaving for Jerusalem by the time he was forty days old from whence he went to Nazareth. This left a fairly brief window of time for the magi to visit him in Jerusalem, especially considering they needed time to travel from the east via Jerusalem. In this verse the author of Matthew refers to Jesus as a \"child\" rather than an \"infant\", perhaps indicating that he was older. Today most scholars feel that Matthew probably meant that Jesus was several months old at the time the magi visited.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902255", "title": "Postage stamps and postal history of New Zealand", "text": "Postage stamps and postal history of New Zealand\n\nPostal services in New Zealand have existed since at least 1831, when the Postmaster-General of New South Wales deputed a Bay of Islands merchant to receive and return mail. Governor William Hobson issued an ordinance covering postal matters, although the British government retained control until 1848.\n\nIn these initial years, only a small number of post offices were established. Postal services expanded greatly from the mid-1850s, with the Local Posts Act of 1856 allowing Provincial Governments to establish post offices, and the Post Office Act of 1858, which re-organized postal services under a Postmaster-General.\n\nThe New Zealand Post Office continued to operate as a government department until 1987, when postal services were re-organized as New Zealand Post, a state-owned enterprise.\nPostage stamps have been issued in New Zealand since around 18 to 20 July 1855 with the \"Chalon head\" stamps figuring Queen Victoria. The design was based on a full face portrait of the Queen in her state robes at the time of her coronation in 1837, by Alfred Edward Chalon. The stamps were initially hand cut from sheets, but from 1862 on, these sheets started being fed through automatic perforating machines. The Chalon heads were used until 1874 when the lithographed sideface stamps in various designs replaced them.\n\nOn 1 January 1901, New Zealand introduced one penny universal postage from New Zealand to any country in the world willing to deliver them. Australia, the United States, France and Germany would not accept such letters, fearful of having to reduce their own postal charges to match. This also halved the cost of mailing letters within New Zealand.\n\nWhile concern was expressed that Post Office revenues would fall, mail volumes increased sharply and by 1902 any losses had been recovered.\n\nNew Zealand was the first country in the world to prototype and install stamp vending machines; one was installed in the General Post Office, Wellington in 1905.\n\nThe first items of postal stationery to be issued by New Zealand were postcards on 1 November 1876. The next items of postal stationery to be issued were newspaper wrappers on 1 April 1878. Lettercards were first issued on 1 January 1895, registered envelopes on 21 June 1898, envelopes on 4 June 1899 and air letter sheets or aerogrammes on 17 November 1941.\n\nThe postal system in New Zealand was deregulated on 1 April 1998, meaning several different independent mail companies now exist. But in practice the state-owned New Zealand Post still delivers nearly all letters.\n\nIndependent New Zealand post companies which issue their own stamps include DX Mail, Fastway Post, New Zealand Mail and Petes Post.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902257", "title": "Herbert V. Prochnow", "text": "Herbert V. Prochnow\n\nHerbert Victor Prochnow (May 19, 1897 – September 29, 1998) was a U.S. banking executive, noted toastmaster, and author during the middle 20th century. As Vice President of the First National Bank of Chicago, Prochnow wrote several popular books on public speaking. He also wrote epigrams and anecdotes that appeared in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" and \"Reader's Digest\". In the 1930s, he rose in the foreign--later international--department at First National Bank. In the mid-1940s, Prochnow was a member of the Office of Strategic Services, recruiting and training American spies for an organization viewed as a predecessor of the CIA. A decade later, U.S. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles asked Prochnow to come to Washington to serve as deputy undersecretary of state for economic affairs, a position he held for two years. He also served as secretary of the Federal Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve System for more than 40 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902258", "title": "Nea Peramos", "text": "Nea Peramos\n\nNea Peramos (), before the 1990s \"Megalo Pefko\" (), is a suburb and a former municipality in West Attica, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform, it is part of the municipality Megara, of which it is a municipal unit.\n\nNea Peramos is situated in the eastern part of the Megaris plain, on the Saronic Gulf coast, opposite the island of Salamis. Nea Peramos is 7 km east of Megara, 11 km west of Eleusis and 27 km west of Athens. Motorway 8 (Athens - Corinth) passes north of the town. The Nea Peramos railway station is served by Proastiakos commuter trains to Athens and Kiato. From its fishing harbour, a ferryboat line connects it to the island of Salamis, close to the Monastery of Panagia Faneromeni.\n\nLandmark buildings include the two tall (12-storied and 10-storied) blocks of flats, the Church of St. George, the N. Petkas Traditional Olive Press (currently (Oct. '11)under reconstruction), which has been donated to the Association of Peramians Kyzikians and the former Town Hall, all of them on 28 October st. (the old Greek National Road 8) which traverses the town parallel to the coast.\n\nNea Peramos has a few schools (a lyceum - high school, a gymnasium - junior high school and four primary schools) and two KAPI (day care centres for elderly people). Three military camps are located in town, among them the Artillery School and the Army Special Forces base.\nPlease also note there is a small seaside resort bearing the same name in Northern Greece, near Kavala.\n\nThere is a municipal library whose mostly-Greek-language collection is as yet (Oct '11) uncatalogued. The cultural life of the town is enriched by the Fair of St. George in April, the Klidonas festival on St. John's Day (after the summer solstice) and the Sardine Night in late August. Several cultural associations operate, such as the Association of Peramians Kyzikians, the Nea Peramos Women's Association and the Cultural Association \"Aghios Panteleimon\".\n\nThere are two amateur sports teams: The Athletic Sports Association of Nea Peramos (est. 1939) and Attalos Neas Peramou (est. 2001).\n\nThere are 15 teams in town (about 900 in the whole of Attica) of skilled flying (high flying, diving, spiralling etc.) pigeons, most of them belonging to the Aspropyrgos Association of Pigeon-Owners. \n\nIn 1922, after the debacle of the Greek Army, the Greek residents of Peramos (modern Karşıyaka near Bandırma, Turkey) in Asia Minor were expelled from their town before the advancing Turkish Army and the rebels. They ended up in Kavala and in the area of Megara. This location near Megara was given over by the Government of Eleftherios Venizelos so that they could start their new life. Their first school was a wooden shack which also functioned on Sundays as a church until the current Church of Saint George was built to accommodate his Icon which the refugees brought with them from their ancestral land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902266", "title": "Lynn Hamilton (actress)", "text": "Lynn Hamilton (actress)\n\nLynn Hamilton (born April 25, 1930) is an American former actress. Making her acting debut in 1959 with a role in John Cassavetes' \"Shadows\", Hamilton is best known for her recurring role as Donna Harris; Fred's girlfriend and later fiancée on the sitcom \"Sanford and Son\" which originally aired from 1972 until 1977.\n\nHamilton was born in Yazoo City, Mississippi to a mother named Nancy and a father named Louis Hamilton and later moved to Chicago Heights, Illinois when she was twelve years old. She attended Bloom High School. She studied acting at Goodman Theatre. She began her career in community theatre in Chicago before making her debut on Broadway in the play \"Only in America\" in 1959. She appeared in three other Broadway plays, many Off-Broadway plays and spent three years with the New York Shakespeare Festival.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1977, Hamilton starred as Fred Sanford's girlfriend and later fiancée Donna Harris on the television sitcom \"Sanford and Son\". Donna was a nurse and sometimes took care of Fred. There are many internet claims that she was the younger sister of actress LaWanda Page, who portrayed Esther Anderson on \"Sanford and Son\", confirmed only via LaWanda Page's obituary in the Los Angeles Times. However, they are neither related nor sisters, though they became good friends. In addition to Hamilton's role on \"Sanford and Son,\" she also had a recurring role as \"Verdie\" on \"The Waltons\", and made numerous appearances in television sitcoms, soap operas and miniseries such as \"Good Times\", \"227\", \"Dangerous Women\", \"Generations\", \"Port Charles\", \"The Golden Girls\", \"Gunsmoke\", and \"\". Hamilton also appeared in the show Barnaby Jones, playing a character named Laura Padget, in episode titled \"Sunday:Doomsday\" on February 4, 1973. Hamilton also had a recurring role as Judge Fulton on \"The Practice\".\n\nHamilton was married to poet and playwright Frank Jenkins for 49 years, from November 1964 until his death in August 2014. LaWanda Page, who costarred with Hamilton on \"Sanford and Son\" had a younger sister coincidentally also named \"Lynn Hamilton\". This caused a rumor that the two actresses were sisters. Series lead Demond Wilson confirmed the rumor to be false in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902268", "title": "Garrick Ohlsson", "text": "Garrick Ohlsson\n\nGarrick Olof Ohlsson (born April 3, 1948 in Bronxville, New York) is an American classical pianist. He is the only American to win first prize in the International Frédéric Chopin Piano Competition, in 1970. He also won first prize at the Busoni Competition in Italy and the Montreal Piano Competition in Canada. He was awarded the Avery Fisher Prize in 1994 and received the 1998 University Musical Society Distinguished Artist Award in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Ohlsson has also been nominated for three Grammy Awards, winning one in 2008.\n\nOhlsson began his piano studies at the age of eight at the Music Conservatory of Westchester in White Plains and, at the age of 13, began studying at the Juilliard School. His musical development has been influenced in completely different ways by a succession of distinguished teachers, most notably Claudio Arrau, Olga Barabini, Tom Lishman, Sascha Gorodnitzki, Rosina Lhévinne and Irma Wolpe. Although Ohlsson is especially noted for his performances of the works of Chopin, Mozart, Beethoven, Liszt and Schubert, his range of repertoire is broad, extending from Bach and Busoni to Copland, Griffes, Debussy, Scriabin, Gershwin and contemporary composers who have written new works for him, such as Justin Dello Joio. Writing in \"The New York Times\", music critic Allan Kozinn has characterized Ohlsson's repertory as \"huge.\"\n\nOhlsson has performed in North America with symphony orchestras of Atlanta, Charlotte, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Boston, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Minneapolis, Milwaukee, Indianapolis, Houston, Detroit, Baltimore, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, Seattle, Denver, Washington D.C. and Berkeley, among others, at the National Arts Center, with the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra and with the London Philharmonic at Lincoln Center in New York. He has also accompanied violinist Hilary Hahn and contralto Ewa Podles.\n\nOhlsson is an avid chamber musician, having collaborated with the Cleveland, Emerson, Takács and Tokyo string quartets, in addition to other ensembles. In 2005-2006, he toured with the Takács Quartet. He is also a founding member of San Francisco's FOG Trio, together with violinist Jorja Fleezanis and cellist Michael Grebanier.\n\nIn 2006-2007, he played the opening concert at the Mostly Mozart Festival in New York. He has also performed at the BBC Proms with the Budapest Festival Orchestra. In 2010, he visited Australia and gave concerts in Melbourne.\n\nAmong his many recordings, Ohlsson performed Chopin's entire musical output on Hyperion Records–including the complete solo piano music, chamber music, works for piano and orchestra, and songs. In 1989, he recorded Busoni's five-movement Piano Concerto in C major, Op. 39 with the Cleveland Orchestra under Christoph von Dohnányi. He has also recorded all 32 Beethoven piano sonatas for Bridge Records.\n\nHis unusually vast repertoire includes no fewer than eighty concertos. He is also known for his exceptional keyboard stretch (a 12th in the left hand and an 11th in the right).\n\nShortly after his Chopin competition victory in 1970, he appeared as performing guest on ABC's \"The Dick Cavett Show\" on November 14, 1971. The show also featured actor/singer Sammy Davis Jr., and young \"Family Affair\" actress Anissa Jones.\n\nOhlsson currently lives in San Francisco with his partner, historic preservationist Robert Guter. He is a member of the faculty of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music.\n\n\nOhlsson has recorded with the following labels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902273", "title": "LWS-3 Mewa", "text": "LWS-3 Mewa\n\nThe LWS-3 Mewa (\"Seagull\") was a Polish observation and close reconnaissance aircraft, designed in the late-1930s by the LWS factory. It was ordered by the Polish Air Force, but did not manage to enter service before the outbreak of World War II.\n\nThe aircraft was designed as the successor to the obsolete Lublin R-XIII army cooperation plane. First sketches were drawn in 1936 by Zbysław Ciołkosz, the chief designer of the LWS factory (\"Lubelska Wytwórnia Samolotów\"). It was similar to the earlier light ambulance plane LWS-2, which itself was inspired by the STOL plane RWD-9 wing design. After Ciołkosz had left LWS in 1937, the project, named LWS-3 Mewa, was modified and further developed at the LWS bureau. In the same year, the Polish Air Force ordered three prototypes. The first prototype LWS-3/I was flown in November 1937. It revealed some handling deficiencies, but otherwise a good performance. Following tests, the design of the aircraft was improved. In 1938, the second prototype LWS-3/II was flown. It had a crank mechanism to lower tailfin and rudder in order to increase angle of the rear machine gun fire, but as it proved impractical, the next prototype LWS-3/III from autumn 1938 again had a classic tailfin design. The third prototype, with some further changes, among others to the engine cover and canopy, was the pattern for serial production. The first prototype was exhibited at the 16th International Paris Aviation Salon in November 1938 (as \"PZL Mewa\"), where it met with interest.\n\nOfficial tests were satisfactory, and in 1938 the Polish Air Force ordered 200 aircraft of the production variant LWS-3A Mewa (or \"Mewa A\"). The production started in early 1939, and first aircraft were to be ready in the summer. In August 1939, about 30 aircraft were almost completed (10 ready, but lacking propellers, 7 in painting and 10 in final assembly).\n\nLWS-3B Mewa variant powered with a Fiat R74 860 hp (640 kW) engine for Bulgaria was being developed as well as a floatplane LWS-3H (hydro) variant for the Polish naval aviation. None were produced due to the war outbreak.\n\nIn 1939, the LWS-7 Mewa II was being developed at the LWS as the development of Mewa. Before the war, only a model for aerodynamics tests was made. Drawings of LWS-7 were evacuated in September 1939 to the Polish embassy in Romania by the LWS director Aleksander Sipowicz. Many publications claim that they were handed over to Bulgarians, but it is not clear (possibly, it concerned the LWS-3B plans, in fact). The Bulgarian-built reconnaissance plane KB-11 Fazan bore some resemblance to Mewa.\n\nNone of the aircraft entered service in the Polish Air Force before the outbreak of the World War II on September 1, 1939. The problem was with propellers, which had to be delivered from France. The first two aircraft were ready for delivery on September 2, but one of them was damaged on the factory airfield in Lublin by German bombers. The fate of the other one is not clear.\n\nFollowing that, some of the almost finished aircraft were hidden in Lublin park and in a forest nearby. A couple were modified to use wooden propellers with a fixed pitch. Two such aircraft were evacuated to an airfield near Lwów, and given over to the 26th Observation Escadre on September 12. One of them crashed during a night landing on Medyka airfield near Przemyśl on the same day, the other was burned on September 17, when it could not be evacuated. According to some sources, two other Mewas were assigned to the 23rd Observation Escadre on September 11, but this has not been confirmed. It is not clear whether any of these aircraft were armed. One of the aircraft was also seen during evacuation to Pinsk in mid-September. The rest of uncompleted aircraft were seized by Germans and scrapped.\n\nContrary to its direct predecessor, RWD-14 Czapla, the Mewa was a modern close reconnaissance plane, comparable with leading foreign aircraft of that period, like Henschel Hs 126 or Westland Lysander. Its advantages were quite short take-off and landing, which enabled it to operate from short or unprepared remote fields.\n\nMixed construction (steel and wood) monoplane, conventional in layout, with braced high wings, canvas and plywood covered. Wings folded rearwards. Conventional fixed landing gear, with a tailwheel. Crew of two, sitting in tandem in a closed cockpit, with large transparent canopy surfaces. The crew had dual controls. Prototypes were armed with two forward-firing 7.92 mm machine guns fixed on the undercarriage covers, but it appeared, that their accuracy was low due to vibration, and (according to J. Cynk) production aircraft were intended to have twin machine guns on fuselage sides. The observer had a 7.92 mm wz.37 machine gun in a rear station, covered by opening canopy. 14-cylinder air-cooled radial engine Gnome-Rhône 14M01 (prototypes) or 14M05 (serial) with 660 hp (490 kW) nominal power and 730 hp (540 kW) maximum power. Three-blade metal propeller (planned) or two-blade wooden propeller (installed on some aircraft). Fuel capacity about 380 l in wings. The aircraft was fitted with radio and cameras.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902275", "title": "Ludendorff Bridge", "text": "Ludendorff Bridge\n\nThe Ludendorff Bridge (sometimes referred to as the Bridge at Remagen) was in early March 1945 a critical remaining bridge across the river Rhine in Germany when it was captured during the Battle of Remagen by United States Army forces during the closing weeks of World War II. Built in World War I to help deliver reinforcements and supplies to the German troops on the Western Front, it connected Remagen on the west bank and the village of Erpel on the eastern side between two hills flanking the river.\n\nMidway through Operation Lumberjack, on 7 March 1945, the troops of the 1st U.S. Army approached Remagen and were surprised to find that the bridge was still standing. Its capture, two weeks before Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery's meticulously planned Operation Plunder, enabled the U.S. Army to establish a bridgehead on the eastern side of the Rhine. After the U.S. forces captured the bridge, German forces tried to destroy it multiple times.\n\nIt finally collapsed on 17 March 1945, ten days after it was captured, killing 33 U.S. Army Engineers and wounding 63. While it stood, the bridge and newly established pontoon bridges enabled the U.S. Army to establish a bridgehead of six divisions, about 25,000 troops, with accompanying tanks, artillery pieces, and trucks, across the Rhine. Capturing the bridge shortened the war, and V-E Day came After the war, the bridge was not rebuilt; the towers on the west bank were converted into a museum and the towers on the east bank are a performing arts space.\n\nRemagen is located close to and south of the city of Bonn. The town of Remagen had been founded by the Romans about 2,000 years earlier. The town had been destroyed multiple times and rebuilt each time. Under the Schlieffen Plan, a bridge was planned to be built there in 1912, as well as bridges in Engers and Rudesheim.\n\nGerman General Erich Ludendorff was a key advocate for building this bridge during World War I and it was named after him. It was designed by to connect the Right Rhine Railway, the Left Rhine Railway and the Ahr Valley Railway (\"Ahrtalbahn\") and carry troops and supplies to the Western Front. Constructed between 1916 and 1919, using Russian prisoners of war as labour, it carried two railway lines and a pedestrian catwalk on either side. Work on the bridge pillars and arches was done by leading construction companies Grün & Bilfinger with the steel bridge built by MAN-Werk Gustavsburg.\n\nIt was one of three bridges built to improve railroad traffic between Germany and France during World War I; the others were the Hindenburg Bridge at Bingen am Rhein and the Urmitz Bridge on the Neuwied–Koblenz railway near Koblenz.\n\nThe railway bridge had three spans: two on either side long and a central arch span of . It had dual tracks that could be covered with planks to allow vehicular traffic. The steel section was long, and it had an overall length of . On the eastern bank the railway passed through Erpeler Ley, a steeply rising hill over high. The tunnel was long. The arch at its highest measured above the water. It was normally about above the Rhine.\n\nThe structure cost about 2.1 million marks when it was built during World War I. Since the bridge was a major military construction project, both abutments of the bridge were flanked by stone towers with fortified foundations that could shelter up to a full battalion of men. The towers were designed with fighting loopholes for troops. From the flat roof of the towers troops had a good view of the valley. To protect the bridge, both an engineering unit and a military police unit were assigned to the site.\n\nThe designers built cavities into the concrete piers where demolition charges could be placed. During the Occupation of the Rhineland after World War I, the French filled these cavities with concrete. It was one of the four bridges that were guarded by Americans during the occupation. \n\nIn 1938, after the Germans reacquired the Rhineland and control of the bridge, they attached 60 zinc-lined boxes at key structural points to the bridge girders, each capable of containing of explosives. The system was designed to detonate all 60 charges at once. The engineers connected the charges in the piers and the zinc boxes by electrical cable protected by steel pipe to a control panel inside the rail tunnel under Erpeler Ley where engineers could safely detonate the charges. As a backup, engineers laid primer cord that could be manually ignited. They believed they could destroy the bridge when necessary with minimal preparation. \n\nOn 14–15 October 1944, an American bomb had struck a chamber containing the demolition charges of the Mulheim Bridge in Cologne, destroying the bridge. German leader Adolf Hitler reacted by demanding that demolition charges on bridges could only be set when the enemy was within a specific distance, and only exploded by written order. He ordered those \"responsible\" for the destruction of the Mulheim Bridge court-martialed. This left officers responsible for destroying bridges, in the event that the enemy approached, nervous about both blowing it too soon and the consequences if they failed. In keeping with Hitler's orders, by 7 March 1945 the charges on the Ludendorff Bridge had been removed and were stored nearby.\n\nIn March 1945, about 5,100 people lived in Remagen. On the Western shore, the Allied bombing campaign had destroyed more than half of Erpel's buildings, including all the buildings between Erpel's market place and the bridge, which had been built during the 17th and 18th century. \n\nThe Rhine near Remagen is about wide. During Operation Lumberjack, on 7 March 1945, troops of the U.S. Army's 9th Armored Division reached the bridge during the closing weeks of World War II and were surprised to see that the railroad bridge was still standing. It was one of the very few bridges remaining across the Rhine, because the Germans had systematically destroyed all of the others in advance of the Allies' attack. Although this bridge was wired with demolition charges, the weak civilian-grade \"Donarite\" explosives failed to bring the bridge down, and Allied engineers risked their lives manually removing the remaining charges before the bridge was captured. \n\nThe ability to quickly establish a bridgehead on the eastern side of the Rhine and to get forces into Germany allowed the U.S. forces to envelop the German industrial area of the Ruhr. The Germans sent several bombing missions to destroy the bridge, though the Allies got six divisions across the damaged bridge before it collapsed due to cumulative bomb damage on 17 March 1945, ten days after it was captured. The collapse killed twenty-eight and injured ninety-three U.S. Army Engineers.\nHowever, a pontoon bridge had been built across the river by then. The main bridge was out of use for repairs at the time of its collapse.\n\nThe unexpected availability of the first major crossing of the Rhine, Germany's last major natural barrier and line of defence, caused Allied high commander Dwight D. Eisenhower to alter his plans to end the war. Hitler's Nero Decree of 19 March ordered the destruction of any infrastructure that could aid the Allied advance, but the order was not carried out due to opposition from German generals and the rapid Allied advance. Instead, U.S. forces advanced rapidly through Germany and, by 12 April the Ninth United States Army had crossed the Elbe.\n\nAfter the war, the railway crossing was not deemed important enough to justify rebuilding the bridge. Parts of the land used for the approaching railway lines are now used as an industrial estate on the western bank and a park on the eastern bank.\n\nSince 1980, the surviving towers on the western bank of the Rhine have housed a museum called \"Peace Museum Bridge at Remagen\" containing the bridge's history and 'themes of war and peace'. This museum was partly funded by selling rock from the two piers as paperweights, the two piers having been removed from the river in the summer of 1976 as they were an obstacle to navigation.\n\nIn the middle of 2018, the two eastern towers of the bridge were announced to be for sale. Three bids were submitted, but due to the poor condition of the building and expected costs of approximately €1.4 million for its restoration, the sale was expected to be difficult.\n\nA popular video game \"Call of Duty WW II\" features a mission in the game to capture the bridge from the German Military Force.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902276", "title": "British Rail Class 28", "text": "British Rail Class 28\n\nThe British Rail Class 28 (Metro-Vick Type 2) diesel locomotives, known variously as 'Metrovicks', 'Crossleys' or 'Co-Bos', were built under the Pilot Scheme for diesel locomotives as part of the British Railways 1955 Modernisation Plan. \n\nThese Crossley-engined locomotives were the only two-stroke diesels built under the Pilot Scheme.\n\nThe locomotives had a Co-Bo wheel arrangement (a 6-wheel bogie at one end, a 4-wheel bogie at the other) – unique in British Railways practice and uncommon in other countries, although Japan also used some C-B diesel hydraulics. The maximum tractive effort of was unusually high for a Type 2 locomotive but, as there were five (not four) driving axles, the risk of wheelslip was minimal.\n\nWork had begun on the Pilot Scheme in 1954 and the first plan for 174 locomotives (all classes) had been produced by October 1954, including 20 of these Metro-Vick Type B locos, although orders were not placed until November 1955. In July 1956 the Type A, B and C designations were changed to Types 1, 2 and 4, making this a Type 2.\n\nThe two-stroke engine was chosen as a comparison to the more common four-stroke engines used, and partly as a result of the influence of Oliver Bulleid. The leading manufacturer of such two-stroke locomotive engines was General Motors, but the national shortage of foreign exchange meant that imported engines were unaffordable. Crossley in Manchester had a suitable design in production as a generator set for the Admiralty and had also used it for a class of locomotives in Australia. Bulleid had left British railways and moved to Ireland and the CIÉ. He had beem impressed by the Admiralty's experience of the Crossley diesel and he had already ordered 60 similar locomotives as the CIÉ's 001 class.\n\nWith low-speed Crossley 8-cylinder HST V8 two stroke engines, they represented an experiment in two stroke versus four stroke engines for diesel-electric traction.\n\nThe engines had exhaust pulse pressure charging and developed 1,200 horsepower (895 kW) at 625 rpm. There were no valves, and inlet and exhaust were via ports in the cylinder walls. The same engine was originally fitted in the Irish A Class and the Western Australian Government Railways X class. A similar, but smaller engine, the ESNT6 was used in the D3/3 shunters, an 08 with a Crossley engine rather than English-Electric.\n\nAlmost from the beginning the Metrovick's Crossley engines were problematic. They suffered frequent failures and by 1961 the entire class was handed back to the manufacturer for remedial work on the engines and to cure problems with cab windows falling out while running. The cab windows were modified such that instead of wrapping round to the side the outer front windows were replaced by a flat piece of glass facing the front only.\n\nThe engines were also noisy and prone to unacceptable levels of smoky exhaust fumes.\n\nTotal weight in working order was 97 long tons, distributed as shown in the table below. The units are tons, hundredweights and quarters.\n\nAll twenty Metrovicks were initially allocated to the Midland Division of BR's London Midland Region, where they were often used in pairs on the overnight London–Glasgow \"Condor\" express freight service. After the 1961 refurbishment they were all transferred to the Barrow-in-Furness 12E depot. They were withdrawn after only eleven years at work and in service. The allocation of all twenty locomotives in October 1967 was Carlisle Upperby.\n\nDespite the locomotives being otherwise reliable the Crossley engines were still giving problems and British Rail considered replacing the engines, as was done with the Class 31 diesels and, later, with Crossley-engined locomotives in Ireland. Instead the entire class was withdrawn from service during 1967–68, and all but one were scrapped by the end of 1969. Their parts had been sold to make new metals by the end of 1971.\n\nA single locomotive, D5705, survived by historical accident, being renumbered S15705 and used from December 1968 by the Research Division for its Tribology Test train. It was superseded by a Class 24, and was used as carriage heating unit TDB968006 (based at Bath Road Depot, Bristol) before being preserved in 1985. It is currently on the East Lancashire Railway. The Class 15 Preservation Society has signed an agreement with the owners of D5705 to become its custodians during its restoration and operation for the next ten years, although funding will remain separate.\n\nThe Class 28 is the basis for BoCo, a character in The Railway Series children's books by the Rev. W. Awdry and the spin-off TV series Thomas and Friends. He carries the number D5702.\n\nThe Class 28 has been made as a 00 gauge model in several forms, including a ready-to-run version by Hornby Dublo. A ready to run model is being produced by Heljan on behalf of and exclusive to Hatton's Model Railways in Liverpool. The Silver Fox Models model has now been withdrawn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902288", "title": "John Aprea", "text": "John Aprea\n\nJonathan \"John\" Aprea (born March 4, 1941) is an American actor and comedian, best known for his role as the young Sal Tessio in \"\" (1974) and on television as Lucas Castigliano in \"Another World\" from 1989 to 1992. He also co-starred with Lee Horsley in \"Matt Houston\" during the 1980s.\n\nAprea was born Jonathan Aprea in Englewood, New Jersey on March 4, 1941. He has one daughter, Nicole Alexandra Aprea (born 1989).\n\n"}
{"id": "1902290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902290", "title": "Asian Argentines", "text": "Asian Argentines\n\nAsian Argentine or Asian Argentinian, refers to Argentines of Asian ancestry who are citizens or residents of Argentina. Asian-Argentines settled in Argentina in large numbers during several waves of immigration in the twentieth century. Primarily living in their own neighbourhoods in Buenos Aires, many currently own their own businesses of varying sizes – largely textiles, grocery retailing and buffet-style restaurants. The small Asian-Argentine population has generally kept a low profile, and is accepted by greater Argentine society.\n\nAsian Argentines primarily migrated in three waves. The first wave was composed of Japanese immigrants (largely from Okinawa Prefecture), that arrived in small numbers during the early twentieth century. The overthrow of Juan Perón in 1955 precipitated a long period of unrest and economic instability that stemmed Japanese immigration after 1960. The second wave consisted primarily of Korean entrepreneurs, settling in Buenos Aires during the 1960s, and the third wave was mostly composed of Chinese entrepreneurs, who settled in Buenos Aires during the 1990s.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, Asian Argentines were active in politics, with an example of a political party being a special \"Unidad Básica\" (Peronist) party office under the name \"Unión de Residentes Taiwaneses Justicialistas\" (\"Union of Justicialist Taiwanese Residents) at the heart of Buenos Aires's Chinatown Arribeños & Mendoza. This branch later closed, presumably as assimilation continued, while a regular \"Unidad Básica\" opened across the street.\n\nToday, there are an estimated of 212,000 Asian-Argentines, with 120,000 of Chinese descent, 65,000 of Japanese descent, 25,000 of Korean descent, and 2,000 of Lao descent.\n\nKoreans live primarily in the Balvanera and Flores (where the Koreatown is located) districts of Buenos Aires, and are mainly involved in the manufacturing and selling of textiles.\n\nMeanwhile, many Chinese live in Chinatown, which also has a Buddhist temple in Belgrano. Many are involved with grocery retailing, which has caused Chinese-owned stores to become a common feature of Buenos Aires.\n\nYounger generations of Chinese-Argentines (dubbed \"ArgenChinos\") have readily adopted local ways, with some becoming celebrities, including athletes, a film director and an anchorwoman.\n\nThe Japanese-Argentine community, located mostly in Pablo Nougués city where a large temple was built, has fully integrated themselves into Argentine society today. Sources believe that 78% of the 4th generation Japanese-Argentine community is of mixed European ancestry, while the 3rd generation is 66% mixed, and a majority of them have non-Japanese ancestors and relatives. The Japanese-Argentine community is less visible due to the intermixing with the European immigrants that have also settled in Argentina like the Italians, Spaniards, German, French, Irish, Polish and Swiss. Today they are one of the most distinguishable communities in Argentina because of their mixed race. Many of their Asian features are almost not visible due to their ancestry. In Buenos Aires, the \"Jardín Japonés\" (Japanese Garden and Teahouse) has become a traditional landmark of the city since its opening 30 years ago.\n\nOther Asian-Argentines include smaller clusters of ethnic Laotians, Thai, Cambodian, Vietnamese and Hmong, most of whom arrived in the aftermath of conflict in Southeast Asia in the 1970s. They run restaurants, small groceries and vending stands, or are involved in agricultural work. After arriving in Argentina, Lao community settled in Misiones, where the Argentine government provided land and the UN provided $10,000 in financial assistance to each family. In 1997, a Lao temple, Wat Rattanarangsiyaram, was constructed in Posadas.\n\nPresently, the reputation of the community has been jeopardized due to allegations of corrupt business practices. Investigations within Korean-Argentine textile factories and stores have shown that illegal workers from Bolivia were employed in these places. Because of this, many Korean-Argentines feel that their community has been unfairly targeted due to their economic success.\n\nAnother incident occurred in June 2006, when the union of truck drivers began a boycott of Chinese-owned stores. This was due to an alleged gun-related incident between a driver and a store owner, which involved illegal firearms. Shortages in stores were reported due to a lack of deliveries until the boycott was officially lifted the following month.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902298", "title": "C.D. Cobreloa", "text": "C.D. Cobreloa\n\nClub de Deportes Cobreloa S.A.D.P. (), commonly referred to as Cobreloa, is a Chilean football professional club based in Calama, Región de Antofagasta, Chile. That competes in the Primera B de Chile, the second tier flight of Chilean Football. The club's home ground is the Estadio Zorros del Desierto.\n\nFounded on 7 January 1977, by the initiative of various local groups and the Chilean state-owned enterprise, CODELCO. This club was created starting from the Legal Personality of the local club, Deportes El Loa. On 30 March 2006, the club changed to a \"Limited sports company\" with the unanimous approval of 56 of its \"socios\" (members). According to the 2018 year public report, the capital of the club is $4.534 billion CLP (6.697.624,8 $ USD) spread on 1.000.000 shares of stock without nominal value, mostly owned by the \"socios\" (members of club) with 999,999 of them and the chairman of the club with 1 share. In 2018 the first team budget was $100 millon CLP.\n\nThe club's professional debut in Segunda división professional de Chile was in 1977, achieving the promotion to Primera División in the same year. The club has won the Primera División title in 8 times, and the 1986 Copa Polla Lan Chile. Some of its rivalries are with Club Social y Deportivo Colo-Colo team in the Clásico Albo-Loíno, Club de Deportes Cobresal who dispute the \"Clasico del Cobre\" and Deportes Antofagasta in the \"Clasico de la región de Antofagasta\".\n\nIn 2019, The Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation sorted out in the 71st position in the \"Worldwide Historical Ranking of Clubs.\" In CONMEBOL Libertadores Ranking 2019 it is in 62nd position.\n\nCobreloa is a relatively new club, having been founded on 7 January 1977. The name Cobreloa comes from combining the Spanish word for copper (\"cobre\"), and \"loa\", after the province and the Loa River, the longest river in Chile, which is located near Calama and Chuquicamata, the world's largest open pit copper mining|mine.\n\nThe club was able to establish itself in Chile's top flight very quickly, earning promotion after its first season, where they have stayed ever since. Only four years after their foundation, Cobreloa reached the finals of the Copa Libertadores in 1981, losing in a third match to Brazilian club Flamengo. Cobreloa reached the Copa Libertadores final the following year, losing to Peñarol of Uruguay. The club also reached the semi-final of the Copa Libertadores in 1987.\n\nThey have competed in the Copa Libertadores de América 13 times, 3 times in the Copa Sudamericana and twice in the Copa CONMEBOL. In 1995 they reached the quarter-finals and the following year were eliminated in the first round. Cobreloa have 8 Primera División titles and 1 Copa Chile title making them the most successful side outside Santiago in Chile and one of the four biggest clubs of the country.\n\nDomestic League Chart with each tier division who the team has participated since 1977.\n\nNotes\n\n\nIn 2019 to get a membership of the club can be by the assistant to the headquarters of the club in Calama in Abaroa street N°1757 or through the online platform in the official website of the institution with previous registration. The necessary documents to get a membership are passport or ID Card and a photo.\n\nThe first official supporters group was created in 1977, called \"Barra Oficial de Cobreloa\" by the workers from the El Loa province; Orlando Navarro, Mario Paniagua and José Santos Rodriguez and the support of the club directors.\n\nIn 1982, 35 CODELCO workers established the supporters group, \"Barra Chuquicamata\". On this decade was created de group of supporters \"Mario Soto\", tribute to Defense of the club, who dressed the club colors until 1985. They were characterized because they support with musical instruments.\n\nIn 1994 was created the supported group, \"Huracan Naranja\", from the Santiago de Chile fans group \"Vicente Cantatore\".\n\nA poll called, \"Encuesta GFK Adimark\", study who is the most popular team on Chile. Cobreloa in 2015 reached the most high value on the poll, with a 1,5% of the total of the population polled. And in the 2018 the lowest value with 0,9%.\nIn both polls the team was the 5th most popular club in country. In \"Región de Antofagasta\" the team reach since 2015 until 2019 the 12,752% of preference of the population.\n\nThe Cobreloa supporters, specifically the CODELCO Workers are known for been donates a day of salary to contribute to pay his signing pass of the defender, Mario Soto.\n\nThe traditional color of Cobreloa is orange, according to president, José Gorrini, the color of the club was selected due to give tribute to Netherlands National Football Team, in the 70's this selection was very popular by players like Johan Cruyff. Also, by commercial reasons this color was selected due obtain travel discounts in the national airline, Ladeco (Línea aérea del Cobre), whose corporative color was orange.\n\nThe first Cobreloa kit was red shirt and white shorts due lack of clothing, so its improvised in February 1977, valid for Copa Chile, facing up Regional Antofagasta. Since 1977 the classical kit of the team is full orange, with some modifications, like 1992–93 season with white shorts, in 2009–10 the official kit was change with white socks. The away kit has been mostly full white, until 2001–2006 year it changed by color black, also in 2013–15 and 2017–18 seasons alternating with white color during those years.\n\nThe first commemorative shirt of the club was in 2007, with Spanish sportswear company, Kelme. That attire was a special logo on them. In December 2016, the sportswear company, Macron, announced for sale a commemorative shirt to celebrate 40 years of the club; the design was similar to the 1980s kits style.\n\nOn 4 February 2019, was shown its first third kit in Cobreloa, being the black the color that was elected due to the popular choice of the club fans.\n\nThe first badge was created by Enrique Escala, inspired by the symbol of copper, make reference to corporate logo of Codelco also, with a soccer ball insert instead the ball in the company logo. This badge has been changed multiple times, especially in the kits. The most notable change was change the name \"Cobreloa\" below the badge instead \"Calama\" word and adding the \"\"Cobreloa\"\" words in the upper side of the badge.\n\nThe first anthem of the club was written and composed by the musician and writer, Alejandro Álvarez Vargas—the winning contestant from a contest advertised through the local radio station\n\nThe first mascot of the club was a cartoon fox called \"Loíto\"; it was the original idea and creation of journalist, Alfredo Llewellyn Bustos. The design of the mascot was by the director René Vásquez Rodríguez. The mascot appears for the first time on a handbill of the club for membership recruitment and also in the local journal \"El Mercurio de Calama\" in 1977 with the purpose of following the activities of the team week-by-week.\n\nSince 1977 the first home ground of the club was the Estadio Municipal de Calama, who played the national league and internationals Cups matches until 27 January 2013. The last match that was played by the team in this stadium was against Colo-Colo, the team won 5–2.\n\nFor the two finals of Copa Libertadores the team played in the Estadio Nacional de Chile, in 1981 and 1982, against Clube de Regatas do Flamengo and Club Atletico Peñarol respectively.\n\nIn February 2013 due to the renovation of the Stadium, the team had to play in another's home ground, the first stadium at which it was elected to play was the Parque Estadio Juan López located in Antofagasta. For the first class matches the stadium elected was the Tierra de Campeones on Iquique, where Club de Deportes Universidad Católica plays.\n\nThe complaints of the team about the infrastructure of the stadium Juan López, the directing of the club made negotiations with the Municipality of Antofagasta to play in the Stadium Calvo y Bascuñan, in this homeground the team played the Copa Sudamericana matches, with Club Atletico Peñarol and Club Deportivo La Equidad and local first Class matches of the Local League for the rest of the year.\n\nFrom June of this year, the main stadium at which the team played mostly the national league, in the recently inaugurated stadium Estadio Luis Becerra Constanzo, formerly called Estadio la Madriguera de Calama in Calama, the team inaugurated the home ground in a Copa Chile match against Club de Deportes Cobresal.\n\nSince 2015, the team plays in the stadium Zorros del Desierto of Calama. The first match was against Club de Deportes Antofagasta. The team plays the local competitions like the Primera B de Chile and Copa Chile.\n\nThe team have won 8 domestic Leagues and the 1986 Copa Chile.\n\n\n\n\nThis institution owns the fifth local unbeaten streak of the world, which extended from 22 December 1980 until 22 September 1985, with a total of 91 matches without loss in Calama for Domestic Matches.\n\n\n\nThe club is managed by \"Sociedad Anonima Deportiva Profesional\" (Professional Sports Corporation) format in Chile, through the Chilean law, \"N° 20.019 relativa a las Organizaciones Deportivas Profesionales\" (Related to Professional Sports Organizations). This law allow to organize, produce, marketing and participate in professional sports activities in the country.\n\nOn 2 October 2017, the club made an extraordinary assembly with the members of the club, the assistance of these with suffrage right was of 86. The purpose was to reform the statute regime of the club in that moment. This renewed statutes lay down the official address of the club, Calama, the indefinite length time of the directory and the unlimited number of member who could be owns.\n\nThis statute allude the principles and objectives of the institution, the rights and duties of the members, the heritage and the administration, the members general assemblies, the directory, the duties of the directors of the corporation, subsidiaries of the club and the rules of this.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902302", "title": "Catherine Bauer Wurster", "text": "Catherine Bauer Wurster\n\nCatherine Krouse Bauer Wurster (May 11, 1905 – November 21, 1964) was an American public housing advocate and educator of city planners and urban planners. A leading member of the \"housers,\" a group of planners who advocated affordable housing for low-income families, she dramatically changed social housing practice and law in the United States. Wurster's influential book \"Modern Housing\" was published by Houghton Mifflin Company in 1934 and is regarded as a classic in the field.\nOn May 11, 1905, Catherine Krouse Bauer was born in Elizabeth, New Jersey to Alberta Krouse Bauer, a self-educated homemaker, and Jacob Bauer. Her father, a state highway engineer, was an early advocate of superhighways and implemented the first cloverleaf interchanges in America while serving as New Jersey's Chief Highway Engineer. Bauer's younger sister was Elizabeth Bauer Mock, a curator and Director of the Department of Architecture and Design at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and her brother was Jacob Louis Bauer, Jr., an engineer.\n\nBauer completed her secondary education at the Vail-Deane School in her hometown. She first attended Vassar College, spent one year as an architecture student at Cornell University, then transferred back to Vassar College from which she received her undergraduate degree in 1926.\n\nIn 1926-1927, Bauer spent time in Paris, where she befriended Fernand Léger, Man Ray, and Sylvia Beach. Inspired by the city planning vision advanced by French architect Le Corbusier, Bauer published an article on his worker's apartments in suburban Paris.\n\nReturning to New York City in 1927, Bauer worked at a number of publishing houses, eventually collaborating with American urban critic Lewis Mumford beginning in the late 1920s. It was at his urging that she became involved with the architects of change in post-World War I Europe, among them Ernst May, André Lurçat, and Walter Gropius. Convinced that good social housing could produce good social architecture, and moved by the visible ravages of the Depression, she became a passionate leader in the fight for housing for the poor and in 1934 accepted an appointment by the American Federation of Labor (AFL) to become Executive Director of the new Labor Housing Conference based in Philadelphia. Her book \"Modern Housing\" (1934) described the housing achievements Bauer had observed in Europe and lessons for the United States capturing attention of New Deal policy-makers who wanted to boost the economy through housing construction. In 1936 she was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to study housing in Europe and the USSR.\n\nBauer was the primary author of the Housing Act of 1937 and advised five presidents on housing and urban planning strategies. Following the passage of the Housing Act of 1937, she was named the Director of Information and Research for the newly formed United States Housing Authority, a federal agency of the Department of the Interior under the New Deal. She served as consultant and adviser to national, state, and local housing and planning agencies during the 1930s-1960s including the Federal Housing Administration, the Housing and Home Finance Agency, and the California Housing and Planning Association. Bauer was instrumental in the creation of the influential documentary film \"The City,\" which was included in the 1939 New York World's Fair. \n\nIn 1940, Bauer accepted a position as Visiting Lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley's School of Social Welfare. During the 1940s-1950s she lectured and lead seminars at Harvard University, Cornell University, Mills College, and University of Wisconsin, and in 1950 joined the department of architecture at University of California, Berkeley. After her marriage to San Francisco area architect William Wurster, whom she met while teaching at UC Berkeley in 1940, both withstood accusations of disloyalty by the Tenney Committee during the Red Scare of the 1950s. Bauer Wurster contributed to the establishment of University of California, Berkeley's UC Berkeley College of Environmental Design and was also involved in founding the progressive architectural research group Telesis.\n\nShe died in a fall during a solo hike on Mount Tamalpais, Marin County, California, on November 21, 1964.\n\nA bust of Catherine Bauer Wurster is located in the Environmental Design Library in Wurster Hall at UC Berkeley. An Oscar Stonorov bust of Wurster adorns the Robert C. Weaver Federal Building's Main (South) lobby in Washington DC. The UC Berkeley College of Environmental Design's Catherine Bauer Wurster Award for Social Practice was established to recognize alumni who have made significant contributions in their professions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902312", "title": "Pathogen-associated molecular pattern", "text": "Pathogen-associated molecular pattern\n\nThese molecules can be referred to as small molecular motifs conserved within a class of microbes. They are recognized by toll-like receptors (TLRs) and other pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) in both plants and animals. A vast array of different types of molecules can serve as PAMPs, including glycans and glycoconjugates. \n\nPAMPs activate innate immune responses, protecting the host from infection, by identifying some conserved nonself molecules. Bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPSs), endotoxins found on the cell membranes of gram-negative bacteria, are considered to be the prototypical class of PAMPs. LPSs are specifically recognised by TLR4, a recognition receptor of the innate immune system. Other PAMPs include bacterial flagellin (recognized by TLR5), lipoteichoic acid from gram-positive bacteria (recognized by TLR2), peptidoglycan (recognized by TLR2), and nucleic acid variants normally associated with viruses, such as double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), recognized by TLR3 or unmethylated CpG motifs, recognized by TLR9. Although the term \"PAMP\" is relatively new, the concept that molecules derived from microbes must be detected by receptors from multicellular organisms has been held for many decades, and references to an \"endotoxin receptor\" are found in much of the older literature. The recognition of PAMPs by the PRRs triggers activation of several signaling cascades in the host immune cells like the stimulation of interferons (IFNs) or other cytokines. \n\nThe term \"PAMP\" has been criticized on the grounds that most microbes, not only pathogens, express the molecules detected; the term microbe-associated molecular pattern (MAMP), has therefore been proposed. A virulence signal capable of binding to a pathogen receptor, in combination with a MAMP, has been proposed as one way to constitute a (pathogen-specific) PAMP. Plant immunology frequently treats the terms \"PAMP\" and \"MAMP\" interchangeably, considering their recognition to be the first step in plant immunity, PTI (PAMP-triggered immunity), a relatively weak immune response that occurs when the host plant does not also recognize pathogenic effectors that damage it or modulate its immune response.\n\nMycobacteria are intracellular bacteria which survive in host macrophages. The mycobacterial wall is composed of lipids and polysaccharides and also contains high amounts of mycolic acid. Purified cell wall components of mycobacteria activate mainly TLR2 and also TLR4. Lipomannan and lipoarabinomannan are strong immunomodulatory lipoglycans. TLR2 with association of TLR1 can recognize cell wall lipoprotein antigens from \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\", which also induce production of cytokines by macrophages. TLR9 can be activated by mycobaterial DNA.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902314", "title": "Winston Churchill High School (Lethbridge)", "text": "Winston Churchill High School (Lethbridge)\n\nWinston Churchill High School (most commonly known as Churchill; also Winston or WCHS) is one of three public secondary schools in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, serving grades nine, ten, eleven, and twelve. Entry is loosely based on location in north Lethbridge. \n\nLocally, Winston Churchill High School is often referred to by one of two aforementioned abridged titles. Individuals without a connection to the school are known to refer to it simply as Winston. This is in contrast with individuals that have dealt more closely with the school, who predominantly refer to it as Churchill.\n\nBeginning in the 2003-2004 school year, Grade 9 students began attending the school, in accordance with a nearly province-wide grade reconfiguration that saw \"middle\" school become grades 6-8, and \"high school\" redefined as grades 9-12. The school offers several specialty programs, including the internationally recognized International Baccalaureate program.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate program is locally similar to the Advanced Placement Program, which is offered at L.C.I. Courses offered include\nSocial Studies, Mathematics, French, Spanish, Biology, \nChemistry, and Music.\n\nThe following sports are inter-scholastic at W.C.H.S.:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902323", "title": "Fastway (band)", "text": "Fastway (band)\n\nFastway were a British rock band formed by guitarist \"Fast\" Eddie Clarke, formerly of Motörhead, and bassist Pete Way, formerly of UFO.\n\nIn 1983, both guitarist \"Fast\" Eddie Clarke and bassist Pete Way had become disgruntled with their own bands and decided to work together in a new outfit. They recruited drummer Jerry Shirley, formerly of Humble Pie, and the then-unknown vocalist Dave King. They took their name from a combination of the founding members' names. However, Way then discovered that he could not escape from his recording contract with Chrysalis Records and then received a tempting offer to play for Ozzy Osbourne, so he abandoned the project without ever playing on a single record. Bringing in session bassist Mick Feat, the band then recorded their debut album, \"Fastway\" (1983) (Feat was uncredited on the album).\n\nAfter critical and commercial success, the band toured to promote the album (with one-time Fixx bassist Alfie Agius as their session bass player). The band then recruited Richard McCracken, formerly of Taste, as \"permanent\" bassist, and released another success in the form of \"All Fired Up\" the following year. After the hardships of touring, Shirley and McCracken subsequently left.\n\nIn 1985, Clarke and King reformed Fastway with a new line-up. Recruiting Shane Carroll (second guitar), Paul Reid (bass), and Alan Connor (drums) from Dave King's first band, Stillwood, this line-up released \"Waiting for the Roar\". The record took an album-oriented rock approach instead of the driving bluesy-metal of the previous albums. The success of the record was limited, and it disappointed many fans. The same year, Fastway was approached to make the soundtrack for the heavy metal horror film, \"Trick or Treat\". The film flopped, but the soundtrack re-established Fastway as a hard-hitting metal band. The soundtrack was a moderate success and stayed on the Billboard Top 200 chart for eleven months. The success of the soundtrack, combined with the little money the band received, caused in-fighting, and the group disbanded. King took most of the band with him and started Q.E.D., a more AOR-styled outfit. They released a two-track single.\n\nKing then got a call from David Geffen and John Kalodner to come to the United States to head up a heavy metal \"supergroup\" called Katmandu. Katmandu also featured Mandy Meyer from Krokus on guitars. The band was rounded out by Caine Carruthers of the soul band The Untouchables, and Mike Alonso of the Detroit rock band The Meanies. Katmandu released one self-titled album and had a couple of minor hits. Dave King would go on to form and front the successful Los Angeles-based Celtic punk band Flogging Molly.\n\nMeanwhile, Clarke decided to restart Fastway again from scratch in 1988 using vocalist Lea Hart and session men, quickly releasing \"On Target\" in the same year, but it sold poorly.\n\nIn 1990, this duo of Clarke and Hart released \"Bad Bad Girls\", employing various session musicians including members of Girlschool. It was widely ignored and sold poorly. After calling it a day in 1991, they released a perfunctory live album \"Say What You Will LIVE\" (an older recording, curiously with King on vocals). In 1997, Clarke and Hart reunited and released a reworked version of \"On Target\", but there was no commercial success.\n\nOn 25 May 2007, Toby Jepson, former lead singer with Little Angels, announced he had accepted an approach from Fastway to perform lead vocal duties during the year's festival appearances. An updated line-up played the Sweden Rock Festival, Japanese Hard Rock Hell, and the Download Festival at Castle Donington. Besides guitarist Clarke and Jepson, the new band featured drummer Steve Strange (not to be confused with Visage singer Steve Strange) and John McManus (Mama's Boys).\n\nIn an interview with Komodo Rock at the Hard Rock Hell Festival in November 2007, Eddie Clark confirmed that he and Toby Jepson would be working on new material. He said \"Toby and I are going to sit down and maybe do a few tunes over the winter. See if we can write some tunes.\" In 2008, Toby Jepson announced he would go on to front Scottish hard rockers Gun full-time.\n\nIn late 2010, \"Fast\" Eddie Clarke returned to the recording studio to record a new album with Toby Jepson, titled \"Eat Dog Eat\". The album was released on 14 November 2011, by SPV/Steamhammer, and it is the first album of entirely new material from Fastway in over twenty years.\n\nClarke died on 10 January 2018, after a battle with pneumonia at the age of 67. No official statement about the disbandment or the future of Fastway has been made following his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902324", "title": "Marcus Bell (lineman)", "text": "Marcus Bell (lineman)\n\nMarcus Bell (born June 1, 1979 in Memphis, Tennessee) is a former American football defensive lineman. He has previously played for the Arizona Cardinals, the Detroit Lions, and the New York Giants.\n\nBell played college football at the University of Memphis whose presence in the starting lineup brought an instant improvement for the defensive unit despite starting just 20 games. He finished career with 34 tackles behind the line of scrimmage and 10 sacks at nose guard. 209 total tackles in 42 games as a Tiger. Was anchor of the nation's top-rated rushing defense as a senior in 2000. He was one of five Tiger defenders to earn first-team all-Conference USA honors, tying league record. Natural hunter finishing fifth on the team with 60 total tackles (47 solos) also recorded four sacks for –36 yards and a team-high 16 stops for losses of 61 yards, 16 tackles behind the line of scrimmage rank fifth on the Memphis single-season list.\n\nBell was drafted by the Arizona Cardinals in the 2001 NFL Draft, and played for the Cardinals during the 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 seasons. He was released by the Detroit Lions on March 2, 2007. On April 13, 2007, he signed with the Giants, but was placed on injured reserve on August 28.\n\nIn 2009 Marcus joined the Memphis Tiger Athletic staff, as a member of the strength and conditioning program.\n\nHe appears in the PlayStation 2 version of Madden 2004 twice. He is listed as a Defensive Tackle and an Outside Linebacker.\n"}
{"id": "1902328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902328", "title": "Thomas Jefferson Independent Day School", "text": "Thomas Jefferson Independent Day School\n\nThomas Jefferson Independent Day School is an independent, private school in Joplin, Missouri, USA.\n\nThomas Jefferson Independent Day School opened in August 1993 with grades Pre-School-9 and 185 students. The school's first Upper School graduating class was the Class of 1997, and the school has graduated 23 classes, with more than 350 graduates. The school's liberal arts program prepares students well for college and life, and more than 99% of graduates have matriculated to colleges or universities following graduation. Thomas Jefferson graduates have matriculated to a wide range of colleges and universities including some of the most selective private schools in the country. The school employs 44 full-time teachers, 67% of whom hold advanced degrees in their disciplines. Laura McDonald was named Head of School in June 2018. Thomas Jefferson is accredited by Independent Schools Association of the Central States (ISACS).\n\nNone.\n\nMembership in the Missouri State High School Activities Association (MSHSAA) enables the school's athletes to participate with other schools in a wide variety of activities.\nThomas Jefferson is a member of the Ozark 7 Conference.\nOther schools participating in the Ozark 7 Conference include: McAuley Catholic High School, Southwest, Wheaton, Verona, Exeter, and Purdy.\n\nStudents in grades 6-12 are able to compete in:\n\nFall: soccer (coed), tennis (upper school girls), volleyball (girls), cross-country (coed)\n\nWinter: basketball (boys and girls), cheerleading (coed)\n\nSpring: golf (upper school coed), tennis (upper school boys), track and field (boys and girls)\n\n The school is particularly notable for its quiz bowl program and has competed at NAQT Nationals, as well as finishing in the top three at the Class 1 state level since 1997, winning the championship in 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2013, 2014, 2016, and 2017. \n"}
{"id": "1902350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902350", "title": "Eric Beverly", "text": "Eric Beverly\n\nEric Beverly (born March 28, 1974 in Cleveland, Ohio) was an American football tight end who played for the Detroit Lions and the Atlanta Falcons in the National Football League. He played collegiately at Miami (Ohio).\n\nBeverly signed with the Lions as an undrafted free agent in 1997, and played for Detroit for seven seasons before signing with Atlanta in 2004. He was released by Atlanta after the 2006 season. He returned to the Lions before the 2007 season, but abruptly announced his retirement during the first week of training camp.\n\nBeverly spent his first seven years as an offensive lineman, and was only switched to tight end when he went to Atlanta. He caught the only pass of his career in his final game.\n\nBeverly demonstrated his value on and off the field during his time in the NFL and has many off-season professional experiences to speak of.\n\nIn 2000, Beverly was a corporate purchasing intern for Kmart Corporation and from 2001 - 2003 he served as an elected team representative with the NFL Players Association. He also had an internship with the NFL league office working to enhance the Player Development Brochure and sections of the Player Development Operations and Procedures Manual.\n\nBeverly also completed the Harvard Business School's NFL Business Management and Entrepreneurial Program in 2006.\n\nEmbracing the community through volunteerism and philanthropy, his charitable efforts have included the American Red Cross, Gilda's Club of Metro Detroit and Atlanta, City Mission (Detroit, MI), and Crossroads Ministries (Atlanta, GA). Beverly has received numerous honors for his athletic success, humanitarianism, and aggressive efforts in the fight against breast cancer.\n\nThe Eric R. Beverly Family Foundation is a non-profit organization working to promote breast cancer awareness while raising money for programs supporting breast cancer survivors.\n\nThe mission of the foundation is to provide programs and activities that unite both men and women in promoting education, increasing awareness, and providing support and resources for families who have been touched by breast cancer.\n\nBeverly and his wife, Danielle Beverly, a breast cancer survivor, reside in the Atlanta, Georgia area. He currently works for the University of Georgia Athletic Association in Athens, Georgia\n\nBeverly is a graduate of Bedford High School in Bedford, Ohio, the same school as NFL players Chris Chambers and Lee Evans, and actress Halle Berry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902351", "title": "John Holloway (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "John Holloway (Royal Navy officer)\n\nAdmiral John Holloway (15 January 1744 – 26 June 1826) was an officer of the Royal Navy who saw service during the American War of Independence, and the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, before serving as Governor of Newfoundland between 1807 and 1809.\n\nHolloway was born in Wells, Somerset, and entered the navy in 1760, aged about 13, aboard the 50-gun ship , under Captain James Webb, who sailed to Newfoundland to serve as Commodore-Governor of the colony. The following year he returned to Newfoundland in the same ship, now under Captain Thomas Graves. Holloway served for another two years in Newfoundland under Sir Hugh Palliser, before sailing for America with Admiral Philip Durell in 1766. In 1768, he joined the , under Commodore Samuel Hood. He was promoted to lieutenant in 1771, and was soon after appointed to the 74-gun ship , stationed as a guard-ship at Portsmouth.\n\nWhen the American War began, he joined the frigate under Captain George Elphinstone. After a year he transferred to , the flagship of Commodore William Hotham, and was First Lieutenant of her during the encounter between Admirals Richard Howe and the Comte d'Estaing off Rhode Island on 10 August 1778, where the opposing squadrons were arrayed in line of battle when a storm broke, scattering the ships and preventing a battle from taking place. Towards the end of the year, Commodore Hotham was sent to Barbados, to reinforce Rear-Admiral Samuel Barrington's squadron, with 5,000 troops for the capture of St. Lucia. Some time after the conquest of the island, Holloway moved with Hotham into the , but soon joined the , flagship of Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, who promoted him to commander.\n\nOn 23 January 1780, he was promoted to post-captain, and returned to the \"Vengeance\", to serve as Commodore Hotham's flag captain, and was present at the Battle of Martinique in April. In September Hotham assumed command at the Leeward Islands. On the night of 10 October the British were moored at St. Lucia when a hurricane struck, lasting for 29 hours. Eight frigates and sloops were completely wrecked, and the rest of the fleet suffered considerable damage. \"Vengeance\" finally sailed for England in early 1781, with another ship and three frigates, as escort to a convoy of thirty-four richly-laden merchant ships, mainly Dutch, which had been captured at St. Eustatia in February. On 2 May they encountered a French squadron of six ships and three frigates, under the command of Picquet de la Motte. Hotham managed to preserve his own squadron, but the French captured twenty-six of the merchant ships, valued at 5 million pounds.\n\nHolloway was soon appointed to command of the 80-gun , and was stationed off the Texel under Admiral Howe. He next commanded the \"Buffalo\", attached to Howe's fleet that sailed for the relief of Gibraltar on 11 September 1782. On 11 October the convoy reached the Strait of Gibraltar, but strong winds meant that only four storeships reached the anchorage; the rest passed into the Mediterranean. On the 13th the combined fleets of France and Spain set sail from Algeciras, and Howe ordered Holloway to take the storeships either to the Chafarinas Islands off Morocco, or to Oristano in Sardinia, should they be driven past Cape Tres Forcas, and to use his own judgement in bringing them back to the besieged fortress. After two days \"Buffalo\" fell in with four enemy ships off the Barbary coast, and only narrowly escaped being captured. One storeship was captured that night, but the rest escaped in the darkness. Finally, after five or six days, the storeships returned to the British fleet at Gibraltar. \"Nauticus Junior\", the anonymous author of \"Naval Atlantis\", published in 1789, severely criticized Howe for selecting the \"Buffalo\" for this duty noting that she had been stationed as flagship in the Downs for some time as she was considered unfit for sea, and was seriously undermanned. Nevertheless, \"Buffalo\" took her place in the line of battle in the action against the enemy fleet off Cape Spartel on 20 October, having 6 men killed and 16 wounded.\n\nOn his return to England, Holloway was appointed to command of the 64-gun ship , but following the signing of the peace treaty in September 1783, she was paid off, and Holloway remained unemployed on half-pay for some time. He was eventually appointed to the frigate in July 1786, and sailed for the Leeward Islands, where he served alongside Captain Horatio Nelson in , remaining there until September 1789. During the Spanish Armament of 1790-1791, Holloway commanded the 98-gun , the flagship of Vice-Admiral Hotham.\n\nOn the outbreak of the war with France in 1793 he was appointed to command of Hotham's flagship, the 100-gun , seeing action at the siege of Toulon. Following the recall of Admiral Samuel Hood in late 1794, Hotham became Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet, and Holloway became his Captain of the Fleet. As such he took part in the Battle of Genoa in March 1795 and the Battle of Hyères Islands in July. At the end of the year Hotham was replaced by Admiral Sir John Jervis, and Holloway was appointed to command of the 98-gun . He was present in her at the Spithead Mutiny in May 1797, and afterwards commanded , attached to the Channel Fleet.\n\nOn 14 February 1799 Holloway was promoted to rear-admiral, and shortly after was appointed assistant port admiral at Portsmouth, remaining there until the Treaty of Amiens brought a suspension of hostilities in late 1801. Soon after the renewal of the war, in May 1803, he returned to Portsmouth. In the course of the year, he made a survey of the nearby coast; and on his recommendation three 98-gun ships were stationed at Lymington, St. Helens, and at Southampton Water, to guard the Isle of Wight in the event of an invasion.\n\nHe was promoted to vice-admiral on 23 April 1804, and served on Downs Station, under his former Captain, George Elphinstone, now Admiral Lord Keith.\n\nOn 10 April 1807 Holloway was appointed Governor of Newfoundland. Concerned about the treatment of the native Beothuk people, he issued a proclamation against mistreating them on 30 July 1807, and offered rewards for information about atrocities. Holloway twice sent officers to the Bay of Exploits to meet the Beothuk, and also sent an expedition under William Cull.\n\nHolloway allowed John Ryan to publish Newfoundland's first newspaper, the \"Royal Gazette and Newfoundland Advertiser\", on condition that it would not contain anything \"inflammatory against the Government of Great Britain\", nor \"sow dissension among the inhabitants of this island\". A traditionalist, Holloway reverted to the anti-settlement mentality of some past governors and forbade the use of land for cultivation. In March 1809, the British parliament made permanent the island's courts of judicature, and re-annexed Labrador to Newfoundland, largely as a result of Holloway's lobbying. He left Newfoundland in October 1809. He was promoted admiral of the blue the same month, and the next July was made admiral of the white. He died in Wells at the age of eighty on 26 June 1826.\n\nIn 1781 Holloway married Elizabeth Walrond (b. 5 oct 1749 d. 1838), the daughter of Maine Swete Walrond, 5th Marqués de Vallado, and Sarah Lyons. They had four children:\n"}
{"id": "1902359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902359", "title": "Starz (band)", "text": "Starz (band)\n\nStarz is an American heavy metal and power pop band from New Jersey, United States. \nDespite a lack of major commercial success, the band has a lasting cult following and has been cited as a major influence by bands such as Mötley Crüe; Poison; Bon Jovi; and Twisted Sister.\nStarz was formed out of the ashes of the early 1970s pop music band, Looking Glass, which had the No. 1 hit single Brandy (You're a Fine Girl) in the summer of 1972. \nAfter lead singer Elliot Lurie left Looking Glass in 1974, the three remaining members: keyboardist Larry Gonsky; bassist Pieter Sweval; and drummer Jeff Grob (who adopted the stage name Joe X. Dube); teamed up with Michael Lee Smith (vocals) and guitarist Brendan Harkin to continue the band, changing the name to Fallen Angels. \nIn September 1975, they were joined by former Stories guitarist Richie Ranno. After keyboardist Gonsky was dropped from the group, they decided to rebrand and pursue a more heavy metal direction.\nThe band was trying to decide on a new name when their manager noticed the star necklace Ranno was wearing, in addition to his guitar with stars on it. When he suggested the name \"Starz\", the band was not immediately on board with the idea. However, when the band returned to the studio the following day, their manager presented them with a rough sketch of the current (STARZ) logo, which he had drawn on a napkin. Upon seeing the logo sketch, the guys all agreed it was perfect, and the band was officially rebranded as Starz.\nKiss manager Bill Aucoin was introduced to STARZ via his right-hand man Sean Delaney, who had previously befriended Sweval. Aucoin began representing Starz in late 1975, helping them to get signed to Capitol Records in early 1976.\nTheir major hit single \"Cherry Baby\" in the spring of 1977 came from the album Violation, produced by Jack Douglas of Aerosmith fame. Douglas produced their first two studio albums: \"Starz\" and \"Violation\". \nTheir third studio album, the self-produced: Attention Shoppers!, was more in the vein of power pop than heavy metal, and featured a Cheap Trick influence in songs such as \"X-Ray Spex\". \nHarkin and Sweval were asked to leave the band after Attention Shoppers!, reportedly since they wanted to continue in that album's musical direction, while the others favored a return to the harder sound of their first two albums.\nOn their fourth, and final, studio album on the Capitol label: Coliseum Rock (produced by The Guess Who producer Jack Richardson), Harkin and Sweval were replaced by Bobby Messano on guitar and Orville Davis on bass, respectively. Previously, Davis was the bassist for Southern Rock band Hydra, which released multiple albums in the mid-1970s. His contributions can be heard on the first two LP's: 1974's Hydra and 1975's Land of Money. After leaving Hydra, Davis joined REX, a hard rock outfit fronted by Smith's younger brother, Rex Smith.\nAfter leaving Capitol, Starz split up in 1980. \nDube and Ranno put together a trio with bassist Peter Scance called Hard Core. \nIn 1980 Starz reunited with a lineup of Smith, Ranno, Harkin, Davis, with Doug Madick on drums. \nThe group played clubs up and down the East Coast in what amounted to a farewell tour.\nIn 1981, Smith, Ranno, Madick, and Scance regrouped and rebranded as Hellcats. Hellcats recorded five new songs, released as an EP on the independent, Radio Records label in 1982.\nIn the mid-1980s, Ranno shifted the lineup of Hellcats, this time featuring Perry Jones on lead vocals. They produced and released an album in 1987 on the King Klassic record label, as well as a four-track EP in 1988.\nBrian Slagel of Metal Blade Records contacted Ranno in 1989, telling him of his longtime admiration of the band and asked if Ranno held the rights to any of the band's material.\nRanno stated he owned two unreleased live shows and allowed Metal Blade to compile them as Live in Action, which contained cuts from a 1976 Cleveland show and a 1978 radio promotional show in Louisville, Kentucky, previously known as Live in Louisville. The release of Live in Action was a precursor to the 1990 release of the four Starz studio albums on compact disc, as the inaugural releases by Metal Blade's \"Classics\" imprint.\nThe albums have been subsequently re-released on CD (by other labels and the band themselves), with bonus tracks primarily composed of material from the band's days as Fallen Angels, as well as a few songs from the 1992 reunion (independent) album: Requiem.\nIn 1990, Smith and Harkin went to New York to join Ranno in writing and recording five new songs. \nMadick played drums on the new project, as Dube had left the music business to work as an architect. Harkin played bass, since Pieter Sweval had passed away on January 23rd of that year.\nThe songs were released (with some live tracks, plus other previously written, yet unreleased songs) on their own label - Drastic CD - in 1992 as the aforementioned Requiem. \nAfter this, Ranno continued on his own with the Richie Ranno Group, which put out a CD (RRG) in 1996.\nRanno was approached in 2003 by a British promoter who wanted to bring STARZ over to the UK. This particular UK tour never materialized; however, the surviving original members (Smith, Ranno, Harkin, and Dube), with new bassist George DiAna, regrouped that same year for a number of successful club dates, culminating in the two-day, 2005 \"Starzfest\" in Teaneck, New Jersey, which featured the entire band joined by Messano and Davis. They performed the studio album catalog in their entirety, including songs which had never previously been performed live. Two concerts in California were also performed in late 2005, one recorded for a television special. \nIn addition, a show recorded in Cleveland, Ohio in 2004 was released on CD in late 2006. The Ohio show was performed as a four piece, as Harkin had missed his flight to Cleveland. \nIn 2005, Messano once again replaced Harkin as the second-guitarist. \nRanno also performed shows on the East Coast with DiAna and Dube as the \"Richie Ranno All-Stars\".\nFormer Ted Nugent drummer Cliff Davies filled in for Dube at a Starz show in San Francisco, California in October 2007. For additional shows in California in April 2008, Billy Howe filled in on guitar for Messano. Former Kiss guitarist Bruce Kulick did the honors at that year's Kiss Convention on May 3rd in Secaucus, New Jersey. In 2012, Messano was replaced by guitarist Steven DeAcutis.\nAlex Kane took over the second guitar slot from DeAcutis in 2013. Kane played guitar and Ginger Wildheart subbed on bass for a one-night-only gig in the UK at The Garage, London in London's Highbury section on December 18th, 2013. \nStarz went back out on tour in 2019, co-headling with Angel on East Coast (April) and Mid-West (May) show dates. \nStarz and Angel were supporting acts for Ace Frehley on May 4th, 2019 at Chesterfield Amphitheater in Saint Louis County, Missouri. The Saint Louis show kicked-off the Mid-West leg of the 2019 tour. \nDespite lack of major commercial success, Starz has created a significant and enduring legacy. Several 1980s glam metal artists, including Poison; Jon Bon Jovi of Bon Jovi; Nikki Sixx of Mötley Crüe; and Twisted Sister cite Starz as a primary influence. \nGinger of the Wildhearts has also cited Starz as an important influence, including them in the lyrics to the song \"29x The Pain (I see Starz)\".\n\"Kerrang!\" magazine included the first two Starz albums on their list of the most important heavy metal albums of all time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902360", "title": "Ninh Bình Province", "text": "Ninh Bình Province\n\nNinh Bình () is a province of Vietnam, in the Red River Delta region of the northern part of the country. The province is famous for a high density of natural and cultural attractions, including reserved parks in Cúc Phương National Park and Vân Long, grotto caves and rivers in Tràng An, Tam Cốc-Bích Động and Múa Caves, historic monuments in the Hoa Lư ancient capital, Vietnam's largest buddhist worshiping complex (Bái Đính Temple), and the Phát Diệm Cathedral with \"eclectic architectural style\". Thanks to its adjacency to Hanoi, day trips from the capital are easily manageable.\n\nNinh Bình is subdivided into eight district-level sub-divisions:\n\n\nThey are further subdivided into seven commune-level towns (or townlets), 122 communes, and 16 wards.\n\nNinh Bình is located to the south of the Northern Delta, between the Red and Ma rivers. It is bordered by Hòa Bình and Hà Nam to the north, Nam Định to the northeast, and Thanh Hóa to the south and west. Ninh Bình also has a very short coastline abutting the Gulf of Tonkin.\n\nThe population is 898,500 people, with a total area of 1,329.4 km.\n\nThe ethnic groups include the Viet (also called the Kinh, the Vietnamese ethnic majority), as well as other groups such as the Dao, Hoa, Hmong, Mường, Nùng, Tày and Thai. There are 23 ethnic groups, of which the Kinh account for more than 98%.\n\n\nNinh Bình was selected as among the main locations for the movie .\n\n\n\n\nThe old city of Ninh Bình is a well-known historical site in Vietnam.\n\n\nEmbroidered handicrafts in Hoa Lư District\nSea reed handicrafts in Kim Sơn District\n\nNinh Bình is located 91 km from Hanoi and has both rail and road transport links. It has express rail connections with Hanoi in the north and Thanh Hóa and Vinh in the south. Buses from Hanoi's South Bus Station stop by Ninh Bình; the bus routes parallel and complement the rail route.\n\nThe province's name derives from Sino-Vietnamese 寧平.\n"}
{"id": "1902368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902368", "title": "Destiny of the Daleks", "text": "Destiny of the Daleks\n\nDestiny of the Daleks is the first serial of the 17th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 1 September to 22 September 1979. The story introduces Lalla Ward as the newly regenerated Romana.\n\nThe serial is set on the planet Skaro centuries after events of the 1975 serial \"Genesis of the Daleks\". In the serial, the Daleks arrive on Skaro to find their creator Davros (David Gooderson) in suspended animation. They seek Davros' guidance to help them beat the Movellan race the Daleks are in a stalemate with.\n\nK9 has lost his voice, and the Fourth Doctor is confused as to why a robot would have laryngitis. Romana, for reasons unknown, regenerates, eventually choosing the form of Princess Astra of the planet Atrios, in spite of the Doctor's disapproval of it, as well as several \"test bodies\" she tries on beforehand.\n\nThe TARDIS lands on a rocky planet with breathable air but dangerously high levels of radioactivity. The Doctor and Romana explore and see a group of ragged-looking humans burying one of their dead, followed by a spaceship landing and half-burying itself in the ground in a valley. Just as the Doctor and Romana are about to investigate, underground explosions force them back towards the ruins. Whilst exploring them, another explosion occurs, trapping the Doctor. Romana returns to the TARDIS to reassemble K9 so he can assist, but finds the TARDIS half-buried in rubble. She goes back to find the Doctor has vanished. As she turns to leave, a man who has been following her blocks her path. She backs away, falls down a rubble chute, and loses consciousness. She recovers only to have three Daleks burst through the wall and capture her, and command her to work at a drilling site.\n\nMeanwhile, the Doctor is thanking the white-clad, silver-haired humanoids who have rescued him, remarking on their strength. He asks their leader, Commander Sharrel, where he is, and is told that the planet is D-5-Gamma-Z-Alpha, otherwise known as Skaro. The Doctor is astonished to hear that the Movellans are here to wage war against the Daleks. Two Movellans bring in a new prisoner, the man who has been following the Doctor and Romana. He identifies himself as Starship Engineer Tyssan. He reveals that the Daleks used him as slave labour as part of a search operation for two years. He tells the Doctor about what has happened to Romana, and they set out to rescue her.\n\nThe Doctor, Tyssan and three Movellans find Romana and head into the Dalek headquarters. The Doctor establishes that the Daleks are searching for something on a level that they have yet to access, and remembers an alternative route to this area, so they make their way to this floor. There they discover Davros, the creator of the Daleks, who was in suspended animation and now slowly comes to life.\n\nThe Doctor moves the revived Davros into a blocked-off room in the ruins of the Dalek city. The Doctor and Davros talk about the Daleks' \"accomplishments\" during the thousands of years he has been in suspended animation, and whilst the Doctor comments on the countless lives the Daleks have ruined, Davros replies that the Daleks have only just begun their conquest of the cosmos. The Daleks find them both, and the Doctor holds Davros hostage with a makeshift explosive he has just concocted, bargaining with the Daleks to free all their prisoners, and to let him escape. Davros makes them see that the Doctor's logic is \"impaired by irrational sentiment\" and the Daleks comply. The Daleks remove the explosive and Davros vows to make them invincible, and the supreme power of the universe.\n\nRomana reaches the Movellan spaceship; but learns that the Movellans are not as altruistic as they appear when they knock her out. The Movellans test their nova device: a weapon which changes air molecules so that a planet's atmosphere becomes flammable and can be set alight, killing all life. The Doctor meets up with Tyssan and they find a female Movellan scout. The Doctor confirms his suspicion that the Movellans are actually robots, by removing the power pack on her belt and deactivating her. He finds Romana but is captured by the Movellans.\n\nThe Doctor learns that the Daleks and Movellans have been in a stalemate for over two centuries, and that both sides' battle computers have been calculating the best strategy and precise moment at which to attack. So far, not a single shot has been fired. The Daleks want Davros to help them gain an advantage. The Movellans want the Doctor to do the same for them, which the Doctor refuses to do. Davros, on the other hand, is all too eager to give the Daleks the upper hand. He orders them to make a suicide bombing attack on the Movellan craft upon realising that the Doctor might do the same thing for the Movellans. Meanwhile, Tyssan leads the prisoners in an attack on the Movellans, deactivating them all.\n\nThe Doctor makes his way to the city to confront Davros. The Doctor informs Davros that the Movellans have been disabled; unfortunately Davros does not believe him and intends to destroy the Movellan ship anyway. As the Daleks approach the ship, the Doctor goes to detonate the bombs but is ambushed by a Dalek, which holds him at gunpoint. The Doctor throws his hat on the Dalek's eyestalk, blinding it, then destroying it. He then detonates the bombs and destroys the Dalek squad before it reaches the Movellan ship.\n\nThe Doctor then puts Davros into the custody of the former slave workers. Davros is placed in cryogenic suspension and taken to Earth to stand trial for his crimes. The Doctor and Romana leave, remarking on the fact that whoever makes mistakes often wins.\n\nThe Doctor reads Oolon Colluphid's book \"The Origins of the Universe\" and says he got it wrong \"on the first line\". Colluphid is a character from \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" written by script editor Douglas Adams, who inserted the reference to his own work.\n\nThis was Dalek creator Terry Nation's final script for \"Doctor Who\"; he declined several further offers due to the extensive uncredited story rewrite by script editor Douglas Adams, who claimed on several occasions that Nation had not delivered a script but simply several pages of story notes that rehashed previous Dalek stories. Ken Grieve, director of the serial, claimed on the DVD commentary that Adams wrote 98% of the script. Nation moved to the United States in 1980 and would go on to work for various television projects in America, most famously as a writer and producer for \"MacGyver\".\n\nMichael Wisher was unavailable to reprise the role of Davros, as he was on tour in Australia. David Gooderson replaced him, but the Davros mask (which was originally fitted for Wisher) was five years old and in poor condition; as a result, it suffers in appearance. K9 only appears near the start of the story, explained in-story as due to an electronic form of laryngitis – the croaking was provided by Roy Skelton. K9's absence was because the prop was unsuitable for the large amount of location filming — the production team had suffered several problems using K9 on a similar location in \"The Stones of Blood\", and were not keen on repeating the experience. Terry Nation has said he had no desire to use K9 in his storyline; the scene (as well as other continuity gestures to Season 16) was inserted during rewrites by Douglas Adams.\n\nWinspit Quarry in Dorset was used for the planet Skaro, also used were the quarry's small stone cottage and two larger brick buildings, (which all stood side by side and were just empty derelict shells, with their roofs missing). The BBC added to the flooring of the two larger buildings, a large number of silver coloured cylinders and pipes, sticking out of the rubble, the cylinders transformed these two derelict shells into the external ruins of the long abandoned Dalek city and the disused Kaled bunkers.\n\nThe serial was one of the first British productions to make use of a Steadicam; due to the high cost of such a set-up, nearly all the props and sets were reused, including the Davros mask.\n\nThe instalments of this serial are credited onscreen as \"episodes\", rather than \"parts\" – the only serial made after \"The Green Death\" to do so. In the next story, \"City of Death\", it was returned to \"parts\".\n\nTim Barlow, who played Tyssan, was deaf at the time of filming.\n\nTony Osoba later played Kracauer in the 1987 serial \"Dragonfire\", and Duke in the 2014 episode \"Kill the Moon\". David Yip later played Curly in the audio play \"The Girl Who Never Was\".\n\nWhen Episode One was broadcast, ITV was three weeks into a ten-week strike which took it entirely off air with the exception of the Channel region, and all BBC programmes received a significant audience boost as a result. Episode Three broke the record for the highest-rated episode of \"Doctor Who\", set by an ombibus repeat of \"Pyramids of Mars\" on 27 November 1976: this would be broken again the following week. According to the BBC's Audience Research Report, the serial was received positively, especially amongst children. The Daleks and Baker were praised, though the response to Ward was more mixed. The story was repeated on BBC1 across four consecutive evenings from Tuesday to Friday, 5–8 August 1980, achieving viewing figures of 4.9, 5.8, 7.1 and 6.5 million viewers respectively.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping wrote in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995) that the serial had \"a tacky, inconsequential feel that comes from a decade of having its best jokes sneered at.\" In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker criticised Romana's bizarre regeneration, the implication that the Daleks were now robots, and David Gooderson's Davros, believing the character was not only harmed by being played by a lesser actor but that he was also not as well written. Despite this, they said the story \"ultimately manages to rise above all its undoubted failings and provides a fair degree of entertainment.\" In 2011, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" wrote that the Daleks lacked menace and the script could be too comedic at times, but in spite of its flaws it was \"clattering good fun\". \"The A.V. Club\" reviewer Christopher Bahn praised the first episode and the introduction of the new Romana, but felt the story quickly became dull and mishandled Davros and failed to do anything with the Daleks. Ian Berriman of \"SFX\" gave \"Destiny of the Daleks\" two out of five stars, criticising the Daleks as robots and much of the comedy. He also noted that it looked \"shabby\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in November 1979. This was released just two months after the original transmission – one of the quickest novelisations of the Doctor Who book range, and was released before any of the previous season's stories. A German translation of the book was published by Goldmann in 1990.\n\n\"Destiny of the Daleks\" was released on VHS in July 1994. In 2001 it was remastered and re-released as part of \"The Davros Collection\", which consisted of VHS editions of \"Genesis of the Daleks\", \"Destiny of the Daleks\", \"Resurrection of the Daleks\", \"Revelation of the Daleks\" and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\". This story was released on DVD on 26 November 2007. It is available on its own and as part of the \"Davros Collection\" DVD box set (as listed above). This serial was also released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files in issue 58 on 23 March 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902373", "title": "Martin Bibla", "text": "Martin Bibla\n\nMartin John Bibla (born October 4, 1979) is a former American football guard. He was drafted by the Atlanta Falcons in the fourth round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at the University of Miami.\n\nBibla has also been a member of the Denver Broncos, Philadelphia Soul, BC Lions, Las Vegas Locomotives, Omaha Nighthawks and Sacramento Mountain Lions.\n\nBibla started his football career on the line at Crestwood High School in Pennsylvania, graduating in 1997.\n\nHe was drafted by the Atlanta Falcons in the fourth round of the 2002 NFL Draft, and played for the Falcons until being released in August 2005.\n\nBibla was signed by the Denver Broncos in January 2006 but was released.\n\nHe played two seasons for the Philadelphia Soul before the Arena Football League cancelled the 2009 season.\n\nBibla was signed by the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League on April 28, 2009. He left the team after one practice and was cut on June 25, 2009.\n\nBibla was signed by the Las Vegas Locomotives of the United Football League on August 31, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902374", "title": "Dreamland (Robert Miles album)", "text": "Dreamland (Robert Miles album)\n\nDreamland is the debut studio album by Robert Miles. It was released on 7 June 1996 to critical acclaim in Europe, where it was a hit, and was also released in the United States about a month later, with a new track sung by Maria Nayler, \"One and One.\" This new track became very popular and was later released as a single in the US and Germany.\n\nAt the end of 1996, Miles released a new version of \"Dreamland\", called \"Dreamland – The Winter Edition\", in Germany. It was largely similar to \"Dreamland\", but contains the tracks \"For Us\" and \"One and One\" (which was not released on the European version) and removes \"Fable (Dream Version)\", and was also released in Japan. Nowadays it appears that the US version of \"Dreamland\" including \"One and One\" (with \"One and One\" being the sixth track, coming after \"In My Dreams\" and before \"Princess of Light\") is the most popular and common version.\n\nAfter Robert Miles death, the album was remastered to match the original track listings with the bonus songs, 4 Us & one & one were added at the end of the album.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902379", "title": "National Latin Exam", "text": "National Latin Exam\n\nThe National Latin Exam is a test given to Latin students. Sponsored by the U.S.-based American Classical League and the National Junior Classical League, the exam was given in 2012 to over 136,000 students in the U.S., Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Poland, United Kingdom, Zimbabwe, and for the first time Taiwan. The test covers general knowledge of Latin grammar and vocabulary, mythology, Roman culture, derivatives, and translation abilities.\n\nThe office of the National Latin Exam is located in Trinkle Hall on the campus of the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, Virginia.\n\nThe philosophy of the National Latin Exam is predicated on providing every Latin student the opportunity to experience a sense of personal accomplishment and success in his or her study of the Latin language and culture. This opportunity exists for all students on the National Latin Exam since they are not competing with their fellow students on a comparative basis, but are evaluated solely on their own performance on the exam. The basic purposes of the NLE are to promote the study of Latin and to encourage the individual student.\n\nThe National Latin Exam is a forty question, multiple-choice test with a time limit of forty-five minutes; it is offered to students on seven levels.\n\nOn the Introduction to Latin, Latin I, Latin II, Latin III, Latin III/IV Prose, and Latin III/IV Poetry exams, there are questions on grammar, comprehension, mythology, derivatives, literature, Roman life, history, geography, oral Latin, and Latin in use in the modern world.\n\nThe Latin V-VI exam contains two Latin passages as the basis for questions on grammar, comprehension, historical background, classical literature, and literary devices.\n\nThe exam is scored based on the number of questions answered correctly, with no penalty for guessing.\n\nWhile a student can take an exam for a higher level than the one in which he or she is currently enrolled, the student may not take any level below his or her completion. The student is not required to take an actual Latin class to take an exam; however, the student must have an official sponsor to take an exam.\n\nSeveral awards are available to those students who excel on the NLE:\n\nFor Latin I-VI+:\n\nFor Introduction to Latin:\n\nAn NLE Certificate of Merit is also provided for each school participating in the exam.\n\nThe students who have three, four, or five years of perfect papers are sent special book awards in addition to the special certificate. The perfect papers must be for ascending levels of the exam exclusive of the Introduction to Latin exam.\n\nThe Maureen O’Donnell Oxford Classical Dictionary Award is given to students who win four gold medals in recognition of their outstanding achievement. The students who have won five gold medals will be sent special book awards.\n\nThe National Latin Exam offers three different types of scholarships:\n\nSeniors who win a gold medal on the Latin III, III-IV Prose, III-IV Poetry, or the Latin V-VI+ exam are eligible to apply for one of twenty-one $2,000 scholarships awarded annually. Those who apply must agree to take a least one course per semester of Latin or Classical Greek in their first year of college. Recipients may reapply, if they continue their study of Latin or Greek.\n\nStudents or teachers who are continuing their Latin or Greek on the post-graduate level are eligible to apply for one $2,000 scholarship awarded annually.\n\nThe Jane Harriman Hall Professional Development Scholarship program is designed to support teachers in their ability to teach Latin. The scholarship was developed in honor of Jane Harriman Hall, founder of the National Latin Exam, in order to continue her efforts to bring high quality Latin instruction to their students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902389", "title": "Leslie Compton", "text": "Leslie Compton\n\nLeslie Harry Compton (12 September 1912 – 27 December 1984) was an English sportsman who played football and cricket for Arsenal and Middlesex, respectively. He gained two England caps late in his football career, and remains the oldest outfield player to debut for England (and the oldest post-war debutant in any position). His brother, Denis, was also a footballer and cricketer for Arsenal and Middlesex, though Leslie was more successful in football and Denis in cricket.\n\nCompton was born Woodford, Essex and played football for Middlesex Schools before joining Arsenal as an amateur in 1930. He would spend his entire senior club career at Arsenal, over a period of 22 years, making him one of the club's longest-ever serving players. He made his debut on 24 April 1932 against Aston Villa in a 1–1 draw at Villa Park, two months after he had turned professional.\n\nHe started out as a right-back, and deputised for Tom Parker in the early 1930s, before George Male was converted to that position and became Parker's long-term replacement. Relegated to reserve team football, Compton only played 13 first-team games in four seasons. By 1935–36 he had started to feature more regularly, playing 12 games that season and 15 the next, but missed out on a First Division winners' medal in 1937–38 as he only managed 9 appearances that season.\n\nDespite being down the pecking order throughout the 1930s and missing out on the success that Arsenal enjoyed, Compton stuck with Arsenal and won a Charity Shield winners' medal in 1938–39, playing 19 times that season. However the Second World War then intervened; Compton served in the Army while continuing to play football for Arsenal. Converted to an emergency centre-forward, he once scored ten times in a wartime match against Leyton Orient, which finished 15–2 to Arsenal. He also guested for Chester, scoring a hat-trick against Everton during the 1942–43 season. In June 1940, he was one of five Arsenal players who guested for Southampton in a victory over Fulham at Craven Cottage.\n\nAfter the war had ended, he reverted to defence, becoming a mainstay in the Arsenal side at centre half. Although he missed the first six games of the 1947–48 due to cricketing commitments but was a near ever-present for the remainder of the season, as Arsenal won the First Division title and Compton finally earned a top-class honour; his brother, Denis, had also by this time established himself in the Arsenal side and won a medal as well. During the close season, he succeeded Joe Mercer as Arsenal captain, but relinquished the armband soon after, saying Mercer deserved the honour more.\n\nCompton went on to win the FA Cup in 1949–50, scoring a last-minute equaliser in the Gunners' semi-final against Chelsea, heading a corner kick from his brother Denis to level the match 2–2; Arsenal won the replay 1–0, and then beat Liverpool in the final. Compton's form was such that he was selected for England for their match against Wales on 15 November 1950, making him, at 38 years and 64 days, the oldest post-war England debutant and the oldest ever outfield player to debut. These records still stand. Alexander Morten holds the all-time record.\n\nHe was a regular in the Arsenal side until the start of the 1951–52 season, during which he only played four matches. He decided to retire from playing football in the 1952 close season; in total he played 273 matches and scored 6 goals. He stayed on at Arsenal for another three years as a coach and scout.\n\nCompton also played cricket for Middlesex, playing as wicket-keeper from 1938 to 1956. He appeared 272 times, scoring 5,814 runs (an average of 16.75), and taking 468 catches and 131 stumpings. Together with his brother, he won the 1947 County Championship title with Middlesex, making them the only brothers ever to have won the national title both in football and cricket. Unlike Denis though, Leslie never played Test cricket for England.\n\nAfter retiring he ran the \"Prince of Wales\" pub in Highgate High Street, north London. He died in Hendon in December 1984, from complications due to diabetes, aged 72; his foot had been amputated two years previously because of this. He was cremated at the Golders Green Crematorium where his ashes remain.\n\nArsenal\n\n"}
{"id": "1902394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902394", "title": "Epidermal growth factor receptor", "text": "Epidermal growth factor receptor\n\nThe epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; ErbB-1; HER1 in humans) is a transmembrane protein that is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family (EGF family) of extracellular protein ligands.\n\nThe epidermal growth factor receptor is a member of the ErbB family of receptors, a subfamily of four closely related receptor tyrosine kinases: EGFR (ErbB-1), HER2/neu (ErbB-2), Her 3 (ErbB-3) and Her 4 (ErbB-4). In many cancer types, mutations affecting EGFR expression or activity could result in cancer.\n\nEpidermal growth factor and its receptor was discovered by Stanley Cohen of Vanderbilt University. Cohen shared the 1986 Nobel Prize in Medicine with Rita Levi-Montalcini for their discovery of growth factors.\n\nDeficient signaling of the EGFR and other receptor tyrosine kinases in humans is associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's, while over-expression is associated with the development of a wide variety of tumors. Interruption of EGFR signalling, either by blocking EGFR binding sites on the extracellular domain of the receptor or by inhibiting intracellular tyrosine kinase activity, can prevent the growth of EGFR-expressing tumours and improve the patient's condition.\n\nEpidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a transmembrane protein that is activated by binding of its specific ligands, including epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor α (TGFα) ErbB2 has no known direct activating ligand, and may be in an activated state constitutively or become active upon heterodimerization with other family members such as EGFR. \nUpon activation by its growth factor ligands, EGFR undergoes a transition from an inactive monomeric form to an active homodimer. – although there is some evidence that preformed inactive dimers may also exist before ligand binding. In addition to forming homodimers after ligand binding, EGFR may pair with another member of the ErbB receptor family, such as ErbB2/Her2/neu, to create an activated heterodimer. There is also evidence to suggest that clusters of activated EGFRs form, although it remains unclear whether this clustering is important for activation itself or occurs subsequent to activation of individual dimers.\n\nEGFR dimerization stimulates its intrinsic intracellular protein-tyrosine kinase activity. As a result, autophosphorylation of several tyrosine (Y) residues in the C-terminal domain of EGFR occurs. These include Y992, Y1045, Y1068, Y1148 and Y1173, as shown in the adjacent diagram. This autophosphorylation elicits downstream activation and signaling by several other proteins that associate with the phosphorylated tyrosines through their own phosphotyrosine-binding SH2 domains. These downstream signaling proteins initiate several signal transduction cascades, principally the MAPK, Akt and JNK pathways, leading to DNA synthesis and cell proliferation. Such proteins modulate phenotypes such as cell migration, adhesion, and proliferation. Activation of the receptor is important for the innate immune response in human skin. The kinase domain of EGFR can also cross-phosphorylate tyrosine residues of other receptors it is aggregated with, and can itself be activated in that manner.\nThe EGFR is essential for ductal development of the mammary glands, and agonists of the EGFR such as amphiregulin, TGF-α, and heregulin induce both ductal and lobuloalveolar development even in the absence of estrogen and progesterone.\n\nMutations that lead to EGFR overexpression (known as upregulation or amplification) have been associated with a number of cancers, including adenocarcinoma of the lung (40% of cases), anal cancers, glioblastoma (50%) and epithelian tumors of the head and neck (80-100%). These somatic mutations involving EGFR lead to its constant activation, which produces uncontrolled cell division. In glioblastoma a specific mutation of EGFR, called EGFRvIII, is often observed. Mutations, amplifications or misregulations of EGFR or family members are implicated in about 30% of all epithelial cancers.\n\nAberrant EGFR signaling has been implicated in psoriasis, eczema and atherosclerosis. However, its exact roles in these conditions are ill-defined.\n\nA single child displaying multi-organ epithelial inflammation was found to have a homozygous loss of function mutation in the \"EGFR\" gene. The pathogenicity of the EGFR mutation was supported by in vitro experiments and functional analysis of a skin biopsy. His severe phenotype reflects many previous research findings into EGFR function. His clinical features included a papulopustular rash, dry skin, chronic diarrhoea, abnormalities of hair growth, breathing difficulties and electrolyte imbalances.\n\nEGFR has been shown to play a critical role in TGF-beta1 dependent fibroblast to myofibroblast differentiation. Aberrant persistence of myofibroblasts within tissues can lead to progressive tissue fibrosis, impairing tissue or organ function (e.g. skin hypertrophic or keloid scars, liver cirrhosis, myocardial fibrosis, chronic kidney disease).\n\nThe identification of EGFR as an oncogene has led to the development of anticancer therapeutics directed against EGFR (called \"EGFR inhibitors\"), including gefitinib, erlotinib, afatinib, brigatinib and icotinib for lung cancer, and cetuximab for colon cancer. More recently AstraZeneca has developed Osimertinib, a third generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor.\n\nMany therapeutic approaches are aimed at the EGFR. Cetuximab and panitumumab are examples of monoclonal antibody inhibitors. However the former is of the IgG1 type, the latter of the IgG2 type; consequences on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity can be quite different. Other monoclonals in clinical development are zalutumumab, nimotuzumab, and matuzumab. The monoclonal antibodies block the extracellular ligand binding domain. With the binding site blocked, signal molecules can no longer attach there and activate the tyrosine kinase.\n\nAnother method is using small molecules to inhibit the EGFR tyrosine kinase, which is on the cytoplasmic side of the receptor. Without kinase activity, EGFR is unable to activate itself, which is a prerequisite for binding of downstream adaptor proteins. Ostensibly by halting the signaling cascade in cells that rely on this pathway for growth, tumor proliferation and migration is diminished. Gefitinib, erlotinib, brigatinib and lapatinib (mixed EGFR and ERBB2 inhibitor) are examples of small molecule kinase inhibitors.\n\nCimaVax-EGF, an active vaccine targeting EGF as the major ligand of EGF, uses a different approach, raising antibodies against EGF itself, thereby denying EGFR-dependent cancers of a proliferative stimulus; it is in use as a cancer therapy against non-small-cell lung carcinoma (the most common form of lung cancer) in Cuba, and is undergoing further trials for possible licensing in Japan, Europe, and the United States.\n\nThere are several quantitative methods available that use protein phosphorylation detection to identify EGFR family inhibitors.\n\nNew drugs such as osimertinib, gefitinib, erlotinib and brigatinib directly target the EGFR. Patients have been divided into EGFR-positive and EGFR-negative, based upon whether a tissue test shows a mutation. EGFR-positive patients have shown a 60% response rate, which exceeds the response rate for conventional chemotherapy.\n\nHowever, many patients develop resistance. Two primary sources of resistance are the T790M Mutation and MET oncogene. However, as of 2010 there was no consensus of an accepted approach to combat resistance nor FDA approval of a specific combination. Clinical trial phase II results reported for brigatinib targeting the T790M mutation, and brigatinib received Breakthrough Therapy designation status by FDA in Feb. 2015.\n\nThe most common adverse effect of EGFR inhibitors, found in more than 90% of patients, is a papulopustular rash that spreads across the face and torso; the rash's presence is correlated with the drug's antitumor effect. In 10% to 15% of patients the effects can be serious and require treatment.\n\nSome tests are aiming at predicting benefit from EGFR treatment, as Veristrat.\n\nLaboratory research using genetically engineered stem cells to target EGFR in mice was reported in 2014 to show promise. EGFR is a well-established target for monoclonal antibodies and specific tyrosine kinase inhibitors.\n\nImaging agents have been developed which identify EGFR-dependent cancers using labeled EGF. The feasibility of in vivo imaging of EGFR expression has been demonstrated in several studies.\n\nEpidermal growth factor receptor has been shown to interact with:\n\nIn fruitflies, the epidermal growth factor receptor interacts with Spitz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902404", "title": "Noakhali District", "text": "Noakhali District\n\nNoakhali () is a district in South-eastern Bangladesh. It is located in the Chittagong Division. Noakhali district, whose earlier name was Bhulua, was established in 1821. It was named Noakhali in 1868.\n\nNoakhali District is bordered by the Comilla district to the north, the Meghna estuary and the Bay of Bengal to the south, Feni and Chittagong districts to the east and Lakshmipur and Bhola districts to the west. The district has an area of .\nThe district represents an extensive flat, coastal and delta land, located on the tidal floodplain of the Meghna River delta, characterised by flat land and low relief. The area is influenced by diurnal tidal cycles; the tidal fluctuations vary depending on seasons, and are most pronounced during the monsoon season.\nOn three sides of Noakhali an alluvial plain that is inundated annually and fertilised by silt deposits from the Meghna estuary. The swift currents that course down from the Himalayas carry rich fertile silt. When it reaches the Bay of Bengal the silt settles along the coast gradually forming new land called the \"chars\". The district of Noakhali has actually gained more than of land in the past fifty years.\nNoakhali has a tropical climate and has significant rainfall in most months of the year, with a short dry season. In Noakhali, the average annual temperature is and the average annual rain fall is about . With an average temperature of , May is the warmest month. At on average, January is the coldest month of the year. The driest month is January with of precipitation. In July, the rainfall reaches its peak, with an average of .\n\n\nNoakhali's ancient name was Bhulua. It was part of Pundra Kingdom. \n\nIn the 1660s, the agricultural activities of the north-eastern region of Bhulua were seriously affected by floodwaters of the Dakatia River flowing from the Tripura hills. To salvage the situation, a canal was dug in 1660 that ran from the Dakatia through Ramganj, Sonaimuri and Chaumuhani to divert water flow to the junction of the Meghna River and Feni. After excavating this long canal, Bhulua began to be known as \"Noakhali\". The name \"Noakhali\" originated from the terms \"Noa\" (New) and \"Khal\" (Canal).\n\nTwo hundred years ago Noakhali district was known as Bhulua Pargana. South Shahbazpur(Bhola), Lakshmipur, the mainland of Noakhali district and a portion of the present Feni district were included in the Bhulua Pargana. In 1821 Mr. Plyden, a salt agent, was the additional position of collectorate (district judge) of Bhulua by the governor general. He proposed to the governor general to establish a new district when some administrative problems arose with other Bhulua salt-agents. On 29 March 1822 the Governor General passed an order in this regard and accordingly a new district was constituted with: South Shabajpur, Sudharam, Begumganj, Ramganj, Raipur, Lakshmipur, Feni, Parshuram, Elahabad Pargana of Tippera and Hatia, Sandwhip and Bamni of Chittagong district. The district was named Noakhali in 1868.\nIn 1876 Noakhali district was divided into two sub-divisions. Feni Sub-division was constituted with: Chhagalnaiya thana of Tippera, Mirshari of Chittagong, Feni Pargana, Parshuram and Sonagazi. Sadar Sub-division was formed with the remaining areas. In the 1901 census its area was and its population was about 1,141,728.\nRegional violence in 1946 escalated communal tensions throughout British India just before the 1947 partition. One of the worst religious massacres and incidents of ethnic cleansing against the Hindu community took place in Noakhali during the 1946 riot known as the Noakhali genocide. A huge number of mass killing, raping, looting, and forcible conversions took place. The prime minister of Bengal, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, answering a question from Dhirendranath Datta in the assembly early in 1947 stated that there had been 9,895 cases of forcible conversion in Tipperah alone. He said the number in Noakhali \"ran into thousands\". It was not a random incident and was quite well planned, organised and directed by a few local political leaders.\n\nNoakhali town, the headquarters of Noakhali, vanished in the river-bed in 1951 as a result of erosion of the Meghna River. After that the headquarters of Noakhali was established at Maijdee. In 1964, Sadar Sub-division was divided into two sub-divisions namely Sadar and Lakshmipur.\n\nDuring the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 for the liberation of Bangladesh, when Pakistan Army created the 39th \"ad hoc\" Division in mid-November, from the 14th Division units deployed in those areas, to hold on to the Comilla and Noakhali districts, and the 14th Division was tasked to defend the Sylhet and Brahmanbaria areas only. During the War of Liberation many direct and guerilla encounters took place between the Pakistani Armed Forces and the Liberation Forces (Mukti Bahini). During the 1971 Bangladesh genocide by the Pakistan, in which Pakistani Army and its supporting militias (Razakar) killed estimated between 300,000 to 3,000,000 people and raped 200,000–400,000 Bangladeshi women in a systematic campaign of genocidal rape, about 75 Bengladeshi Freedom fighters (Mukti Joddha) were killed at Noakkhali in a direct encounter with the Pakistan army on 15 June 1971, in front of the Sonapur Ahmadia School. Noakhali was liberated on 7 December 1971. Pakistan Army's 93,000 troops unconditionally surrendered to the Indian Army and India's local ally Mukti Bahini on 16 December 1971. This day and event is commemorated as the Bijoy Dibos () in Bangladesh and Vijay Diwas in India.\n\nFor administrative convenience, according to a Government, decision Noakhali district was divided into three districts, namely Noakhali, Lakshmipur and Feni in 1984.\n\nDistrict administration is headed by an accomplished professional called the Deputy Commissioner/District Magistrate.\n\nThe basic unit of administration of the country is locally named Upazila, which is an integral component of the district. Field level functionaries of the development departments operate here at the grass-root level under guidance from the respective functional heads stationed in the districts as coordinated by the Upazila Nirbahi Officer (UNO). All decisions are discussed and finalised in a forum called the Upazila Parishad which is presided over by an elected chairman and assisted by the UNO.\n\nAn area covering several square kilometres having a population of several thousand populations is called a Union, administered by an elected chairman. These chairmen are the dominant and voting members of the Parishad (counseling body) apart from various Upazila-level functionaries representing respective district counterparts.\n\nDeputy Commissioner (DC): Tanmaya Das \n\nAdministrator of Zila Parishad: ABM Zaforullah\n\nNoakhali District consists of: nine upazilas, eight municipalities, 72 wards, 153 mahallas, 91 unions, 882 mouzas and 967 villages.\n\nNoakhali District is divided into the following Sub-districts (Upazilas):\n\nA municipality is usually an urban administrative division having corporate status and usually powers of self-government or jurisdiction. Noakhali district has eight municipalities (Paurashavas). Every municipality consists of nine wards.\n\nThere are six National Parliament () constituencies in Noakhali district. These constituencies and the current members of parliament are:\nAccording to the 2011 census the total population of Noakhali district is 3,318,083 (Male- 1,685,169 and Female- 1,622,914). The male to female ratio is 92:100; Population Density is 897/km (557/mi); annual growth rate is 1.86%. The urbanisation rate of the district is 18.98%.\nThe main town Maijdee has a population of 84,585 (male 51.50%, female 48.50%) with a population density of 5,915/km (3,675/mi).\n\nPeople from many religions and faiths live in Noakhali. Around 95.42% of the local population are Muslims, while 4.52% are Hindus. Christians and Buddhists constitute 0.02% and 0.03% respectively. The district of Noakhali has 4,159 mosques, 497 Eid Gah, 239 temples, two Buddhist pagodas and two churches.\n\nThe people of this district speak Noakhailla which is a Bengali-Assamese language of Bangladesh. It is not only spoken by the people of Noakhal but also the people of Feni and Lakshmipur as well as southern parts of the district of Comilla, Mirsharai Upazila, Sandwip of Chittagongdistrict, Haziganj Upazila of Chadpur district. Indian nationals of Tripura state also speak the dialect of Noakhali. It is used as the lingua franca among the Indians of South Tripura District and it is also widely spoken in Gomati District and Sepahijala District of Tripura. The Noakhailla dialect is also understood and spoken by indigenous Tripuri Tribes and also Chakma, Mog (Marma), Reang etc. It is widely spoken in: Belonia, Manurmukh, Sabroom, Santirbazar, Joalibari, Baikhora, Kathalia, Barpathari, Trishna, Chandrapur, Garjee, Hrishyamukh, Satchand, Karbook, Natunbazar, Birchandra Manu, Rajnagar etc. Belonia is the Headquarters of South Tripura District which consists of three subdivisions namely Belonia, Santirbazar and Sabroom.\n\nThe Noakhailla dialect does not have any recognised grammar recording. There is no formal use of the Noakhailla dialect in public, in courts, or in the legislature like the existent standard Bangla. It remains as the language of the people of the Greater Noakhali region of Bangladesh. The educated, elite, political and influential groups of Bangladesh bearing Noakhali homogeneity, or being intrinsically exposed to the socio-cultural phenomenon of Noakhali, usually prefer the standard form of Bangla for their wider communication. They keep this dialect as their private means of communication only with members of the indigenous community of Greater Noakhali. This dialect is very famous in Bangladesh. A lot of Bangladeshi dramas are written in this dialect, so Bangladeshi actors actress are busy learning it.\n\nThe literacy rate of Noakhali district is 69.57% (male- 72.40% and female- 67.60%). School attendance rate is 74.40% for the five to 24 years age group.\n\nIn Noakhali there are 1,243 Primary Schools (Government: 776, Non-government: 329, Community: 76, Satellite: 62), 289 High Schools, 161 Madrashas (Senior Madrasha: 30, Dakhil and Alim Madrasha: 131), five Technical Institutions (Youth Training Center: two, PTI: one Technical School and College: two, 35 Colleges (Government: eight, Private: 27), one Medical Assistant Training School (MATS), one Agricultural Training Institute, one Government Medical College, one Homeopathic Medical College, one Textile Engineering College and one Science and Technology University.\n\nThe quality of the education system in this district is commendable. But it is necessary to look back at what the education system was like before. At the beginning of the Mughal and British rule, the education system was generally dependent on ‘tol’ schools and maktabs. These taught Arabic, Persian and Sanskrit. However, the education system gradually improved and the Minor School was established. There was only one English high school in the year of 1857. There were 69 students. In the next four years, the number of students stood at 71. But in the year 1871, the students' number reach number at 596, as well as the number of government and aided schools reached 26. In the survey of 1872, there were 74.66% of the Muslim population but their literacy rate was only 20% of the total population at that time. However, the literacy rate of Muslims increased very significantly in the next decade. The total number of schools was 2775 in the year 1895. At that time, some changes in education policy closed many schools, so the number of schools dropped to 1330 in the year of 1898. The number of students in this district was more than 12,000 in the year. Let's talk about high schools. In Noakhali, there were only five English high schools in 1905. Among them were Noakhali Zilla School, which was established in 1850 and was included as a Zilla School in 1853, Feni High School ( now Feni Government Pilot High School) which was established in 1886, Lakshmipur High School(now Lakshmipur Adarsha Samad Government High School) which was established in 1889, Sandwip Kargil High School now Kargil Government High School (1902). Since then, educational institutes have increased a lot until 1950. In the year of 1914, there were 5 more high schools were established in this district. They are Arun Chandra High School which was founded by the Bhulua Zamindar called Arun Chandra Singh Bahadur, Rajganj Union High School which was founded by Syed Sultan Alam Chowdhury and Rajgonj Banik family, Noakhali Ahmadiya High School, Begumganj High School and Khilpara High School which was situated at Ramganj Police Station. Noakhali Government Girls' High School was established in 1934 by Uma Devi. The number of high schools reached around 60 in the middle of the twentieth century. However, there was no other college besides Feni Government College, which was founded in 1922. So Chowmuhani College was established in 1943, laying the foundation by Dr. Magnad Saha. This college is now known as Chowmuhani Government S.A College. SA College was named after the heroic freedom fighter, Saleh Ahmed. On the other hand, Noakhali Government College was established in 1963, Noakhali Government Women's College in 1970, Noakhali Science and Technology University in 2005 and Abdul Malek Ukil Medical College, Noakhali was established in 2008. From then till today the education system of this district has reached the threshold of improvement. \nProminent educational institutions of Noakhali\n\nUniversity\nCollege\n\nSchool\nMadrasah\n\nNoakhali district has one medical college, one general hospital (250 beds), eight Upazila health complexes (total 331 beds), 25 union sub-centers, 59 Union health and family welfare centers, one TB clinic, two school health clinics, one NGO clinic and three mother and children welfare clinics (Total 30 beds). There are 60 private hospitals and 115 diagnostic centers. 247 community clinics are now functioning. The activities of the Medical College Hospital is now in General Hospital.\n\nCoverage of households having access to safe drinking water is 90%, and coverage of households having access to sanitary latrines is 75% .\n\nThe people of Noakhali plays a vital role in Bangladesh's economy specially in the remittance sector. Agriculture plays a vital role in the regional economy. 30% of the regional GDP comes from agriculture with 45% of the population employed in the sector . Employment in the fishing industry is also dominant in the poorer sectors of the population. Annually, 15%–20% of labour is involved in this sector (boating, fishing, drying, net and boat making and repairing, transporting fish from one location to other). Poorer communities are involved in crop production during the winter but in other periods they are involved in fishing, either working for themselves or selling their labour to the mohajan. Around 40% of the population works abroad playing a vital role in the national economy.\nThe main sources of income dependent on non-agricultural labour 3.43%, industry 0.84%, commerce 14.74%, transport and communication 3.83%, service 16.11%, construction 1.49%, religious service 0.39%, rent and remittance 7.97% and others 10.58%.\nThe economy of Noakhali is predominately agriculture. Of the total 544,943 holdings of the district 65.37% of the holdings are farms that produce varieties of crops, namely: local and hybrid rice, wheat, vegetables, spices, cash crops, pulses, betel leaves, boro and aman paddy, peanut, varieties of pulses, chili, sugarcane, potato, and others. Various fruits like mango, banana, jack fruit, papaya, litchi, palm coconut and betel nut are grown.\n\nFish of different varieties are found here in the sea and rivers and paddy fields in the rainy season. Fishes like ruhi, katla, mrigel, kala baush, koi, grass carp, silver carp, talapia, nilotica and different species of local deshi fishes have also been introduced for commercial pisciculture (fish farming) in ponds and waterlands.\n\nTimber and forest trees are grown in this district including: koroi, sheel koroi, garjan, jarul, shimul, mahagonny, bamboo etc.\n\nNoakhali district is connected by road, railway and waterway.\n\nAirport\n\nThe Bangladesh government has declared the constitution of an airport in Noakhali Sadar Upazila which is Maijdee\n\nRoad\n\nNoakhali is well connected with the Bangladeshi capital city of Dhaka and the port city of Chittagong. By road the distance between Dhaka and Noakhali is . The distances from Chittagong and Comilla are and respectively. Buses are the most common form of transport and run to a wide range of destinations within and outside the district. A number of independent transport companies operate buses, trucks and other vehicles from different parts of Noakhali to Feni, Chandpur, Comilla, Dhaka and Chittagong. Trucks carry the majority of goods transported in the district.\n\nRail\n\nInter-City train the \"Upakul Express\" and Mail train \"Noakhali Express\" operate between Noakhali station and Kamalapur Railway Station in Dhaka. The local train that operates between Noakhali station and Laksam Railway Junction of Comilla stops at seven railway stations in Noakhali District—Noakhali (Sonapur), Harinarayanpur, Maijdee Court, Maijdee, Chowmuhani, Bazra and Sonaimuri.\n\nWater transport\n\nThe Southern part of the Noakhali District and Hatiya Upazila is well connected by water transport. Hatiya island is isolated from the mainland but is accessible from Noakhali by sea-truck, from Chittagong by steamer, and from Dhaka by launch.\n\nFlora\n\nNoakhali is one of the coastal districts at the fringe of the Bay of Bengal with vast char land of recent origin in the south. Plant life is confined generally to variations belonging to the lower gangetic plane and of other districts in the southern region of the country. Except for the Government sponsored afforestation programme for the coastal belt, there is no organised forestry in the district.\n\nHowever, all homesteads are usually covered by dense and lush green foliage of a wide variety of trees. Most of the trees grown in homestead forests are fruitbearing. Mangoes, although poor in quality, grow in abundance. Almond or badam (\"Arachis hypogea\") are unusual. Other common trees are jack fruit (\"Artocarpus heterophyllus\"), black berry (\"Syzygium cumini\"), tamarind (\"Tamarindus indica\"), jalpai (\"Elaeocarpus tectorius\"), bel (\"Aegle marmelos\"), chalta (\"Dillenia indica\"), boroi, guava (\"Psidiumguagava\"), etc. Banana (\"Banana musa sapientum\") is seen almost everywhere but the fruit quality is rather poor.\n\nLitchi (\"Litchi chinensis\"), kamranga (\"Averrho karmbola\"), ata, haritaki (\"Terminalia chebula\"), amloki (\"Phyllanthus emblica\"), gaab (\"Dioaspyros precatorius\"), etc. grow abundantly. The juice of the gaab fruit mixed with charcoal is used in colouring boats and stiffening fishing nets. Coconut (\"Cocos nucifera\") is abundantly produced in Noakhali.\n\nIndigenous timber trees include Koroi, sheel koroi (\"Albizia procera\"), garjan (\"Dipterocarpus turbinatus\"), jarul (\"Iegerstroemia speciosa\"), shimul (\"Bombax ceiba\"), etc. However, various exotic trees like teak, mahogany (\"Swietenia macrophylla\"), sissu (\"Dalbergia sissoo\"), etc. have been produced as wayside trees as well as in farm forestry.\n\nMandar (\"Erythrina variegata\"), a thorny tree mostly used as fuel and fencing, is seen in almost every household forest. Kadom (\"Anthocephalus cadamba\") are very common and are preferred for manufacturing matchsticks. The fruit of shimul or karpas is used for stuffing mattresses and pillows and has a silky appearance. Newly introduced trees include eucalyptus and pine.\n\nMango wood is not good as a timber, but owing to its abundance, it is much used. The wood of the tamarind and the kul is hard-grained and of good quality. The amaltas is used for house and rough furniture construction. Jarul is used for boat building and pillars of houses.\n\nThe luxuriant growth of palms is the most characteristic feature of the vegetation. Betel nut palm or supari (\"Areca catechu\") plantations are more and more abundant towards the north and the west of the district and grow almost lie forests. Coconut are grown abundantly throughout the district. Toddy palms or tal (\"Borassus flabellifer\") and date palms or khejur are also very common. Date palm is a valuable tree. The juice is extracted and made into gurr, the leaves are made into mat. Tal wood is used for posts of houses and other building purposes. Its leaves are used for making handmade mats and large hand fans. Betel nut and coconut are a good source of household income.\n\nShade trees include banyan or bot (\"Ficus benghalensis\"), pipal (\"Ficus religiosa\") and nim (\"Azadirachta indica\") and are seen commonly.\n\nThere are several varieties of cane, a good deal of bamboo of different varieties, and thatching grass or chhan although their plantations are gradually but steadliy decreasing. Use of bamboo is widespread for posts and fencing for houses, basket making and producing trays of various kinds. Bet is used for making baskets, binding and thatching. In the marshes are found sola (\"Aeschynomene aspera\") and murta or mostak (\"Schumannianthus dichotomus \") which is extensively used for making various types of mats famously known as \"shital pati\" and baskets.\n\nThe forest department of the government of Bangladesh created mangrove forests in Nijhum Dwip. The most common type of planted tree species on the island is keora, also known as kerfa, which has fast growing roots holding the sandy land. The tree occurs on newly accreted soil in moderately to strongly saline areas and is considered as a pioneer species in ecological succession.\n\nFauna\n\nOwing to the absence of organised forest and other natural conditions, no large or medium-sized carnivores are seen in the district. However, the following mammals are still seen the district although their number is gradually decreasing: jackal (\"Canis aureus\"), fox (\"Vulpes bengalensis\"), large Indian civet or bagdas (\"Viverra zibetha\"), otter or uud (\"Lutra lutra\"), lrrawaddy, kath biral (\"Callosciuruspy gerythrus\"), Bengal mongoose or beji (\"Herpestes edwards\"), different kinds of rats and several species of bats.\n\nBuffalo is found in char and on Hatia island. The vast offshore areas and the emerging islands of the Noakhali district have become potential places for raising buffalo.\n\nAlmost all varieties of birds that are seen throughout Bangladesh are also commonly seen in Noakhali. Raptors include: white-rumped vulture (\"Gyps bengalensis\"), lanner falcon or baj (\"Falco biarmicus\"), marsh harrier or gochila (\"Circus aeruginesus\"), pariah cheel (\"Milvus migyans lineatas\"), several species of stork like pond heron or kani boga (\"Ardeola greyii\"), cattle egret or go boga (\"Babulcus ibis\") and black bittern or kala boga (\"Dupeter plovicollis\"), crows (\"Corvus splendens\") and kingfisher (\"Alcedo atthis\"), etc.\n\nDucks are represented by a number of species including winter migrants like: greenleg goose (\"Anser anser\"), rajhans (\"Anser indicus\"), the pintail (\"Anas acuta\") and some other domestic species. Water birds include: the little cormorant or pankawri (\"Phalacrocorax niger\"), waterhen or dahuk (\"Amaurornis phonicurus\"), kora (\"Gallicrex cinarea\").\n\nCuckoo or kokil (\"Cuculus micropterus\"), black-hooded oriole or halde pakhi (\"Oriolus xanthornus\"), kingcrow or finge (\"Dicrurus adsimilis\"), moyna (\"Sturnus malabarica\"), shalik (\"Acridotheres tristis\"), redvented bulbuli (\"Pycnotus cafer\"), tuntuni (\"Orthotomus sutorious\"), shayma (\"Copsyehus malabaricus\"), sparrow (\"Passer domesticus\"), flowerpecker (\"Dicacum erythrochynchos\"), babui (\"Plocus phillippinus\") famous for their artistic nest building, and several species of pheasant quails (\"Eudynamis scolopscea\"), pigeons and doves are also present.\n\nReptiles include snakes, lizards and tortoises. The snakes include varieties of cobra, urgabora, dughadabora, kuchiabora and jinlabora, all poisonous. The lizards include gecko, calotis, wall lizard and monitor lizard. There are amphibnians like toads, frogs and tree frogs.\n\nThere are many species of sea and fresh water fish available in the district. The list of the varieties is too long to include here. Although Noakhali is coastal district, most of the fish supply comes from ponds and tanks, canals and low-lying areas inundated by rain water, popular varieties include: the carp tribe (\"Cyprinidoes\"), Ruhi (\"Labeo rohita\"), Katla (\"Catla catla\"), Mrigel (\"Cirrhinus mrigala\") and Kalabaush (\"labeo calbasu\"), Airh (\"Sperata aor\"), Pangas (\"Pangasius pangasius\"), Tengra (\"Mystus vittatus\") of several types, Magur (\"Clarias batrschus\"), Singi (\"Saccobranchus fossilis\") and Koi(\"Mystus vittatus\") are considered to be delicious, Shoul (\"Channa striatus\"), Boal (\"Wallago attu\"), Gozar (\"Channa marulius\"), Chitol (\"Chitala chitala\"), Foli (\"Notopterus notopterus\") and Pabda (\"Ompok pabda\") are available in abundance.\n\nHilsa (\"Tenualosa ilisha\"), Baila (\"Awaous guamensis\"), Bhetki (\"Lates calcarifer\"), Bata (\"Labeo bata\"), loitta etc. fish are also available in abundance.\n\nPrawn, crayfish (\"icha\") and crabs are also found. Tilapia, Muralla, Punti, Khoksha, Kajuli, Kakila, Khailsha, Bain and Chela are small fish like Mola, Kachki are found all over the district in abundance.\n\nCreated mangrove forests in Nijhum Dwip are the habitat of about 5,000 cheetral or spotted deer. This island has been declared as a unique eco-tourist spot for its ideal natural setup with rich bio-diversification factors and its perennial mangrove forest with wild animals like spotted deer, wild boar and rhesus macaque and for the ideal habitat for fish resources.\n\nNijhum Dwip (Char Osmani, Baluar Char, Golden Island ) is a small island under Hatiya upazila of Noakhali. A cluster of islands (mainly, Ballar Char, Kamlar Char, Char Osman and Char Muri) emerged in the early 1950s as alluvium in the shallow estuary of the Bay of Bengal on the south of Noakhali. These new sandbanks first drew the attention of a group of fishermen, who named it Baular Char. In 1974 the Forest Department began an aforestation program for twenty years on the north side of the island. Covering an area of , it has now developed into a deep forest with a variety of plant species. Among the trees Keora is often seen. Besides this Gewa, Kankra, Bain, Babul, Karamja, Pashur and many other species are in evidence. It was renamed 'Nijhum Dweep' by former Minister Amirul Islam Kalam in 1979 after observing its isolation and mild nature.\n\nDuring winter thousands of migratory birds flock to the island. The fishermen use the airy and sunny land as an ideal place for drying their catches from the sea. Sometimes they construct straw huts on the island as seasonal residences.\n\nOn 8 April 2001 the government declared the of forest of the Jahajmara range including of forest land on Nijhum Dweep as a national park to protect the development of the biodiversity of the forest.\n\nBazra Shahi Mosque is one of the major archaeological works in undivided Bengal. It is situated from district headquarter Maijdee Court. Amir Sanaullah, the owner of Bazra Jaigir started the construction of the Bazra'Shahi Mosque in the pattern of Tajmahal in the Hizri year 1134. The construction was completed in the Hizri year 1154. The Bazra Shahi Mosque is an example of Moghal architecture. In the year 1922, Ali Ahmed, the Jaminder of Bazra, plastered the whole exterior of the mosque with China clay.\n\nThis is one of the oldest Catholic churches in the country. It was established in 1959, and named after the Queen Lurther at Sonapur of Noakhali Sadar upazila. Its quiet, bland shadowed environment made the Church glamorous. A Christian cemetery containing numerous crosses, a giant statue of Jesus Christ, a flower garden, spectacular ponds,a mission school, a charitable health center, and a crafts center are also seen beside the Church. Around the Church there is a large Christian colony.\n\nChristians in this district had Portuguese ancestry. The Portuguese pirates of Sandwip terrorised the coasts of Noakhali throughout the seventeenth century. Later on they inter-married with the women of the region. In 1844 the first Christian missionary arrived in Noakhali.\n\nThe mission maintains two boys' schools and one girls' school at Noakhali and one girls' school at Ewazbalia. It makes few converts.\n\nThe establishment of Gandhi Ashram trust is rooted with the Peace Mission of Mahatma Gandhi immediately after the communal riots in 1946 at Noakhali. Gandhi stayed for about four months in the riot-stricken areas. He started moving around the villages and motivated the people towards his peaceful coexistence and non-violence philosophy. When Gandhiji came to Jayag on 29 January 1947 all sections of the local community extended him whole-hearten support. At that time, Barrister Hemanta Kumar Ghosh of the village donated all his resources to Mahatma for the development and peace of the area and Ambika Kaliganga Charitable Trust was formed. The office of the Gandhi Peace Mission, formerly known as Gandhi Camp, was shifted to the present campus of Jayag, Sonaimuri.\n\nThis jomidar bari is known as Rajganj Mia Bari. It is located at Rajgonj union which is west of Maijdee Bazar. Sayed Sultan Alam Chowdhury built this house in 1907.\n\nA book titled \"Noakhalir Itihas\" was written by Sri Perimohan Sen, and mentioned the name of Syed Sultan Alam Chowdhury as a prestigious person of Noakhali. His ancestors came here from Baghdad on 5th Magh 1149 Bengali year. The first family member of this house named Syed Sher Alam Baghdadi. He came here only to preach Islam.\n\nIt is located on the bank of the Feni river,in Companygonj upazila. The Musapur Closure Dam, which was constructed at a cost of Tk 194 crore at Musapur under Companiganj Upazila of the district, has ushered in a new prospect to the people living around it.\nThe dam was constructed applying workforce of around 6,000 labourers and is supposed to prevent salinity to about 1.30 lakh hectares of cropland under 14 upazilas in Noakhali, Comilla and Chandpur districts. However, a certain portion of the dam was washed away within three hours of its construction; later with the joint efforts of locals and the Water Development Board (WDB) here, the erosion could be prevented.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902417", "title": "Philip Rosenthal", "text": "Philip Rosenthal\n\nPhilip Rosenthal (born January 27, 1960) is an American television writer and producer who is best known as the creator, writer, and executive producer of the sitcom \"Everybody Loves Raymond\" (1996–2005). In recent years, he has presented food and travel documentaries \"I'll Have What Phil's Having\" on PBS and \"Somebody Feed Phil\" on Netflix.\n\nRosenthal was born to a Jewish family in Queens, New York, but spent most of his childhood living in New City, New York, located in Rockland County. He attended Clarkstown North High School where he became very active in the school's drama club, Cue 'N Curtain, and in theatre. Rosenthal graduated from Clarkstown North in 1977. After high school, he attended Hofstra University, from which he graduated in 1981.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Rosenthal was an actor based out of New York City before shifting his focus to production work, becoming a writer and producer of such shows as \"Coach\" with Craig T. Nelson and the short-lived \"Baby Talk\".\n\nRosenthal's largest commercial success and longest-running project was the sitcom \"Everybody Loves Raymond\". The show was co-produced by Ray Romano, and was based in part on Romano's comedy material. Rosenthal's wife, actress Monica Horan, played the role of Amy MacDougall-Barone, the off-and-on girlfriend (wife after season 7) of Robert Barone (Brad Garrett) in the series. It was Rosenthal and Romano who decided to retire the series over the objections or reservations of the other cast members. Rosenthal wrote or co-wrote twenty-one episodes of the series.\n\nRosenthal has occasionally acted as well, in projects such as James L. Brooks' \"Spanglish\", \"The Simpsons Movie\" (a big screen adaptation of the long running TV series), \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"30 Rock\" and Jake Kasdan's feature, \"The TV Set\".\n\nRosenthal is the author of the book \"You're Lucky You're Funny: How Life Becomes a Sitcom\" which was published on October 21, 2006. He recounts how his life led to the success of \"Everybody Loves Raymond\".\n\nRosenthal directed President Bill Clinton in a White House Correspondents' Dinner video, which was shown to wide acclaim at the April 2000 event. Rosenthal co-wrote the 9/11 telethon \"\", which aired on all four networks, and won a Peabody Award and an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Writing. Rosenthal wrote and directed a documentary film for Sony Pictures called \"Exporting Raymond\", which depicts his efforts to adapt \"Everybody Loves Raymond\" for Russian television, despite his having little knowledge of Russian culture.\n\nIn August 2015, as one of 98 members of the Los Angeles Jewish community, he signed an open letter supporting the proposed nuclear agreement between Iran and six world powers led by the United States \"as being in the best interest of the United States and Israel.\"\n\nBeginning on September 28, 2015, PBS presented the six-episode television series \"I'll Have What Phil's Having\", in which Rosenthal goes to well-known locations around the world in order to explore their food culture. The series was canceled after one season. On January 12, 2018, Netflix premiered a reworked version of the show, titled \"Somebody Feed Phil\".\n\nRosenthal serves on the Creative Council of Represent.Us, a nonpartisan anti-corruption organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902418", "title": "EGFR", "text": "EGFR\n\nEGFR may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1902434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902434", "title": "Stainton, County Durham", "text": "Stainton, County Durham\n\nStainton is a village in County Durham, in England. It is situated to the north east of Barnard Castle. Stainton Village has entirely residential with around 100 houses and no local amenities. The former public house, chapel, post office and shop are now private residences. Many of the properties are period properties and owned by older residents. Just across the road from Stainton Village is Broomielaw, once a picnic area and home to an old railway station (now on private land) where Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother used to travel to get to Streatham Castle.\nStainton Camp was a British Army military installation.\n"}
{"id": "1902442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902442", "title": "Class Action", "text": "Class Action\n\nA class action is a form of lawsuit.\n\nClass Action may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1902446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902446", "title": "Legs Diamond (band)", "text": "Legs Diamond (band)\n\nLegs Diamond is an American rock band. They formed in Los Angeles, California, United States, starting with Michael \"Diamond\" Gargano (bass) and Jeff Poole (drums), and were named for a 1920s gangster of the same name. The group released their self-titled debut album for Mercury Records in 1977. The original band broke up in 1980 after three popular albums, but reformed in 1984 after their original albums had begun to acquire a cult following.\n\nThe new lineup released several more albums and continued to perform throughout the 1990s and 2000s. In 2005, original frontman Rick Sanford was replaced by ex-Montrose and Wild Horses vocalist John Levesque, and the band released the album, \"Diamonds Are Forever\", in 2006. Original members include Roger Romeo (guitar), Michael Prince (keyboards/rhythm guitar), and Jeff Poole (percussion). The band still does the occasional gig in the Los Angeles area and at least once a year in San Antonio, Texas where they are still popular, the result of being a favorite of influential disc jockey Joe \"the Godfather\" Anthony (1940–1992).\n\nKeyboardist Michael Prince is active in studio recording, in Los Angeles, working with some better known R+B and pop acts, including Beyoncé, Chris Brown, Usher, and Los Lobos.\n\nOn March 30, 2018, the band's first three studio albums, \"Legs Diamond\", \"A Diamond Is A Hard Rock\", and \"Fire Power\", were re-issued by British label Rock Candy Records, each containing a plethora of bonus tracks.\n\nIn 2019, Legs Diamond acquired a new lead singer, Keith England, and are currently working on a new album and eventually touring again.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902450", "title": "Headspin", "text": "Headspin\n\nA headspin is an athletic move in which a person balances on their head while rotating along the vertical axis of their body, usually without any other form of support. The move is commonly employed in the Afro-Brazilian martial art Capoeira and in breakdancing. Though b-boy Kid Freeze is sometimes credited with having invented the headspin, the first known footage of the move is seen in the 1933 film, \"Wild Boys of the Road\". One of the film's protagonists Edward 'Eddie' Smith, played by Frankie Darro, performs a Headspin at the 67 minute mark. There is also an older video featuring a headspin \"A Street Arab\" Thomas A. Edison, INC April 21, 1898 in which a preadolescent boy, dressed like a street urchin, performs acrobatic stunts for the camera. The dancer, Olav Thorshaug, performed Norwegian hallingdans shows in the United States of America around 1910-1920, incorporating the headspin in his dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902451", "title": "KT Tunstall", "text": "KT Tunstall\n\nKate Victoria Tunstall (born 23 June 1975), known professionally as KT Tunstall, is a Scottish singer-songwriter and musician. She broke into the public eye with a 2004 live solo performance of her song \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" on \"Later... with Jools Holland\".\n\nBorn in Edinburgh to a Hong Kong-born exotic dancer, she was adopted by David and Rosemary Tunstall of St Andrews. At the age of four she started playing piano; later she learned to play other musical instruments. She attended the Lawhead Primary and Madras College in St. Andrews, High School of Dundee and Kent School in Kent, Connecticut in the United States. She earned her BA in Drama & Music in 1996 from the Royal Holloway, University of London. She was awarded an honorary doctorate by Royal Holloway in 2011.\n\nHer debut album was named \"Eye to the Telescope\" - the name was inspired by her childhood experiences at her father's physics laboratory at University of St Andrews. Released in 2004, this album launched her music career. That album inspired her nomination for the Mercury Prize in 2005, BRIT Award for Best British Live Act and BRIT Award for Best Breakthrough Act in 2006, and Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance in 2007. She eventually won BRIT Award for Best British Female Artist and European Border Breakers Award, both in 2006. The single \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" was given the Q Magazine Award for Best Track in 2005, and \"Suddenly I See\" won the Ivor Novello Award for Best Song in 2006. \"Suddenly I See\" became a popular hit and has been featured in \"The Devil Wears Prada\", \" Blind Dating\", \"Ugly Betty\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"Love, Rosie\", \"Thrillville\", and as a campaign song of the US presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton in 2008.\n\nShe has released six albums internationally: \"Eye to the Telescope\" (2004), \"Drastic Fantastic\" (2007), \"Tiger Suit\" (2010), \"Invisible Empire // Crescent Moon\" (2013), \"KIN\" (2016) and \"WAX\" (2018). She has also appeared in two episodes of the comedy series \"This is Jinsy\" on Sky Atlantic.\n\nTunstall has written soundtracks for films: \"Boy\" for \"The Kid\", \"Miracle\" for \"Winter's Tale\", \"We Could Be Kings\" for \"Million Dollar Arm\", \"Float\", \"Strange Sight\" and \"1000 Years\" for \"Tinker Bell and the Legend of the NeverBeast\", \"Fit In\" for \"About Ray\", and \"Bad Moms (Suite)\", \"Enough is Enough (Suite)\", and \"Get Your Tits Up (Suite)\" for \"Bad Moms\".\n\nTunstall was born to a half-Chinese, half-Scottish mother, Carol Ann, who was from Hong Kong, and an Irish father. Her parents met while her mother was working as a dancer in Penthouse bar in Edinburgh, where her father was a bartender. She never met her biological father. She was born at Edinburgh's Western General Hospital, but at 18 days old her mother placed her for adoption to a family in St Andrews, Fife, Scotland. Her adoptive father, David Tunstall, was employed as a physics lecturer at the University of St Andrews, and her adoptive mother, Rosemary Tunstall, was a primary school teacher. Tunstall's adoptive family also includes an older brother named Joe and a younger brother named Daniel. The family had no interest in music and owned no records; the only tape her father owned was a comedy recording by mathematician and musical satirist Tom Lehrer. This was largely because Daniel is deaf and they want to avoid anything that could interfere with his hearing aid. She has said: \"My earliest memories are Californian\", attributed to a sabbatical that her father took at UCLA in 1979. In spite of living in an academic family, she was musically oriented. Her adoptive parents supported her, and she recollected that she asked for a piano when she was four.\n\nTunstall grew up in St Andrews, Fife, attending Lawhead Primary, then Madras College in St. Andrews and the High School of Dundee, but she spent her last year of high school in the United States at the Kent School, a selective boarding school in Kent, Connecticut. She spent time busking on Church Street in Burlington, Vermont, and at a commune in rural Vermont. Tunstall studied at Royal Holloway, University of London. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Drama & Music in 1996. Royal Holloway conferred on her an honorary doctorate in science in 2011 for her works on environmental issues as a musician.\n\nTunstall tracked down her biological mother, Carol Ann, in 1996 and learned that her mother was married to cab driver David Orr. She has been critical of the British National Party. In 2010, she publicly disowned Orr because of his decision to run as a BNP candidate in the general election for Livingston. In 2019, she appeared in Series 9 of \"Long Lost Family\". She learned that her biological father had previously died, but she was united with two half-sisters by her biological father's second marriage.\n\nThroughout Tunstall's twenties, she played in indie music bands including Elia Drew and Tomoko. She focused on songwriting, as well as performing with members of the fledgling Fence Collective. Tunstall had lived with Gordon Anderson, (The Beta Band, and The Aliens), whom the song \"Funnyman\", on the album \"Drastic Fantastic\", is about. She toured with the klezmer band Oi Va Voi, and stayed with them while they were making their album, \"Laughter Through Tears\".\n\nBritish label Relentless Records put forward an independent offer. However, Tunstall had decided to sign with a US major, and initially passed up the offer. But when that deal did not work out, she decided to go with Relentless. Although Relentless co-founder Shabs Jobanputra recognised the potential in the quality of Tunstall's voice and songs in the early 2000s, his assessment then was that she \"wasn't ready yet\" and so together with Tunstall's manager, Jobanputra discussed \"the process of how we saw her happening and how we would work, why we thought the songs were great, why we thought she was great, and why it could really work if we took enough time.\"\n\nHer debut album, \"Eye to the Telescope\", was released in late 2004.\n\nTunstall's first appearance of note was a solo performance of her folk blues song \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" on \"Later... with Jools Holland\". She had only 24 hours to prepare after scheduled performer Nas cancelled. She performed as a one-person band using a guitar, a tambourine, and a loop pedal.\n\nShortly after the \"Later\" appearance, \"Eye to the Telescope\" was re-released and shot up the British charts, eventually peaking at No. 3 (on its first release it had entered at No. 73); it was nominated for the 2005 Mercury Music Prize. It was released in the US on 7 February 2006.\n\n\"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" was one of the most successful singles and most radio-played songs of 2005 in the United Kingdom. On the UK Singles Charts, the single made No. 28 on the charts and on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, charted at No. 20. The next release from the album in the United Kingdom was \"Other Side of the World\" whilst \"Suddenly I See\" was released in the United States and used in the opening credits of the film \"The Devil Wears Prada\", as well as in \"Ugly Betty\". Further singles released from the album were \"Under the Weather\" and \"Another Place to Fall\" which were also successful.\nTunstall released an acoustic collection album in 15 May 2006, \"KT Tunstall's Acoustic Extravaganza\", which was first only available via mail order from her website. The album was re-released in stores worldwide in October 2006.\n\nTunstall's North American break came when \"American Idol\" contestant Katharine McPhee contacted her asking to use \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" as her choice for a \"Billboard\"-themed week. At the time, the song was No. 79 on the \"Billboard\" charts. Tunstall had not been shy with her opinions regarding shows like \"Idol\", saying \"The major problem I have is that it's completely controlled. They're told what to say. They're told how to sing.\" She chose to license the song as she felt that \"no one on that show told Katharine McPhee to sing my song because no one knew it\". Tunstall's belief was correct—the song was suggested to McPhee by \"Billboard\" columnist and author Fred Bronson.\n\nThe song immediately jumped to No. 23 on the Billboard charts the week following McPhee's performance.\n\nTunstall sang with Scottish band Travis on their 2007 album \"The Boy with No Name\", on the track \"Under the Moonlight\", a song written by Susie Hug (late of Katydids).\n\nTunstall's second album, \"Drastic Fantastic\", premiered on 3 September 2007 in Scotland, followed a week later on 10 September 2007 with the London release for Britain and 18 September 2007, in the US. In its first week, \"Drastic Fantastic\" reached No. 1 on the Scottish Album Charts, No. 3 on the British Charts, and No. 9 in the American Charts. The album's lead single, \"Hold On\", was released in the UK in August 2007, débuting at No. 34 there before peaking at No. 21. The song was also very successful in certain European nations peaking at No. 19 in Italy, No. 19 in Norway, No. 26 in Switzerland and No. 39 in Ireland. The album's second single, \"Saving My Face\", was released in December 2007. The song did not make the UK Top 40 Singles Charts, but however did managed to peak at No. 50 on the UK Singles Charts, managing three weeks on the UK Charts. Despite missing the UK Top 40, the song made the Top 40 in Italy, making No. 23 and in Switzerland peaking at No. 93. The album's third single and final worldwide single, \"If Only\", was released in March 2008, becoming the second single from the album not to make the UK Top 40, it managed No. 45 in audition.\n\nIn the United States, \"Hold On\" was moderately successful, charting at No. 95 on the US \"Billboard\" Pop Chart and No. 27 on the US \"Billboard\" Adult Top 40. However, on the main \"Billboard\" Hot 100 charts, it stalled, failing to make impact inside the Top 100, causing it to chart at No. 104 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"Drastic Fantastic\" became one of her best charting albums to date, charting at No. 3 on the UK Album Charts, topping the Scottish Album Charts and making the top ten of the US \"Billboard\" 200 album charts, charting at No. 9. Further singles released from \"Drastic Fantasic\" were \"Saving My Face\" and \"If Only\" which were moderately successful, charting at No. 50 and No. 45 on the UK Singles Charts respectively.\n\nTunstall commented that the photograph for the album cover was influenced by the rock star Suzi Quatro.\n\nOn 5 October 2007, the US discount department store chain Target, in association with NBC, released a special KT Tunstall Christmas EP on CD, \"\". On 10 December 2007, it was released in Europe through Relentless under the title \"\".\n\nIn 2008, Tunstall recorded a song for the album \"Songs for Survival\", in support of the indigenous rights organisation Survival International. In a video for Survival International, she speaks of music as being a force for good, and about what she has learned about tribal people on this project. She also discusses various issues concerning our culture of consumption and greed, our relation to the earth and the importance of indigenous rights in the world today.\n\nTunstall also worked with Suzanne Vega on her 2007 album \"Beauty & Crime\", singing backup on songs \"Zephyr and I\" and \"Frank and Ava\". It was revealed in the booklet by Vega that the two had never met during the process of making the album.\n\nOver the Christmas holidays in 2008, Tunstall joined Neil Finn's 7 Worlds Collide lineup in Auckland, New Zealand to record a studio charity album for Oxfam. The album was recorded in Finn's New Zealand studio over three weeks and featured all-new material, with singing and songwriting contributions divided amongst the group. Most of the participants from the original 2001 \"7 Worlds Collide\" lineup returned, along with several new additions including Jeff Tweedy, Glenn Kotche, John Stirratt and Pat Sansone of Wilco, New Zealand songwriters Don McGlashan and Bic Runga, and Finn's son Elroy Finn. The album, titled \"The Sun Came Out\", was released on 31 August 2009.\n\nOn 11 February 2010, the \"Daily Record\" reported that Tunstall had recorded her new album in Berlin's Hansa Studios. Located near the former site of the Berlin Wall, the studio was used to make legendary albums including David Bowie's \"\"Heroes\"\" and U2's \"Achtung Baby\". Tunstall said, \"I had an amazing three weeks recording in Hansa in Berlin in January and am finishing it all off in London.\" Her third album, titled \"Tiger Suit\", was released in the United Kingdom on 27 September 2010 and in the United States on 5 October 2010.\n\nTunstall said that \"Tiger Suit\"'s title is inspired by a recurring dream she had, before discovering that 2010 is the Chinese Year of the Tiger. The dream is about her, seeing a tiger in her garden and goes outside to stroke it. She returns indoors and is seized by the fear that she could have been killed. Over the years, it has occurred to her that the reason the tiger responds so passively is that she herself is disguised as a tiger, wearing a tiger suit. She said that while writing and recording the album, she experimented with a new sound she called \"Nature techno\", which mixes organic instrumentation with electronic and dance textures, similar in style to the work of Björk. At a media showcase in London, Tunstall offered an unusual description of the songs from her forthcoming third album: \"Like Eddie Cochran working with Leftfield\".\n\nThe album's first single was \"Fade Like a Shadow\" in the United States and \"(Still a) Weirdo\" in the United Kingdom. These lead singles were released before the album.\n\nTunstall has also a been a panelist on the BBC Two comedy music show \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\", first on series 21 episode 8 (2008), and on series 24 episode 10 (2012).\n\nOn 20 March 2013, Tunstall announced that her fourth album would be titled \"Invisible Empire // Crescent Moon\", considered as her best by most critics and her most melancholic album to date. The title is inspired by the two batches of songs from the album: \"Invisible Empire,\" recorded in April 2012, is the melancholic half that deals with her father's death and the theme of mortality, while the \"Crescent Moon\" half, recorded in November 2012, is full of songs that are more ethereal. These thirteen songs formed an album that Tunstall qualified as \"from the heart,\" inspired by her divorce from Luke Bullen and her father's passing away.\n\n\"Invisible Empire // Crescent Moon\" premiered in the United Kingdom on 10 June 2013, while it was released in Germany and Australia on 7 June, and in Japan and Canada on 11 June. However, the release date was pushed back to 6 August 2013 in the United States. Meanwhile, the lead single, \"Feel It All\", was released worldwide on 10 June, and its music video on 29 April.\n\nIn its first week, the album entered the UK charts at No. 14 and it was a modest commercial performer in Europe: it peaked at No. 52 in Belgium, No. 84 in Netherlands, No. 240 in France, No. 7 in Scotland, and No. 56 in Switzerland. On the other hand, the album received the best reviews and ratings Tunstall has ever received.\n\nIn 2013, Tunstall worked with Howe Gelb in Tucson, Arizona for his album \"The Coincidentalist\", and recorded a duet on the song \"The 3 Deaths of Lucky\". Also, she plays in a second episode of \"This is Jinsy\" on 5 February 2014, as bearded folk musician Briiian Raggatan.\n\nOver a year after the album release, Tunstall left Edinburgh to move to Los Angeles and started a new musical career of soundtrack composer. She studied composing soundtracks at the Skywalker Ranch and composed and performed the following soundtracks:\n\n\nFrom August to September 2015, Tunstall embarked on a small US Tour, made up of eleven dates, playing songs from her various albums and EPs, such as \"The Scarlet Tulip EP\".\n\nOn 16 June 2016, Tunstall released the \"Golden State EP\" before the album release. It is made of the lead single \"Evil Eye\" and its remix, and two other tracks: \"All or Nothing\" taken from the French TV series \"Sam\" and \"The Healer\".\n\nTunstall released her fifth album, \"KIN\", on 9 September 2016. The album was produced by Tony Hoffer, and recorded in Los Angeles. Four singles were released from this album: the lead single \"Maybe It's a Good Thing\", plus \"Hard Girls\" in which Melanie C from the Spice Girls made an appearance, \"Love Is an Ocean\", and \"It Took Me So Long to Get Here, But Here I Am\"\n\nTunstall co-wrote the songs \"Bad Moms (Suite)\", \"Enough is Enough (Suite)\", and \"Get Your Tits Up (Suite)\" for the soundtrack of the 2016 comedy film \"Bad Moms\".\n\nIn 2017, Tunstall announced a trilogy of albums following the themes of soul, body and mind. \"KIN\" was the first, with the theme of soul. She released the second, \"WAX\", with the theme of body, on 5 October 2018.\n\nIn 2018, Tunstall contributed several songs to the \"Pete the Cat\" children's album including \"CatGo & the Nine Lives\", \"Catalina Casesolver\", \"Let It Slide\" and \"CatGo's Weird Song\".\n\nIn March 2020, Tunstall announced she would start recording the third and final album of the trilogy by fall, with the theme of mind.\n\nTunstall has a contralto vocal range. Tunstall is known for her live performances, in which she combines use of an Akai E2 Headrush loop pedal, which she affectionately calls \"Wee Bastard\", with a full four-piece backing band (Luke Bullen on drums, Arnulf Lindner on bass, Sam Lewis on lead guitar and Kenny Dickenson on keyboards, trumpet, percussion and various other instruments), as well as her two backing singers (Cat Sforza and Ami Richardson).\n\nSimilar to her initial début on music show \"Later... with Jools Holland\", Tunstall has performed on various American talk shows, including \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" on 21 September 2007. Since her talk show days, she has performed at numerous large concerts such as the Hogmanay Edinburgh Concert in 2005, the American leg of Live Earth in 2007, and the Nobel Peace Prize Concert also in 2007. Tunstall said prior to the Hogmanay performance that \"This is the gig of a lifetime... This Hogmanay party is probably the best-known and best-loved in the world, and I've been here a few times over the years dreaming of being the one entertaining the crowds. Until we're on that stage I won't believe we're allowed on it.\"\n\nAlthough her first name is Kate, Tunstall chooses to use the forename KT, saying \"[Kate] just makes me think of a buxom lass baking bread for her man working in the fields. I have no problem with that, but it's just not really how I pictured being a rock star.\" Also, Tunstall spells her first name KT (as opposed to Katie) to differentiate herself from fellow singer Katie Melua. She also asserted that she derived \"KT\" from K-T impact, the name of a geological event that caused extinction of dinosaurs.\n\nHer father, David Tunstall, was a lecturer in physics at St. Andrews University. The title of her debut album, \"Eye to the Telescope\", alludes to her experiences with scientific equipment at her father's laboratory.\n\nIn 2003, Tunstall began dating Luke Bullen, the drummer in her band. On Christmas Day, 2007, Bullen proposed to her at her parents' home in St. Andrews, Scotland, and the couple were married in September 2008. They divorced in May 2013, after separating the year before.\n\nTunstall sparked some controversy in 2005 when she publicly criticised singer/songwriter Dido, stating that the artist \"can't fucking sing\" after several fans compared the two musically. Tunstall later apologised, stating that she did not want to be involved in a public feud.\n\nIn April 2007, Tunstall underwent surgery to correct an undersized kidney, a problem caused by a childhood infection.\n\nIn 2007 Tunstall joined the Disko Bay Cape Farewell expedition to the West Coast of Greenland in September 2008. Cape Farewell is a British-based arts organisation that brings artists, scientists and communicators together to instigate a cultural response to climate change.\n\nIn 2008 Tunstall started experiencing problems with her hearing on her left side. By 2018 the problem had grown to full hearing loss on that side, also resulting in balance problems.\n\n\nIn Tunstall's breakthrough year, 2005, she received a nomination for the Mercury Music Prize, which eventually went to Antony and the Johnsons; and was awarded Best Track for her composition and performance of \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" by Q magazine.\n\nIn January of the following year, 2006, she received three BRIT nominations – British Live Act, British Breakthrough Act, and British Female Solo Artist – eventually gaining the award for British Female Solo Artist, remarking that she wished to share it with fellow nominee Kate Bush. Later the same month she was given a European Border Breakers Award, which recognises the top-selling European Union artists outside their home country. Also, in 2006 she won the Ivor Novello Best Song Musically and Lyrically for \"Suddenly I See\", along with Scottish Style Awards \"Most Stylish Band or Musician\".\n\nShe gained more nominations in 2007 and 2008: a 2007 Grammy Award nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\" (the award went to Christina Aguilera for \"Ain't No Other Man\"), and another BRIT nomination for British Female Solo Artist – the same accolade she had won in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902452", "title": "Juran Bolden", "text": "Juran Bolden\n\nJuran T. Bolden (born June 27, 1974) is a former American cornerback of American and Canadian football. He last played for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League in 2007. He was originally drafted by the Atlanta Falcons in the fourth round (127th overall) of the 1996 NFL Draft. He played high school football for Hillsborough High School in Tampa and collegiately at Mississippi Delta.\n\nBolden played for Atlanta, the Green Bay Packers, the Carolina Panthers, and then in 1999 he played for the Kansas City Chiefs. In 2000-2001, he played for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League. He returned to the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, was traded to the Jacksonville Jaguars in 2004. He was signed as a free agent by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2005, returning to his hometown.\n\nBolden was arrested October 11, 2003 in Atlanta, Georgia on charges of possession of a stolen vehicle and violation of Georgia's controlled substances act. He was not indicted on the drug charge, and on April 14, 2004 pleaded no contest to possession of a stolen vehicle. The vehicle aforementioned which was purchased from a friend that unbeknownst to him was stolen. He was sentenced as a first-time offender to three years probation and ordered to pay a $3,000 fine.\n\nOn April 30, 2007, he was released by the Bucs and returned to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the CFL. After missing the last three games of the season as well as the post-season games, Bolden was released before the 2008 training camp on May 27, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902459", "title": "Reg Lewis", "text": "Reg Lewis\n\nReginald \"Reg\" Lewis (7 March 1920 – 1997) was an English footballer. Playing as a striker, Lewis solely featured for Arsenal throughout his footballing career. Lewis is in all Arsenal's 12th highest goalscorer of all time.\n\nBorn in Bilston, Staffordshire and raised in South London Lewis spent his entire career at Arsenal. He joined the club as a schoolboy in 1935, and scored on his debut against Everton on 1 January 1938. He made only four appearances in 1937-38, however, and as a result missed out on a League Championship winners' medal. Lewis broke into the first-team more in 1938-39, making 16 appearances in league and cup, scoring 7 goals, but the advent of the Second World War interrupted his career.\n\nDuring the war Lewis continued to play for Arsenal and shone as a natural goalscorer; although wartime appearances and goals are not officially counted, Lewis scored 143 goals in 130 games, including four in the 1943 War Cup Southern Final, in a 7-1 demolition of Charlton Athletic. Towards the end of the war he served in the British Army of the Rhine in Occupied Germany, but returned to play for Arsenal once first-class football resumed in 1946.\n\nOn 24 August 1946 an additional fixture was arranged between England and Scotland with all proceeds going to the Bolton Disaster Fund. Lewis was called up to replace the injured Tommy Lawton.\n\nAlthough most of the Arsenal side of the 1930s were past their best by this time, Lewis was still only 26 and he continued to be a regular in the first team throughout the remainder of the 1940s. He was the club's top scorer in 1946-47 with 29 goals, and the following 1947-48 season, he partnered new signing Ronnie Rooke and between them they scored 47 goals as Arsenal won the First Division title. Lewis continued to be a regular for the rest of the decade and he enjoyed arguably his best season in 1949-50. As such in this season, he scored 19 goals in 31 league games and played twice for the England B team. Lewis capped it altogether by scoring both goals in Arsenal's 2–0 victory over Liverpool in the 1950 FA Cup Final.\n\nHowever, during the early 1950s, Lewis became constantly afflicted with injuries, and he made only 12 appearances in 1951-52 and none at all in 1952-53. In the close season of 1953, he retired from the game at the age of 33. His 116 goals in 176 matches makes him Arsenal's twelfth top goalscorer of all time. After retiring, Lewis first ran a pub, then worked in insurance. He died in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902463", "title": "Deron Miller", "text": "Deron Miller\n\nDeron John Miller (born May 21, 1976) is an American heavy metal musician. He is best known as the former lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist of alternative metal band CKY, which he co-founded in 1998. Other bands Miller fronts include the progressive metal band Foreign Objects, the melodic death metal group World Under Blood and the band 96 Bitter Beings.\n\nMiller has stated that his first musical influence, at the age of three years, was Kiss guitarist Ace Frehley. He started taking guitar lessons at the age of eight, after \"losing interest\" in playing the piano, and was later influenced by death metal band Death, including vocalist Chuck Schuldiner and guitarist James Murphy, followed by \"more extreme music ... and more underground musicians\" such as Cynic, Pestilence and Malevolent Creation. He has described his first guitar as a \"$50 piece of crap\", noting that it was possibly J. C. Penney-branded, followed by an \"imitation B.C. Rich\" and, later, an Ibanez RG570 in 1992.\n\nMiller played in his first band This End Up in 1992, and later formed Foreign Objects with future CKY drummer Jess Margera, whom he originally met at high school. The band released its debut extended play (EP) \"The Undiscovered Numbers & Colors\" in 1995. Along with bassist Ryan Bruni, the duo later performed under the name Oil, before meeting guitarist Chad I Ginsburg (who was then working as an audio engineer) and changing the name of the band to CKY. Miller is credited with having conceived the name, which stands for \"Camp Kill Yourself\" and was believed by the frontman to be \"a perfect title for a horror movie\".\n\nCKY released its debut album \"Volume 1\" in 1999, which originally featured songwriting credits exclusively for Miller. 2002's follow-up \"Infiltrate•Destroy•Rebuild\" credited \"Deron Miller w/ Chad I Ginsburg and Jess Margera\", with Margera being omitted from the formulation for \"An Answer Can Be Found\" and \"Carver City\".\n\nIn December 2002, it was announced that Miller would be working alongside guitarist James Murphy, drummer Dave Culross and vocalist Brett Hoffman on a tribute album for the band Death, to benefit the family of founding member Chuck Schuldiner. After Schuldiner's family approved the project, bassist Terry Butler, Slipknot members Mick Thomson (guitar) and Paul Gray (bass), and more joined the project, which was titled \"Within the Mind: In Homage to the Musical Legacy of Chuck Schuldiner\" and scheduled for release through Mascot Records.\n\nIn addition to their collaboration on the Death tribute album, Miller and Murphy also worked together again on \"Universal Culture Shock\", the second album by Foreign Objects, released in 2004. Murphy contributed lead guitar and mastering to the album, with Miller praising the guitarist for making the album \"one thousand times better\".\n\nDuring the build-up to the release of CKY's third studio album \"An Answer Can Be Found\", Miller was involved in a number of controversies with the music media. First, he called out Megadeth frontman Dave Mustaine for threatening to cancel shows at which \"Satanic\" bands were also scheduled to appear, asking him to \"stop creating drama\". A few weeks later, he criticised a number of commentators on the website Blabbermouth.net for posting negative comments about CKY, describing them as \"lonely, jealous music fans\". Following the release of \"An Answer Can Be Found\", Miller also responded to Jenny Eliscu's one-star review of the album for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, describing her as \"juvenile\" and an \"ugly skank\", and proposing that she was \"not intelligent enough to understand\" the band's lyrics. Eliscu responded by complaining to CKY's label, The Island Def Jam Music Group, that the frontman had launched an \"harassment campaign\" against the journalist, alleging that he had posted her home phone number online, leading to fans calling her with death threats.\n\nIn October 2006, it was announced that Miller was working with drummer Tim Yeung and producer Logan Mader on a demo for new death metal side project called World Under Blood. The band later released a number of songs on its MySpace page. In 2008, Miller also performed with Malevolent Creation and recorded with thrash metal group Believer, and later also recorded with progressive metal band The Alien Blakk. His Believer contribution later surfaced in the form of a guitar solo on \"Gabriel\" opening track \"Medwton\". World Under Blood's debut full-length album \"Tactical\" was eventually released in July 2011 by Nuclear Blast Records.\n\nAfter a CKY show in St. Louis, Missouri in 2007, Miller reportedly had an altercation with Ginsburg in the tour bus, after which the guitarist claimed that the frontman had left the band. Miller responded with claims to the contrary, while Ginsburg proposed that he would continue CKY with Margera.\n\nThe fate of CKY was cast into doubt in 2011, when the band released a video in which each member spoke about their desires for the future of the band; all members but Ginsburg wanted to record solo albums, while the guitarist favoured releasing another CKY album. Miller elaborated on the situation on his Facebook page, claiming that Ginsburg had left the band, and that no one in the \"CKY camp\" kept him informed of plans and updates, which had led to tensions. Miller was replaced in CKY for the first time since the band's formation in 2012, when former Year Long Disaster frontman Daniel Davies joined for a series of shows at Australian music festival Soundwave. In 2014, Miller reunited with Ginsburg for a planned reunion of the band and a new album, although no further activity was reported and by 2015 he had once again been replaced by Davies.\n\nSince the inactivity of CKY, Miller has released his debut solo album \"Acoustified!\", featuring acoustic recordings of CKY and Foreign Objects songs, as well as resurfaced the Foreign Objects moniker for a new album, \"Galactic Prey\". Both releases were funded via crowdfunding website Indiegogo. In 2016, Miller announced that he was concurrently working on a number of different projects: a deluxe vinyl reissue of CKY's \"Volume 1\", the debut album by MechaCKY (later renamed 96 Bitter Beings), two albums by World Under Blood (\"Life Is Too Long to Like You\" and \"Tetanus Invasive\"), a new Foreign Objects album entitled \"Lean, Mean and Bleeding Green\", and a sequel to \"Acoustified!\" It was later announced that 96 Bitter Beings would be releasing two albums, \"Synergy Restored\" and \"Camp Pain\", as part of an Indiegogo campaign.\n\nIn an interview in August 2015, Miller revealed that he was working on a pilot for a new show called \"The Chuck Draper Show\" with Funny or Die producer Matt Sweeney. He added that he would be playing the eponymous character Chuck Draper and that former CKY Crew member Chris Raab was in line to play Draper's roommate. Speaking about the tone of the show, which he claimed was inspired by the work of Howard Stern and Christopher Guest, Miller described it as \"very offensive\" and \"hilarious\", joking that he wanted people \"to be very angry with [him] after seeing it\".\n\nSpeaking in an interview with Guitar.com in 2002, Miller noted that he played Parker Guitars, including the NiteFly M, P38 and P40 models, with d'Addario strings and the Marshall JCM2000 amplifier. He signed a deal with Jackson Guitars in 2011, then later with Esoterik Guitars in 2014. Speaking about Esoterik in a post on his Facebook page, Miller claimed that in 30 years of playing the instrument, he had \"never played anything nicer\" than their models.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902479", "title": "Tulchyn", "text": "Tulchyn\n\nTulchyn (, translit. \"Tul’chyn\", old name \"Nesterwar\" (from Hungarian \"Nester\" - Dniester and \"war\" -town), Latin Tulcinum, , , ) is a town in Vinnytsia Oblast (province) of western Ukraine, former Podolia. It is the administrative center of Tulchyn Raion (district), and was the chief centre of the Southern Society of the Decembrists, Pavel Pestel was located there during planning of the rebellion. The city is also known for being the home to Ukrainian composer Mykola Leontovych who produced several of this choral masterpieces (including world famous \"Carol of the bells\") when he lived here. An important landmark of the city is the palace of the Potocki family, built according to the principles of Palladian architecture according to the plans drafted by Joseph Lacroix during the 1780s. Polish patriot Józef Wysocki (general) was born in Tulchin in 1809, author of \"Pamietnik Jenerala Wysockiego, Dowodcy Legionu Polskiego Na Wegrzech Z Czasu Kampanii Wegierskiej W Roku 1848 i 1849.\" \n\nPolish \"Tulczyn\" was first mentioned in 1607. It was a royal city in the Bracław Voivodeship of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland. In 1609 King Sigismund III Vasa granted the town to Walenty Aleksander Kalinowski. Until 1728 Tulchin was part of the estates of the Polish magnates of the Kalinowski family (other distinguished members of Tulchin family were Adam Kalinowski and Marcin Kalinowski), and then passed into the hands of Stanisław Potocki bypassing other Kalinowskis' branch, then in 1734 to Franciszek Salezy Potocki and his son Stanisław Szczęsny Potocki, who was the most memorable and infamous member of the Tulczyn branch of the Potocki family. During the Targowica confederation Tulchin was the headquarters of the confederates. Mieczysław Potocki sold Tulchin to his brother-in-law Grzegorz Strogonow, who sold it to Piotr Oldenburski, who in turn sold it to Russian Imperial Treasury. Ancient archives of the Polish magnate families of Struś, Łaszcz, Mniszech, Modrzewski, Potocki, and Tarło collected at the palace, were lost during these transfers in ownership, while furniture and art collections were shipped to Paris where Mieczysław Potocki resided. After the Kiev-Odessa train line had been built Tulchin went into economic decay. There were instances when the Polish soldiers would purposely leave town, abandoning the Jews to the mercy (or lack thereof) of the Ukrainians. This happened, for example, in 1648 in the city of Tulchin. The Polish soldiers made a deal with the Cossacks and left town. The Jews defended the city by themselves until it fell and they were all slaughtered. Prior to October Revolution Tulchin was home a large Jewish population, and there were two trade fairs, July 24 and October 1 each year, and separate 26 market days annually. Between 1917 and 1920 the town frequently changed ownership, between the Poles, the Bolsheviks, White Russians and Ukrainians.\n\nDuring World War II, the German conquerors turned over Tulchyn and the surrounding area to Romanian control. After first being confined to a ghetto, most Jews from Tulchyn were deported to the nearby Pechora concentration camp where they perished. The area was liberated by the Red Army in March 1944.\n\nThe current estimated population is around 13,500 (as of 2005).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902482", "title": "Andrés Cabas", "text": "Andrés Cabas\n\nAndrés Mauricio Cabas Rosales (born October 7, 1976) known worldwide as Cabas, is a Colombian musician. His music is characterized by having a modern Caribbean-like sound, mixing genres from Tropical and Cumbia to Trap and Rock in a completely original manner.\n\nNo one writes a hit like Andrés Cabas (known simply as CABAS). He was born October 7, 1977 in Barranquilla, Colombia with music in his blood. His father, Eduardo Cabas is a well-known musician and composer in Colombia and Cabas’ formal education on the piano and percussion started while still a child. As a young adult Cabas traveled extensively, first to Paris and later to New York where – shy or not – he met and played with prominent jazz and salsa musicians. Upon his return to Colombia he dug deeply into his country’s rhythms and created a whole new sound imitated by musicians all over Latin America.\nHis first self-titled album, ‘\"Cabas\"’ (EMI) was released in 2000 and was an immediate hit, in particular the very successful single, “\"Mi Bombón\"” (“My Candy”) topped the country’s charts for three consecutive months earning him Gold and double Platinum discs before spreading to the rest of Latin-America and Mexico. Two other singles from the album also topped the charts not only in Colombia but throughout the Americas; “\"Ana Maria\"” and “\"Tu Boca\"”.\nIn March 2002, ‘\"Cabas\"’ was released in the United States, where it received a warm reception from critics as well as glowing reviews in Billboard magazine. and the New York Times. He made the New York Times -Best Of- list at the end of 2003.\nWhen nominated in 2002 for his first Best New Artist- Cabas spurned the limousine crowd and instead, walked to the ceremony which was a first. The kudos kept coming. He was nominated for Best Rock Album and Best Rock Interpretation. At the MTV Latin Awards he was nominated for Best Rock Album, Best Rock Interpretation, the People's Prize and Best Rock Video for the Lo Nuestro Awards. After his first release, 5 phenomenally successful albums followed.\n\nIn 2009, Cabas joined forces with renowned Theatre, Film & TV director Jorge Ali Triana for an adaptation of Mario Vargas Llosa’s “Pantaleón y las visitadoras”. He composed the music for this original version which earned him the Acede Prize of Theatrical Journalism in New York. He composed music for children in association with scientist and economist Gunter Pauli for the ZERI Foundation. Gunter Pauli is known for his charitable and philanthropic contributions and his music has been used in movies, on TV and in commercials around the globe. \n\nOver the years Cabas has performed with artists like Lenny Kravitz, Shakira and Miguel Bosé. He has produced and co-produced with Kike Santander, December Bueno, Carlos Jean, collaborated with the Black Eyed Peas, Café Tacuba, Dave Matthews, Bunbury, Orishas, Vicentico, La Mala Rodríguez, Andrés Calamaro, Juan Luís Guerra and Ximena Sariñana among many others. His music has been featured in commercials around the world and his videos have amassed tens of millions of views on YouTube.\n\nAfter the demise of his record label, Cabas took a few years off to travel and enjoy his newborn son, Simon. His return started in June 2013 with the release of; “\"Que Prenda La Moto\"” (‘The Engine Starts’). The song quickly became a top 10 hit in Colombia. He also released a duet with up and coming singer Duina del Mar, “\"Besarte La Boquita\"” (“Kissing Your Little Mouth”) Universal Music Latino.\nIn late 2015, Cabas released the single \"\"Enamorandonos\"\" (APM) in Colombia and later Ecuador. The single went straight to the top of the charts in both countries receiving extensive radio play. A highly creative, low budget but worldwide, video clip was released in February 2016 and is nearing 50 million plays. \"\"Enamorandonos\"\" was released to much success in Mexico in August 2016 and was included in the trailer for the Mexican hit movie \"Treintona, Soltera y Fantástica\" ('Thirty-ish, Single and Fabulous') starring Barbara Mori. Azteca TV included the song as the main theme for their show; Enamorandonos, which launched in November 2016 and has since moved to Azteca’s main channel 13. \n\nIn May 2017 Cabas released his first ballad \"\"Tanto Que Te Amo Tanto\"\" co-written and produced with Colombian producer Jose Gaviria. The song about missing someone very close and dear, was written for his then 8-year-old son Simon and quickly became a love anthem and a favorite at weddings, divorces and even... funerals. Cabas followed his first ballad with his first Cumbia-Reggaeton infused fusion single \"\"Rompe Los Niveles\"\", co-written with hit writer Descemer Bueno of \"Baillando\" fame. \"\"Rompe Los Niveles\"\" was released in July 2017, immediately inspired a storm of fans. In August 2017 Cabas performed the song for the first time live at the VIBRA Bogota radio TYM Festival in front of 15,000 plus people. The music video for \"\"Rompe Los Niveles\"\" - a major production directed by the Spanish directing team Javi Rojo and Fini Mazza and shot in Miami - was launched at the end of September 2017.\nIn May 2018 Cabas released his first ever English language song; \"\"To Stay\"\". It is the result of his fans' strong appeal for an English version of the hit ballad; \"\"Tanto Que Te Amo Tanto\"\". \"\"To Stay\"\" was also co-written and produced with José Gaviria in Miami. In the first few days of its release, Cabas’ \"\"To Sta\"y\" made Spotify’s Baladas Románticas playlist.\n\"\"Tanto Que Te Amo Tanto\"\" was followed by “\"Valiente\"”, another slightly reggaeton infused pop song in 2018. Cabas opened the Central American Games in Barranquilla, with Miss Universe 2015 Paulina Vega and Shakira to great reviews, in front of more than 55,000 people and a massive live television audience around the world. And he closed the Colombian soccer season that same year, again in front of a massive live and live TV audience.\nAnd now there is “\"Amor Y Traicion\"”.\nUndoubtedly, these Corona virus times have not been easy for anyone, not for Cabas nor his legion of faithful fans from Colombia to Japan. For Cabas, finding his bearings in these trying times has resulted in a new perspective and a major creative outburst, resulting in a series of singles and – finally! – a new album coming out over the next 5 months.\nThe start is \"Amor Y Traicio\"n– written and produced with Grammy winning producer George Noriega and his team at the Cutting Cane studios in Miami; Mixed by Luis Barrera Jr. Mastered by – Francisco Holzmann. Amor Y Traicion and the accompanying highly original animated video created in Argentina by Federico and Nicolas Raiman, are Cabas’ clear-eyed perspective of these trying times and how we will come through the dark days similar to his own experience. Not your typical Latin music message and certainly worth a look. “\"AMOR Y TRAICION\"” was released on May 29, 2020 ad will be followed this year by 2 more singles and… an incredibly special album, for the first time with lyrics in both English and Spanish this Fall. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA Latin Grammy Award is an accolade by the Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences to recognize outstanding achievement in the music industry. Cabas has received an award from six nominations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902484", "title": "Calfee Design", "text": "Calfee Design\n\nCalfee Design, headquartered in La Selva Beach, California, is a designer and manufacturer of carbon fiber bicycle frames. Directed by Craig Calfee, the firm employs about 20 people building carbon and bamboo bicycle frames as well as repairing carbon frames from other makers. Calfee built his first carbon fiber bike in 1987, the first all carbon fiber frameset to be raced in the Tour de France for Greg LeMond in 1991.\n\nCalfee was awarded overall \"Best Road Bike\" and \"Best Off-Road Bike\" at the 2006 North American Handmade Bike Show, where it displayed a bamboo bicycle that went into retail production in 2005. The bamboo frame started as a stunt in 1996. Calfee Design also won best tandem award at the 2010 North American Handmade Bike Show with a carbon fiber 21 pound tandem Dragonfly bike. Calfee also works on other projects, including a motorcycle that converts to a gyrocopter, a roadable aircraft.\n\nCalfee Design manufactures a bamboo bicycle. Craig Calfee started another business, Bamboosero, with the intention of providing employment opportunities in developing countries. Bamboosero establishes frame building business by providing training, tools, supply chain, and technical support. Bamboosero acted as a customer by purchasing frames from the fledgling (primarily African) businesses in order to resell the bamboo frames in North Americans and Europe. Bamboosero is now closed as the builders started their own brands, such as Booomers , Boogali and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902485", "title": "Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time", "text": "Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time\n\nMario & Luigi: Partners in Time is a role-playing video game developed by AlphaDream and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld game console in 2005. It is the second game in the \"Mario & Luigi\" series, and is the prequel/sequel to the 2003 Game Boy Advance game \"\". The game was followed by \"\" (which was also released for the DS), released in 2009. The game was later re-released for Wii U as a Virtual Console title in 2015, available for purchase from Nintendo eShop.\n\nAlthough the prequel/sequel to \"Superstar Saga\", the game's plot is completely unrelated to that of its predecessor with more emphasis on the time-traveling theme, which involves the protagonists traveling in between the past and present of the Mushroom Kingdom. The adventure follows Mario, Baby Mario, Luigi, and Baby Luigi while they search for Princess Peach, who has been abducted by an alien species only known as the Shroobs. The gameplay centers on the co-operation between the quartet, who must use their specific qualities and skills to solve puzzles to progress through and features multiple role-playing game elements, but with a turn-based battle system focused on timing accuracy. The game is considerably darker in tone than its predecessor, especially in its plot and themes.\n\n\"Partners in Time\" was critically acclaimed by the media, gaining an aggregate score of 86 from Metacritic. Like its predecessor, the game was praised by critics for its characterization and comical style, as well as its use of the DS's dual screen and the rumble feature.\n\nThe gameplay of \"Partners in Time\", with an emphasis on role-playing game elements and co-operative puzzle-solving, is similar to that of its predecessor, although gameplay differences exist between the games. For the majority of \"Partners in Time\", the overworld of the game is presented on the DS's touchscreen, while a map is present on the top screen, showing relevant information such as the location of each character and save albums. Additionally, the perspective changes when battling or accessing the inventory, and when the quartet is separated into two pairs, in which a pair is visible on each screen.\n\nThe player is able to control the four main protagonists— Mario, Baby Mario, Luigi, and Baby Luigi— either as a quartet or alternatively in separate pairs. The player can choose to separate the adults from the babies, which is usually required when entrances or holes in the overworld are too small to be accessed by the adult characters. Such instances form multiple puzzles in the game, in which items or switches can be only be accessed by use of the babies' specific qualities. The pairs can also perform special moves while they are separated, which are gained as the player progresses through the game. Each action attained is assigned to a specific button on the DS for a character, which is present on the screen; pressing the corresponding button results in the action. These actions, such as the \"Toadsworth Twist\" (more commonly known as the \"Spin Jump\") that allows the older brothers to twirl through the air, are required to advance through the game and solve the various puzzles.\n\nThe game retains many of the RPG aspects present in its predecessor, including the interaction with non-player characters, which is required to advance the plot and gameplay. Each character's progress is measured by experience points, which are needed to \"level up\", a process by which battle-related statistical fields such as speed and power are boosted. As in \"Superstar Saga\", there is also a currency used to purchase items and status-enhancing equipment known as badges and clothes.\n\nThe battle system is similar to its predecessor's, with the effectiveness of an attack dependent on the timing accuracy of separate actions. The battles still consist of turn-based attacks executed by Mario and Luigi, although these are compounded by the babies' actions during an attack. The Bros. moves—moves performed by Mario and Luigi collectively—have been replaced by Bros. Items, which are finite attacks that are gained in the overworld. Similar to the Bros. moves, these are more damaging attacks that can be performed by all 4 characters collectively. Only the adults receive damage, even though the babies will become vulnerable once their respective partners have been eliminated from battle. The elimination of babies will also affect battle as some Bros. Items will become disabled, and the party will not be able to defend itself with hammers, which are wielded exclusively by the babies.\n\nUnlike \"Superstar Saga\", \"Partners in Time\" is not set in the Beanbean Kingdom, but the traditional Mushroom Kingdom featured in most games of the \"Mario\" series. The setting features a mixture of locations, from those that appeared in previous \"Mario\" games, such as Bowser's Castle, to original locations such as Koopaseum. Mario and Luigi can travel into the past via \"time holes\", which is how the concept of baby characters is introduced.\n\nThe game begins as Professor E. Gadd completes his newest invention of a time machine powered by a gem called the Cobalt Star, which is presented at Peach's Castle. Peach enters the time machine into the past, but fails to return, only leaving a member of an alien species known only as the Shroobs within the damaged time machine. The Mushroom Kingdom of the past had actually been invaded by the Shroobs, with Peach being kidnapped and held hostage at her castle. After defeating the monster, a time hole opens, leaving a passageway into the past. While searching for Peach, Mario and Luigi locate their younger selves, and agree to locate the crystal shards, which are remnants of the Cobalt Star which had been shattered during Peach's journey. Unwittingly, the brothers collect all of the shards, while being pestered by Baby Bowser (Bowser in the past) who wants the Cobalt Star. At the end, they restore the Cobalt Star only to unleash the Elder Princess Shroob, who was trapped inside the Cobalt Star by Peach and serves as the game's final boss character. The story ends when she is defeated, Peach is rescued, and the past returns to normal.\n\n\"Partners in Time\" features both original characters and those that were introduced before the game. Professor E. Gadd provides the player with advice throughout the game, while Toadsworth teaches the player new moves and skills to progress through the adventure. Although the older Peach is kidnapped, Baby Peach is retrieved from the past into the present by Toadsworth, where she is nurtured by both the old and young renditions of him. Baby Bowser appeared near the beginning of the game in the past to kidnap Baby Peach, although his plans were halted by an encounter with the Mario brothers and a subsequent attack from the Shroobs. Baby Bowser harasses the quartet frequently during their journey by stealing their Cobalt Star shards, and later attacking the group with his older self. Kamek the Magikoopa, Petey Piranha and Fawful, an antagonist from \"Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga\", appear in the game as well.\n\nThe Shroobs, introduced in \"Partners in Time\", are fungal like creatures who are the main antagonists of the game. The Shroobs derive from the \"Shroob planet\" and are ruled by Princess Shroob, who is the primary antagonist. After invading the Mushroom Kingdom, both she and her twin sister, Elder Princess Shroob, are defeated. Different species of Shroobs (with designs based on existing \"Mario\" franchise characters and enemies) are present throughout the game as both minor enemies and boss characters. AlphaDream also introduced Stuffwell, a talking briefcase created by E. Gadd who gives the player and brothers advice regarding items and accessories, which he stores.\n\nNintendo revealed \"Partners in Time\" at E3 2005, where a playable demonstration of the game was available. The demos consisted of three levels, each accompanied with a tutorial to guide the player. Each level had a different objective and represented the characters' abilities in the game, such as the use of the hammer. Between the game's unveiling at E3 and its release, Nintendo of America revealed details of the game relating to \"Partners in Time\"s plot and gameplay, as well as the fact that it would be compatible with the \"Rumble Pak\" feature. AlphaDream, developers of \"Superstar Saga\", developed this game, with experienced contributors to the \"Mario\" series such as Koji Kondo and Charles Martinet working on sound support and voice acting, respectively. The music was composed by Yoko Shimomura, who also scored \"Superstar Saga\". \"Partners in Time\" was first released in North America on November 28, 2005.\n\n\"Partners in Time\" received critical acclaim, with reviewers lauding the game's use of characters and plot. IGN's Craig Harris commended the game's comic style, stating \"much of the charm from Mario & Luigi comes from the focus on humor that's bizarre and out there\". Despite this, GameSpot's Ricardo Torres stated that \"The self-referential humor that gave the original game its bite isn't as prevalent\". Nintendo World Report's Jonathan Metts praised the game for returning to the traditional Mushroom Kingdom setting, claiming it led to more distinctive character and plot elements. While appreciating \"Partners in Time\"s use of humour, RPGamer's Derek Cavin criticised the game's plot, describing it as \"a basic story that doesn't develop as much as it could have\". The game's characterisation in particular was well received, with Eurogamer commending Stuffwell, who was compared to Fawful, a character in \"Superstar Saga\".\n\nCritics welcomed \"Partners in Time\"'s use of the dual screen, as well as the rumble pak feature. GameSpot criticised the momentary use of the touchscreen, labeling it as \"tacked on\"; Eurogamer's John Walker, also critical of this, felt that the game was better without utilising the DS's touchscreen. Reviewers complained about the game's controls, expressing difficulty with coordinating the four characters, with problems arising specifically in enemy encounters with characters that were not being controlled. The alterations to the battle system received a mixed response—GameSpot praised the more complicated and \"richer\" boss fights, while Nintendo World Report criticised the added complexity, stating \"the growth in enemy resilience outpaces your growth in strength, so battles get longer and longer\". IGN noted that \"Partners in Time's quest starts out a little too easy\", although they acknowledged that the game became increasingly difficult as it progressed.\n\n\"Partners in Time\"'s visuals and presentation were well received, with Eurogamer describing it as \"utterly lovely\". GameSpot appreciated the \"added flair\" in animation gained by the DS, although the perspective made such things as hitting blocks and countering attack \"trickier than it should be\". Torres proceeded to criticise the game's soundtrack, labeling it as the \"weakest link\", although other critics lauded the game's audio. On its first week of release in Japan, \"Partners in Time\" sold 132,726 units. \"Partners in Time\" has sold 1,390,000 copies worldwide as July 25, 2007. In addition, the game has received the Editors' Choice Award at IGN. The game was ranked 50th in Official Nintendo Magazine's \"100 Greatest Nintendo Games\" feature.\n"}
{"id": "1902486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902486", "title": "Moulton Township, Auglaize County, Ohio", "text": "Moulton Township, Auglaize County, Ohio\n\nMoulton Township is one of the fourteen townships of Auglaize County, Ohio, United States. The 2010 census found 1,694 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the west central part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nA small corner of Wapakoneta, the largest city and county seat of Auglaize County, is located in far eastern Moulton Township. As well, the unincorporated communities of Glynwood and Moulton lie in the township's southwest and south respectively.\n\nMoulton Township contains twenty whole sections and six half sections and has a total area of . It is crossed in the northeast corner by the Auglaize River.\n\nIt is the only Moulton Township statewide.\n\nOrganized in 1834, the township was originally a part of Allen County and included the southern part of Logan Township.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nThe township is split between the Wapakoneta City School District and the Saint Marys City School District.\n\nThe eastern section of the township is served by the Wapakoneta (45895) post office, the western section by the Saint Marys (45885) post office, and the northern section by the Buckland (45819) post office.\n\nThe major highway in Moulton Township is U.S. Route 33, which traverses the southern part of the township.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902501", "title": "Chester Fritz Auditorium", "text": "Chester Fritz Auditorium\n\nThe Chester Fritz Auditorium (CFA) is a performance facility on the campus of the University of North Dakota (UND) located in the city of Grand Forks, North Dakota.\n\n\"The Fritz,\" as it is commonly known, has a maximum capacity of 2,384 and is used for many events including concerts, dance recitals, and popular Broadway musicals. The auditorium also plays host to university events including some commencement ceremonies, lectures, and conferences. The building measures 85 feet in height and the facade is constructed mainly of brick and pre-cast concrete sections. It sits on the banks of the English Coulee, which meanders its way through the UND campus.\n\nChester Fritz (March 25, 1892 - July 28, 1983), a notable alumnus of UND, gave the university $1 million in 1965 for the construction of a \"distinctive auditorium\" on the campus. The finished auditorium cost $3 million, with additional funds received from the state of North Dakota and private donations. The Chester Fritz Library, the main library at UND, is also named after Chester Fritz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902522", "title": "James Shepherd Pike", "text": "James Shepherd Pike\n\nJames Shepherd Pike (September 8, 1811 – November 29, 1882) was an American journalist and a historian of South Carolina during the Reconstruction Era\n\nPike was born in Calais, Maine and was a journalist in the United States during the mid 19th century. From 1850-1860 he was the chief Washington correspondent and associate editor of the \"New York Tribune\". The \"Tribune\" was the chief source of news and commentary for many Republican newspapers across the country. Republican editors reprinted his dispatches prior to the outbreak of the American Civil War. In 1854 he led the fight against the Kansas-Nebraska Act, calling for the formation of a new political entity to oppose it. Pike wrote that a \"solid phalanx of aggression rears its black head everywhere south of Mason and Dixon's line, banded for the propagation of Slavery all over the continent.\" His reports were, \"widely quoted, bitterly attacked or enthusiastically praised; they exerted a profound influence upon public opinion and gave to their author national prominence, first as an uncompromising anti-slavery Whig, and later as an ardent Republican.\" \n\nPresident Abraham Lincoln appointed Pike to be minister to the Netherlands, where he fought Confederate diplomatic efforts and promoted the Union war aims from 1861 to 1866. On returning to Washington in 1866, Pike resumed writing for the \"New York Tribune\" and also wrote editorials for the New York \"Sun.\"\n\nPike was an outspoken Radical Republican, standing with Thaddeus Stevens and Charles Sumner and opposing President Andrew Johnson. Long before black suffrage became a major issue Pike had come to believe that the freed slaves must be given the vote. Pike in 1866-67 strongly supported Black suffrage and the disqualification of most ex-Confederates from holding office.\n\nPike did not admire Ulysses S. Grant as a politician, and drifted away from the Republican party. By 1872 Pike was disenchanted with Black suffrage and the corruption and failures of Reconstruction. He argued the federal government should withdraw its soldiers from the Southern states. He was a strong supporter of the Liberal Republican movement that in 1872 opposed President Ulysses Grant, denouncing the corruption of his administration. Pike's boss, \"New York Tribune\" editor Horace Greeley, was the Liberal Republican nominee in 1872. Greeley lost to Grant by a landslide, then died. The new editor of the \"Tribune\" Whitelaw Reid sent Pike to South Carolina to study the conditions in the deep South under Reconstruction.\n\nIn 1873 Pike toured South Carolina and wrote a series of newspaper articles, reprinted in newspapers across the country and republished in book form in 1874 as \"The Prostrate State: South Carolina under Negro Government.\" It was a widely read and highly influential first hand account of the details of Reconstruction government in South Carolina, that systematically exposed what Pike considered to be corruption, incompetence, bribery, financial misdeeds and misbehavior in the state legislature. His critics argue the tone and emphasis is distorted and hostile toward African Americans and Grant Republicans.\n\n\"The Prostrate State\" painted a lurid picture of corruption. Historian Eric Foner writes:\n\nHistorian John Hope Franklin said, \"James S. Pike, the Maine journalist, wrote an account of misrule in South Carolina, appropriately called \"The Prostrate State\", and painted a lurid picture of the conduct of Negro legislators and the general lack of decorum in the management of public affairs. Written so close to the period and first published as a series of newspaper pieces, \"The Prostrate State\" should perhaps not be classified as history at all. But for many years the book was regarded as authoritative—contemporary history at its best. Thanks to Robert Franklin Durden, we now know that Pike did not really attempt to tell what he saw or even what happened in South Carolina during Reconstruction. By picking and choosing from his notes those events and incidents that supported his argument, he sought to place responsibility for the failure of Reconstruction on the Grant administration and on the freedmen, whom he despised with equal passion.\n\nDurden wrote that the fundamental clue to Pike's hostile characterization of African Americans in his book \"The Prostrate State\" was that \"in the 1850s no less than in the 1870s, . . . [we see] his constant antipathy toward the Negro race.\" \n\nIn his biographical study of Pike, Durden concluded that Pike had been ardently \"free soil\" before the American Civil War because he thought that the West should belong to the white man. Durden said Pike despaired of living alongside arrogant slaveholders and their repulsive human property, and that he urged peaceful secession during the 1860-61 crisis partly because he had one eye cocked on the chance of getting rid of a \"mass of barbarism\" and that during some of the Civil War's darker days he would have settled for a compromise peace if it meant only that a Gulf coast or Deep South \"negro pen\" would be lost to the Federal Union. Durden wrote that \"The Prostrate State\" makes sense only in this context, and to the extent that Pike's racial views were representative, \"the Civil War and Reconstruction take on a new dimension of tragedy.\" \n\nHistorian Mark Summers concludes that Pike stressed the sensational, but \"however maliciously and mendaciously he shaded his evidence, his accounts squared with those of his colleagues Charles Nordhoff of the \"New York Herald\" and H.P. Redfield of the \"Cincinnati Commercial.\" James Freeman Clarke, a leading Boston abolitionist, visited South Carolina and reported back to his Boston congregation that the facts presented by Pike, \"were confirmed by every man whom I saw.\" \n\nDurden (2000) reports:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902543", "title": "Kestrel USA", "text": "Kestrel USA\n\nKestrel is an American bicycle brand which specializes in high-end bikes for triathlons and road racing. Kestrel has been owned by Advanced Sports International since 2007.\n\nAegis pioneered carbon fiber frame design with the world's very first all-carbon bicycle frame in 1986, based again on the first-ever Finite Element Analysis (FEA) of bicycle frame structure conducted in 1986. With strongly opposed manufacturing philosophies, AEGIS parted ways with members intent on producing frames utilizing the monocoque/one piece construction technique. While the “other half” went West to establish Cycle Composites d/b/a Kestrel. Kestrel set new standards again in 1989, with the launch of the first carbon fork and the debut of the KM40 Airfoil, the first true aero triathlon frame.\nCarbon framesets by better-known, mainstream manufacturers such as Giant and, most notably, Trek (with its OCLV frames), have been directly influenced by Kestrel design principles.\n\nKestrel builds monocoque frames rather than more traditional tube and lug designs. This has always meant that Kestrels have tended to have a very fluid, curved appearance. However, more recent designs from the company have been more angular due to an increased desire to minimise wind resistance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902545", "title": "Lamont Brightful", "text": "Lamont Brightful\n\nLamont Eugene Brightful (born January 29, 1979) is an American football player. Prior to attending Eastern Washington University, Brightful graduated from Mariner High School in Everett, Washington, where he was a standout defensive back, wide receiver, and kick returner.\n\nBrightful played college football at Eastern Washington University. He was drafted by the Baltimore Ravens in the 2002 NFL Draft. He was also a skilled kick returner, he holds the Div 1AA record for average kick return yards at 30, with over 65 attempts.\n\nAfter he was drafted, he played for the Ravens during the 2002 and 2003 seasons, where he was used mostly as a return man.\n\nBrightful was released by the Ravens at the conclusion of the preseason in 2004 and signed with the Miami Dolphins. He was released from the team in 2005. Brightful was cut after having three fumbles in a game as a punt returner against the Cincinnati Bengals.\n\nBrightful was then picked up by the New York Giants and went overseas to play for the Frankfurt Galaxy as cornerback. In 2005, he was ranked the top returner in the league.\n\nIn 2006, he joined the Montreal Alouettes in the Canadian Football League as a punt returner and cornerback.\n\nBrightful works as an elite sports performance coach in Richland, Washington at Power Alley Performance, LLC.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902573", "title": "The Abbey School, Reading", "text": "The Abbey School, Reading\n\nThe Abbey School, previously known as Reading High School and Blenheim House Ladies' School, is an independent selective day school for girls, in Reading, Berkshire, England. The school has Church of England traditions, although it accepts girls of all faiths. The Abbey School offers education for girls aged 3 to 18. The school became an International Baccalaureate World School in 2008.\n\nFounded in 1887, the school moved to its present site in 1905 under the leadership of headmistress Helen Musson.\n\nNotable alumnæ include the novelist and social activist Brigid Brophy, the novelist Elizabeth Taylor the educationalist Baroness Brigstocke,\nand the historian Lucy Worsley.\nAround one hundred years before the school was founded in 1887, the novelist Jane Austen briefly attended Reading Ladies' Boarding School within the Abbey Gateway, which is commemorated by, and incorporated into, the Abbey School's crest.\n\nThe school was founded in 1887, named Reading High School, replacing the privately owned Blenheim House Ladies' School. It was located at London Road (in the building which became the Gladstone Club). The Church Schools Company, instrumental in founding the school, felt that Reading, with its growing population reaching 60,000, was in need of a new school. The school aimed to provide high quality education with a Christian ethos at an affordable price. When founded, the school had an enrolment of 40 girls, which steadily increased to 120 by 1902, when Miss Helen Musson MA, the new headmistress, was appointed.\n\nIn 1905, the school moved to its current Kendrick Road site. On 16 March 1905 William Methuen Gordon Ducat, the Archdeacon of Berkshire, laid the foundation stone of the school, which featured the inscription, \"\"In aedificationem corporis Christi\"\". This motto, taken from Ephesians IV:12, can still be seen on the school's crest. The new site was a vast improvement on the old site: there were six classrooms, a hall and space for playing fields.\n\nThe school changed its name to The Abbey School in 1913, after parting from the Church Schools' Company. The name was chosen to commemorate a former Reading school dating from 1835, which was based in the Abbey Gateway. A previous school in the Abbey Gateway operating in the 18th-century, named Reading Ladies’ Boarding School, included Jane Austen among its pupils. The Abbey is now a day school, after ceasing to accept boarding pupils in 1946, and was a direct grant (C. of E.) grammar school in the 1950s . The headmistress is Mrs Rachel Dent.\n\nThe school has established a reputation for academic excellence. According to the \"Good Schools Guide\", the school typically achieves 88 per cent A/B, [and] 97 per cent A/C at A Level, \"Sciences [are] quite strong\" and \"99 per cent [of students go] into higher education.\"\n\nRoughly 45% of entrants in the Upper Third (year 7) come from the Junior School. Also, many students from other schools all around Berkshire and beyond come here.\n\nOn entering the school, every girl is put into a house: Carrington, Ducat, Kensington or Paget. Houses are named after people who have been important to the school, for example founding it. In these houses, girls can earn points by doing well, and lose points as well. House competitions include reading and music, The Music Competition (for solo players), The Baroness Brigstocke Memorial Public Speaking Competition (plus the Young Brigstocke for younger students), House sports competitions (such as swimming, rounders and hockey) and Sports Day. At the end of each term, and each year, a cup is awarded to the house with the most points. They also do House music and drama.\n\nThe junior school is at Kensington House, a building 400 metres away from the senior school. Also situated here is the Early Years Centre, a unit opened in 2003. Somerleaze House was opened by \"alumna\" Sally Taylor, BBC television presenter.\n\nAs an independent school, Ofsted do not perform inspections of the school. However, Ofsted have inspected the Early Years Centre. The independent schools Inspectorate performed an inspection on the whole school in 2002. The Good Schools Guide produced a report on the Abbey in 2005.\n\nThe inspection took place in October 2002 and produced, on the whole, a positive report. The report praised the \"good quality\" teaching and \"high quality pastoral care\", with \"dedicated\" and \"committed\" teachers. It noted the \"high achievement\" in GCSE and A level exams and the \"rich programme\" of extra curricular activities. In the junior school, the accommodation and resources were praised.\n\nThere was criticism of the school's lack of management system and development plan. Inconsistency in assessment of pupils work was noted. The accommodation for year 6 was \"poorly appointed\" and there were \"some teaching weaknesses\" in this year group. \n\nOfsted inspected the Early Years Centre only, that is, from ages 3 to 5. Judgments of the children's development were all classified as \"very good\" – the highest category attainable. \"Very good progress\" had been made since the 2002 ISI report and there were no significant weaknesses to report.\n\nStaff promote good behaviour and show good understanding of individual needs with excellent opportunities for parental involvement.\n\nThe report can be accessed here\n\nThis review noted the academic excellence of the school as well as other outstanding details. The conclusive summary reads:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902576", "title": "William Herbert Sheldon", "text": "William Herbert Sheldon\n\nWilliam Herbert Sheldon, Jr. (November 19, 1898 – September 17, 1977) was an American psychologist and numismatist. He created the field of somatotype and constitutional psychology that correlate body types with Temperament, illustrated by his Ivy League nude posture photos.\n\nSheldon was born in Pawtuxet, Rhode Island on November 19, 1898 to William Herbert Sheldon, Sr., a naturalist and animal breeder, and Mary Abby Greene, a village midwife. His godfather was the noted psychologist and philosopher, William James. He graduated from Warwick Veterans Memorial High School in 1915 and attended Brown University. After graduating, he worked in a range of fields before studying for his master's degree at the University of Colorado. Sheldon attended the University of Chicago and earned his Ph.D. in 1925. He taught psychology at the University of Chicago and at the University of Wisconsin. He attended the University of Chicago Medical Center, receiving his M.D. in 1933.\n\nGaining a two-year fellowship in Europe allowed him to study under Carl Jung, and visit Sigmund Freud and Ernst Kretschmer. After Europe, he moved to Harvard University in 1938. He served in the Army Medical Corps at lieutenant colonel rank in the Second World War.\n\nFrom 1947 to 1959 he was Director of the Constitutional Laboratory at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He became a professor of medicine at the University of Oregon Medical School in 1951.\n\nIn psychology, he developed a new version of somatotypology by classifying people into \"endomorphic\", \"mesomorphic\", and \"ectomorphic\" types, based on many photographs and measurements of nude figures at Ivy League schools. Ron Rosenbaum writes: \"He believed that every individual harbored within him different degrees of each of the three character components. By using body measurements and ratios derived from nude photographs, Sheldon believed he could assign every individual a three-digit number representing the three components, components that Sheldon believed were inborn -- genetic -- and remained unwavering determinants of character regardless of transitory weight change. In other words, physique equals destiny.\"\n\nIn numismatics, he authored \"Early American Cents\" and later revised that work within \"Penny Whimsy\" (these were the most exhaustive catalogues of the varieties of early American large cents at that time). The Sheldon variety list for Early American Cents is still in use today. He also developed the \"Sheldon scale\" that graded coins on a numeric basis from 1 to 70, which is still standard among American numismatists.\n\nWilliam Herbert Sheldon was also a specialist in United States Cents. After his death, he was accused by the American Numismatic Society of expropriation (i.e., substitution) of lower grade examples of his cent coins with high grade examples from the cabinets of the ANS, the oldest and most prestigious numismatic society in the United States. There is much on this subject on the internet. About the suits in federal court: see \"ANS search for 129 missing cents becomes legal battle: Society attorney names late William Sheldon as suspect,\" by Bill Gibbs, Coin World Aug. 23, 1993; ANS Magazine, vol. 3. no. 2, Summer 2004, by ANS curator Robert W. Hoge; and \"More on Collector Ted Naftzger and the Switched Large Cents,\" by John Kleeberg, The E-sylum, Vol. 11, No. 24, June 15, 2008, Article 17.\n\nSheldon died in his office at the Biological Humanics Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts on September 17, 1977. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902582", "title": "Green Line &quot;E&quot; branch", "text": "Green Line &quot;E&quot; branch\n\nThe \"E\" branch (also referred to as the Huntington Avenue branch, or formerly as the Arborway branch) is a streetcar line in the Boston, Massachusetts area, operating as a branch of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Green Line. From 1985 to 2011, service beyond to the original outbound terminus at was \"temporarily\" suspended, with the route 39 bus providing service beyond; service restoration was officially canceled in 2011 after the defeat of a lawsuit. The segment of the line between Brigham Circle and Heath Street is the only remaining section of street-running tracks in revenue use by the MBTA; all other trackage is in tunnels and bridges, on private rights-of-way, in reserved medians, or is used for out-of-service trains (near Cleveland Circle).\n\nNortheast of the street-running section, the tracks run in the median of Huntington Avenue before descending via the Northeastern Incline into the Huntington Avenue Subway. Just west of Copley station, an underground flat junction connects the line into the other Green Line branches in the Boylston Street subway, where they all run together to downtown. \n\n, the E Branch terminates at . It will be extended to in 2021 as part of the Green Line Extension.\n\nWhat became the E Branch was formed from portions of several streetcar lines. The first of these was the West Roxbury Railroad, a horsecar line opened in 1857 in what was then West Roxbury. It ran from to Jamaica Plain along Lowell Street (now Columbus Avenue), Centre Street, and South Street. The line was quickly leased by the Metropolitan Railroad, which operated through service between Jamaica Plain and downtown Boston using its line on Tremont Street. Travel time for the -long line was over an hour with a ten-cent fare. A two-track carhouse with a waiting room was located at the terminus of the line at Jamaica Street in Jamaica Plain. (The Metropolitan's main carhouse and barn was located at Roxbury Crossing.) In 1858, the Metropolitan opened a connector between Lowell Street and John Eliot Square, allowing Jamaica Plain cars to also use the Washington Street line (via ) to reach downtown. The railroad also rebuilt the Jamaica Plain line that year to accommodate heavier ridership, including the double-tracking of some portions.\n\nOn August 1, 1859, the Metropolitan was granted permission to add a branch to School Street (northwest of Brookline Village) along what was then called Washington Street. (It was soon renamed as Tremont Street east of Brookline Village; the portion between Brigham Circle and Brookline Village was renamed again as part of Huntington Avenue in 1895.) Permission to double-track the line was given on September 9, 1879. As the west part of the Back Bay was filled, Huntington Avenue became a major thoroughfare. The Metropolitan received rights to construct a double-track line on Huntington from Copley Square to West Chester Park (later renamed Massachusetts Avenue) on March 18, 1881. An extension along the newly-laid-out section of Huntington from West Chester Park to Brigham Circle was granted on October 29, 1883; this completed a second Brookline–Boston route.\n\nIn November 1887, the Metropolitan was merged into the West End Street Railway as it consolidated the various Boston street railways into a unified system. After the successful electrification of the Beacon Street line in 1888–89, the West End quickly moved to electrify its entire system. The Jamaica Plain–Northern Depots line was concerted to electric operation on October 14, 1891, followed by other Tremont Street lines on October 22.\n\nThe Huntington Avenue line was electrified in 1894. The Boylston Street Incline to the Tremont Street subway opened on September 1, 1897 as part of the first section of subway, and Huntington Avenue cars were rerouted into it (though those cars didn't use the Jamaica Plain line until 1903 – see above). Tremont Street cars were likely moved to the subway on October 1, 1897, when the next section of subway to the Pleasant Street Incline opened, though from June 10, 1901, to November 29, 1908, that portal was closed to all but Washington Street Elevated trains. In 1902, tracks were extended the last bit to the Arborway Carhouse, connecting the line to the tracks along Washington Street.\n\nThe Washington Street Elevated opened June 10, 1901, to Dudley and many streetcar routes that had operated via Dudley were truncated there with a transfer to the El. This included the Jamaica Plain route via Dudley. The extension of the Elevated to Forest Hills (adjacent to Arborway) on November 22, 1909, provided a faster route downtown from Arborway (above the Washington Street streetcar lines), but the Jamaica Plain cars used a completely different route to get there.\n\nThe tracks on Huntington Avenue from Brookline to South Huntington Avenue were last used on September 9, 1938, by cars from Brookline Village into the subway, as well as what became the Allston – Dudley bus (this was also the last use of the tracks on Tremont Street west of Columbus Avenue). The cars from Brookline Village had been truncated from earlier lines running further into Brookline (later the and buses) and on September 10 they started running as short-turn trips on Huntington Avenue to Brigham Circle.\n\nThe Huntington Avenue Subway opened on February 16, 1941, taking Huntington Avenue cars (the last to use the Boylston Street Portal) underground for a larger part of their route. By then, three routes used the Huntington Avenue line:\n\nA loop at was constructed in 1945 to allow use of the new PCC streetcars, which only had an operator's cab at one end and could not use crossovers like the one at Francis Street to reverse direction. Route 57 was extended to the new loop on December 15, 1945, and began using PCC streetcars on January 3, 1946. From June 1947 to June 1949, and again in the 1950s, a –Park Street shuttle was run.\n\nRoute 41 was replaced by buses on June 8, 1949. In 1954, route 57 was extended to the surface terminal at . Route 57 - by then a weekday-only route - was discontinued effective September 1, 1961. The number was reassigned to the short-lived –Pleasant Street shuttle in November 1961. From September 1962 to March 1965, a single –Heath Street round trip was operating during the morning peak to serve school demand. This trip was the only time that three-car trains of PCC cars were used on Huntington Avenue.\n\nThe Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) took over from the MTA in 1964. The MBTA gave color designations to the four subway lines in 1965, with the Tremont Street Subway routes designated as the Green Line. On December 26, 1964, Heath Street– short turns using the newly-opened loop at Government Center were added to accommodate ridership from the new Prudential Center.These trips were cut back to Park Street the next month, but returned to Government Center on March 25, 1967. On September 19, 1966, the Heath Street short turn was increased in frequency, with every other trip terminating at Heath Street during peak hours. This experiment was unsuccessful and was ended on November 7. \n\nThe five Green Line branches were lettered in 1967, with the Huntington Ave line designated the E Branch. The Heath Street short turns were reduced from two-car trains to single cars on January 3, 1972. From September 11, 1976, to January 1, 1977, service was replaced with buses at night to allow installation of new lighting and electrical equipment in the Huntington Avenue Subway. On January 1, all peak and midday service was cut to Heath Street as winter weather caused a car shortage; buses designated route 39 ran between Arborway and Copley. This ended on March 19; regular Heath Street turns were extended to North Station from then to June 18, 1977. \n\nRoute 39 buses again replaced weekday service past Heath Street from June 18 to September 9 due to track work on Centre Street. Continued streetcar shortages and delays with the new Boeing LRVs caused weekday service to be replaced with buses past Heath Street on October 17, 1977. Service to Arborway resumed in stages, with full service restored on December 31, 1978. The new LRVs were first used on the line for Northeastern short turns on January 16, 1978; these were extended to Heath Street on April 24.\n\nIn 1972, the MBTA began planning a reconstruction of the median-reservation section of the line, then scheduled for 1973-74. Three lightly-used stops (Parker Street, Vancouver Street, and Worthington Street) were to be closed, the Northeastern siding moved into the reservation, a fence installed between the tracks, and a footbridge added at Northeastern. All of the planned changes but the footbridge were eventually done in 1980, when the line was closed to modify the track and wires for the new LRVs. The line was cut back to Symphony (using LRVs) on March 21, 1980, with route 39 buses again operating. Rail service was re-extended to Northeastern on June 21 and Brigham Circle on September 20, though Arborway service did not resume until June 26, 1982.\n\nHeath Street service was extended to Lechmere on January 2, 1983. A snowstorm on February 11 temporarily shut down the Arborway Line; a Lechmere–Government Center shuttle was run to replace the Heath Street cars. The Arborway Line quickly reopened, but the Heath Street turns were not resumed; the shuttle ran until March 26. From October 12 to November 11, 1983, the line was cut back to (with double-ended LRVs) due to Southwest Corridor construction near Arborway, with route 39 buses running. Heath Street short turns were resumed on September 18, 1984 using LRVs.\n\nOn December 28, 1985, the Arborway Line was indefinitely replaced by route 39 (Arborway–) bus service due to road construction on Huntington Avenue. This ended PCC streetcar service on the Green Line, though they remained in use on the Mattapan Line. LRV service was resumed to Brigham Circle on July 26, 1986; the downtown terminal was Lechmere on weekdays, and Government Center nights and weekends. On June 20, 1987, all Brigham Circle service was extended to Lechmere, with newer Type 7 LRVs replacing the Boeing LRVs. Heath Street service resumed on November 4, 1989, but route 39 buses continued to provide all service south of Heath Street. That December, route 39 was extended to Back Bay station to connect with the Orange Line; fares were reduced from subway to bus prices. From 2000 to 2017, buses used a loop - originally built for the Green Line, but never used by revenue trains - at .\n\nWhether to restore E Branch service to Arborway became controversial; much of Jamaica Plain wanted the line to return, while the MBTA did not wish to resume using the long street-running section. To settle a lawsuit with the Conservation Law Foundation, the Massachusetts Executive Office of Transportation and Construction (EOTC) agreed to environmental mitigation for increased automobile emissions due to the Central Artery/Tunnel Project. In 2000, an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) affirmed specific project commitments, including restoration of streetcar service beyond Heath Street to Arborway. Restoration was also included in the State Implementation Plan for the Clean Air Act (SIP) which is required by the Environmental Protection Agency due to non-attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards. After some MBTA and community opposition, a revised settlement resulted in the substitution of other projects with similar regional air quality benefits, though no longer localized along the E Branch corridor. EOTC promised to consider other transit enhancements in the Arborway corridor. \n\nA 2004 study stated that since tracks to Arborway would be street-running along South and Centre streets, trolley traffic would increase local congestion and could potentially block emergency vehicles. Councilor John Tobin asked the MBTA to remove the tracks in March 2005, which by then had (along with the overhead poles) deteriorated to the point where they were not usable. The Arborway Committee filed suit in 2007, but an appeals court ruled in January 2011 that the lawsuit was a decade too late to be considered – effectively ending any attempt for the restoration of streetcar service for the foreseeable future. The City of Boston has proposed extending the E Branch southward to Hyde Square in Jamaica Plain.\n\nOn October 20, 1996, the Muddy River flooded the Central Subway. The E Branch was replaced by buses; service was restored to Northeastern on October 25, Brigham Circle on November 9, and Heath Street on December 7. From July 24 to December 17, 2000, the line was cut back to Brigham Circle for track work on South Huntington Avenue, with route 39 supplemented by express service.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the MBTA modified key surface stops with raised platforms for accessibility as part of the Light Rail Accessibility Program. Portable lifts were installed at Heath Street and around 2000 as a temporary measure. For much of mid-2002, buses replaced weekend service to allow for the station construction. The accessible platforms at Northeastern, Museum of Fine Arts, Longwood, Brigham Circle, and Heath Street - part of a $32 million modification of thirteen B, C, and E branch stations - were completed in 2003.\n\nFrom June 28, 2004, to November 12, 2005, E Branch service was cut back to as the Causeway Street Elevated was replaced by a new tunnel. Track work again caused the line to be cut to Brigham Circle from September 2 to December 30, 2006. Three-car trains were operated on the line for a brief period beginning on March 21, 2011. Service was cut to North Station from April 30 to November 4, 2011 as was renovated.\n\nAs part of a series of service reductions due to a budget crisis, weekend service was cut to Brigham Circle on July 1, 2012. The cutback was unpopular with local residents, who considered it an unnecessary inconvenience. On October 13, 2012, the cut was quietly reversed by reducing frequency on the branch slightly, thus allowing the same equipment to cover the full line at no additional cost. This was made official with the December 29, 2012 timetable.\n\nOn May 24, 2020, service was cut back from Lechmere to North Station to allow the old Lechmere Elevated to be demolished and the Lechmere Viaduct connected to the Green Line Extension viaduct. Service will resume to the replacement elevated Lechmere station, with an extension to the new station, in 2021.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902583", "title": "Green Line &quot;C&quot; branch", "text": "Green Line &quot;C&quot; branch\n\nThe \"C\" branch, also called the Beacon Street Line or Cleveland Circle Line, is one of four branches of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's Green Line light rail system in the Boston, Massachusetts metropolitan area. The line begins at Cleveland Circle in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston and runs on the surface through Brookline along the median of Beacon Street. Reentering Boston, the line goes underground through the St. Marys Street Incline and joins the \"B\" and \"D\" Branches at Kenmore. Trains run through the Boylston Street subway to Copley where the \"E\" branch joins, then continue through the Tremont Street subway to downtown Boston. , the \"C\" branch terminates at North Station.\n\nThe \"C\" branch runs on a dedicated median on Beacon Street in Brookline, with a total of 18 grade crossings at major cross streets. Like on its sister \"B\" branch, \"C\" branch streetcars must stop on traffic signals at street crossings. The signals on Beacon Street in Brookline could in theory be prioritized to make the Green Line run faster. However, the MBTA, which would be expected to pay for the streetcar sensors, does not consider the project to be cost-effective. In 2007, the Boston Globe published letters from riders who are in favor of these sensors, a letter from the MBTA spokesperson arguing that a major study is needed before the MBTA spends money, and a letter arguing that the T's spokesperson is giving too many excuses.\n\nIn January 2008, the MBTA hired a consultant to study the issue. , the Town of Brookline was considering formally asking the MBTA to cooperate in setting up traffic signal prioritization to speed up Green Line trains on Beacon Street.\n\nIn Mayor Marty Walsh's \"Go Boston 2030\" plan, prioritizing traffic signals on Beacon Street was a proposed idea. The plan indicated that the project is planned to be completed within five years.\n\nThe first tracks on Beacon Street were laid in 1888, running from Massachusetts Avenue west to Coolidge Corner. The next year the rest of the line to Cleveland Circle opened, with access to the Reservoir carhouse. In 1889, the first electric streetcar route (see Green Line \"A\" Branch) used Beacon Street from Coolidge Corner east to Massachusetts Avenue, then ran south on Massachusetts Avenue and east on Boylston Street to Park Square. That same year, the line on Beacon Street to Cleveland Circle was electrified. Another connection to the Beacon Street line was provided at ; streetcars came from Brookline Village along Washington Street and turned west on Beacon Street. This line was later extended north on Chestnut Hill Avenue and west on Commonwealth Avenue to and was the predecessor of the bus route.\n\nThe Tremont Street Subway opened on September 1, 1897; Beacon Street service was routed into the Public Garden Incline at the Public Garden, turning around at . The Boylston Street Subway opened on October 3, 1914 as a westward extension of the Tremont Street Subway. The Beacon Street line entered just east of Kenmore Square.\n\nOn December 14, 1929, most trips of the – shuttle were extended along Beacon Street to . This resulted in -minute rush-hour headways on the inner part of the line, with three-car Washington Square–Lechmere trains and two-car Cleveland Circle–Park Street trains on alternating 5-minute headways. On January 9, 1930, the BERy began running Washington Square-bound streetcars express from Kenmore to in the afternoon peak due to crowding. The Washington Street service was cut back to Kenmore in June 1930 but resumed that September.\n\nOn February 7, 1931, Commonwealth Avenue and Beacon Street service was extended from Park Street to Lechmere using three-car trains; the Washington Street short turns were cut back to Kenmore–Park Street shuttles. On October 23, 1932, a westward extension of the subway was opened with an underground Kenmore station. It split into separate tunnels for the Commonwealth Avenue and Beacon Street lines; the latter surfaced at . The first use of two-car trains of PCC streetcars on the system was on the Beacon Street line on April 16, 1945. At that time, service on the line operated every 2.8 minutes at morning peak, 6 minutes midday, and 2.7 minutes in the afternoon peak. The first use of a three-car train of PCC cars was on July 13, 1946 for a baseball extra; they entered regular service on September 16, 1946. From 1940 until its 1967 naming as the C Branch, the Beacon Street line had route number 61.\n\nThe Riverside Line (later the D Branch) was connected to the Beacon Street tunnel near Mountfort Street, with service beginning on July 4, 1959. On November 20, 1961, after 30 years running to Lechmere, the line was cut back to (except Sundays).</ref> It was extended back to Lechmere on March 25, 1967; Saturday service was briefly cut to from June–September 1968. From June 8 to September 11, 1974, D Branch trains ran over the C Branch due to track work. Trains used a temporary loop at Reservoir and non-revenue tracks on Chestnut Hill Avenue to cross between the two lines. From March 20 to June 25, 1976, C Branch night service looped at Kenmore to allow electrical work in the Central Subway.\n\nBoeing LRVs were first used on the line on January 20, 1978. By March 24, three-car trains of PCC streetcars were no longer used on the C Branch; all service was two-car trains of PCCs or LRVs. From June to September 1979, all service on the line was with PCCs due to LRV maintenance issues. The line was cut back to Government Center except at rush hour from March 21 to June 21, 1980, and cut back to Park Street non April 4, 1981. The line was extended to Government Center on June 26, 1982, with LRVs providing all service.\n\nFrom July 24 to September 10, 1982, the line was replaced by buses to allow for track replacement. Four stops were permanently closed to speed travel times. Service was extended to North Station on July 30, 1983; this was the terminal until a cut to Government Center on March 29, 1997. It was extended again to North Station on January 1, 2005. , regular C Branch service terminates at North Station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902584", "title": "Green Line &quot;B&quot; Branch", "text": "Green Line &quot;B&quot; Branch\n\nThe \"B\" Branch, also called the Commonwealth Avenue Branch or Boston College Branch, is a branch of the MBTA Green Line light rail system which operates on Commonwealth Avenue west of downtown Boston, Massachusetts. One of four branches of the Green Line, the \"B\" Branch runs from Boston College station down the median of Commonwealth Avenue to . There, it enters Blandford Street portal into Kenmore station, where it merges with the \"C\" and \"D\" branches. The combined services run into the Boylston Street subway and Tremont Street subway to downtown Boston. , \"B\" Branch service terminates at . Unlike the other branches, the \"B\" branch runs solely through the city limits of Boston.\n\nThe Green Line Rivalry between Boston College and Boston University is named in reference to the \"B\" Branch, which runs to both universities.\n\nThe first sections of what is now the \"B\" Branch to open were built for what became the Watertown Line and Beacon Street Line. In 1889, the West End Street Railway opened the Beacon Street Line, including a branch that ran from Coolidge Corner to Oak Square along Harvard Avenue, Brighton Avenue, Cambridge Street, and Washington Street. While this route provided service to the fast-growing suburbs of Allston and Brighton, a more direct route was desirable. When Commonwealth Avenue was improved between Governors Square and the junction with Brighton Avenue in the mid-1890s, a -wide median was included for use by a streetcar line to support real estate development. Service began from Governors Square to Cottage Farm in 1894, to Brighton Avenue in 1895, and along Brighton Avenue to connect with the older trackage on May 18, 1896. (That line was extended to near Nonantum Square on June 13, 1896.)\n\nFurther west, between and the Boston–Newton boundary at Lake Street, a -wide streetcar median was built. Service between Lake Street and downtown Boston began on August 15, 1896. Streetcars ran on Chestnut Hill Avenue, the existing Beacon Street line, Washington Street, and Huntington Avenue. At Lake Street, the line connected with the Commonwealth Avenue Street Railway, which opened the popular Norumbega Park on June 17, 1897.\n\nEast of Governors Square, the Beacon Street line originally ran on Beacon Street, Massachusetts Avenue, and Boylston Street to Park Square. By the time the Commonwealth Avenue segments opened, streetcars continued along heavily congested tracks on Tremont Street (electrified in 1891) to reach the northern railroad terminals. Both the Nonantum Square and Lake Street lines were rerouted into the Tremont Street subway to terminate at Park Street station soon after the tunnel's September 1, 1897 opening.\n\nThe Boston Elevated Railway (BERy) leased the West End Street Railway on October 1, 1897, and continued its system expansion. The BERy opened new tracks on Commonwealth Avenue from Chestnut Hill Avenue to Brighton Avenue on May 26, 1900, allowing direct service from Lake Street to downtown via Commonwealth Avenue. Even though much of the land surrounding Commonwealth Avenue in Brighton was not yet developed, the new line was heavily patronized. For most of its length, the 1900-built trackage was not in a center median, but in a reservation between the southbound travel lane and southbound carriage lane. Between and Wallingford Road, the reservation was significantly wider than the tracks.\n\nThrough service between Norumbega Park and Park Street station via Lake Street begun on January 17, 1903. West of Lake Street, streetcars were operated by the Commonwealth Avenue Street Railway, which merged into the Newton and Boston Street Railway (N&B) in 1904 and the Middlesex and Boston Street Railway (M&B) in 1909. The Newton Street Railway (also merged into the N&B in 1904) began through service between Park Street and via the Watertown Line on February 23, 1903. When the Cambridge Tunnel opened in April 1912, the Waltham service was rerouted to Central Square station in Cambridge instead. On May 1, 1912, the M&B began a second through service over the Commonwealth Avenue route - this one running to Newton Highlands.\n\nThe Boylston Street subway opened on October 3, 1914, acting as an extension of the Tremont Street subway to just east of Governors Square, with intermediate stops at Copley Square and Massachusetts Avenue. (A third station, , was not built until 1921.) The Newton Highlands through service was cut back to Lake Street, where it connected with BERy streetcar service. Norumbega Park through service was similar cut back on November 1, 1914, as the older M&B streetcars could not match the speed of the newer BERy streetcars in the subway.\n\nThe Commonwealth Avenue line served two major baseball stadiums: Fenway Park (opened 1912) near Governors Square, and Braves Field (opened 1915) in Allston. The BERy opened a prepayment surface station (where riders paid their fares at the stop, rather than on board the streetcar) at Kenmore Street in Governors Square in 1915. The new Braves Field opened on August 18, 1915; it included a loop track between Gaffney Street and Babcock Street with a prepayment station to allow streetcars to directly serve the ballpark. The loop was also used to turn trains for Red Sox games at Fenway Park, and for rush-hour short turns; after November 1945, these short turns also operated during midday and on Saturdays. The loop was heavily used during games; for the 1948 World Series, streetcars ran between Park Street and Braves Field on 45-second headways.\n\nAround 1916, the BERy built a storage yard for streetcars north of Commonwealth Avenue at Lake Street. Remaining M&B service to Lake Street was replaced by buses in 1930; the BERy replaced the old transfer station in the median with a new platform and waiting room in the yard on September 12, 1930. An expansion of Reservoir Yard (south of Beacon Street near Chestnut Hill Avenue), completed in May 1940, supplemented Lake Street Yard and eliminated the need to base some Commonwealth Avenue streetcars at Bennett Street Carhouse in Cambridge. \n\nIn 1922, the BERy proposed to operate the inner part of the Commonwealth Avenue line as a rapid transit service. Three-car trains of recently acquired center-entrance cars, which had higher capacity and shorter dwell times than older streetcars, would run on headways as low as two minutes at rush hour and four minutes at other times. Terminal stations would be built at Lechmere Square in East Cambridge and at Linden Street (near ) in Allston, where passengers would transfer between the subway trains and surface streetcar lines. The Lechmere terminal was built, but local opposition to the forced transfer caused the Linden Street terminal plan to be scrapped.\n\nThe congestion at busy Governors Square caused numerous delays to the streetcar lines. In May 1924, the state legislature directed the Metropolitan District Commission to plan an expanded rapid transit system in Boston, including an extension of the Boylston street Subway under Governors Square. The report, released in December 1926, called for the existing streetcar tunnels in Boston to be reorganized into two rapid transit lines with high-floor rolling stock. One line was to run from East Boston to Brighton, with the East Boston Tunnel (which had been converted from streetcars to rapid transit in 1924) realigned to connect with the Tremont Street subway near Park Street station. The Boylston Street subway would have been extended to Commonwealth Avenue, with a new station under Governors Square. A transfer station between the rapid transit line and the truncated Watertown and Lake Street surface lines was to be located at Warren Street between Commonwealth Avenue and Cambridge Street, near Brighton Center. Intermediate surface stops were to be located at St. Marys Street, Gaffney Street, , , and . Several busy grade crossings also were to be eliminated, and the report noted that the then-rapid growth along Commonwealth Avenue in Brighton might later justify extension of rapid transit to Lake Street.\n\nThe subway under Governors Square was projected to cost $5 million (equivalent to $ million in ). The BERy and the city objected to this cost and proposed a $1.4 million plan where flyover ramps would separate Beacon Street auto and streetcar traffic from other traffic in the square. The tunnel was eventually chosen but construction did not begin until 1930, after the legislature lowered the cost that the BERy would pay to rent the subway from the city. Kenmore station and the new subway, which split to separate portals at on Beacon Street and on Commonwealth Avenue, opened on October 23, 1932. The extension was built to support future rapid transit conversion of the Commonwealth Avenue line, including extension of the underground section further west.\n\nInterest in converting the Commonwealth Avenue line to rapid transit declined as focus shifted to expanding the subway to further suburbs. The 1945 and 1947 Coolidge Commission reports (the next major planning effort after the 1926 report) instead recommended a parallel rapid transit line along the Boston and Albany Railroad corridor, with local streetcar service retained on Commonwealth Avenue. However, several smaller improvements were made to the line. A siding was opened at on October 27, 1926, allowing trains to be short turned when necessary. On February 7, 1931, the Beacon Street and Commonwealth Avenue lines were extended to Lechmere, replacing shuttle services between Lechmere and various points in the subway. On June 30, 1931, the existing crossover west of Blandford Street was replaced by a pocket track, allowing temporary storage of streetcars there. Short-turn subway service using the pocket track began on September 24, 1934. Around 1940, the Lake Street line was assigned route number 62 as part of a systemwide renumbering. On May 6, 1940, the line was reassigned from Bennett Street Carhouse (near Harvard Square) to Reservoir Carhouse, eliminating the need for deadhead moves on Cambridge Street.\n\nIn the early 1940s, the BERy began replacing its older streetcars with the PCC streetcar. PCCs were first used on the Lake Street line in May 1944, and they fully replaced center-entrance cars on the line in regular service on December 10, 1945. The short length of trackage on Chestnut Hill Avenue - which had not been used in \nrevenue service since Lake Street service via Brookline Village was replaced by the route bus in the late 1920s - was modified as part of trackwork related to the introduction of the PCCs. A connecting track from Commonwealth Avenue westbound to Chestnut Hill Avenue southbound was opened on May 31, 1947, completing the wye between the two avenues. On May 21, 1947, in recognition of the expansion of Boston College, the BERy changed the \"Lake Street\" designation to \"Boston College\". On August 29, 1947, the privately owned BERy was succeeded by the publicly owned Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA).\n\nThe little-used siding at Washington Street was removed in January 1953, leaving only a crossover. In April 1959, all Boston and Albany Railroad Worcester Line stops between and were closed for the construction of the Turnpike Extension, leaving the Watertown and Boston College lines as the only rail transit serving Allston and Brighton. Boston University purchased Braves Field in 1953 when the Braves moved to Milwaukee, and soon wished to use the loop area for other purposes. After several years of requests, the MTA abandoned the loop on January 15, 1962.\n\nAround 1960, the wide streetcar reservation between Warren Street and Wallingford Road was narrowed to add additional travel lanes to Commonwealth Avenue, leaving the streetcar tracks in a relocated median between the travel lanes. On November 25, 1961, the Boston College was cut back to Park Street station, while the 1959-opened Riverside Line was extended to Lechmere in its stead. In 1963-65, the Commonwealth Avenue bridge over the Boston and Albany Railroad was rebuilt to accommodate the Turnpike Extension. Streetcar service was maintained using a temporary parallel bridge.\n\nIn August 1964, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) replaced the MTA. As part of systemwide rebranding efforts, the remaining streetcar routes feeding the Tremont Street subway became the Green Line on August 26, 1965. In 1967, the five branches were given letters to distinguish them; the Boston College line became the \"B\" Branch. (The Watertown line became the \"A\" Branch, while the Beacon Street line became the \"C\" Branch.) The MBTA experimented with changing the downtown terminals of the Green Line branches (unlike its predecessors, which had changed the downtown terminal of the Boston College line just twice.) The \"B\" Branch was extended to the new loop at opened on November 18, 1964 - the first service to regularly use the loop. Over the next two decades, the downtown termini were frequently changed; the \"B\" Branch variously terminated at Park Street, Government Center, , North Station, and Lechmere. On July 30, 1983, the terminus was finally changed to Government Center station, where it would stay until 2004.\n\nOn June 21, 1969, the \"A\" Branch was replaced with Watertown–Kenmore buses, halving streetcar service on Commonwealth Avenue east of Packard's Corner. Around 1970, the median was moved slightly south between Chestnut Hill Avenue and Lake Street. The westbound roadway was lowered several feet below the median between South Street and Greycliff Road, with the Foster Street stop moved west to the grade crossing. Around 1975, the stop at University Road was discontinued, while the stop at Alcorn Street was moved 500 feet east to .\n\nThe \"B\" Branch is frequently criticized by riders for its slow service, which is largely a result of a high number of stops and level crossings. Until 2004, the line had 22 stops on the surface section, while the C and D branches had 13 each and the E Branch just 9.\nIn late 2003, the MBTA proposed eliminating five surface stops (Greycliff Road, , Mount Hood Road, Summit Avenue, and Fordham Road) as part of a project to improve the line. The five stops were chosen because they had low ridership and were located very close to other stations. No stops east of Packards Corner were chosen, although they would affect the largest number of riders; despite their close spacing, they have higher ridership, and their proximity to traffic lights lowers the travel time savings from elimination. After a public comment period, Chiswick Road was removed from the proposal, as it serves a nearby elderly housing community. On April 20, 2004, the other four stops were closed as a 6-to-8-month pilot program. On March 15, 2005, after a survey showed that 73% of 1,142 riders surveyed approved of the closures, the MBTA board voted to make the closures permanent.\n\nIn 2014, the MBTA began planning to consolidate four stops – , , , and – located near Boston University's West Campus. The four stops, which are not accessible, will be turned into two fully accessible stops as part of a planned redesign of Commonwealth Avenue between the BU Bridge and Packard's Corner. The MBTA awarded a $17.8 million construction contract on March 23, 2020. Construction will last from fall 2020 to fall 2021, with night and weekend bustitution for 32 weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902585", "title": "Canan Öztoprak", "text": "Canan Öztoprak\n\nCanan Öztoprak (born 1955) is a Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Cabinet Minister appointed in the April 2005 TRNC Government of Prime Minister Ferdi Sabit Soyer. Her portfolios are National Education and Culture. She has been an active peace activist and founding member of the Cyprus Conflict Resolution Trainers Group.\n"}
{"id": "1902589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902589", "title": "The Star Maker (1995 film)", "text": "The Star Maker (1995 film)\n\nThe Star Maker () is a 1995 Italian film. It was produced by Rita Cecchi Gori, Vittorio Cecchi Gori, directed by Giuseppe Tornatore, while the title role was played by Sergio Castellitto. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nIn 1953, Joe Morelli is traveling rural Sicily, offering to take screen tests of wannabe actors for a fee. He claims to work for big Roman film studios, but in reality he is a fraud. He meets several people who express their deepest feelings and secrets in front of the camera. At one of his stops he meets a young girl, Beata, a convent girl who becomes attached to him despite his protestations.\n\nJoe and Beata's relationship gradually evolves into a romantic one, when he's exposed as a fraud, beaten, and arrested. After serving his prison term, Joe comes back to seek Beata, but finds her in a mentally disturbed state assuming Joe died. Pretending to be Joe's friend, he conveys to her a message that she was the love of his life, and promises he shall come back with money and take care of her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902597", "title": "Jane West", "text": "Jane West\n\nJane West (born Iliffe, 1758–1852), who published as Prudentia Homespun and Mrs. West, was an English novelist, poet, playwright, and writer of conduct literature and educational tracts.\n\nJane West's parents were Jane and John Iliffe. She was born in London, though the family moved to Desborough in Northamptonshire when she was eleven. In 1800 she wrote to the man of letters Thomas Percy, bishop of Dromore, seeking his patronage and describing herself as self-instructed and interested in poetry from an early age. By 1783 she was married to Thomas West (d. 1823), a yeoman farmer of Little Bowden, Leicestershire. They had three sons: Thomas (1783–1843), John (1787–1841), and Edward (1794–1821). Jane West benefited from the acquaintance with Bishop Percy, whom she visited in 1810, although her literary connections were never extensive. She corresponded with Sarah Trimmer and wrote a series of poems in praise of women writers: Trimmer, Elizabeth Carter, Charlotte Turner Smith, whom she visited in Ireland and Anna Seward.\n\nWest's writing is consistently conservative and didactic, but she did advocate expanding the education for women. Her works serve as a counterpoint to the revolutionary politics of the day: \"A Tale of the Times\" (1799) is anti-Jacobin; \"The Infidel Father\" (1802) attacks atheism; and one of her conduct texts, \"Letters to a Young Lady\", \"forms an ideological counterpart to Mary Wollstonecraft's \"Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792). Though she was called \"strident,\" her writing was popular in its day for its \"improving\" qualities. \"Letters to a Young Man\" (1801), for example, went through six editions by 1818. Her poems appeared in journals and anthologies and she was a longstanding contributor to the \"Gentleman's Magazine\". Her dramas would seem to have been less in tune with popular taste, as they were not successful. Although she claimed to consider her womanly domestic duties more important than her literary activities — \"My needle always claims the pre-eminence of my pen. I hate the name of 'rhyming slattern.'\" — there are indications that she actively sought success as a writer. She died at Little Bowden at the age of 94, feeling out of step with contemporary trends.\n\nToday she is best known as the author of a novel that served as a source text for Jane Austen's \"Sense and Sensibility\" (1811). West's \"A Gossip’s Story\" (1796), like Austen's novel, features two sisters, one full of rational sense and the other of romantic, emotive sensibility. West's romantic sister shares the same name as Austen's: Marianne. There are further textual similarities, described in Looser et al. ed's Valancourt Classics edition of the novel (2015). Austen, like Shakespeare before her, significantly reworked West's plot and characters to suit her own vision.\n\nWest also drew on Austen's fiction in her critically neglected last novel, \"Ringrove; Or, Old-Fashioned Notions\" (1827), which has similarities to Austen's \"Emma\" (1816). \"Ringrove\" and \"Emma\" share elements \"from characters’ names (Emma, Harriet, Smith) to character types (heiress, governess, widower, farmer)\" to \"more minute relationship difficulties.\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902624", "title": "Orange Julius", "text": "Orange Julius\n\nOrange Julius is an American chain of fruit drink beverage stores. It has been in business since the late 1920s and is noted for a particular drink, also called an Orange Julius. The beverage is a mixture of ice, orange juice, sweetener, milk, powdered egg whites and vanilla flavoring, similar to a morir soñando or orange Creamsicle.\n\nThe drink grew out of an orange juice stand opened in Los Angeles, California in 1926 by Julius Freed. Sales were initially modest, about $20 a day (equivalent to approximately $ in dollars). In 1929, Bill Hamlin, Freed's real estate broker, developed a mixture that made the acidic orange juice less bothersome to his stomach. Freed's stand began serving the drink, which had a frothier, creamier texture. The sales at the stand increased substantially after the introduction of the new drink, going up to $100 a day.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Orange Julius was sold at a variety of outlets, including state and county fairs and freestanding Orange Julius stands. The original stand also provided medicinal tonics and Bible tracts.\n\nIt now has hundreds of stores in malls across America and Canada, in Singapore, Puerto Rico, South Korea, the Philippines and Japan.\n\nThe Orange Julius was named the official drink of the 1964 New York World's Fair.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, Orange Julius beverage stands used the image of a devil with a pitchfork, similar to that of the Arizona State University mascot, Sparky, around an orange, with the slogan, \"A Devilish Good Drink\". The company later dropped the logo and slogan after threats of a lawsuit from the ASU alumni association.\n\nFor a short period in the early 1970s, Orange Julius expanded into the UK and Dutch markets, with a fairly large restaurant in Golders Green, selling Julius Burgers as well as the classic orange drink, and a small outlet in the city center of Amsterdam. However, this had gone by the mid-70s.\n\nIn 1987, the Orange Julius chain was bought by International Dairy Queen. IDQ, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, owns the rights to all Orange Julius stores and has expanded the chain so its drinks are offered at many of its Dairy Queen stores, called \"Treat Centers\".\n\nIn 2004, Orange Julius launched a line of Premium Fruit Smoothies to compete with smoothie competitors such as Jamba Juice and Smoothie King.\n\nIn 2012, Dairy Queen introduced the Orange Julius Beverages in its restaurants.\n\nIn February 2019, Dairy Queen stopped offering the Orange Julius Beverage line in their Dairy Queen Restaurants. The full Orange Julius menu is still available at Orange Julius locations, and Dairy Queen locations that sell treats only will continue to offer some flavors of the Orange Julius Premium Fruit Smoothies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902634", "title": "Green Line &quot;D&quot; branch", "text": "Green Line &quot;D&quot; branch\n\nThe \"D\" branch of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's Green Line, also known as the Highland branch or the Riverside Line, is a light rail line in west Boston, Massachusetts, with stations also located in Brookline and Newton. It branches off near Kenmore Square from the Tremont Street and Boylston Street subways from downtown shared with the other light rail lines. It then continues west for about ten miles on a private surface right of way, formerly the Highland branch of the Boston and Albany Railroad. The right of way is double tracked throughout without express tracks. It is grade separated from roads and highways, though there are pedestrian crossings at stations and in Webster Conservation Area in Newton.\n\n, the downtown terminus is at Government Center. Free transfer is provided to the rapid transit lines and other light rail lines (the \"B\" branch to Boston College, the \"C\" branch to Cleveland Circle, and the \"E\" branch to Heath Street) at the various subway stops.\n\nThe \"D\" branch was the most recent light rail line to be built in the Boston area, opening in 1959. It was built on the Boston and Albany Railroad's Highland branch, which closed in 1958 for the conversion. The route has varied scenery, passing golf courses, residential neighborhoods, woods, lakes, and small town centers. The Newton Centre and Newton Highlands stations still feature Richardsonian Romanesque station buildings designed by Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge in the 1890s.\n\nThe first section of what became the Highland branch was built by the Boston and Worcester Railroad between Boston and Brookline in 1847. The Charles River branch railroad, a forerunner of the New York and New England Railroad, extended the line to Newton Upper Falls in 1852. The B&A, successor to the Boston and Worcester, bought the line in 1883 and extended to Riverside, rejoining its main line there. The B&A instituted loop service (\"Newton Circuit\"), going one way to Riverside on the main line and the other way on the Highland branch; the NY&NE continued to use the branch as well.\n\nIn 1906 the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad built a new cutoff from Needham Junction east to their Dedham branch at West Roxbury, and began routing NY&NE trains that way. However, in 1911, they too began running loop service on the \"Needham Circuit\", running one way on the old Boston and Providence Railroad to West Roxbury and the other way on the B&A Highland branch.\n\nNYNH&H service through Newton stopped in 1925 and the last B&A train ran over the Highland branch on May 31, 1958.\n\nFrom mid-1958 to mid-1959, the Highland branch from Riverside to Fenway was converted to light rail by Boston's Metropolitan Transit Authority. This was to be a low budget project and the light rail option was chosen over third rail rapid transit trains because the last to downtown would be via an existing light rail subway. The primary $7M contract was let to the Perini Corporation with an additional $2M for work by the MTA, of which part was designated for added land purchases. With the Riverside terminal just off what is now Interstate 95 and from today's I-90, the line would be a showpiece of park and ride mass transit from distant suburbs using an existing railroad right of way.\n\nThe major project parts included the following:\n\nLight rail operation began on the Highland branch on July 4, 1959, with single cars or 2 and 3 car trains, running from Riverside or Reservoir to Park St. Station downtown. It was intended to short turn every other rush hour train at Reservoir and berths at Park St. were marked \"Riverside/Reservoir.\" But from the very start, ridership was heavy enough on the outer end of the line to require running nearly all trips to Riverside, the exceptions mainly at the very beginning and very end of the day. Scheduled service frequency ranged from 6 minutes during rush hours to 15 minutes late in the evening. The MTA chose to maintain at least a 10 to 15 minute headway throughout rather than short turn trains at Reservoir during off hours.\n\nThe Highland branch was originally given route number 4. (Routes 1, 2, and 3 were today's Red Line, Orange Line, and Blue Line rapid transit, respectively.)\n\nWith few exceptions, on board fare collection has been used at the surface stations. Originally the fare was the flat 20 cent rapid transit fare. By 1961 a zone fare system, pay enter inbound and pay exit outbound, was instituted. Fare was 10 cents Riverside to Reservoir, 10 cents Reservoir to Fenway, and 20 cents Fenway to downtown (40 cents for the entire ride). From the mid 1970s to the mid 2000s the outbound ride from Fenway to Riverside was free to speed up alighting from the cars (and a somewhat higher fare charged for the inbound ride). Beginning in 1996, passengers prepaid their fares at the Riverside station, first during morning rush hour only and ca 2006 full-time. Also, after Red Sox games and during a few other heavily traveled times, passengers sometimes prepaid fares at other stations, notably Fenway.\n\nIn 1961, passenger boardings were reported at 30,000 per day.\n\nNo passenger connection has been provided between the Riverside light rail station and the Riverside station on the B&A main line, now the MBTA Commuter Rail Framingham/Worcester Line. B&A Service to the latter Riverside station ended in the 1970s although a pedestrian underpass and platform still exists, the underpass was closed in 2016 because it is in very poor condition. The nearest commuter rail station on the latter line is in the Newton village of Auburndale, about half a mile away. The tracks from the \"D\" branch to the Boston and Albany main were severed and overgrown until, to facilitate the delivery of new light rail vehicles in the 1970s, they were rebuilt and have since been maintained, although they are not used for any regular service. Special commuter rail trains did run to South Station from a temporary platform near the Riverside light rail station from October 23–25, 1996 after heavy rain led to extensive flooding in the Boston area, closure of the Kenmore Square subway station and cutting off of the Riverside line from the downtown subway stations.\n\nBy August 1964, when the MBTA took over, service on the Riverside Line was extended on all days but Sundays to Lechmere. Sunday service was extended on September 10, 1966.\n\nIn 1967, letter designations replaced the route numbers for the light rail lines and the 4 Riverside-Lechmere became the D Riverside.\n\nOver the years, the following changes in eastern terminal have been made:\nThe MBTA's first Boeing light rail vehicles operated on the \"D\" branch on December 30, 1976, and turned around at Park Street or Government Center due to the North Station loop catenary not yet upgraded for pantographs.\n\nUse of PCC cars on the \"D\" line officially ended March 23, 1978, but later LRV shortages prompted the occasional return of PCC cars.\n\n\nFrom the very start of light rail service, in 1959, there were complaints about rough riding followed by continual improvements to the track. While the ride was generally satisfactory at , many operators went faster. At least one news report, in response to riders encountering almost violent side-to-side swaying of the cars, mentioned a speed limit imposed by the MBTA management. (A PCC car can reach nearly on level track.) Also, continuously welded rail joints were gradually introduced.\n\nWhen the first Boeing LRV was brought in for testing in the early 1970s, it became clear that the entire track would need to be rebuilt in order to support the greater weight of those cars and take advantage of their speed. Different techniques were used for maintaining service as each of three sections of the line were rebuilt.\n\n\nThe tracks were rehabilitated again in 2007. This project was undertaken because the newest LRV's, low floor handicapped accessible models from Breda, did not operate reliably over the tracks at the desired speeds. While the Riverside line generally received the newest cars first, it was the last to get the Breda cars due to the need to upgrade the tracks.\n\n\nThe tracks will be rehabilitated once more. This work between October 8, 2018 throughout 2020, including a full modern signal system for the line from Beaconsfield to Riverside and partial track replacements. Between October & December 2018, shuttle bus service replaced service between Brookline Hills and Reservoir every weekday evening and every weekend until after December 16. During 2019 and 2020, shuttle buses will replace service on 15 weekends and on all weeknights (except holidays) from 8:30 to the end of service. Weekend diversion is particularly between Kenmore and Reservoir with coordination with the Fenway Portal flood prevention project. The shuttles will not stop at Beaconsfield because the nearby streets are too narrow to accommodate the buses.\n\nOn May 28, 2008, just after 6pm, two trains collided between Woodland and Waban stations, behind 56 Dorset Road. The driver of the rear train, Terrese Edmonds, was trapped by the collision and died. The National Transportation Safety Board investigation concluded that the driver of the rearmost train probably had an episode of micro-sleep caused by sleep apnea.\n\nAbout a year later, another crash, this one in the central subway, was blamed on an operator texting while driving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902638", "title": "Union Colony of Colorado", "text": "Union Colony of Colorado\n\nThe Union Colony of Colorado (also called the Greeley Colony and The Union Temperance Colony) was a 19th-century private enterprise formed to promote agricultural settlements in the South Platte River valley in the Colorado Territory. Organization of the colony began in October 1869 by Nathan Meeker in order to establish a religiously oriented utopian community of \"high moral standards\". The colony was founded in March 1870 at the site of present-day Greeley, Colorado. Union Colony was financially backed and promoted by \"New York Tribune\" editor, Horace Greeley, a prominent advocate of the settlement of the American West. The homesteaded colony greatly advanced irrigation usage in present-day northern Colorado, demonstrating the viability of cultivation at a time when agriculture was emerging as a rival to mining as the principal basis for the territorial economy.\n\nHorace Greeley had journeyed west in 1859 at the height of the Colorado Gold Rush, going from Denver to Fort Laramie via the Overland Stage Line before continuing on to California. Greeley's route took him up the valleys of the South Platte and Cache la Poudre near the eventual location of the colony. \n\nIn 1869 Greeley sent Meeker, then employed as the agricultural editor of the Tribune, to the Colorado Territory to seek out a location for a colony to promote settlement in the West. Meeker returned to New York City in the autumn of 1869, reporting that the South Platte Valley presented a good opportunity for the colony. In October, Meeker began organizing the enterprise, and on December 14, 1869, he placed an advertisement in the Tribune calling for volunteers to join him in the new venture. Meeker's advertisement specifically sought volunteers of high moral standards, who were literate and adherents to the tenets of the Temperance movements. The cost of membership for those accepted to the colony was set at $160. Of the more than 3000 people who responded, Meeker selected 700 applications as prospective colonists, ninety of whom later backed out.\n\nFormer Union general Robert Alexander Cameron served as the first vice president and later president of the colony, as well as the colony's superintendent. Cameron would also become president of the Fort Collins colony in 1872. \n\nWith the collected membership fees, Meeker journeyed west in the Spring of 1870 with two other officers. They purchased a tract of land in Weld County, near the confluence of the Cache la Poudre and South Platte Rivers and founded the settlement. Initially, the colony thrived and expanded, attracting other homesteaders to the area. The religious nature of the colony was not agreeable to all the settlers, however, so a portion of them spread out to other nearby lands in the area. Jacob Flowers, for example, was one of these. In 1872, the success of the colony inspired some of its officers to found another colony upstream on the Poudre River at Fort Collins. The city of Greeley itself was incorporated in 1886. \n\nDuring the 1870s, the colony became known for its heavy use of irrigation, with one visitor reporting that nearly every person in the cooperative was involved in the maintaining of at least one irrigation ditch. Meeker was killed by Utes at the \"Meeker Massacre\" in western Colorado in 1879. The irrigation system built by the Colony remains an important part of the area today, although growing urbanization threatens more and more of the productive croplands the irrigation systems allowed to be utilized.\n\nThe Colony's influence is recognized in the region's history. Greeley remained a dry municipality until 1972. As a result, several nearby towns grew more rapidly as a source of liquor; and at least two small towns, Rosedale, and Garden City, were established and incorporated largely to allow saloons, bars, and liquor stores to feed the demand of nearby University of Northern Colorado students and faculty. \n\nFire protection services for the City of Greeley are today provided by the \"Union Colony Fire Rescue Authority\". A major city building complex is located at the \"Union Colony Civic Center.\" \n"}
{"id": "1902646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902646", "title": "Adamit", "text": "Adamit\n\nAdamit () is a kibbutz in northern Israel. Located in the western Galilee in Israel near the border with Lebanon, it falls under the jurisdiction of Mateh Asher Regional Council. In it had a population of .\n\nKibbutz Adamit was founded in August 1958 by members of Hashomer Hatzair, and was named after a Second Temple period town whose ruins were found in the area. The kibbutz was founded on the land of the depopulated Palestinian village of Khirbat Iribbin, to the west of the village site. In 1967, the kibbutz was abandoned, and only Nahal groups remained. In 1971, the kibbutz was resettled by new immigrants from England, United States and Canada, after a year of training at kibbutz Mishmar HaEmek. During the 1980s, the kibbutz suffering from financial problems and was put under administrative receivership. Since the 1990s, a new build-your-own-home neighborhood has been developed along the hillside.\n\nThe kibbutz is situated on a hill, offering a panoramic view of the Galilee. On one side lies the Nahal Betzet nature reserve, and to the north, Nahal Namer. The region receives 750 millimeters of rainfall per annum, which is relatively high for Israel.\n\nThe kibbutz operates a chicken coop, orchards and a metalwork factory. It also rents out vacation cabins to tourists.\n"}
{"id": "1902647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902647", "title": "2006 Men's Ice Hockey World Championships", "text": "2006 Men's Ice Hockey World Championships\n\nThe 2006 Men's Ice Hockey World Championships was the 70th such event hosted by the International Ice Hockey Federation. Teams representing 45 countries participated in four levels of competition. The competition also served as qualifications for division placements in the 2007 competition. In the Division I Championship held in April, Germany and Austria were promoted to the Championship division while Israel and Croatia were demoted to Division II. In the Division II competition, Romania and China were promoted, South Africa and New Zealand were relegated to Division III. In the Division III competition, Iceland and Turkey were promoted to Division II for 2007.\n\nThe 2006 IIHF World Championship was held in Latvia between May 5 and May 21, 2006 with events being held in Riga. Sweden won the championship with a 4–0 victory in the final against the Czech Republic.\n\nThe Championship division was contested from May 5 to May 21, 2006. Participants in this tournament were placed into groups of four with the top three teams in each group advancing to the qualifying round. Teams which finished last in the group were sent to the relegation round where the top bottom teams were relegated to the 2007 Division I tournament. The qualifying round teams were split into two groups of six with the top four advancing to the playoff round, and the bottom two eliminated from advancing. The playoff round was a knockout stage towards the gold medal game. The Championship was played in Riga, Latvia. Sweden won the gold medal game, defeating the Czech Republic 4–0. Although Kazakhstan and Slovenia were relegated to Division I for 2007.\n\n\nDivision I was contested from April 23 to April 30, 2006. Participants in this tournament were separated into two separate tournament groups. The Group A tournament was contested in Amiens, France. Group B's games were played in Tallinn, Estonia. Germany and Austria finished atop of Group A and Group B respectively, gaining promotion to the 2007 Championship division. Although Israel finished last in Group A and Croatia last in Group B and were relegated to Division II for 2007.\n\nGroup A\n\nGroup B\nDivision II was contested from March 27 to April 9, 2006. Participants in this tournament were separated into two separate tournament groups. The Group A tournament was contested in Sofia, Bulgaria. Group B's games were played in Auckland, New Zealand. Romania and China finished atop of Group A and Group B respectively, gaining promotion to Division I for 2007. Although South Africa finished last in Group A and New Zealand last in Group B and were relegated to Division III for 2007.\n\nGroup A\n\nGroup B\n\nDivision III was contested from April 24–29, 2006 in Reykjavík, Iceland. Iceland won the championship and gained promotion, along with Turkey, into the 2007 Division II tournament.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902649", "title": "Cornell Brown", "text": "Cornell Brown\n\nCornell Desmond Brown (born March 15, 1975) is a former American college and professional football player who was a linebacker in the National Football League (NFL) for seven seasons. He played college football for Virginia Tech, and earned All-American honors twice. Drafted late in the sixth round of the 1997 NFL Draft, he played professionally for the NFL's Baltimore Ravens. He is currently an assistant coach for Virginia Tech. In 2013, Brown was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame (the state-wide organization that honors sports figures from the state, or who contributed to sports programs in the state).\n\nBorn in Englewood, New Jersey, Brown attended E.C. Glass in Lynchburg, Virginia. He played high school football for the E.C. Glass Hilltoppers, and led them to the state championship game in his senior year in 1992, losing to the Bethel High School team.\n\nBrown attended Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, where he played for coach Frank Beamer's Virginia Tech Hokies football team from 1993 to 1996. He earned first-team All-American honors as a defensive end in 1995, and was recognized as a consensus first-team All-American in 1996. He was inducted into the Virginia Tech Sports Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nThe Baltimore Ravens selected Brown in the sixth round (194th pick overall) of the 1997 NFL Draft, and he played for the Ravens from to . With the Ravens, he had success as a backup outside linebacker. He earned a Super Bowl ring when Baltimore defeated the New York Giants 34-7 in Super Bowl XXXV. Brown was hit with a drug charge in 2001 however, and was cut, although the charge was eventually dropped. After going back to Virginia Tech for a year, Brown was picked up by the Oakland Raiders. Cut again, he was re-signed by the Ravens, and played the remainder of his career for them from to . In his seven NFL seasons, he played in 108 regular season games, started twenty-five of them, and compiled 147 tackles, seven quarterback sacks and three forced fumbles.\nBrown was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in 2013.\n\nBrown began his coaching career as an intern with the NFL Europe Cologne Centurions in 2005, then spent 2006 and 2007 as defensive line coach for the Frankfurt Galaxy in the spring and a graduate assistant on Frank Beamer's Virginia Tech coaching staff in the fall. Brown joined the Calgary staff in 2008.\n\nBrown was hired by Virginia Tech as the outside linebackers and assistant defensive line coach in 2011.\n\nBrown was hired by Norfolk State University to be the Defensive Coordinator in 2016\n\nBrown was by Marshall University to be the Defensive Ends coach in 2017\n\nBrown's brother is Ruben Brown, who was a Pro Bowl offensive lineman for the Buffalo Bills and Chicago Bears.\n"}
{"id": "1902660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902660", "title": "Nathan Meeker", "text": "Nathan Meeker\n\nNathanial Cook \"Nathan\" Meeker (July 12, 1817 – September 30, 1879) was a 19th-century American journalist, homesteader, entrepreneur, and Indian agent for the federal government. He is noted for his founding in 1870 of the Union Colony, a cooperative agricultural colony in present-day Greeley, Colorado.\n\nIn 1878, he was appointed U.S. Agent at the White River Indian Agency in western Colorado. The next year, he was killed by Ute warriors in what became known as the Meeker Massacre, during the White River War. His wife and adult daughter were taken captive for about three weeks. In 1880, the United States Congress passed punitive legislation to remove the Ute from Colorado to Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in present-day Utah, and take away some land formerly guaranteed them.\n\nThe town of Meeker, Colorado and Mount Meeker in Rocky Mountain National Park are named for him.\n\nNathan Cook Meeker was born in Euclid, Ohio on July 12, 1817, to Enoch and Lurana Meeker. He had three brothers. Meeker was a writer and submitted articles to area publications when he was a boy. He left home at 17 years-of-age for New Orleans, where he worked as a copy boy for the \"New Orleans Picayune\". In the late 1830s, Meeker returned to Ohio, where he attended and graduated from Oberlin College.\n\nAfter college, Meeker worked as a school teacher in Cleveland and Philadelphia. He saved up his money to move to New York, hoping to fulfill a desire to become a poet. In New York, he became a contributor to the \"Mirror\", which was owned by N.P. Willis. Unable to support himself, he moved back to Euclid and was a traveling salesman. Meeker was also a farmer.\n\nMeeker married Arvilla Delight Smith, a Congregationalist, on April 8, 1844. He was baptized a Disciple of Christ to address her concern about his lack of faith. Smith was concerned that Meeker was younger than her. So, he stated that his year of birth was 1814 on their marriage certificate. The couple settled in the Trumbull Phalanx colony in Ohio. The colony was based upon the utopian theories of Charles Fourier. Arvilla taught kindergarten and Nathan was a teacher, historian, auditor, librarian, secretary, and poet laureate. In 1845, their son Ralph Lovejoy was born. Two years later George Columbus was born at the colony. The Trumbull Phalanx colony failed due to financial and health issues in the fall of 1847.\n\nIn 1847, Meeker opened a store with his brothers in Cleveland. Rozene was born in 1849 in Munson. The store failed in 1850. Meeker opened another store in Hiram in 1852. He was asked to help found the Western Reserve Institute by the Disciples of Christ, but he was furious when his claim was held up because he sold whiskey. He only sold whiskey by prescription, but was so angry over the misunderstanding that he left the church. In 1854, Mary was born in Hiram, and three years later Josephine was born there. Meeker lost his store and property during the Great Panic of 1857. He moved to Dongola, Illinois, where he opened a small store and grew fruit.\n\nMeeker wrote articles, often about sociology, that were published by the \"Cleveland Plaindealer\" and reprinted by Horace Greeley in the \"New-York Tribune\". His first novel, \"The Adventures of Captain Armstrong\" was published in 1856, with Horace Greeley's assistance.\n\nMeeker became a war correspondent for Greeley in his Cairo, Illinois office during the Civil War. He was present at and reported on the battle at Fort Donelson, among other journalists such as Junius Henri Browne and Charles Carleton Coffin. Meeker became made an agricultural journalist and editor at the end of the war for the \"New-York Tribune\". Meeker's novel \"Life in the West or Stories of the Mississippi Valley\" was published in 1866. He went to the Rocky Mountains for the \"Tribune\" in 1869, and was inspired to live there.\n\nMeeker, who was interested in communal and cooperative farms, created his vision of a utopian community based upon Christianity and communal economic enterprise, which was a modification of Charles Fourier’s definition of a utopian society. With the backing of his editor Horace Greeley, Meeker organized the Union Colony (later the town of Greeley) to be settled in the Colorado Territory. He advertised for applicants to move to the South Platte River basin, in what was intended as a cooperative venture for people of \"high moral standards.\" Meeker received approximately 3,000 replies that winter, and accepted about 700 of them to purchase shares. With the capital from the shares, in 1870 Meeker purchased 2,000 acres (8 km²), primarily from Native Americans, at the confluence of the South Platte and the Cache La Poudre River (Powder Bag) rivers near present-day Greeley. The venture relied on funding from Horace Greeley. Meeker also founded the \"Greeley Tribune\" in 1870.\n\nThe settlers brought irrigation techniques to northwestern Colorado, and helped attract additional agricultural settlement in the region. The community failed on a couple of counts. It was not financially successful and the community members had not adopted the Christian values that Meeker espoused.\n\nIn 1878, eight years after the founding of the colony, Meeker was appointed United States (US) Indian agent at the White River Ute Indian Reservation, on the western side of the continental divide. He received this appointment, although he lacked experience with Native Americans. While living among the Ute, Meeker tried to extend his policy of religious and farming reforms, but they were used to a hunter-gatherer lifestyle with seasonal bison hunting, as opposed to one which would require them to settle on a particular piece of land.\n\nThe federal government had been trying to persuade the Ute to abandon their nomadic lifestyle, and become farmers. It wanted them to send their children to European-American style schools and assimilate into majority culture.\n\nMeeker wanted to convert the Ute from what he considered their state of primitive savagery to become subsistence farmers who adopted his techniques. He was warned that the Ute resented his reforms and attempts at conversion. Ignoring these reports, Meeker ordered that a horse racing track be plowed under to convert the track and horses' pasturage to farmland. The Ute held their horses as a chief source of status and wealth, and considered the order an affront. Meeker suggested to one man that the tribe had too many horses and they would have to kill some to give more land over to agriculture.\n\nAfter having the track plowed, Meeker had a tense conversation with an irate Ute chief. Meeker wired for military assistance, claiming that he had been assaulted by an Indian, driven from his home, and severely injured. The government sent approximately 150-200 soldiers, led by Major Thomas T. Thornburgh, commander of Fort Steele in Wyoming, to settle the affair. On September 29, 1879, before troops arrived, the Ute attacked the Indian agency, killing Meeker and his 10 male employees. They took some women and children as hostages to secure their own safety as they fled and held them for 23 days. Two of the women taken captive were of Meeker's family: his wife Arvilla and daughter Josephine, just graduated from college and working as a teacher and physician.\n\nMeeker is buried at the Linn Grove Cemetery, Greeley, Weld County, Colorado.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902664", "title": "Travis Brown", "text": "Travis Brown\n\nTravis Brown may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902674", "title": "University of Tennessee Space Institute", "text": "University of Tennessee Space Institute\n\nThe University of Tennessee Space Institute, also known as UTSI, is a satellite campus of the University of Tennessee located near Tullahoma, Tennessee.\n\nUTSI was founded to allow the University of Tennessee to take advantage of the aerospace facilities located in the Arnold Engineering Development Center on Arnold Air Force Base, including wind tunnels and other laboratory equipment.\n\nUTSI was born in the aftermath of World War II and in the midst of the Cold War. The seeds that ultimately led to UTSI began in the 1930s. German aeronautical superiority resulted in German fielding of the first jet propelled aircraft and ballistic missiles, thus proving the need for research facilities devoted to the study of aeronautics and related sciences. Had the German manufacturing capability been equivalent to that of the United States, the outcome of World War II would no doubt have been different.\n\nPresident Harry Truman vowed in 1951 that, \"Never again will the United States ride the coattails of other countries in the progress and development of the aeronautical art.\"\n\nIn the wake of World War II and in the following decades, the military expanded its research capabilities, creating laboratories across the country, including the construction of airplane and missile airframe and propulsion systems wind tunnels and laboratories at Tullahoma. Construction of this facility, which was to be known as Arnold Engineering Development Center, began in 1950.\n\nIt was recognized that there would be difficulties in attracting scientific personnel to conduct research, or to analyze the results of testing in wind tunnels and engine test facilities. Numerous efforts were conducted while AEDC was under construction to develop a viable concept for an education and research institute that would exist in a collaborative relationship with AEDC. In 1952, an Institute of Flight Sciences was strongly recommended to foster graduate programs, lecture and symposia programs, and student research in the aeronautical sciences.\n\nGeneral Jimmy Doolittle, Secretary of the Air Force Donald A. Quarles, Donald Douglas of Douglas Aircraft Company, along with NACA, MIT, and Caltech scientists supported the concept as sound and in the national interest. However, no consensus could be developed as to how to proceed and the concept was abandoned in 1959. In 1956, however, the Air Force decided it could not wait any longer and made contractual arrangements with the University of Tennessee to establish an AEDC graduate study program for center employees, using office and classroom space provided by the Air Force. Dr. Joel F. Bailey was the initial director of the UT effort, followed by Dr. Robert L. Young.\n\nThe year 1958 sent a new shock wave throughout the world when the Soviet Union orbited the Sputnik satellite. In the aftermath of this event, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was formed. NASA initially considered absorbing AEDC, but ultimately decided to leave it with the Air Force. However, the need for space education was severely felt at AEDC, just as throughout the rest of the military and at NASA.\n\nFew academic institutions offered engineering or refresher courses in space technology at the time. Dr. B.H. Goethert seized upon this national need and proposed to the Air Force and the State of Tennessee that a \"Tennessee Aerospace Institute\" be located near AEDC. As a result of Dr. Goethert’s proposal, the University of Tennessee Space Institute was finally established in 1964.\n\nUTSI is an institution unlike any in the United States, perhaps even the entire world. It plays a unique role of vital importance to the US Air Force. It was founded in the wake of two technological revolutions – the development of the airplane and the development of the rocket. In the years since 1964, UTSI’s faculty, students, and alumni have played critical roles in the furthering of American technological superiority in aeronautics and space arenas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902679", "title": "Kim Barnett", "text": "Kim Barnett\n\nKim John Barnett (born 17 July 1960) is a former English cricketer. Barnett was a batsman who played internationally for England between 1988 and 1989.\n\nHe was primarily a batsman, but could also deploy effective leg spin, and topped the English first-class bowling averages in 1994 with 13.30, albeit with only thirteen wickets to his name. Barnett was named one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1989.\n\nHe mainly played for Derbyshire, from 1979 to 1998 and Gloucestershire from 1999 to 2002. He also played for South African teams Boland and Impalas.\n\nBarnett played the bulk of his county cricket career for Derbyshire, and was captain between 1983 and 1995. He remained at the club for several more years, until clashes with players and the county's committee resulted in his leaving for Gloucestershire in 1999. He was disappointed not to be offered a renewal of his contract after the 2002 season, and retired from first-class cricket, although he continued to play in regional league competitions.\n\nBarnett scored 28,593 first-class runs in 479 matches at an average of 40.38, with 61 centuries and a top score of 239 not out, made against Leicestershire. He passed 1000 runs in a single season 16 times, including eleven consecutive seasons between 1983 and 1993.\n\nBarnett played only four Test matches for England, partly as a result of bad fortune and partly of his own choice. He was selected for the 1988/89 tour to India, which was cancelled, and then accepted a place on the Mike Gatting led rebel tour of South Africa in 1989/90, and was immediately banned from Test cricket for three years.\n\nIn one-day cricket, according to former Gloucestershire coach John Bracewell, Barnett played a key role in a very successful side: winning a \"double double\" in 1999 and 2000 (both the Benson and Hedges Cup and the C&G Trophy, in both seasons), while also pocketing the Sunday League in 2000 ... Key to all this was veteran opener Kim Barnett, who Bracewell described as \"like Duckworth-Lewis before it was invented\". It was Barnett who would first calculate the par score, then systematically plot the road map to that total.\n\nHe was coach of the Minor Counties side, Staffordshire, and played for them on occasion.\n\nBarnett used to play for Rocester F.C. and Leek Town before football took a back seat for cricket.\n"}
{"id": "1902682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902682", "title": "Wendell Bryant", "text": "Wendell Bryant\n\nWendell Bryant (born September 12, 1980) is a former American football defensive tackle. He was drafted by the Arizona Cardinals 12th overall in the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at Wisconsin.\n\nAfter graduating from Ritenour High School in St. Louis, Missouri, Bryant played college football at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He played in back to back Rose Bowls his freshman & sophomore years of college. He had a key sack to help secure the 1999 Rose Bowl victory. He won the Big Ten defensive lineman of the Year Award in his junior and senior years.\n\nHe was drafted by the Arizona Cardinals 12th overall, and played with the team during the 2002, 2003, and 2004 seasons. He was suspended for the 2005 season after committing a third strike in the NFL's substance abuse policy and never returned to the league.\n\nBryant was drafted by the Las Vegas Locomotives of the United Football League and signed on August 5, 2009. He was placed on injured reserve on November 19, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902685", "title": "Gdańsk Agreement", "text": "Gdańsk Agreement\n\nThe Gdańsk Agreement (or \"Gdańsk Social Accord(s)\" or \"August Agreement(s)\", ) was an accord reached as a direct result of the strikes that took place in Gdańsk, Poland. Workers along the Baltic went on strike in August 1980 in support of the 21 demands of MKS which eventually led to the creation of Solidarity.\n\nThe labor strikes did not occur because of problems that emerged shortly before the unrest, but due to political and economic difficulties the previous ten years. Under the rule of Władysław Gomułka in the late 1960s, Poland's economy was in disarray. To counter this, the government increased food prices just before Christmas 1970 which irritated the entire populace of the nation. On December 14, 1970 workers from the Lenin shipyard in Gdańsk began a strike against party headquarters within the city insisting on the formation of independent trade unions. In this disturbance 75 people were killed after Gomułka ordered that the revolt be put down with force. As R. J. Crampton wrote: \"The Kremlin did not agree and intervened to urge the need for a political solution. For the nationalist communist Gomułka, Soviet dictation of internal Polish policies was too much.\" Edward Gierek, who appeared to be more open to workers' needs and have strong political ties to the working class, soon replaced Gomułka. This was the first occasion in Europe since World War II that labor strikes were able to remove a ruler from power.\n\nGierek was able to stress economic reforms during the first half of his tenure of office. According to R. J. Crampton: \"The stated objective of the reforms was to increase living standards; a less publicly attested motivation was the knowledge that, with prices fixed and with demand increasing, goods had to be put into circulation to avoid rampant inflation.\" In the years prior to the Gdańsk strikes in 1980 the reforms of Gierek did succeed as planned, but the economy of Poland became progressively more unstable. This was due to Poland's reliance on western markets and loans that the nation could not repay.\n\nFueled by large infusions of Western credit, Poland's economic growth rate was one of the world's highest during the first half of the 1970s, but much of the borrowed capital was misspent and the centrally planned economy was unable to use the new resources effectively. The growing debt burden became insupportable in the late 1970s and economic growth had become negative by 1979.\n\nAs the economic crisis became unbearable, the Communist government authorized an increase in food prices for the summer of 1980. Once again a revival of labor disturbances erupted throughout the nation. Workers of the Lenin Shipyard in Gdańsk ultimately went on strike in mid-August, sparked by the firing of Anna Walentynowicz. Led by electrician Lech Wałęsa, the workers took control of the shipyard and demanded labor reform and greater civil rights including the freedom of expression and religion, and the release of political prisoners. On the third day of the strike, on August 16, 1980, management granted Lenin Shipyard workers their working and pay demands. Lech Wałęsa and others announced the end of the strike, however the women of the shipyard, Anna Walentynowicz and Alina Pienkowska transformed a strike over bread and butter issues into a solidarity strike in sympathy with other striking establishments.\n\nDue to the popular support of the citizens and other striking groups, the Gdańsk workers held out until the government gave in to their demands. The successful strikers formed the Gdańsk Agreement on August 31, 1980 as an authentic social contract with the government. This allowed citizens to bring democratic changes within the communist political structure. The main concern of the workers was the establishment of a trade union independent of communist party control and the legal right to strike. In creating these new groups, there would be a clear representation of the workers' needs.\n\n\"These new unions are intended to defend the social and material interests of the workers, and not to play the role of a political party, they will be established on the basis of socialization of the means of production and of the socialist system that exists in Poland today.\" Other major concerns were to control commercial prices, the use of foreign money in all internal economic dealings, ensuring the proper supply of resources within the nation and only exporting the excess. This would ensure that there would be a better chance for prosperity within the nation for all working citizens.\n\n1. Acceptance of free trade unions independent of the Communist Party and of enterprises, in accordance with convention No. 87 of the International Labor Organization concerning the right to form free trade unions, which was ratified by the Communist Government of Poland.\n\n2. A guarantee of the right to strike and of the security of strikers and those aiding them.\n\n3. Compliance with the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech, the press and publication, including freedom for independent publishers, and the availability of the mass media to representatives of all faiths.\n\n4. A return of former rights to: 1) People dismissed from work after the 1970 and 1976 strikes, and 2) Students expelled from school because of their views. The release of all political prisoners, among them Edward Zadrozynski, Jan Kozlowski, and Marek Kozlowski. A halt in repression of the individual because of personal conviction.\n\n5. Availability to the mass media of information about the formation of the Inter-factory Strike Committee and publication of its demands.\n\n6. The undertaking of actions aimed at bringing the country out of its crisis situation by the following means: a) making public complete information about the social-economic situation, and b) enabling all sectors and social classes to take part in discussion of the reform programme.\n\n7. Compensation of all workers taking part in the strike for the period of the strike, with vacation pay from the Central Council of Trade Unions.\n\n8. An increase in the base pay of each worker by 2,000 złoty a month as compensation for the recent raise in prices.\n\n9. Guaranteed automatic increases in pay on the basis of increases in prices and the decline in real income.\n\n10. A full supply of food products for the domestic market, with exports limited to surpluses.\n\n11. The abolition of 'commercial' prices and of other sales for hard currency in special shops.\n\n12. The selection of management personnel on the basis of qualifications, not party membership. Privileges of the secret police, regular police and party apparatus are to be eliminated by equalizing family subsidies, abolishing special stores, etc.\n\n13. The introduction of food coupons for meat and meat products (during the period in which control of the market situation is regained).\n\n14. Reduction in the age for retirement for women to 50 and for men to 55, or after 30 years' employment in Poland for women and 35 years for men, regardless of age.\n\n15. Conformity of old-age pensions and annuities with what has actually been paid in.\n\n16. Improvements in the working conditions of the health service to insure full medical care for workers.\n\n17. Assurances of a reasonable number of places in day-care centers and kindergartens for the children of working mothers.\n\n18. Paid maternity leave for three years.\n\n19. A decrease in the waiting period for apartments.\n\n20. An increase in the commuter's allowance to 100 złoty from 40, with a supplemental benefit on separation.\n\n21. A day of rest on Saturday. Workers in the brigade system or round-the-clock jobs are to be compensated for the loss of free Saturdays with an increased leave or other paid time off.\n\nThe Gdańsk Agreement is very important to the politics of Poland because the strikes exposed the corruption and negligence within the state's leadership. In recognizing individual rights, such as the freedom of expression, the government is opened for the creation of civil societies. This allows citizens to come together where all people can agree on human rights regardless of party beliefs. The problems caused by the labor movements and the ensuing Gdańsk Agreement led to the removal of Edward Gierek and the installation of Stanisław Kania in September 1980.\n\n\"Solidarność\" (Solidarity), the independent trade union that emerged from the Lenin Shipyard strike, was unlike anything in the history of Poland. Even though it was mainly a labor movement representing workers led by chairman Wałęsa, it attracted an assorted membership of different citizens which quickly rose to unpararelled proportion of a quarter of the country's population: 10 million people nationwide. Due to its enormous size and newly found power, the union assumed the role of a national reform lobby able to change politics in Poland forever.\n\nOn the second anniversary of the agreement, August 31, 1982, a massive wave of anti-government demonstrations took place across Poland. The regime answered with police force; according to Solidarity, at least seven people were killed throughout Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902689", "title": "Afek, Israel", "text": "Afek, Israel\n\nAfek () is a kibbutz in northern Israel. Located in the Zevulun Valley in the Western Galilee, near the archaeological site of Tel Afek and the HaKerayot agglomeration, it falls under the jurisdiction of the Mateh Asher Regional Council. In it had a population of .\n\nThe kibbutz was founded in 1935 as \"Plugat HaYam\" (, lit. \"Sea Company\") on the dunes near present-day Kiryat Haim, with the goal of getting jobs in the Port of Haifa. In 1938 the kibbutz was moved to the coast in the area of Acre as a \"tower and stockade\" settlement, and was renamed \"Mishmar HaYam\" (, lit. \"Sea Guard\"). In 1947 the village moved again to its current location, this time a short distance inland on the same agricultural lands, based on the decision to abandon fishing and concentrate exclusively on agriculture. Its current name is derived from the adjacent Tel Afek, a candidate for one of the biblical Apheks (Joshua 19:30).\n\nAfek has 200 members and over 450 residents. The kibbutz operates a preschool and primary school that are open to the public. The kibbutz economy is based on crops, orchards, dairy farming, poultry farming, and fish farming. It also has three factories: \"Asiv\" produces fabrics, \"Mego\" medical supplies, and \"Hinnanit\" dolls and clothing accessories. \"Hinnanit\" also exhibits and sells rugs made from the fabric produced on the kibbutz.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902695", "title": "John Peyton (American politician)", "text": "John Peyton (American politician)\n\nJohn Stephens Peyton (born July 28, 1964) is an American businessman and politician who is currently president of Gate Petroleum. He served as Mayor of Jacksonville, Florida from 2003 to 2011, when he was succeeded by Alvin Brown. He was the second Republican to be elected to the position since 1888. After his term he returned to Gate, his family business, and succeeded his father Herb Peyton as the company's president in January 2012.\n\nPeyton's father is Herb Peyton, founder and principal owner of Gate Petroleum, one of the largest privately held companies in the state. They have made a considerable fortune developing, buying and selling land to both the state and federal governments, as well as owning Ponte Vedra Inn and Club and other clubs and resorts, 225 Gate Gas and convenience stores in the southeastern United States, and several other businesses. Prior to his election as mayor, Peyton served as board Chairman for the Jacksonville Transportation Authority; Vice President of Gate and serving as chairman of the Board of Directors for the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra and \"Greenscape of Jacksonville\".\n\nPeyton attended Mercer University and earned a bachelor's degree, then graduated from the Harvard Business School Executive Education Program.\n\nA long-time bachelor, Peyton became engaged during his first campaign and married Jacksonville physician Kathryn Pearson on June 1, 2003. They have two sons, John Conner, born in 2005, and Kent Thomas, born in 2007. Peyton is an Episcopalian.\n\nPeyton was elected mayor of Jacksonville in 2003. At age 38, Peyton was one of the youngest mayors serving a major city in Florida at the time. Peyton survived a crowded Republican primary and defeated the county's Democratic sheriff, Nat Glover, for the seat in a race that was the most expensive in Jacksonville history. He took office in 2003, succeeding John Delaney. In 2007, Peyton defeated community activist Jackie Brown by a margin over 50% to win a second term. Priorities include solidification of the River Accord, Seeds of Change, and his popular early literacy program \"RALLY Jacksonville!\", aimed at educating four-year-olds.\n\nPeyton's term of office ended on July 1, 2011, and Alvin Brown took office as the city's first African-American mayor. In a January 9, 2009 interview in the \"Financial News & Daily Record\", Peyton was asked about his plans for 2011 when his term ended. He responded:\n\nPeyton returned to Gate following his terms, briefly serving as vice president while he got up to speed on the company businesses. In January 2012, Gate announced John Peyton would succeed his father as president, while his father will take a less active role in the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902706", "title": "Afik", "text": "Afik\n\nAfik () is an Israeli settlement and a kibbutz established in 1972 close to the old syrian village of Fiq. It was the first Jewish locale established in the Golan Heights after the Six-Day War. In , it had a population of .\n\nThe international community considers Israeli settlements in the Golan Heights illegal under international law, while the Israeli government disputes this.\n\nThere are multiple locations called Aphek in the Bible, and the location of the kibbutz is believed to be adjacent to the ruins of the ancient Aphek mentioned in the Books of Kings (1 Kings 20:26), which tells how King Ahab of Israel defeated Ben-Hadad I of Damascus and the prophet Elisha foretold that King Jehoash of Israel would defeat Ben-Hadad III of Damascus three times.\n\nKibbutz Afik, affiliated with Ihud HaKvutzot VeHaKibbutzim, was established near the site of the abandoned Syrian village Fiq on 8 May 1972. It falls under the municipal jurisdiction of the Golan Regional Council, and the Fik Airfield is located nearby.\n\nEconomic branches include agriculture (seasonal vegetables, pulses, and fruit orchards), dairy cattle and chicken coops. The kibbutz also operates several factories in partnership with Yifat such as Afic Printing Solutions, which produces toners and ink cartridges. Afik shares ownership of Hamat Gader, a hot mineral springs health resort, with three other kibbutzim. Another source of employment is the Orhan Afik guesthouse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902712", "title": "Water gap", "text": "Water gap\n\nA water gap is a gap that flowing water has carved through a mountain range or mountain ridge and that still carries water today. Such gaps that no longer carry water currents are called wind gaps. Water gaps and wind gaps often offer a practical route for road and rail transport to cross the mountain barrier. \n\nA water gap is usually an indication of a river that is older than the current topography. The likely occurrence is that a river established its course when the landform was at a low elevation, or by a rift in a portion of the crust of the earth having a very low stream gradient and a thick layer of unconsolidated sediment.\n\nIn a hypothetical example, a river would have established its channel without regard for the deeper layers of rock. A later period of uplift would cause increased erosion along the riverbed, exposing the underlying rock layers. As the uplift continued, the river, being large enough, would continue to erode the rising land, cutting through ridges as they formed.\n\nWater gaps are common in the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians of eastern North America.\n\nAlternatively, a water gap may be formed through headward erosion of two streams on opposite sides of a ridge, ultimately resulting in the capture of one stream by the other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902721", "title": "Philip J. Corso", "text": "Philip J. Corso\n\nPhilip James Corso (May 22, 1915 – July 16, 1998) was an American Army officer.\n\nHe served in the United States Army from February 23, 1942, to March 1, 1963, and earned the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nCorso published \"The Day After Roswell\" in 1997, about his alleged involvement in the research of extraterrestrial technology recovered from the 1947 Roswell UFO Incident. \n\nOn July 23, 1997, he was a guest on the popular late night radio show, \"Coast to Coast AM\" with Art Bell where he spoke live about his Roswell story. Corso died of a heart attack less than a year later.\n\nAfter joining the Army in 1942, Corso served in Army Intelligence in Europe, becoming chief of the US Counter Intelligence Corps in Rome. \n\nIn 1945, Corso arranged for the safe passage of 10,000 Jewish World War II refugees out of Rome to the British Mandate of Palestine. He was the personal emissary to Giovanni Battista Montini at the Vatican, later Pope Paul VI, during the period when the \"Nazi Rat Lines\" were most active.\n\nDuring the Korean War (1950–1953), Corso performed intelligence duties under General Douglas MacArthur as Chief of the Special Projects branch of the Intelligence Division, Far East Command. One of his primary duties was to keep track of enemy prisoner of war (POW) camps in North Korea. Corso was in charge of investigating the estimated number of U.S. and other United Nations POWs held at each camp and their treatment.\n\nAt later hearings in 1992 of the Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs, Corso provided first hand testimony, that many hundreds of American POWs were abandoned at these camps. At those hearings, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) dismissed the undocumented and uncorroborated allegations made by Corso as being extremely difficult to believe. McCain implied that Corso was guilty of fabricating the truth and essentially terminated the testimony being given by Corso immediately after a severe verbal reprimand on live television. McCain stated that his knowledge obtained from those who had personal relationships with Eisenhower led him to believe that Eisenhower was just not capable of allowing known American POWs to remain incarcerated after the termination of the Korean War.\n\nCorso was on the staff of President Eisenhower's National Security Council for four years (1953–1957).\n\nIn 1961, he became Chief of the Pentagon's Foreign Technology desk in Army Research and Development, working under Lt. Gen. Arthur Trudeau.\n\nIn his book \"The Day After Roswell\" (co-author William J. Birnes), Corso claims he stewarded extraterrestrial artifacts recovered from a crash near Roswell, New Mexico, in 1947.\n\nCorso says a covert government group was assembled under the leadership of Adm. Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter, the first director of Central Intelligence (see Majestic 12). Among its tasks was to collect all information on off-planet technology. The US administration simultaneously discounted the existence of flying saucers in the eyes of the public, Corso says.\n\nAccording to Corso, the reverse engineering of these artifacts indirectly led to the development of accelerated particle beam devices, fiber optics, lasers, integrated circuit chips and Kevlar material.\n\nIn the book, Corso claims the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), or \"Star Wars\", was meant to achieve the destructive capacity of electronic guidance systems in incoming enemy warheads, as well as the disabling of enemy spacecraft, including those of extraterrestrial origin.\n\nCorso died of a heart attack on July 16th, 1998.\n\nHis service number on his id card was 01047930 as shown on TV.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902726", "title": "Wu Zhen (painter)", "text": "Wu Zhen (painter)\n\nWu Zhen () (1280–1354 C.E.) was a Chinese painter born in Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province, during the Yuan dynasty of China, one of the so-called Four Masters of the Yuan Dynasty. He followed the Dong Yuan school of painting. Following along with trends of the time, Wu's works tended less toward naturalism (i.e. painting exactly what the eye sees) and more toward abstraction, focusing on dynamic balance of elements, and personifying nature. His painting \"The Central Mountain,\" dated 1336, is perhaps his greatest work and shows his style very clearly. It is a symmetrical image, with one large mountain in its center and others to each side. The mountains have rounded tops, and in fact all of Wu's lines in this painting are smooth, curved and flowing. The painting is a reinterpretation of traditional landscape paintings as it brings abstract style and brushwork to landscape, primarily to create a work focused on balance.\n"}
{"id": "1902729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902729", "title": "Guatiza", "text": "Guatiza\n\nGuatiza is a village in the municipality of Teguise in the northeastern part of the island of Lanzarote in the Las Palmas province in the Canary Islands. Its population was 812 in 2013.\n\nGuatiza is located 2 km from the east coast of Lanzarote, 8 km east of the town Teguise and 14 km northeast of the island capital Arrecife. Guatiza is known for its cactus garden, created by César Manrique. It covers 5,000 m² and has over 1,400 types of cactus and over 1,000 different species from America, Madagascar and the Canary Islands. \n\nGuatiza was originally located on a slope of the mountain in which the cemetery stands today. In history, the Moors sacked Guatiza's homes several times in the past this was the reason that the homes are now located in a secure area from the pirates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902735", "title": "Essence to Essence", "text": "Essence to Essence\n\nEssence to Essence is the eleventh studio album, and thirteenth album overall, from British singer-songwriter Donovan. It was released in both the UK (Epic SEPC 69050) and the U.S. (Epic KE 32800) in December 1973.\n\nBy late 1973, Donovan abandoned the style of glam rock featured on his \"Cosmic Wheels\" album earlier that year. Andrew Loog Oldham was brought in (replacing Mickie Most) to co-produce Donovan's next album, which would highlight the subdued style of his previous work. Many of the songs were released on \"\", but that album was not released outside Japan.\n\nIn a clear sign of Donovan's waning popularity, \"Essence to Essence\" became the third Donovan album after \"H.M.S. Donovan\" and earlier \"Fairytale\" to fail to reach the top 25 in the U.S. charts. \"Essence to Essence\" missed the UK album charts altogether and peaked at #174 in the United States.\n\nOn \"Essence to Essence\", Donovan focuses on spirituality and meditative lyrics. The album art features Donovan clothed in white robes, kneeling as in meditation. While the album was derided as a critical failure at the time of its release, many of the songs went on to form a major part of Donovan's live repertoire throughout the 1970s and 1980s.\n\n\nAll tracks by Donovan Leitch.\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902751", "title": "John A. Gupton College", "text": "John A. Gupton College\n\nJohn A. Gupton College is a private 2-year college in Nashville, Tennessee that specializes in mortuary science. Founded in 1946, it awards the Associate of Arts degree in Funeral Service. Gupton College is accredited by both the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and the American Board of Funeral Service Education. Gupton is located just west of downtown Nashville, in the same building as the Tennessee Funeral Directors Associational Office.\n\nMost of Gupton's students attend in order to prepare for careers as funeral directors. All students follow the same curriculum.\n\nIn March 1946, John A. Gupton Jr. and his wife Bernadean Gupton purchased the former Gov. Hill McAlister Mansion located at 2507 West End Avenue, in Nashville, Tennessee. They founded and opened the John A. Gupton College of Mortuary Science on September 25, 1946. John was President and Bernadean was Educational Director.\n\nRenovation of the mansion for the college consisted of: first floor offices and a preparation room; second floor laboratories, a casket display room, library and student lounge; third floor lecture hall, lockers and private living quarters. Dormitories were also available to students.\n\nThe first class began on September 27, 1946, with an enrollment of 26 students. The course work was nine months in length with matriculation held in March and September.\n\nIn June 1947, the John A. Gupton Alumni Association was founded. The alumni association has established an endowment fund to show support of the college and its future.\n\nIn 1952, additions were needed. A large two-story classroom building, Paul L. Williams Hall (in honor of the college's 1st Law instructor), was erected. The new building was with the floor plan as follows: the first floor included two offices, storage rooms, utility rooms, lockers, lecture room and preparation rooms; the second floor included a large lecture room and a science laboratory.\n\nThe growth of the college began to increase after 1954, with Gupton-Jones merging with the Dallas Institute of Mortuary Science. John A. Gupton College became the only mortuary college in the southeast. In the next few years more additions were made. Alumni Hall was erected adjacent to Williams Hall and housed the administrative offices and a large conference room. Kensington Place Hall, a large two story building, was erected behind Williams Hall and housed Memorial Library, faculty offices and two lecture rooms. Puryear Mims Hall was located two blocks from the main campus at 2810 Vanderbilt Place and was used for a Fine Arts instruction.\n\nIn addition, the college maintained affiliations with five area hospitals, including Vanderbilt University Hospital, Saint Thomas Hospital, Baptist Hospital, Metropolitan Nashville General Hospital, and the Miller Hospital. Through this affiliation the students had the opportunity to practice the principles and theory of embalming. Embalming was performed at the hospital or the college preparation room.\n\nIn October 1964, the college was incorporated under the laws of the state of Tennessee as a school of mortuary science. The school was incorporated as a non-profit educational institution in 1965, and has since been known as John A. Gupton College.\n\nIn keeping with standards set by the American Board of Funeral Service Education in the fall of 1966, a program of study leading to an Associate's degree in Mortuary Science was offered. The college received correspondence from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools on January 14, 1970 and official accreditation at the Association's annual meeting in December 1971. This accreditation made John A. Gupton College the 1st college accredited by both the American Board of Funeral Service Education and a regional accrediting agency with scholastic transferability.\nIn 1988, Mr. Gupton's health diminished. He died on December 15, 1988. John A. Gupton, III assumed the position of president of the college. Mrs. Gupton remained on the faculty for several years until her death on August 15, 1994. They both are interred at Calvary Cemetery in Nashville.\n\nThe board of directors and the Gupton heirs decided to sell the campus to Vanderbilt University in the fall of 1991. The college relocated to a new facility in mid-town Nashville at 1616 Church Street in the fall of 1992.\n\nThe school purchased a 14 unit apartment building adjacent to the new campus in April 1998, allowing students an opportunity to be housed on campus. In July 2006, the college purchased an adjacent one-half acre lot for additional parking space, bringing the total size to in downtown Nashville.\n"}
{"id": "1902753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902753", "title": "Alfred Hill (composer)", "text": "Alfred Hill (composer)\n\nAlfred Francis Hill CMG OBE (16 December 186930 October 1960) was an Australian/New Zealand composer, conductor and teacher.\n\nAlfred Hill was born in Melbourne in 1869. His year of birth is shown in many sources as 1870, but this has now been disproven. He spent most of his early life in New Zealand. He studied at the Leipzig Conservatory between 1887 and 1891 under Gustav Schreck, Hans Sitt and Oscar Paul. Later he played second violin with the Gewandhaus Orchestra, under guest conductors including Brahms, Grieg, Tchaikovsky, Bruch, and Reinecke. While there, some of his compositions were played with fellow students, and several were published in Germany. These included the \"Scotch Sonata\" for violin and piano.\n\nHill returned to New Zealand, where was appointed director of the Wellington Orchestral Society. He also worked as a violin teacher, recitalist, chamber musician, and choral conductor. He was active in the push for a New Zealand Conservatorium of Music, and for the foundation of an institute of Māori studies at Rotorua. During this period he completed his first string quartet, on Māori themes, which later would achieve some familiarity in the United States through regular programming by the Zoellner Quartet in the period surrounding World War I.\n\nIn 1897 Hill returned to Australia, where he taught for a number of years. He married his first wife, Sarah Brownhill Booth, a New Zealander, on 6 October 1897 in Paddington, New South Wales. They were to have three children, who were given the Wagnerian names Isolde, Tristan and Elsa. In 1921 he divorced his wife, and on 1 October of that year married his former student Mirrie Solomon, also a composer. Alfred Hill's daughter Isolde Hill became a noted opera singer, and granddaughter Patricia Hill, a noted actress.\n\nOn 1 January 1901 he conducted a choir of 10,000 voices and ten massed brass bands as part of the celebrations of the Federation of Australia in Sydney. After several years regularly travelling between Australia and New Zealand, Hill settled in Sydney in 1911, becoming the principal of the Austral Orchestral College, and the 2nd violin player of the Austral String Quartet. In 1913 Hill founded the Australian Opera League with Fritz Hart, as part of an attempt to create an Australian operatic tradition. Hill was also a founder of the Sydney Repertory Theatre Society, and a foundation council member (later president) of the Musical Association of New South Wales.\nHill was also active as an organizer of music in Australia. In 1915–16 he co-founded the NSW State Conservatorium of Music and became its first Professor of Theory and Composition, and later deputy conductor to Henri Verbrugghen. When the Australian Broadcasting Commission was formed in 1932, Hill was member of the ABC's Music Advisory Committee. In 1947 he became president of the Composers' Society of Australia.\n\nAlfred Hill was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1953, and a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1960. In 1959, his 90th birthday was celebrated by a special concert of his music played by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra under Henry Krips. Alfred Hill died at the age of 90 in 1960. He was survived by his second wife Mirrie Hill, and the three children of his first marriage. Isolde Hill became well known as a singer.\n\nHill composed and conducted music for the Hugh McCrae play \"The Ship of Heaven\", which was produced by the Independent Theatre in 1933. From 1937 onwards, he devoted himself full-time to composition. He wrote more than 500 compositions, including 13 symphonies (of which 11 are arrangements of previously written string quartets), eight operas (including \"The Weird Flute\"), numerous concertos, a mass, 17 string quartets and other chamber works, two cantatas on Māori subjects (\"Hinemoa\" and \"Tawhaki\") and 11 other choral works, and 72 piano pieces. One of his string quartets (No.11 in D minor), from 1945, was the very first Australian composed chamber work to be recorded.\n\nWhile mostly neglected nowadays, he is still very well known on both sides of the Tasman for a short song \"Waiata Poi\", which was recorded by many singers including Peter Dawson. Since the 1990s, however, there has been renewed interest in Hill's oeuvre. His short piece for narrator and orchestra, \"Green Water\", with words by John Wheeler, has been recorded at least twice. The Marco Polo label recorded most of his symphonies, which were played by the Queensland Symphony Orchestra.\n\n\n\nListen to Alfred Hill's \"The Moon's Golden Horn\" online at ABC Classic FM's classic/amp website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902764", "title": "Brentson Buckner", "text": "Brentson Buckner\n\nBrentson André Buckner (born September 30, 1971) is an American football coach and former defensive tackle who is the defensive line coach for the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL). He previously served as an assistant coach for the Oakland Raiders, Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Pittsburgh Steelers.\n\nBuckner played college football at Clemson University, and was a first-team All-ACC selection in his senior year. In addition to ranking fourth all-time in school history with 46 tackles for a loss, he also set a school record with a 1,220 pound lift on a leg sled.\n\nBuckner was selected in the second round (50th overall) of the 1994 NFL Draft by the Pittsburgh Steelers. After missing the first three games of the season, he played in the last 13, and started both playoff games. During one game against the Buffalo Bills, he blocked a field goal. The following season, he was a regular starter for the Steelers, and was an integral part of the defense that led them to Super Bowl XXX against the Dallas Cowboys. After one more year with Pittsburgh, he was traded to the Kansas City Chiefs during the offseason. He was picked up by the Cincinnati Bengals before the 1997 NFL season. He missed two games that season with an injury suffered against the Steelers, his former team. He signed with the San Francisco 49ers before the next season. He notched his third career blocked field goal against the team he would later play for, the Carolina Panthers. He played with the Niners for three seasons before joining the Carolina Panthers as an unrestricted free agent before the 2001 NFL season. Buckner joined with Julius Peppers, Mike Rucker and Kris Jenkins to form what many experts called the most dominating front four defensive line in football. The four led the Panthers defense to Super Bowl XXXVIII against the New England Patriots.\n\nOn March 1, 2006, Buckner was released by the Panthers.\n\nAfter retirement, Buckner hosted a midday show on WFNZ in Charlotte, with former NFL Offensive lineman Frank Garcia. The Frank and Buck Show aired weekdays from 11a-3p. He has also been seen on the NFL Network and ESPN as an NFL analyst.\n\nHe was the head coach of the Northside Christian Academy football team in Charlotte, along with former NFL players, Myron Bell, Mo Collins, and Omari Jordan who were assistant coaches.\nHe spent three seasons with the Pittsburgh Steelers as an intern during the preseason.\nBuckner was named the defensive line coach for the Arizona Cardinals on February 5, 2013.\nAfter spending five seasons with the Cardinals, Buckner joined the Tampa Bay Buccaneers as their defensive line coach on February 19, 2018.\nAfter spending a year with the Bucs, Buckner agreed to join the Raiders as their defensive line coach on January 12, 2019, following Tampa’s hiring of Head Coach Bruce Arians. He was let go of after one year in the position.\nIt was announced in 2020 that Buckner had returned to Arizona to once again be the defensive line coach for the cardinals.\n"}
{"id": "1902767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902767", "title": "West Catholic Athletic League", "text": "West Catholic Athletic League\n\nThe West Catholic Athletic League or WCAL is a highly competitive high school athletic conference in the Central Coast Section of the California Interscholastic Federation. The boys division is made up of seven Catholic schools and one nondenominational Christian school in the Western and Southern portions of the San Francisco Bay Area. The girls division includes all of the co-ed schools in the WCAL, along with Presentation High School-San Jose (all-female school). Notre Dame-Belmont (all-female school), Sacred Heart Preparatory-Atherton, and Menlo School-Atherton compete in select WCAL sports (water polo and lacrosse), but mainly partake in the West Bay Athletic League.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902768", "title": "Raymond Unwin", "text": "Raymond Unwin\n\nSir Raymond Unwin (2 November 1863 – 29 June 1940) was a prominent and influential English engineer, architect and town planner, with an emphasis on improvements in working class housing.\n\nRaymond Unwin was born in Rotherham, Yorkshire and grew up in Oxford, after his father sold up his business and moved there to study. He was educated at Magdalen College School, Oxford. In 1884 he returned to the North to become an apprentice engineer for Stavely Iron & Coal Company near Chesterfield. \n\nUnwin had become interested in social issues at an early age and was inspired by the lectures and ideals of John Ruskin and William Morris. In 1885 he moved to Manchester and became secretary of Morris's local Socialist League. He wrote articles for the League's newspaper and spoke on street corners for its cause and for the Labour Church. He also became a close friend of the socialist philosopher Edward Carpenter, whose Utopian community ideas led to his developing a small commune at Millthorpe near Sheffield.\n\nIn 1887 he returned to Staveley Iron as an engineer, working on development of mining townships and various other buildings, and joined the Sheffield Socialist Society. \n\nIn 1893 he married Richard Barry Parker's sister Ethel, and formed a partnership in 1896 based in Buxton, Derbyshire. The partners preferred the simple vernacular style and made it their aim to improve housing standards for the working classes. They were also members of the Northern Art Worker's Guild and were close friends of Edgar Wood (1860–1935) the leading Arts and Crafts architect in the North of England and a founding member of the group.\n\nIn their various writings, including their book \"The Art of Building a Home\" (1901), Parker and Unwin aimed to popularise the Arts and Crafts Movement, and as a result of their success thousands of homes were built on their pattern in the early part of the 20th century. \n\nA notable example of one of their earliest collaborations at Clayton, Staffordshire, is dated to 1899, and was originally called the Goodfellow House after the man who commissioned it. Parker and Unwin were involved in designing many of the interior fittings, which remain in the house to this day, and the initial layout of the large gardens. Goodfellow sold the house in 1926 to Colley Shorter who ran the nearby pottery works of Wilkinson's and Newport. He renamed it Chetwynd House and when he married his star designer Clarice Cliff in 1940, she moved into the house and lived there until 1972. It is her association that has made the house particularly famous since.\n\nIn 1902 Parker and Unwin were asked to design a model village at New Earswick near York for Joseph and Benjamin Seebohm Rowntree, and the following year they were given the opportunity to take part in the creation of Letchworth (loosely based on the Utopian plan of Ebenezer Howard), when the First Garden City Company asked them to submit a plan.\n\nIn 1903 they were involved with the \"Cottages Near a Town Exhibit\" for the Northern Art Workers Guild of Manchester. In 1904 after their plan was adopted they opened a second office at Baldock. In 1905 Henrietta Barnett asked them to plan the new garden suburb at Hampstead, now known as Hampstead Garden Suburb. \n\nUnwin moved from Letchworth to Hampstead in 1906, and he lived here for the rest of his life at the farmstead Wyldes Farm.\n\nIn 1907, Ealing Tenants Limited, a progressive cooperative in west London, appointed him to take forward the development of Brentham garden suburb. \n\nUnwin joined the Local Government Board in December 1914. In 1915 he was seconded to the Ministry of Munitions to design the villages of Gretna and Eastriggs and supervise others. From 1917 he had an influential role at the Tudor Walters Committee on working-class housing whose report was published in 1919, the year in which he was appointed Chief Architect to the newly formed Ministry of Health. That post had evolved into the Chief Technical Officer for Housing and Town Planning by the time of his retirement in November 1928.\n\nHis demonstration during the Great War of the principles of building homes rapidly and economically whilst maintaining satisfactory standards for gardens, family privacy and internal spaces, gave him great influence over the Tudor Walters Committee and hence, indirectly, over much inter-war public housing. This report marked Unwin's definitive break from the traditional 'garden city' concept, as it proposed that the new developments should be peripheral 'satellites' rather than fully-fledged garden cities. Unwin became technical adviser to the Greater London Regional Planning Committee in 1929 and largely wrote its two reports, the first published in that year and the second in 1933.\n\nUnwin was President of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) from 1931 to 1933, was knighted in 1932 and consulted by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt on the New Deal in 1933. In 1936 he was appointed visiting Professor of Town Planning at Columbia University and in 1937 he received the RIBA Royal Gold Medal for architecture. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by Norwegian Institute of Technology in 1935 and by Harvard University in 1937.\n\nRaymond Unwin died at Lyme, Connecticut at the home of his daughter on 29 June 1940.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902779", "title": "Ruth Greenglass", "text": "Ruth Greenglass\n\nRuth Leah Greenglass (née Printz; April 30, 1924 – April 7, 2008) was a spy for the Soviet Union along with her husband, David Greenglass.\n\nRuth Leah Printz was born to a Jewish family on April 30, 1924, in New York City to Max Printz and Tillie Leiter. She grew up in the same neighborhood, the Lower East Side, as her future husband, David Greenglass. She graduated with honors from Seward Park High School at 16. Although quite young, she and Greenglass wanted to marry before he was drafted to serve in World War II. They married in late November 1942 when he was 20 and she was 18. They shared an interest in politics and joined the Young Communist League. \n\nJulius Rosenberg became a Soviet agent, working under Alexander Feklissov. In September 1944, Rosenberg suggested to Feklissov that he should consider recruiting his brother-in-law, David, and his wife. Feklissov met the couple and on 21 September, he reported to Moscow: \"They are young, intelligent, capable, and politically developed people, strongly believing in the cause of communism and wishing to do their best to help our country as much as possible. They are undoubtedly devoted to us (the Soviet Union).\" \n\nDavid wrote to his wife, \"My darling, I most certainly will be glad to be part of the community project (espionage) that Julius and his friends (the Russians) have in mind.\" \n\nAfter her husband was drafted and inducted into the Army in 1943, Ruth continued to visit him. In November 1944, she visited him in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he was working as a machinist on the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos. During that visit, she asked him to forward any information on the project to his brother-in-law, Julius.\n\nWhen the FBI questioned him about suspected espionage activities, David agreed to confess to his own activities and to testify against Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in exchange for immunity for his wife so that she could remain at home with their two children.\n\nAt the trial, Ruth implicated Ethel in the espionage ring by testifying that Ethel had typed up the notes that David had provided. Ruth testified that both Rosenbergs had urged her to persuade her husband to become involved in espionage. Ruth's testimony was crucial in securing Ethel's conviction.\n\nShe rejoined her husband after his release from prison in 1960, and they lived in New York City under assumed names with their children.\n\nShe died on April 7, 2008, at the age of 83, a fact that became widely known only when the government, numbering her among the deceased witnesses, released her grand jury testimony a few weeks later. David Greenglass died in 2014, aged 92.\n\nThe truth of Ruth Printz Greenglass's testimony at the Rosenberg trial has been questioned. \n\nIn September 2008, her grand jury transcripts were released and showed that when testifying before the grand jury in August 1950, she was asked, \"Didn't you write [the information] down on a piece of paper?\" She replied, \"Yes, I wrote [the information] down [on] a piece of paper and [Julius Rosenberg] took it with him.\"\n\nAt the trial she testified that Ethel had typed up the notes about the atomic bomb.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902780", "title": "Steve Bush", "text": "Steve Bush\n\nSteve Bush (born July 4, 1974 in Paradise Valley, Arizona) is a former tight end and fullback in the NFL. He went to Arizona State University. \n\nBush was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Cincinnati Bengals in 1997. After several years with the team playing mostly on special teams, he was signed by the St. Louis Rams during the 2001 offseason, but was cut before the end of training camp. He was then picked up by the Arizona Cardinals, where he played at both tight end and special teams. After being released by the Cardinals before the start of the 2004 season, he was signed by the 49ers in December 2004. As a member of the 49ers, he has seen starting time as both fullback and tight end, and has been a boost on special teams, providing key blocks for the return men.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902785", "title": "Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.", "text": "Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\n\nJenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co., 130 F.3d 1287 (8th Cir. 1997), was the first class-action sexual harassment lawsuit in the United States. It was filed in 1988 on behalf of Lois Jenson and other female workers at the EVTAC mine in Eveleth, Minnesota on the state's northern Mesabi Range, which is part of the Iron Range.\n\nJenson first began working at the site in March 1975 and along with other women, endured a continuous stream of hostile behavior from male employees, including sexual harassment, abusive language, threats, stalking and intimidation. On October 5, 1984, she mailed a complaint to the Minnesota Department of Human Rights outlining the problems she experienced. In retaliation, her car tires were slashed a week later. In January 1987, the state's agency requested that Ogelbay Norton Co., a Cleveland, Ohio-based part-owner of the mine, pay US$6,000 in punitive damages and $5,000 to Jenson for mental anguish, but the company refused.\n\nOn August 15, 1988, attorney Paul Sprenger filed \"Lois E. Jenson and Patricia S. Kosmach v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\" in U.S. District Court in the U.S. District Court in Minneapolis. Class-action status was requested at the time, and granted by James M. Rosenbaum on December 16, 1991. Jenson quit working at the mine on January 25, 1992, and was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder a short time later.\n\nA liability trial began on December 17, 1992, in front of Judge Richard Kyle in St. Paul, Minnesota, and six months later, he ruled that the company should have prevented the misconduct. The company was ordered to educate all employees about sexual harassment.\n\nPatrick McNulty of Duluth was named special master a few months later to oversee a trial that would determine the amount of money owed to the women in damages. The retired federal magistrate permitted lawyers from the mine company to obtain medical records of all of the women for their entire lifetimes. Ahead of the trial, the plaintiffs endured long depositions that explored their personal lives in great detail.\n\nThe first half of the trial for damages began in Duluth on January 17, 1995 and lasted until February 10. After a break, it resumed on May 22 and ended on June 13.\n\nOn March 28, 1996, McNulty released a 416-page report that called the women \"histrionic,\" made public details about their private lives, and awarded them an average of $10,000 each. However, the judgment was appealed and reversed by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals on December 5, 1997. A new jury trial on damages was ordered.\n\nOn December 23, 1998, just before the trial was set to begin, fifteen women settled with Eveleth Mines for a total of $3.5 million. One of the original plaintiffs, Pat Kosmach, died partway through the case, on November 7, 1994.\n\nThe case was documented in the 2002 book \"Class Action\" and a 2005 fictionalized film version, \"North Country\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902793", "title": "Clioquinol", "text": "Clioquinol\n\nClioquinol (iodochlorhydroxyquin) is an antifungal drug and antiprotozoal drug. It is neurotoxic in large doses. It is a member of a family of drugs called hydroxyquinolines which inhibit certain enzymes related to DNA replication. The drugs have been found to have activity against both viral and protozoal infections.\n\nA 1964 report described the use of clioquinol in both the treatment and prevention of shigella infection and \"Entamoeba histolytica\" infection in institutionalized individuals at Sonoma State Hospital in California. The report indicates 4000 individuals were treated over a 4-year period with few side effects.\n\nSeveral recently reported journal articles describing its use as an antiprotozoal include:\n\n\nClioquinol's use as an antiprotozoal drug has been restricted or discontinued in some countries due to an event in Japan where over 10,000 people developed subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON) between 1957 and 1970. The drug was used widely in many countries before and after the SMON event without similar reports. As yet, no explanation exists as to why it produced this reaction, and some researchers have questioned whether clioquinol was the causative agent in the disease, noting that the drug had been used for 20 years prior to the epidemic without incident, and that the SMON cases began to reduce in number prior to the discontinuation of the drug. Theories suggested have included improper dosing, the permitted use of the drug for extended periods of time, and dosing which did not consider the smaller average stature of Japanese; however a dose dependent relationship between SMON development and clioquinol use was never found, suggesting the interaction of another compound. Researchers have also suggested the SMON epidemic could have been due to a viral infection with an Inoue-Melnick virus.\n\nClioquinol is a constituent of the prescription medicine Vioform, which is a topical antifungal treatment. It is also used in the form of a cream (and in combination with betamethasone or fluocinolone) in the treatment of inflammatory skin disorders.\n\nIt has long been recognized that normal prostate cells have high zinc content through ZIP1 mediated uptake, and have low respiration (OXPHOS ATP generation is diverted to citrate export for sperm energetics). Prostate cancer cells have downregulated ZIP1 transporters which leads to greater ATP generation which is diverted to cancer proliferation, an example of a normal-like metabolic phenotype instead being malignant. The zinc ionophore clioquinol was shown in mice to restore zinc levels and stop the growth of prostate tumors.\n\nResearch at UCSF indicates that clioquinol appears to block the genetic action of Huntington's disease in mice and in cell culture.\n\nRecent animal studies have shown that clioquinol can reverse the progression of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. According to Siegfried Hekimi and colleagues at McGill's Department of Biology, clioquinol acts directly on a protein called Clk-1, often informally called “clock-1,” and might slow down the aging process. They theorize that this may explain the apparent ability of the drug to be effective in the above conditions, but warn against individuals experimenting with this drug.\n\nIn addition, a study performed in \"Drosophila\" demonstrates that clioquinol can slow the pathogenesis of tauopathy model by removing the excessive zinc in the cell.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902795", "title": "Christmas tree (oil well)", "text": "Christmas tree (oil well)\n\nIn petroleum and natural gas extraction, a Christmas tree, or \"tree\", is an assembly of valves, spools, and fittings used to regulate the flow of pipes in an oil well, gas well, water injection well, water disposal well, gas injection well, condensate well and other types of wells. It was named for its resemblance to the series of starting lights at a drag racing strip, called by that name.\n\nChristmas trees are used on both surface and subsea wells. It is common to identify the type of tree as either \"subsea tree\" or \"surface tree\". Each of these classifications has a number of variations. Examples of subsea include conventional, dual bore, mono bore, TFL (through flow line), horizontal, mudline, mudline horizontal, side valve, and TBT (through-bore tree) trees. The deepest installed subsea tree is in the Gulf of Mexico at approximately . (Current technical limits are up to around 3000 metres and working temperatures of -50 °F to 350 °F with a pressure of up to 15,000 psi.) \n\nThe primary function of a tree is to control the flow, usually oil or gas, out of the well. (A tree may also be used to control the injection of gas or water into a non-producing well in order to enhance production rates of oil from other wells.) When the well and facilities are ready to produce and receive oil or gas, tree valves are opened and the formation fluids are allowed to go through a flow line. This leads to a processing facility, storage depot and/or other pipeline eventually leading to a refinery or distribution center (for gas). Flow lines on subsea wells usually lead to a fixed or floating production platform or to a storage ship or barge, known as a floating storage offloading vessel (FSO), or floating processing unit (FPU), or floating production, storage and offloading vessel (FPSO).\n\nA tree often provides numerous additional functions including chemical injection points, well intervention means, pressure relief means, monitoring points (such as pressure, temperature, corrosion, erosion, sand detection, flow rate, flow composition, valve and choke position feedback), and connection points for devices such as down hole pressure and temperature transducers (DHPT). On producing wells, chemicals or alcohols or oil distillates may be injected to preclude production problems (such as blockages).\n\nFunctionality may be extended further by using the control system on a subsea tree to monitor, measure, and react to sensor outputs on the tree or even down the well bore. The control system attached to the tree controls the downhole safety valve (SCSSV, DHSV, SSSV) while the tree acts as an attachment and conduit means of the control system to the downhole safety valve.\n\nTree complexity has increased over the last few decades. They are frequently manufactured from blocks of steel containing multiple valves rather than being assembled from individual flanged components. This is especially true in subsea applications where the resemblance to Christmas trees no longer exists given the frame and support systems into which the main valve block is integrated.\n\nNote that a tree and wellhead are separate pieces of equipment not to be mistaken as the same piece. The Christmas tree is installed on top of the wellhead. A wellhead is used without a Christmas tree during drilling operations, and also for riser tie-back situations that later would have a tree installed at riser top. Wells being produced with rod pumps (pump jacks, nodding donkeys, grasshopper pumps, and so on) frequently do not utilize any tree owing the absence of a pressure-containment requirement.\n\nSubsea and surface trees have a large variety of valve configurations and combinations of manual and/or actuated (hydraulic or pneumatic) valves. Examples are identified in API Specifications 6A nd 17D.\n\nA basic surface tree consists of two or three manual valves (usually gate valves because of their flow characteristics, i.e. low restriction to the flow of fluid when fully open).\n\nA typical sophisticated surface tree will have at least four or five valves, normally arranged in a crucifix type pattern (hence the endurance of the term \"Christmas tree\"). The two lower valves are called the master valves (upper and lower respectively). Master valves are normally in the fully open position and are \"never\" opened or closed when the well is flowing (except in an emergency) to prevent erosion of the valve sealing surfaces. The lower master valve will normally be manually operated, while the upper master valve is often hydraulically actuated, allowing it to be used as a means of remotely shutting in the well in the event of emergency. An actuated wing valve is normally used to shut in the well when flowing, thus preserving the master valves for positive shut off for maintenance purposes. Hydraulic operated wing valves are usually built to be fail safe closed, meaning they require active hydraulic pressure to stay open. This feature means that if control fluid fails the well will automatically shut itself in without operator action.\n\nThe right hand valve is often called the flow wing valve or the production wing valve, because it is in the flowpath the hydrocarbons take to production facilities (or the path water or gas will take from production to the well in the case of injection wells).\n\nThe left hand valve is often called the kill wing valve (KWV). It is primarily used for injection of fluids such as corrosion inhibitors or methanol to prevent hydrate formation. In the North Sea, it is called the non-active side arm (NASA). It is typically manually operated.\n\nThe valve at the top is called the swab valve and lies in the path used for well interventions like wireline and coiled tubing. For such operations, a lubricator is rigged up onto the top of the tree and the wire or coil is lowered through the lubricator, past the swab valve and into the well. This valve is typically manually operated.\n\nSome trees have a second swab valve, the two arranged one on top of the other. The intention is to allow rigging down equipment from the top of the tree with the well flowing while still preserving the two-barrier rule. With only a single swab valve, the upper master valve is usually closed to act as the second barrier, forcing the well to be shut in for a day during rig down operations. However, avoiding delaying production for a day is usually too small a gain to be worth the extra expense of having a Christmas tree with a second swab valve.\n\nSubsea trees are available in either vertical or horizontal configurations with further speciality available such as dual bore, monobore, concentric, drill-through, mudline, guidelineless or guideline. Subsea trees may range in size and weight from a few tons to approximately 70 tons for high pressure, deepwater (>3000 feet) guidelineless applications. Subsea trees contain many additional valves and accessories compared to surface trees. Typically a subsea tree would have a choke (permits control of flow), a flowline connection interface (hub, flange or other connection), subsea control interface (direct hydraulic, electro hydraulic, or electric) and sensors for gathering data such as pressure, temperature, sand flow, erosion, multiphase flow, single phase flow such as water or gas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902797", "title": "Hiwassee College", "text": "Hiwassee College\n\nHiwassee College was a private liberal arts college in Madisonville, Tennessee. Founded in 1849, the college offered associate degrees as well as bachelor's degrees. The majority of its associate degree graduates went on to complete bachelor's degrees elsewhere. The college closed on May 10, 2019 due to financial issues.\n\nAlthough closely tied to the Methodist Church since its founding, it was not until 1908 that the Trustees of Hiwassee College and the Holston Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South entered into an agreement for joint operation of the institution. Hiwassee College came under the complete control and ownership of the Methodist Church-South in 1937, shortly before its reunion with its northern counterpart in 1939. Prior to 1980, the three United Methodist-related colleges in the Holston Conference (a geographic region that includes East Tennessee and small parts of southwest Virginia and north Georgia) were governed by a unified Board of Trustees. In 1980, the Board of Trustees established a separate Board of Governors for each institution, and by 1990, each of the three colleges operated under a separate, independent Board of Trustees.\n\nHiwassee College was accredited with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, but in 2008 their accreditation was withdrawn. On November 3, 2009 it attained candidacy status for accreditation as a Category II institution by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools (TRACS). Full accreditation was obtained through TRACS in October 2013 and reaffirmed in 2018.\n\nThe college closed on May 10, 2019 due to financial issues. Students and alumni protested the announcement of the closure and many parents of enrolled students raised concerns about the lack of communication from the board of trustees. Neighboring colleges, including Maryville College, Pellissippi State Community College, and South College offered students transfer assistance.\n\nThe Hiwassee College Alumni Association Inc. (HCAA) submitted a non-cash offer for the college and its debt in July 2019 with hopes of reopening the college. The campus was put up for sale on January 2, 2020 for $8.6 million dollars. The offering Memorandum states, \"\"The Trustees of Hiwassee College now intend to divest the real property owned by the college, and as such are offering the property for sale.\"\"\n\nIn January 2020, a former trustee of the college, William Harmon, a Maryville, Tennessee doctor sued the college for return of his $100,000 donation earmarked for construction of a new library which was to be named in his honor. According to its website, Harmon was the college's board of trustees secretary. Harmon wants the Monroe County, Tennessee Chancery Court to find that the donation must paid back to him once the college sells.\n\nHiwassee College's campus grew from the original donated by Reverend Daniel B. Carter to a campus comprising 18 buildings situated on of a tract of land located one mile (1.6 km) north of the town of Madisonville.\n\nHiwassee College was listed by the University Senate of the United Methodist Church. The Senate is an elected body of professionals in higher education created by the General Conference to determine which schools, colleges, universities, and theological schools meet the criteria for listing as institutions affiliated with the United Methodist Church.\n\nThe college offered a variety of university-parallel and career/vocational programs leading to the Associate of Arts, Associate of Science, Associate of Applied Science, Bachelor of Arts, or Bachelor of Science degrees.\n\nHiwassee fielded 10 teams, known as the Tigers, and participated in the NCCAA's Division I. The school competed in the Mideast Region. The Tigers have made National Championship appearances in baseball, men's basketball, and women's basketball.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902807", "title": "Dyersburg State Community College", "text": "Dyersburg State Community College\n\nDyersburg State Community College is a public community college in Dyersburg, Tennessee. It was founded in 1969 and is operated by the Tennessee Board of Regents. Classes are held on the campus in Dyersburg and at centers in Covington and Trenton.\n\nDyersburg State Community College (DSCC) serves seven counties adjacent to or near the Mississippi River in West Tennessee. It offers Associate of Science, Associate of Arts, and Associate of Applied Science degrees as well as technical and academic certificates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902811", "title": "List of Islamic texts", "text": "List of Islamic texts\n\nThe Quran is the central religious text of Islam, which Muslims believe to be a revelation from God. It is widely regarded as the finest work in classical Arabic literature. The Quran is divided into chapters (Arabic: سورة \"sūrah\", plural سور \"sūwar\"), which are subdivided into verses (Arabic: آية \"āyāh\", plural آيات \"āyāt\").\n\n\nThe text of the Qur'an consists of 114 chapters of varying lengths, each known as a surah. Each sura is formed from several verses, each called an ayah.\n\n\nA body of commentary and explication (tafsīr), aimed at explaining the meanings of the Quranic verses.\n\nThe science which describes the reason, circumstances, and events surrounding the revelation of verses.\n\nSunnah denotes the practice of Islamic prophet Muhammad that he taught and practically instituted as a teacher of the sharī‘ah and the best exemplar. The sources of sunna are usually oral traditions found in collections of Hadith and Sīra (prophetic biography). Unlike the Qur'an, Muslims naturally differ on the set of texts or sources of sunnah, and they emphasize different collections of hadith based on to which school of thought or branch they belong.\n\nHadīth are sayings, acts or tacit approvals ascribed to the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nThe science which explores the narrators of hadith.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902813", "title": "List of Salute Your Shorts episodes", "text": "List of Salute Your Shorts episodes\n\n\"Salute Your Shorts\" is an American children's comedy television series that aired on Nickelodeon. The series premiered on July 4, 1991, and ran for two seasons, with the final first-run episode airing on June 29, 1992.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "1902815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902815", "title": "Caring Is Creepy", "text": "Caring Is Creepy\n\n\"Caring Is Creepy\" is the first song on the Shins' debut album \"Oh, Inverted World\", released on June 19, 2001. It is notable because it is their first song as a signed band on the label Sub-Pop, serving as a first impression to a broader audience of listeners.\n\nThe song appeared in the 2004 film \"Garden State\", and on the soundtrack to the film.\n\nThe track is 3:20 in length. It was written by frontman James Mercer. It is characterized by echo-heavy vocals and unclear cryptic lyrics. It uses several different instruments including electronic ones.\n\nThe track was never released as a single by the band so its official release date is June 19, 2001, the release of the album as a whole. It was given mixed reviews by music blogs such as Pitchfork.\n\nThe track was included on the soundtrack for the 2004 film \"Garden State\" along with another song by the Shins (\"New Slang\"). The soundtrack went on to win a Grammy award and helped set a new standard for music scores in indie films.\n\nThis song is also featured in the full length ballet \"Oh, Inverted World\", choreographed by Trey McIntyre and performed by the Smuin Ballet Company of San Francisco. The ballet is a collection of vignette style dances to eight songs from the Shins' debut album of the same name.\n\nThis song was performed infrequently until their most recent tour in support of \"Port of Morrow\" . The first documented live performance was on November 14, 2003 at First Avenue in Minneapolis. The most recent documented performance was on October 13, 2012 at Austin City Limits. The band opened with this song in Copenhagen on their 2017 tour.\n"}
{"id": "1902816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902816", "title": "Why I Am Not a Muslim", "text": "Why I Am Not a Muslim\n\nWhy I Am Not a Muslim, a book written by Ibn Warraq, is a critique of Islam and the Qur'an. It was first published by Prometheus Books in the United States in 1995. The title of the book is a homage to Bertrand Russell's essay, \"Why I Am Not a Christian\", in which Russell criticizes the religion in which he was raised.\n\nOutraged over the fatwa and death threats against Salman Rushdie, Ibn Warraq assumes a pseudonym to write what the historian and writer Daniel Pipes called \"serious and thought-provoking book\" using a \"scholarly sledgehammer\" approach to \"demolish\" Islam. Warraq claims the work is his contribution ('my war effort') in the struggle against the kinds of people who would want to murder Rushdie.\n\nThe author's \"polemic\" criticizes Islam's mythology, theology, historic achievements, and current cultural influence. Warraq, drawing largely on previous research, provides what English philosopher Antony Flew called an \"invaluable compilation\" of Islam's shortcomings. Flew wrote that the book \"makes a compelling case\" that Islam is \"flatly incompatible\" with \"individual rights and liberties of a liberal, democratic, secular state\". According to Warraq, one either has to believe that the Qur'an is the word of God, or that Muhammad was a liar. Moreover, progress made in modern critical scholarship of the Bible has serious and possibly detrimental consequences for belief in the inerrancy of the Qur'an once it is subjected to the same type of scholarly criticism.\n\nDutch arabist Hans Jansen noted that 'it is remarkable that in this first book, Ibn Warraq makes no distinction at all between 'normal' Islam and Islamic fundamentalism. Both oppose the freedom of expression with all their might.' Jansen wondered whether the criticism of Islam that Warraq, Rushdie and other British–Indian writers such as V.S. Naipaul and Arun Shourie displayed was perhaps so 'ruthless' – compared to the much milder approach commonly adopted by Judaeo-Christian writers – because of vestiges of 'Hindu prejudices', or because these authors felt no inhibition to scrutinise a fellow Abrahamic religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902819", "title": "Casing hanger", "text": "Casing hanger\n\nIn petroleum production, the casing hanger is that portion of a wellhead assembly which provides support for the casing string when it is lowered into the wellbore. It serves to ensure that the casing is properly located. When the casing string has been run into the wellbore it is hung off, or suspended, by a casing hanger, which rests on a landing shoulder inside the casing spool. Casing hangers must be designed to take the full weight of the casing, and provide a seal between the casing hanger and the spool.\n\nCasing Hangers may also be suspended within the wellhead by means of radial distortion of the wellhead bore e.g. the \"Pos-Grip\" method. \n\nThis is installed to support the individual casing strings in the well. It is the landing base or the casing head. This is usually welded or screwed to the top of the surface casing string. The surface casing serves as a foundation pile for the well which transfers the hanging load to the earth. The casing head is prepared with a bowl into which the slips sit and chuck the casing in place. Most casing heads allow for the pressure readings to be taken on the annulus and provide the means to pump out or into if necessary. The top of the casing string and annulus is usually sealed.\n\nThe most common size of casing hanger is 13-3/8\" with over 155,000 such units installed worldwide in 2014 alone.\n\nThe contraction of the oilfield industry throughout 2015 meant that this figure was reduced somewhat to just under 120,000 units, of which 36,822 were \"Pos-Grip\" casing hangers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902828", "title": "William Perl", "text": "William Perl\n\nWilliam Perl (1920–1970), whose original name was William Mutterperl, was an American physicist and Soviet spy.\n\nWhile a student at the City College of New York, Perl joined the Steinmetz Club, the campus branch of the Young Communist League, where he met and befriended Julius Rosenberg, Morton Sobell and Joel Barr. Perl graduated with a degree in engineering in 1939, and in 1940 began working for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) at their Langley Army Air Base research facility in Hampton, Virginia. In 1944 Perl transferred to the NACA Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory in Cleveland, Ohio. Both jobs provided Perl with access to extensive classified materials. NACA sent Perl to Columbia University to pursue doctoral studies in Physics. While at Columbia, Perl lived in the same Morton Street apartment where Barr and Alfred Sarant had lived.\n\nFollowing his doctoral work at Columbia, Perl returned to Cleveland to work on a jet propulsion project related to supersonic flight. Perl was nearly given a position with the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission when his connection with Barr and Sarant, suspected Communists, was turned up by a security check.\n\nIn July 1950, Vivian Glassman, Barr's fiancée, visited Perl in Cleveland to give him $2,000, advising him to go to Europe. Unlike Barr and Sarant, Perl decided not to flee the country, perhaps thinking he might be able to salvage his career.\n\nACLU lawyer Raymond L. Wise \"of 80 Broad Street\" served as Perl's attorney.\n\nPerl appeared before the Rosenberg Grand Jury in the summer of 1950, denying any relationship with Julius Rosenberg, Morton Sobell, Max Elitcher, Ann Sidorovich, and Michael Sidorovich. By August 29, 1950, Wise was advising Perl to cooperate. On March 10, 1951, Wise and Perl met with FBI agents; Wise stated that Perl had paid him a \"substantial fee\" as retainer. On March 15, 1951, Perl was arrested. In April 1951, FBI advised Wise that they would make no deal with Perl over a plea of perjury. Wise argued that the Government lacked jurisdiction to indict, to no avail. The Government delayed the trial in September 1951 due to Wise's illness. In June 1952, Wise asked for a reduction in bail from twenty to five thousand dollars; the judge reserved the decision. In December 1952, Wise asked for another deferral, as he would be in Florida for the winter; the judge decided to keep to resumption in February 1953. In March 1953, Wise again asked for deferral until after Wise's return from Florida on April 21, 1953, stating that Perl would otherwise ask for adjournment. On March 26, 1953, the Government agreed to resume on May 4, 1953. After his return in late April 1953, Wise \"stated in strict confidence that he felt Perl should plead guilty and cooperate with Government in giving espionage into.\" By early May 1953, Wise reported that Perl remained unwilling to cooperate. On May 4, 1953, U.S. Judge Thomas Francis Murphy (government prosecutor in the Hiss Case) referred trial for instant case of perjury to Judge Sylvester J. Ryan of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, to commence on May 19, 1953, with Lloyd McMahon and Robert Martin prosecuting and Raymond L. Wise and Stanley Kanavek defending.\n\nIn court, the Government argued that Perl had knowingly lied that he knew Julius Rosenberg and Morton Sobell when they were all members of the Young Communists League or that he knew Helene Elitcher, Michael Sidorovich, or Anne Sidorvich. Wise argued that Perl did not lie intentionally. Perl could not explain how or whether Vivian Glassman had given him paper with Rosenberg's name on it because Perl had destroyed the paper. He could not explain why Sobell had used him as a job reference. Wise then argued that, earlier, Perl had appeared voluntarily when answering, not as a defendant and not under oath. On May 26, 1953, in his summation, Wise argued that Perl believed his answers true at the time he was answering. For instance, he answered truthfully that he did not \"know\" Sobell, as in \"intimately,\" not whether he ever knew him at all. As for evidence from Helene Ellitcher, Wise argued that the court could only expect her to corroborate the testimony of her husband, Max Elitcher, a communist and known perjurer. Perl had no motive to perjure himself; Wise asked for acquittal on all four perjury charges. On May 22, 1953, Perl was found guilty on two counts of perjury for lying about his \"acquaintance and association\" with Rosenberg and Sobell (and acquitted of two other counts). Perl served two concurrent five-year sentences at the New York House of Detention.\n\nPerl is mentioned in 14 KGB messages decrypted by the Venona project, a joint British-American intelligence effort, under the covernames 'Gnome' and 'Jacob'. One cable, dated 14 September 1944, requests a $500 bonus for Perl's information on a Westinghouse jet engine assembly. John Earl Haynes and Harvey Klehr have suggested that data provided by him aided the Soviets in the unique tail-fin design of the MiG-15 fighter used in the Korean War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902832", "title": "Mother May I?", "text": "Mother May I?\n\nMother May I? is a children's game, also known as \"Captain May I?\" and \"Father May I?\".\n\nOne player plays the \"mother\", \"father\" or \"captain\". The other players are the \"children\" or \"crewmembers\". To begin the game, the mother or father stands at one end of a room and turns around facing away, while all the children line up at the other end. The children take turns asking \"Mother/Father, may I ____?\" and makes a movement suggestion. For example, one might ask, \"Mother/Father, may I take five steps forward?\" The mother/father either replies \"Yes, you may\" or \"No, you may not do that, but you may _____ instead\" and inserts his/her own suggestion. The players usually move closer to the mother/father but are sometimes led farther away. Even if the mother/father makes an unfavorable suggestion, the child must still perform it. The first of the children to reach the location of the mother/father wins the game. That child then becomes the mother/father himself, the original mother/father becomes a child, and a new round begins.\n\nSome suggestions that fill in the \"Mother/Father/Captain, may I ____?\" blank include:\n\nIf the \"children\" are reaching the \"mother\" or \"father\" too quickly, the \"mother\"/\"father\" may reject the child's suggestion by replacing it with \"No, you may not do that, but you may ____ instead.\" They may reduce the child's original suggestion (for example, reducing five giant steps to three giant steps), or make a different suggestion, such as:\n\nA common alternative gameplay is for \"mother\" or \"father\" (who can be facing the children) to begin each child's turn by issuing the instruction to be carried out. The child must reply, \"Mother/Father, may I?\" before carrying out the order, to which Mother/Father always consents. However, if the child omits to ask permission he or she is required to go back to the start. Children who have advanced a long way towards the goal are thus brought to ruin; instructions to go backwards must also be asked for lest a worse fate awaits. The art to being a good mother or father is to bring everyone as equally as possible.\n\nOther variations of this kind of crossing-over game are \"What's the Time, Mr Wolf?\" (sometimes called \"Old Mrs. Fox, What Time is It?\", although this version is slightly different), \"Grandmother's Footsteps\" and \"Bulldog\", played in Britain. In the first of these, gameplay is similar: Mr Wolf faces away from the children (or Mrs. Fox faces the children), the children together chant in a well-known fashion \"What's the time, Mr Wolf?\" (or \"Old Mrs. Fox, what time is it?\"), and if he or she replies with 9 o'clock, the children move 9 steps forward. Should anyone reach Mr Wolf, he or she becomes the new Mr Wolf. Alternatively, however, should Mr Wolf reply to the question by saying \"Dinner Time!\" (or in the Mrs. Fox version, \"Midnight!\") he turns and chases the children back towards the start. If he catches one before he or she reaches safety, that child is the new Mr Wolf.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902835", "title": "Max Elitcher", "text": "Max Elitcher\n\nMax Elitcher (1918–2010) was a prosecution witness in the Julius and Ethel Rosenberg trial in 1951.\n\nBecause of his close friendship with Morton Sobell and Julius Rosenberg, as well as his damaging testimony, Max Elitcher was the most injurious prosecution witness in the Rosenberg case. Elitcher and Sobell became friends while attending Stuyvesant High School together. The two men attended the City College of New York where they met Julius Rosenberg. Following graduation, where Elitcher received a degree in engineering, he and Sobell moved to Washington to become junior engineers at the Navy Bureau of Ordnance. The two remained close friends and even shared an apartment together. In 1948, Elitcher left government service to take a job at Reeves Instrument Corporation. Elitcher and his wife moved into a house in Queens. Their backyard neighbors were the Sobells.\n\nElitcher maintained that Julius Rosenberg had attempted to recruit him as a spy during the years 1944-1948. Although Elitcher shared many of Rosenberg's and Sobell's political beliefs, he claimed to have never passed secret information to either. Elitcher testified that he accompanied Sobell to Catherine Slip in New York, where Sobell passed film to Julius Rosenberg.\n\nAccording to the authors of Invitation to an Inquest (1983): \"At the trial, Elitcher had to be led frequently by Saypol as he told a story that was vague and improbable. He claimed that Rosenberg and also Sobell had on a number of occasions invited him to engage in espionage activities and that they had continued these requests sporadically over a four-year period - despite the fact that he never had turned over a single scrap of information to them.\" The New York Daily News reported: \"Elitcher left trial observers with the impression that his must have been a masterpiece of equivocation and temporizing, since the first pressure was put to him in 1944... He was still resisting suggestions from Sobell and Rosenberg, he asserted... in 1948.\" \n\nThe only evidence against Morton Sobell was Elitcher's story about the visit to see Julius Rosenberg in July 1948, when he was living in Knickerbocker Village. He described the \"35-millimeter film can\" that Sobell was carrying but he admitted that he did not know what, if anything, the can contained, nor had he actually seen Sobell deliver it to Rosenberg. Elitcher was unable to say if Sobell gave Rosenberg any information that was secret. In 2008, Sobell publicly admitted to spying. (2008 admission)\n\nDouglas Linder, \"A Trial Account\" (2001)\n\n"}
{"id": "1902842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902842", "title": "Motlow State Community College", "text": "Motlow State Community College\n\nMotlow State Community College is a public community college with multiple locations in southern Middle Tennessee. The main campus opened its facilities in 1969 and is located in Moore County on 187 acres of land donated by the late Senator Reagor Motlow and family. Motlow College also has learning centers in Fayetteville, McMinnville and Smyrna, a teaching site in Sparta and a partnership in Shelbyville at the Middle Tennessee Education Center.\n\nThe college serves more than 540,000 citizens in an 11-county service area including Bedford, Cannon, Coffee, DeKalb, Franklin, Lincoln, Moore, Rutherford, Van Buren, Warren, and White. The college also allows residents of three border counties in Alabama to pay in-state tuition: Madison, Jackson, and Limestone counties.\n\nMotlow participates in baseball, softball, and men's and women's basketball as part of the Tennessee Community College Athletic Association and the National Junior College Athletic Association.\n\nThe Motlow family donated of land on which the college is built in Moore County, Tennessee; subsequently, the college bears the family name—Motlow College. Motlow honors Senator Motlow and his family for their significant contributions. Dr. Michael L. Torrence was appointed the next president of MSCC succeeding Hilda Tunstill, who has served as interim president following the resignation of Dr. Anthony Kinkel. In addition to Kinkel, previous presidents include Dr. MaryLou Apple, Dr. Sam Ingram, Dr. Harry Wagner, Dr. A. Frank Glass, and Dr. Arthur L. Walker, Jr.\n\n\nMotlow is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award the Level 1 associate degree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902853", "title": "Svedjebruk", "text": "Svedjebruk\n\nSvedjebruk is a Swedish and Norwegian term for slash-and-burn agriculture that is derived from the Old Norse word \"sviða\" which means \"to burn\". This practice originated in Russia in the region of Novgorod and was widespread in Finland and Eastern Sweden during the Medieval period. It spread to western Sweden in the 16th Century when Finnish settlers were encouraged to migrate there by King Gustav Vasa to help clear the dense forests. Later, when the Finns were persecuted by the local Swedes, svedjebruk farming was spread by refugees to Eastern Norway in the Eastern part of Solør, in the area bordering Sweden known as Finnskogen (\"the Finnish woods\").\n\nThe practice also spread to New Sweden in North America. Reinforced by the use of fire in agriculture and hunting by Native Americans, it became an important part of pioneering in America (Pyne, 1997:470).\n\nSvedjebruk involved stripping a ring of bark completely around the trunk of coniferous trees like pine or spruce or felling them, allowing them to dry, setting fire to the dried forest and growing crops on the fertile ash-covered soil. The resulting ash was highly fertile, but only for a short period. The clearing was initially planted to rye as soon as the ash had fully settled and sufficiently cooled. When the rain came, it packed the ash around the rye. The rye germinated & grew prolifically, with anywhere from 25 to 100 stalks (or straws), each with multiple grains.\n\nOnly two tools were required, the axe and the sickle. The axe cut the trees to start the cycle. When the rye had ripened, it was harvested with a sickle, which could reach among the rocks and stumps where a scythe would have been ineffective.\n\nIn the second and third year the field would be sown with turnips or cabbages. It then might be grazed for several years before being allowed to return to woodland.\n\nSvedjebruk required felling new forest and burning a new area every year. It was necessary allow the former fields to regrow with forest for 10–30 years before repeating the cycle. As a result, the dwellings were often many kilometers from the fields. Further, since the process was man-power intensive, extended families tended to work together and live in compact communities.\n\nThe svedjebruk farming approach requires a large area. When forest was plentiful, the Finns were very prosperous. As population grew and restrictions were placed on the forest which could be burned, it became increasingly difficult. By 1710, during the conflict with Sweden, because of their suspect loyalties Norwegian authorities considered expelling them from the border area but did not do so because it was judged they were too poor to survive if evicted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902857", "title": "Lucifer's Friend", "text": "Lucifer's Friend\n\nLucifer's Friend is a German hard rock band, formed in Hamburg in 1970 by guitarist Peter Hesslein, singer John Lawton, bassist Dieter Horns, keyboardist Peter Hecht, and drummer Joachim Reitenbach. The group was an early practitioner of heavy metal and progressive rock; they also incorporated elements of jazz and fusion into their music, especially in their fourth album \"Banquet\" of 1974. Beyond heavy metal, the band has been cited, too, as one of the pioneers of doom metal, helping to define both genres due to their heavy sound and dark oriented lyrics of their debut \"Lucifer's Friend\" of 1970, and returning to their roots in 1981 with \"Mean Machine\", although more influenced by speed metal.\n\nIn 1969 after a tour with his past band called Stonewall, the British-born singer John Lawton went to live in Germany, where he met Peter Hesslein, Dieter Horns, Peter Hecht and Joachim Reitenbach, who were members of a band called The German Bonds. The five joined together to record an album under the band name of Asterix in 1970 and soon they changed their name to Lucifer's Friend.\n\nThe early albums were released on the Vertigo Records label in Europe, but in the United States those albums were released on a series of small independent record labels (Billingsgate, Janus, Passport), often a year or more after their release in Europe. Thus, despite airplay in some markets and a cult following, the band's albums were hard to find and commercial success eluded them. The band was finally signed to Elektra Records in 1977: it released three albums with a more commercial pop oriented sound, but by then interest in the band had waned; those albums were even less successful than the earlier ones.\n\nLucifer's Friend was known for changing musical styles and influences on each album. The self-titled 1970 debut had dark lyrics and a stripped-down guitar and organ style and sounded similar to Deep Purple, Uriah Heep, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath . That album is still sought after by fans of early heavy metal music.\n\nThe second album, \"Where the Groupies Killed the Blues\" (1972), took an entirely different direction. It was a very experimental album of progressive and psychedelic rock, mostly composed by John O'Brien Docker. On the third album, \"I'm Just a Rock & Roll Singer\" (1973), they changed direction again, this time in the straightforward rock style popularized by such groups as Grand Funk Railroad, and gritty \"life on the road\" themes in the lyrics.\n\n\"Banquet\" (1974) featured extended, multi-layered jazz fusion compositions and a 30-piece backup band, alternating with some shorter tracks reminiscent of Chicago and Traffic. Those first four albums are all concept albums of a sort and along with the self-titled Asterix album are the most sought after today.\n\n\"Mind Exploding\" (1976) established a holding pattern and tried to combine the jazz of \"Banquet\" with the garage-rock of \"Rock & Roll Singer\", but was not as well received as the earlier albums. Vocalist John Lawton left in 1976 to join Uriah Heep. He was replaced by Ian Cussick. With him the band recorded and released 7\" single \"Old Man Roller / Writing On The Wall\" in June 1977. Later same year he was replaced by Mike Starrs, former vocalist with Colosseum II. John Lawton returned for the 1981 album \"Mean Machine\". On the two albums without Lawton the band moved to a more commercial sound, on 1978's \"Good Time Warrior\" and 1980s \"Sneak Me In\".\n\nJohn Lawton's 1980 solo album on RCA, \"Heartbeat\", was a Lucifer's Friend album in everything but name, with the lineup from \"Sneak Me In\" performing as backup musicians on that project. Lawton's official return, \"Mean Machine\", found the band returning to heavy metal, this time in the vein of Rainbow and NWOBHM. The band officially broke up in 1982 but thirteen years later, in 1994 John and Peter Hesslein briefly reformed to release a new CD, \"Sumo Grip\" under the name of Lucifer's Friend II, with Curt Cress, Andreas Dicke, Jogi Wichmann and Udo Dahmen replacing the classic line-up. After this they broke up once more.\n\nAlthough John Lawton stated that the crew weren't interested in getting back to record or perform live again, in August 2014 he published the news in his website of an eventual reunion with the original line-up to play some dates of 2015 including Sweden Rock Festival in June, after almost 40 years since their last gig together. Also they will release a new compilation album called \"Awakening\" on April 6, followed by four new tracks. Due to the demise of their original drummer Joachim \"Addi\" Rietenbach a few years ago, his position is now occupied by Stephan Eggert. Also, the original keyboardist Peter Hecht refused to participate in the reunion. Due to this, the guitarist Peter Hesslein played the keyboard parts on the new album, hiring once again Jogi Wichmann (who played on Sumo Grip) as the live keyboardist for the shows in 2015 and 2016.\n\nThe Lucifer's Friend song \"Ride in the Sky\" is played in the Bulgarian film \"Love.net\", starring Lawton, as a song by a fictional band called Tabloid.\n\nTim Baker, lead singer of the doom metal band Cirith Ungol, cited Lucifer's Friend as an influence on Cirith Ungol's sound in an interview with Metal Forces, stating that \"We really wanted to be like [\"Lucifer's Friend\"]\".\n\n\nPast members\n\n\nAs Lucifer's Friend II\n\nGerman Bonds (Includes Peter Hecht on keyboards and Dieter Horns on bass)\n\n\nBokaj Retsiem (Includes Peter Hecht on keyboards and Dieter Horns on bass)\n\nHell Preachers Inc. (Includes future Lucifer's Friend members, except John Lawton)\n\nBrother T & Family (Includes future Lucifer's Friend members, except John Lawton)\n\nElectric Food (singer George Mavros backed by Lucifer's Friend members, without John Lawton)\n\nAsterix \n\nPink Mice (Includes all original Lucifer's Friend members, except John Lawton)\n\nHepp, Hahn and Huhn (Includes Peter Hecht on keyboards and Dieter Horns on bass)\n\nOkko Becker (Includes Peter Hesslein on guitars)\n\nPropeller (Includes Peter Hesslein on guitars)\n\nFrankie Dymon (Includes Peter Hecht on keyboards)\n\nThe Rattles (Includes Herbert Bornhold on drums)\n\nDavid Frank Selection (Includes Peter Hesslein on guitars)\n\nJohn Lawton (Includes all original Lucifer's Friend members)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902872", "title": "Elizabeth Bentley", "text": "Elizabeth Bentley\n\nElizabeth Terrill Bentley (January 1, 1908 – December 3, 1963) was an American spy and member of the Communist Party USA who served the Soviet Union from 1938 until 1945. In 1945, she defected from the Communist Party and Soviet intelligence by contacting the FBI and reporting on her activities. \n\nShe became widely known after testifying in some trials and before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). In 1952 Bentley became an informer for the U.S., as she was paid by the FBI for her frequent appearances before different committees and investigations. She exposed two networks of spies, ultimately naming more than 80 Americans who, she said, had engaged in espionage.\n\nElizabeth Terrill Bentley was born in New Milford, Connecticut, to Charles Prentiss Bentley, a dry-goods merchant, and the former May Charlotte Turrill, a schoolteacher. In 1915 her parents had moved to Ithaca, New York. By 1920, the family had moved to McKeesport, Pennsylvania, and that year they returned to New York, settling in Rochester. Her parents were described as a strait-laced \"old family\" of Episcopalians from New England.\n\nShe attended Vassar College, graduating in 1930 with a degree in English, Italian, and French. In 1933, while she was attending graduate school at Columbia University, she won a fellowship to the University of Florence. While in Italy, she briefly joined a local student fascist group, the \"Gruppo Universitario Fascista.\" Under the influence of her anti-Fascist faculty advisor Mario Casella, with whom she had an affair while at Columbia, Bentley soon shifted her politics. While completing her master's degree, she attended meetings of the American League Against War and Fascism. Although she would later say that she found Communist literature unreadable and \"dry as dust,\" she was attracted to the sense of community and social conscience she found among her friends in the league. When she learned that most were members of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA), she joined the party herself in March 1935.\n\nBentley initiated her entry into espionage. In 1935, she obtained a job at the Italian Library of Information in New York City; this was fascist Italy's propaganda bureau in the United States. She reported the job to CPUSA headquarters, telling them of her willingness to spy on the fascists. Juliet Stuart Poyntz, who also worked at the Italian Library of Information, approached and recruited Bentley.\n\nAt this point, Bentley thought she was spying solely for the American Communist Party. But Golos was one of the Soviet Union's most important intelligence agents in the United States. At the time when he and Bentley met, Golos was involved in planning the assassination of Leon Trotsky, which would take place in Mexico in 1940. Bentley and Golos soon became lovers. It was more than a year before she learned his true name, and, according to her later testimony, two years before she knew that he was working for Soviet intelligence.\n\nIn 1940, two years into their relationship, the Justice Department forced Golos to register as an agent of the Soviet government under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. This increased his risk in contacting the network of American spies he controlled, and accepting documents from them. He gradually transferred this responsibility to Bentley. Golos also needed someone to take charge of the day-to-day business of the United States Service and Shipping Corporation, a Comintern front organization for espionage activities. Bentley took on this role as well. Although she was never directly paid for any of her espionage work, she would eventually earn $800 a month as vice president of U.S. Service and Shipping, a considerable salary for the time, (per month). As Bentley acquired an important role in Soviet intelligence, the Soviets gave her the code name \"Umnitsa\", loosely translated as \"Wise girl\". (In some literature it is less correctly translated as \"good girl\".)\n\nMost of Bentley's contacts were in what prosecutors and historians would later call the \"Silvermaster group\", a network of spies centered around Nathan Gregory Silvermaster. This network became one of the most important Soviet espionage operations in the United States. Silvermaster worked with the Resettlement Administration and later with the Board of Economic Warfare. He did not have access to much sensitive information, but he knew several Communists and sympathizers within the government who were better placed and willing to pass such information to him. Using Elizabeth Bentley, he sent it to Moscow. At this time, the Soviet Union and the United States were allies in the Second World War, and much of the information Silvermaster collected for the Soviets had to do with the war against Nazi Germany. As the Soviets were absorbing all of the burden of the ground war in Europe, at a frightful cost in terms of people and materièl, they were interested in US intelligence: It included secret estimates of German military strength, data on U.S. munitions production, and information on the Allies' schedule for opening a second front in Europe. The contacts in Golos's and Bentley's extended network ranged from dedicated Stalinists to, in the words of Bentley's biographer Kathryn Olmsted, \"romantic idealists\" who \"wanted to help the brave Russians beat the Nazi war machine\".\n\nLate in 1943, Jacob Golos suffered a fatal heart attack. After meeting with CPUSA General Secretary Earl Browder, Bentley decided to continue her espionage work and accepted Golos's place. Her new contact in Soviet intelligence was Iskhak Akhmerov, the leading NKGB \"Illegal Rezident,\" or undercover spy chief working without a diplomatic cover. Under orders from Moscow, Akhmerov wanted to have Bentley's contacts report directly to him. Bentley, Browder and Golos had resisted this change, believing that using an American intermediary was the best way to handle their sources, and fearing that Russian agents would endanger the American spies and possibly drive them away. With Browder's support, Bentley initially ignored a series of orders that she \"hand over\" her agents to Akhmerov. She expanded her spy network when Browder gave her control over another group of agents. This was the \"Perlo group\", with contacts in the War Production Board, the United States Senate, and the Treasury Department.\n\nBentley had been noted since her days in Florence as suffering from bouts of depression and having a problem with alcohol. Now, despondent and lonely after the death of Golos and under increasing pressure from Soviet intelligence, she began to drink more heavily. She missed work at U.S. Service and Shipping, and neighbors described her as drinking \"all the time\".\n\nIn early June 1944, Browder acceded to Akhmerov's demands and agreed to instruct the members of the Silvermaster group to report directly to the NKGB. Bentley later said that this was the event that turned her against Communism in the United States. \"I discovered then that Earl Browder was just a puppet, that somebody pulled the strings in Moscow,\" she would say. Her biographers suggest that Bentley's objections, rather than being ideological, were related more to a lifelong dislike of being given orders and a sense that the reassignments of her contacts left her with no meaningful role. Late in 1944, Bentley was ordered to give up all of her remaining sources, including the Perlo group she had recently acquired. Her Soviet superior also told her that she would have to leave her position as vice president of U.S. Service and Shipping.\n\nIn 1945 Bentley began an affair with a man whom she came to suspect to be either an FBI or a Soviet agent sent to spy on her. Her Soviet contact suggested that she should emigrate to the Soviet Union, but Bentley feared this might end with her execution there. In August 1945, Bentley went to the FBI office in New Haven, Connecticut and met with the agent-in-charge. She did not immediately defect. She seemed to be \"feeling out\" the FBI, and it was not until November that she began to tell her full story to the agency. In the meantime, her personal situation continued to worsen. In September she met with Anatoly Gorsky, her latest NKGB controller, and was recorded as arriving drunk to the meeting. She became angry with Gorsky, berated him and his fellow Russian agents as \"gangsters\", and obliquely threatened to become an informer. She soon realized that her tirade could have put her life in danger. When Gorsky reported on this to Moscow, his recommendation was to \"get rid of her\".\n\nMoscow advised Gorsky to be patient with Bentley and calm her down. A few weeks later it was revealed that Louis Budenz, editor of the CPUSA newspaper and one of Bentley's sources, had defected to the United States. Budenz had not yet revealed any of his knowledge of espionage activity, but he knew Elizabeth Bentley's name and knew she was a spy. Imperiled on both sides, Bentley made her final decision to defect and went back to the FBI on November 6, 1945.\n\nIn a series of debriefing interviews with the FBI beginning November 7, 1945, Bentley implicated nearly 150 people in spying for the Soviet Union, including 37 federal employees. The FBI already suspected many of those she named, and some had been named by earlier defectors Igor Gouzenko and Whittaker Chambers. This increased FBI confidence in her account and person. They gave her the code name \"Gregory,\" and J. Edgar Hoover ordered the strictest secrecy measures be taken to hide her identity and defection. \n\nHoover advised Sir William Stephenson, head of British Security Coordination for the Western hemisphere, of Bentley's defection, and Stephenson duly notified London. But Kim Philby was the head of the British Secret Intelligence Service's (SIS or \"MI6\") new Section IX (counter-espionage against the Soviet Union). He was a Soviet double agent who would escape to the Soviet Union in 1963. Philby promptly alerted Moscow about Bentley, and they shut down all contact with Bentley's network, just as the FBI was beginning surveillance of them. Bentley's NKGB contact Gorsky again recommended to Moscow that the American be \"liquidated\", and again Moscow rejected the idea.\n\nThe breach of secrecy around Bentley's defection foiled a year-long attempt by the FBI to have her act as a double agent. Additionally, because of the shutdown of Soviet espionage activity, the FBI surveillance of the agents Bentley had named turned up no evidence that could be used to prosecute them. Some 250 FBI agents were assigned to the Bentley case, following up the leads she had provided and, through phone tap, surveillance and mail openings, investigating people she had named. The FBI, grand juries and congressional committees would eventually interview many of these alleged spies, but each of them would either invoke their Fifth Amendment right not to testify or maintain their innocence.\n\nFor J. Edgar Hoover and a few highly placed FBI and army intelligence personnel, the definitive corroboration of Bentley's story came some time in the late 1940s to early 1950s, when the highly secret Venona project succeeded in decrypting some wartime cables sent between Soviet intelligence agents and Moscow. In these cables, Bentley was referred to by the codename which she had told the FBI, and there were discussions of several of her known contacts and documents which she was known to have passed on to the Soviets.\n\nThe Venona project was classified and was considered so secret that the US Government was unwilling to expose it by allowing any material from it to be used as evidence in any trial. Neither presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt nor Harry Truman were aware of the Venona project by name, though they received some of its conclusions as summarized by J. Edgar Hoover in weekly intelligence reports.\n\nWith the chances of successful prosecution looking unlikely, Hoover gave the names of some of Bentley's contacts to certain U.S. Congressmen, with the understanding that the accused spies would be questioned before congressional committees. He believed that the publicized suspicion and accusations would be sufficient to ruin their careers. Additionally, Attorney General Tom C. Clark decided to present the Bentley case to a grand jury, although he thought there was little chance they would be able to return any indictments. Bentley testified before this grand jury on several occasions, lasting until April 1948. During this period, some details of her case began to leak to the press.\n\nBentley decided to reveal her full story herself, to exert more control. She met with Nelson Frank and Norton Mockridge, journalists from the \"New York World-Telegram\". During four consecutive days, the newspaper published a series of front-page stories about the unnamed \"beautiful young blonde\" who had exposed a ring of spies. The articles were:\n\nAlmost immediately following the \"World-Telegram\" articles, Bentley was subpoenaed to testify at a public hearing of the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) on July 31, 1948, (see hearing transcript).\n\nAccording to Olmsted's biography, reporters' accounts and analyses of Bentley's testimony varied with their politics. The strongly anti-communist \"New York Journal-American\" described Bentley as a \"shapely\" \"blonde and blue-eyed New Yorker\" who \"lured\" secrets from her sources, while A. J. Liebling of \"The New Yorker\" ridiculed her story and called her the \"Nutmeg Mata Hari.\" For her part, Bentley portrayed herself as naïve and innocent, corrupted by her liberal professors at Vassar and seduced into espionage by Golos.\n\nStarting on August 3, 1948, during additional HUAC hearings, Bentley received some corroboration from Whittaker Chambers. Under subpoena by HUAC, he testified that he knew at least two of Bentley's contacts, Victor Perlo and Charles Kramer, as communists and members of his earlier Ware Group. He also supported her accusation that Harry Dexter White, a prominent economist who had worked in the Treasury Department, was a communist sympathizer. Comparing their testimony, Chambers wrote in his memoir: \nI knew that I was simply back-stopping Miss Bentley, that hers was the current testimony. The things that I had to tell were ten years old and I had only to let the shadows, dust and cobwebs conspicuously drape them to leave the stand unscathed.\n\nMany reporters and commentators were skeptical about Bentley's claims. Since some of those she accused were prominent figures in two Democratic administrations, Democrats in particular were eager to have her discredited. President Truman at one point characterized her testimony as a Republican-inspired \"red herring.\" Republicans, in turn, accused Truman of \"covering up\" communist espionage. Conflicts of this nature, along with fears of Soviet communist power in Europe and the increasingly publicized hearings of HUAC, were the background to the rise of McCarthyism. The witch hunt for communists initiated by Senator Joseph McCarthy (R-Wisconsin) became a central factor in domestic American politics in the 1950s.\n\nOn August 6, 1948, Bentley appeared on NBC Radio's \"Meet the Press\", broadcast at 10 p.m. via WOR.\n\nOn Sunday, September 12, 1948, she appeared on the first-ever television broadcast of NBC's \"Meet the Press,\" via WNBT, and was the first person interviewed. Journalists included: Nelson Frank, Inez Robb, Cecil Brown, and Lawrence Spivak. Brown asked her three times whether she would accuse William Remington of being a communist, outside of congressional protection, and she finally did so. When he was called before a Truman Loyalty Review Board, Joseph L. Rauh Jr. defended him. His attorney Richard Green asked on Remington's behalf for Bentley to withdraw the allegations by September 30. \n\nWhen she did not, Green filed a libel suit on October 6, 1948 against Bentley, NBC, and its television sponsor General Foods Corporation, seeking $100,000 in damages. Bentley failed to appear in court in October. On December 29, 1948, Green said he had personally served a summons on her. (The same day, judges and lawyers agreed to suspend Alger Hiss's libel suit against Whittaker Chambers because of Department of Justice indictments of Hiss on two counts of perjury two weeks before).\n\nMost of the people accused by Bentley invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer her charges. A few, however, specifically denied them. Most notable of these was Harry Dexter White. He was already suffering from known heart disease; he died of a heart attack a few days after his testimony before HUAC. Others who denied Bentley's charges were Lauchlin Currie, formerly President Roosevelt's economic affairs advisor; William Remington and William Henry Taylor, both midlevel government economists; Duncan Lee, formerly with the Office of Strategic Services (OSS); and Abe Brothman, a private-sector chemist who worked on defense projects. As noted above, in October 1948, William Remington sued Bentley and NBC for libel. In hopes of discrediting her, Remington's attorneys hired private detectives to look into her past. They produced evidence of her alcoholism, periods of severe depression, and a suicide attempt while a student in Florence; they alleged that her master's thesis had been written by someone else, and that, by the standards of the day, she had been sexually promiscuous since her college days. Bentley declined to testify at a Remington loyalty board hearing, and NBC settled the libel case out of court for $10,000.\n\nBentley testified in the trials of four accused spies: The perjury trial of William Remington, a case against Abe Brothman for obstruction of justice, and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg trials on charges of conspiracy to commit espionage. Bentley was peripherally involved in the Rosenberg case. She was used by the prosecution to develop two points: first, the actions of American Communists in becoming spies for the Soviet Union; and second, to establish, if only vaguely in the jury's mind, a connection between Julius Rosenberg and Golos. She testified that she would receive calls from a man who identified himself as Julius, after which Golos would go out to meet him.\n\nAfter defecting to US authorities, Bentley's personal life became increasingly tumultuous. She continued to drink heavily, was involved in car accidents, and had a relationship with a man who beat her severely. She avoided subpoenas on a number of occasions. These incidents, along with generally erratic behavior, resulted in her FBI handlers worrying that she was \"bordering on some mental pitfall\".\n\nBut she was invariably calm and professional on the witness stand, earning praise from the prosecutors whose cases she was supporting. As Bentley repeatedly testified before grand juries, congressional committees and jury trials, however, she refined and embellished some details of her story. Information passed to her about a process for manufacturing synthetic rubber that was originally \"vague\" and \"probably of no value\" became \"super-secret\" and \"an extremely complicated thing.\" She would also assert that her espionage gave her advance notice of the Doolittle raid on Japan and the D-Day invasions of France, both claims that appeared to have been exaggerated.\n\nRemington's first trial began in late December 1950. Roy Cohn, later to become famous as chief counsel for Senator Joseph McCarthy’s Government Operations Subcommittee and already a noted anti-communist, joined the prosecution's legal team. Bentley later supplied a wealth of detail about Remington's involvement with her and the espionage conspiracy. Remington's defense was that he had never handled any classified material, hence could not have given any to Bentley. \n\nBut she remembered all the facts about the rubber-from-garbage invention: \n\"We had searched through the archives and discovered the files on the process. We also found the aircraft schedules, which were set up exactly as she said, and inter office memos and tables of personnel which proved Remington had access to both these items. We also discovered Remington's application for a naval commission in which he specifically pointed out that he was, in his present position with the Commerce Department, entrusted with secret military information involving airplanes, armaments, radar, and the Manhattan Project (the atomic bomb).\" \n\nDuring the trial eleven witnesses claimed they knew Remington to be a communist. This included Bentley; ex-wife Ann Remington; Professor Howard Bridgeman of Tufts University; Kenneth McConnell, a Communist organizer in Knoxville; Rudolph Bertram and Christine Benson, who worked with him at the Tennessee Valley Authority; and Paul Crouch, who provided him with copies of the southern edition of the communist newspaper, \"The Daily Worker.\"\n\nBentley also testified that Harry Dexter White was responsible for passing Treasury plates for printing Allied currency in Occupied Germany to the Soviet Union, which used them to print millions of marks.\nRussian soldiers exchanged these marks for goods and hard currency. They were catalysts for a black market and serious inflation throughout the occupied country, and costing the U.S. a quarter of a billion dollars.\n\nBentley wrote in her autobiography \"Out of Bondage\" (1951) that she had been \"able through Harry Dexter White to arrange that the United States Treasury Department turn the actual printing plates over to the Russians.\" In her 1953 testimony before McCarthy's Senate subcommittee, she elaborated, testifying that she was following instructions from NKVD New York \"rezident\" Iskhak Abdulovich Akhmerov to pass word through Ludwig Ullmann and Nathan Gregory Silvermaster for White to \"put the pressure on for the delivery of the plates to Russia.\"\n\nBentley had not previously mentioned the printing plates in any earlier debriefings or testimony. There was no evidence at the time that she had any role in the transfer of the plates. Bentley biographer Kathryn Olmsted concluded that Bentley was \"lying about her role in the scandal\". She cited historian Bruce Craig's conclusion \"that the whole 'scheme' was a complete fabrication\"; i.e., that neither Bentley nor Harry Dexter White had a role in the plate transfer.\n\nAfter Olmsted's 2002 biography was published, a memorandum found in the newly accessible Soviet archives and also published in 2002, corroborated Bentley's testimony in this matter. In it, Gaik Ovakimian, head of the American desk of the NKVD, cites an April 14, 1944 report reporting that, \"following our instructions\" via Silvermaster, White had \"attained the positive decision of the Treasury Department to provide the Soviet side with the plates for engraving German occupation marks.\"\n\nSince Bentley was the Soviets' contact to Silvermaster at this time, her involvement in this incident is substantiated.\n\nAfter her defection, Bentley was frequently asked to provide testimony before various bodies investigating communist espionage and influence in the US. She continued occasional consultations with the FBI for the rest of her life. In 1952, she began accepting payments for times when she testified, making her a \"paid informer\" for the FBI. Biographer Olmsted writes that she received frequent requests from Catholic and veteran groups \"happy to pay her $300 fee.\"\n\nThough she had been a successful executive with a profitable shipping company while she was with the Communists, she changed fields after her defection. First she supported herself through secretarial work and then through a variety of teaching jobs. \nIn 1948 she was converted to Roman Catholicism by Fr. Fulton Sheen, later Archbishop of New York. She was frequently invited to lecture on Communism, and her experience of the Communist movement, by Catholic groups.\n\nBentley died on December 3, 1963, aged 55, from abdominal cancer at Grace-New Haven Hospital in New Haven, Connecticut. Obituaries were published in \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\".\nOlmsted notes in Bentley's biography the marked contrast between the notice paid to Bentley's death and that of Whittaker Chambers two years earlier. \n\nThe \"National Review\" devoted a special memorial issue to Chambers' death. It allotted only a paragraph to Bentley. \"Time\" magazine had devoted two pages to its Chambers obituary, but gave Bentley's death a two-sentence mention in its \"Milestones\" section.\n\nAlthough Bentley did not name Whittaker Chambers in her late July 1948 testimony, Robert E. Stripling said her testimony had made him \"think of Chambers.\" He had him subpoenaed and Chambers appeared only a few days after Bentley, thus launching the Hiss Case.\n\nIn sum, Bentley exposed two networks of spies, ultimately naming more than 80 Americans who had engaged in espionage for the Soviets. Her public testimony, which began in July 1948, became a media sensation and had a major effect on prosecution of cases of Soviet espionage in the 1950s. It also added to American fears of a widespread communist conspiracy within the government, fanned by Senator McCarthy.\n\nBentley provided no documentary evidence to support her claims. Reporters and historians were divided for decades as to the validity of her allegations. In the 1990s, declassification of both Soviet documents and the U.S. codebreaking Venona project lent some credence to Bentley's allegations. After she defected, the Soviet Union temporarily suspended espionage activities in the United States. But some of Bentley's claims remain controversial due to questions about the accuracy of translations and the vague nature of identities, given that agents were identified by code names in encrypted records captured in Venona.\n\n\nCurrently, two biographies of Elizabeth Bentley have been published:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902880", "title": "Lambeth, London, Ontario", "text": "Lambeth, London, Ontario\n\nLambeth is a neighbourhood in the City of London, Ontario, Canada. It is immediately north of Highway 402, and east of Colonel Talbot Road. Almost all of its residents live in low-density, single detached dwellings. As of 2011, the area is home to 4,410 residents.\n\nThe neighbourhood is considered a middle to upper-income area, with an average family income of $129,685 an average dwelling value of $340,707 and a home ownership rate of 93%. \n\nLambeth was formerly a population centre in Westminster Township, Middlesex County, Ontario, Canada. It held the status of Police Village (lacking corporate status as a village, but administered by a board of trustees) until an effort was made by the local Reeve, David Murray, to stop annexation by the City of London which brought about the creation of the Town of Westminster in 1988, which itself ceased to exist on December 31, 1992. On January 1, 1993, the Town of Westminster, including the village of Lambeth, became part of the City of London. To this day, some residents refuse to call the neighbourhood anything but Lambeth.\n\nIts post office dates from 1857.\n\nDuring World War II, the Royal Canadian Navy set up an radio direction finding (radar) station at Lambeth. Its purpose was to acquire a bearing whenever a German U-boat transmitted a radio messages back to their HQ. The resultant bearing was then sent to the Officer-In-Charge in Ottawa over a dedicated teletype line. Direction finding equipment was housed in a white shack located at an airfield in what is now a farmer's field at the northwest corner of Wharncliffe Road and Wonderland Road (formerly Airport Road) a couple of kilometres from Lambeth. The station began operating in the first few days of January 1943 and closed war’s end. Nothing remains of the runways or the buildings.\n\nThe neighbourhood comes together to celebrate its agricultural past each fall. This celebration is called Harvestfest and it usually takes place the first week after Labour Day, beginning on the Thursday and running until late Sunday. It features many events such as a baseball tournament, an adult dance, teen dance, and pre-teen dance, parade, occasional rides for kids, pancake breakfast for the town, auto show and shine, as well as two beer tents in different locations featuring a live band all day and night. Lambeth celebrated its 200th anniversary of settlement throughout 2009.\n\nLambeth exists within the federal electoral district of Elgin—Middlesex—London. It is currently represented by Karen Vecchio of the Conservative Party of Canada, first elected in 2015.\n\nProvincially, the area is within the constituency of Elgin—Middlesex—London. It is currently represented by Jeff Yurek of the Progressive Conservative Party, first elected in 2003 and re-elected in 2011 and 2014.\n\nIn London's non-partisan municipal politics, Lambeth lies within ward 9. It is currently represented by Councillor Anna Hopkins, first elected in 2014.\n\nUntil 1960, Lambeth was served by the Byron Telephone Company. The Byron Telephone Company had installed its first automatic dial exchange in Lambeth in the late 1950s, the Oliver 2 exchange, which replaced the manual magneto phone system that continued to operate in the Byron area until September 1963. The Byron company was sold to Bell Canada in August 1960, and Byron itself, a population centre, was annexed to London on January 1, 1961. Immediately prior to the conversion to dial, the Byron operator was reached from London telephones by dialing 471, which became the exchange prefix upon conversion to dial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902892", "title": "Collegium Nobilium (Warsaw)", "text": "Collegium Nobilium (Warsaw)\n\nThe Collegium Nobilium was an elite boarding secondary school for sons of magnates and wealthy gentry (\"szlachta\"), founded in 1740 in Warsaw by Stanisław Konarski and run by Piarist monks. The school existed until 1832 and was one of the predecessors of Warsaw University. It was at first called Collegium Novum, but its name was changed in the autumn of 1741. It operated in a building on Warsaw's Dluga Street. Later, it was moved to the district of Zoliborz.\n\nThe target of the Collegium Nobilium was to educate future elites of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, and to prepare them for reforms of the country (see also Great Sejm, Constitution of May 3, 1791). It had eight grades, but education lasted for eight years, as in grades II, IV, and V, the curriculum lasted two years. The school had a modern syllabus; it concentrated on natural sciences, mathematics, philosophy and modern languages, and with less pressure on the Latin and Greek languages. Stanislaw Konarski selected well-educated teachers, introducing courses in history, law, economics and sciences.\n\nThe campus of the Collegium Nobilium was almost completely destroyed during the Warsaw Uprising. It was rebuilt after the war, together with its classicistic facade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902905", "title": "Murad Bakhsh", "text": "Murad Bakhsh\n\nMuhammad Murad Bakhsh (), \n(9 October 1624 – 14 December 1661) was a Mughal prince as the youngest son of Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan and Empress Mumtaz Mahal. He was the Subedar of Balkh until he was replaced by his elder brother Aurangzeb in the year 1647.\n\nMuhammad Murad Bakhsh was born on 9 October 1624, at the Rohtasgarh Fort in Bihar, as the youngest son of Emperor Shah Jahan and his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal. Murad's siblings included his two politically powerful sisters, the princesses: Jahanara Begum and Roshanara Begum as well as the heir-apparent to his father, his eldest brother, Crown Prince Dara Shikoh and the future Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb.\n\nIn 1638, Murad Bakhsh, at the age of fourteen years married the Safavid princess, Sakina Banu Begum, a daughter of Shah Nawaz Khan Safavi. She was the younger sister of his elder sister-in-law, Dilras Banu Begum, who was Aurangzeb's wife.\n\nHe was appointed to Subadar of Multan (1642), of Balkh (16 February 1646 to 9 August 1646), of Kashmir (20 August 1647 to July 1648), of Deccan (25 July 1648 to 14 September 1649), and Kabul (23 January 1650 to 1654), of Gujarat (March 1654), and Malwa.\n\nOn 30 November 1657, he proclaimed himself emperor at Ahmedabad, after reports that his father was ill. During the same year he received the Ottoman ambassador Manzada Husain Agha, who arrived in the port of Surat and was on his way to meet Shah Jahan in Agra. Manzada Husain Agha mentions his disappointment regarding the wars between Shah Jahan's sons.\n\nMurad Bakhsh joined hands with Aurangzeb to defeat Dara Shikhoh, the eldest son of Shah Jahan. In fact it was the ferocious charge led by Murad Bakhsh and his Sowars that eventually turned the outcome of the battle in favor of Aurangzeb during the Battle of Samugarh.\n\nOn 7 July 1658, while he was in a tent with his brother Aurangzeb, he was intoxicated and was secretly sent to the prison and transferred to Gwalior Fort from January 1659.\n\nHe faced a trial that sentenced him to death for having murdered former Diwan clerk named Ali Naqi, in 1661. Aurangzeb then replaced Murad Bakhsh as the Subedar of Gujarat and placed Inayat Khan as the new Mughal commander of Surat.\n\n\nOn 14 December 1661, after three years in prison, he was executed at Gwalior Fort. With the last of his brothers now dead, Aurangzeb was the undisputed emperor of the Mughal Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902907", "title": "Carry-le-Rouet", "text": "Carry-le-Rouet\n\nCarry-le-Rouet () is a commune in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in southern France.\n\nCarry-le-Rouet is a seaside resort located 30 kilometres (19 mi) west of Marseille by highway A55, then route D5, set at the foot of pine-covered hills.\n\nEvery February, there is an \"Oursinades\" festival, a tasting of sea urchins, various shellfish and other seafood.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902914", "title": "Muneville", "text": "Muneville\n\nMuneville may refer to the following places in the Manche \"départment\", France:\n\n"}
{"id": "1902917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902917", "title": "Sub-Roman Britain", "text": "Sub-Roman Britain\n\nSub-Roman Britain is the period of Late antiquity in Great Britain, covering the end of Roman rule in the late 4th and early 5th centuries, and its aftermath into the 6th century. The term \"sub-Roman\" was originally used to describe archaeological remains such as potsherds found in sites of the 5th and 6th centuries, and hinted at the decay of locally made wares from a previous higher standard that had existed under the Roman Empire. It is now more often used to denote this period of history instead. The term Post-Roman Britain is also used, mainly in non-archaeological contexts.\n\nAlthough the culture of Britain in the period was mainly derived from Roman and Celtic sources, there were also Saxons settled as \"foederati\" in the area, originally from Saxony in northwestern Germany, although the term \"Saxon\" was used by the British for all Germanic incomers. Gradually the latter assumed more control, creating Anglo-Saxon England in the process. The Picts in northern Scotland were outside the applicable area.\n\nThe period of sub-Roman Britain traditionally covers the history of the area which subsequently became England from the end of Roman imperial rule, traditionally dated to be in 410, to the arrival of Saint Augustine in 597. The date taken for the end of this period is arbitrary in that the sub-Roman culture continued in northern England until the merger of Rheged (the kingdom of the Brigantes) with Northumbria by dynastic marriage in 633, and longer in the West of England, and Cornwall, Cumbria and Wales especially.\n\nThis period has attracted a great deal of academic and popular debate, in part because of the scarcity of the written source material. The term \"post-Roman Britain\" is also used for the period, mainly in non-archaeological contexts; \"sub-Roman\" and \"post-Roman\" are both terms that apply to the old Roman province of Britannia, i.e. Britain south of the Forth–Clyde line. The history of the area between Hadrian's Wall and the Forth–Clyde line is similar to that of Wales (see Rheged, Bernicia, Gododdin and Strathclyde). North of the line lay a thinly populated area including the kingdoms of the Maeatae (in Angus), Dalriada (in Argyll), and the kingdom whose \"kaer\" (castle) near Inverness was visited by Saint Columba. The Romans referred to these peoples collectively as \"Picti\" Picts, meaning Painted Ones.\n\nThe term \"Late Antiquity\", implying wider horizons, is finding more use in the academic community, especially when transformations of classical culture common throughout the post-Roman West are examined; it is less successfully applied to Britain at the time. The period may also be considered as part of the early Middle Ages, if continuity with the following periods is stressed. Popular (and some academic) works use a range of more dramatic names for the period: the Dark Ages, the Brythonic Age, the Age of Tyrants, or the Age of Arthur.\n\nThere is very little extant written material available from this period, though there is a considerable amount from later periods that may be relevant. A lot of what is available deals with the first few decades of the 5th century only. The sources can usefully be classified into British and continental, and into contemporary and non-contemporary.\n\nTwo primary contemporary British sources exist: the \"Confessio\" of Saint Patrick and Gildas' \"De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniae\" (\"On the Ruin and Conquest of Britain\"). Patrick's \"Confessio\" and his \"Letter to Coroticus\" reveal aspects of life in Britain, from where he was abducted to Ireland. It is particularly useful in highlighting the state of Christianity at the time. Gildas is the nearest to a source of Sub-Roman history but there are many problems in using it. The document represents British history as he and his audience understood it. Though a few other documents of the period do exist, such as Gildas' letters on monasticism, they are not directly relevant to British history. Gildas' \"De Excidio\" is a jeremiad: it is written as a polemic to warn contemporary rulers against sin, demonstrating through historical and biblical examples that bad rulers are always punished by God – in the case of Britain, through the destructive wrath of the Saxon invaders. The historical section of \"De Excidio\" is short, and the material in it is clearly selected with Gildas' purpose in mind. There are no absolute dates given, and some of the details, such as those regarding the Hadrian's and Antonine Walls are clearly wrong. Nevertheless, Gildas does provide us with an insight into some of the kingdoms that existed when he was writing, and how an educated monk perceived the situation that had developed between the Anglo-Saxons and the Britons.\n\nThere are more continental contemporary sources that mention Britain, though these are highly problematic. The most famous is the so-called \"Rescript of Honorius\", in which the Western Emperor Honorius tells the British \"civitates\" to look to their own defence. The first reference to this rescript is written by the 6th century Byzantine scholar Zosimus and is found in the middle of a discussion of southern Italy; no further mention of Britain is made, which has led some, though not all, modern academics to suggest that the rescript does not apply to Britain, but to Bruttium in Italy. The Gallic Chronicles, Chronica Gallica of 452 and Chronica Gallica of 511, say prematurely that \"Britain, abandoned by the Romans, passed into the power of the Saxons\" and provide information about St Germanus and his visit(s) to Britain, though again this text has received considerable academic deconstruction. The work of Procopius, another 6th-century Byzantine writer, makes some references to Britain, though the accuracy of these is uncertain.\n\nThere are numerous later written sources that claim to provide accurate accounts of the period. The first to attempt this was the monk Bede, writing in the early 8th century. He based his account of the Sub-Roman period in his \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\" (written around 731) heavily on Gildas, though he tried to provide dates for the events Gildas describes. It was written from an anti-Briton point of view. Later sources, such as the \"Historia Brittonum\" often attributed to Nennius, the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" (again written from a non-Briton point of view, based on West Saxon sources) and the \"Annales Cambriae\", are all heavily shrouded in myth and can only be used with caution as evidence for this period. There are also documents giving Welsh poetry (of Taliesin and Aneirin) and land deeds (Llandaff charters) that appear to date back to the 6th century.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest there were many books written that purport to give the history of the Sub-Roman period. These have been influenced by the fictionalised account in Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" (\"History of the Kings of Britain\"). Therefore, they can only be regarded as showing how the legends grew. Not until modern times have serious studies of the period been undertaken.\n\nSome \"Lives of Saints\" relating to Celtic clerics are early, but most are late and unreliable. St. Thaddaeus is described as visiting a Roman villa at Chepstow, while St Cuthbert visited deserted Carlisle.\n\nArchaeology provides further evidence for this period, though of a different nature from that provided by documents. Archaeology suggested to Richard Reece that the depopulation of Roman towns and the development of villa and estate organization was already occurring in the 4th century. The 5th and 6th centuries in Britain are marked by a sharp discontinuity in town life, perhaps always a somewhat artificial Roman imposition on the landscape, dependent on imperial military requirements and requirements of administration and tax collection; the exceptions are a handful of sites: Londinium, Eboracum, Canterbury, Wroxeter and possibly Cambridge, but the discontinuity in the episcopate, \"the institution most responsible for the survival of towns in Gaul\", as H. R. Loyn observes, speaks against town survival in Britain. The Roman villa system, represented by some five hundred archaeological sites, did not survive either; unlike Gaul, in Britain not a single villa name survived into the Germanic period. It may be possible that the villa system did not survive the disastrous Pictish incursions in 367 and following years.\n\nIn the sub-Roman period, building in stone came to an end; buildings were constructed of less durable materials than during the Roman period. However, brooches, pottery and weapons from this period have survived. The study of burials and cremations, and the grave goods associated with these, has done much to expand the understanding of cultural identities in the period. Archaeology has shown some evidence of continuity with Roman education, trade with the Mediterranean and with Celtic art.\n\nExcavations of settlements have revealed possible changes in social structures, and to what extent life in Britain continued unaltered in certain pockets into the early medieval period. Hilltops, the so-called \"hillforts\", \"castra\" and monasteries have been excavated. Work on towns has been particularly important. Work on the hill-forts has shown evidence of refurbishment, and also of overseas trade, in this period. One of the earliest major excavations was at Tintagel (Radford 1939). This uncovered rectangular structures and much Mediterranean pottery. The buildings were initially interpreted as a monastery, but later as a princely stronghold and trading post. Another important excavation was at Dinas Powys (Alcock 1963) which showed evidence of metalworking. Alcock also led the excavations at South Cadbury (Alcock 1995). Many other sites have now been shown to have been occupied during the sub-Roman period, including Birdoswald and Saxon Shore forts.\n\nWork on field systems and environmental archaeology has also highlighted how much agricultural practice continued and changed over the period. Archaeology, however, has its limits, especially in dating. Although radiocarbon dating can provide a rough estimate, this is not accurate enough to associate archaeological finds with historical events. Dendrochronology is accurate enough to do this, though few suitable pieces of wood have been uncovered.\n\nCoins would normally be the most useful tool for dating, but not for sub-Roman Britain since no newly minted coins are believed to have entered circulation after the very early 5th century.\n\nThere is some archaeological evidence for Anglo-Saxons and Britons living on the same site. For example, in the cemetery at Wasperton, Warwickshire, one can see a family adopting Anglo-Saxon culture over a long period.\n\nBecause of the sparse evidence for the period, many interpretations are possible. Some have taken all the sources at their face value (e.g. Alcock 1971, Morris 1973, Ashe 1985) and others set aside the non-contemporary sources. Any interpretation can only be tentative and dates more so.\n\nAt the start of the 5th century, Britannia was part of the Western Roman Empire under Honorius. But there were already signs of decline, and some Saxons may already have been in England as mercenaries. Some Roman troops were withdrawn by Stilicho in 402, and bulk coin payments ceased around then. In 406 the army in Britain revolted, electing three successive \"tyrants\", the last of whom took further troops to Gaul. He established himself briefly as Constantine III but was defeated and subsequently executed in 411. Meanwhile, there were barbarian raids on Britain in 408, but these seem to have been defeated. After 410 Honorius apparently sent letters to the cities of Britain telling them to fend for themselves, though this is sometimes disputed. The withdrawal of most Roman troops did not end the Roman culture of the \"lost province\", which still remained part of the Roman cultural world, with inhabitants who identified themselves as Roman.\n\nFrom the middle of the 5th century the Germanic raiders began to settle in the eastern river valleys. Later civil wars seem to have broken out, which have been interpreted either as being between pro-Roman and independence groups or between \"Established Church\" and Pelagian parties (Myres 1965, Morris 1965), a class struggle between peasants and land owners (Thompson 1977, Wood 1984) and a coup by an urban elite (Snyder 1988). A recent view explored by Laycock sees Britain violently fragmenting into kingdoms based on British tribal identities; 'violently' is disputable, but clearly most of the \"civitates\" gradually transformed into kingdoms. Life seems to have continued much as before in the countryside, and on a reduced scale in the towns as evidenced by the descriptions of Germanus' visits. Feuding kingships replaced the centrally governed Roman provinces.\n\nGildas says that a \"council\" was convened by Vortigern to find ways of countering the barbarian threat. The council opted to hire Saxon mercenaries, following Roman practice. After a while these turned against the British and plundered the towns. A British leader, Ambrosius Aurelianus, fought against them in a number of battles apparently over a long period. Towards the end of this period was the Battle of Mons Badonicus, around 490, which later sources claimed was won by King Arthur, though Gildas does not identify him. After this there was a long period of peace. The British seem to have been in control of England and Wales roughly west of a line from York to Bournemouth. The Saxons had control of eastern areas in an arc from East Yorkshire through Lincolnshire and perhaps Nottinghamshire, to East Anglia and South East England.\n\nWriting in Latin, perhaps about 540, Gildas gives an account of the history of Britain, but the earlier part (for which other sources are available) is severely muddled. He castigates five rulers in western Britain – Constantine of Dumnonia, Aurelius Caninus, Vortipor of the Demetae, Cuneglasus and Maglocunus (Mailcun or in later spelling Maelgwn of Gwynedd)  – for their sins. He also attacks the British clergy. He gives information on the British diet, dress and entertainment. He writes that Britons were killed, emigrated or were enslaved but gives no idea of numbers.\n\nIn the late 6th century there was another period of Saxon expansion, starting with the capture of Searoburh in 552 by the dynasty that later ruled Wessex, and including entry into the Cotswolds area after the Battle of Deorham (577), though the accuracy of the entries in the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" for this period has been questioned. These conquests are often said by modern writers, on no clear evidence, to have separated the Britons of South West England (known later as the West Welsh) from those of Wales. (Just after the period being discussed, the Battle of Chester in 611 might have separated the latter from those of the north of England.) Until the 570s, the Britons were still in control of about half of England and Wales.\n\nVarious British kingdoms existed at some point in the period. Some changed their names and some were absorbed by others. Not all of their names, especially in the southeast, are known, nor are the details of their political development; some authority structures left from the Roman period may have continued in charge of some areas for some time. At times some of the kingdoms were united by a ruler who was an overlord, while wars occurred between others. During the period the boundaries are likely to have changed. The major ones were:\n\n\nSome areas fell under the domination of Anglian or Saxon chieftains, later kingdoms:\n\n\nOfficially the Roman Empire was Christian at the start of the 5th century, but there is evidence of rural pagan temples being refurbished at the start of this period in western England. However, most temples seem to have been replaced eventually by Christian churches on the same site or nearby. \"Celtic\" churches or monasteries seem to have flourished during this period in the British areas, such as that at Glastonbury, though mostly not until the 6th century; but the \"Saxons\" were pagan. This reinforced a great antipathy between the peoples. Many Roman cemeteries continued into much later times, such as that at Cannington, Somerset. In the east there was a gradual transition among the pagan Saxons from cremation to inhumation. Although the arrival of Saint Augustine is traditionally seen as the significant Christianising event for the Saxons, a bishop had already arrived in Kent with the king's Merovingian wife. Other Saxons remained pagan after this time.\n\nIn 429, a British Deacon, Palladius, had requested support from the Pope in Rome to combat Pelagianism. Bishops Germanus and Lupus of Troyes were sent. Germanus, a former military commander, is reported to have led the British to the \"Hallelujah\" victory, possibly in Wales or Herefordshire. Germanus is said to have made a second visit to England later. Participation by a British bishop at a synod in Gaul demonstrates that at least some British churches were in full administrative and doctrinal touch with Gaul as late as 455.\n\nIn the north, Whithorn is said to be the earliest church in Scotland, being founded in 397 by Saint Ninian. Coroticus (or Ceretic) was a Christian king who was the recipient of the letter from Saint Patrick. His base may have been Dumbarton Rock on the River Clyde, and his descendant Rhydderch Hael is named in the \"Life of Saint Columba\". Rhydderch was a contemporary of Áedán mac Gabráin of Dal Riata and Urien of Rheged in the late 6th century, as well as of Æthelfrith of Bernicia. Unlike Columba, Kentigern, the supposed apostle to the Britons of the Clyde and alleged founder of Glasgow, is a shadowy figure.\n\nLinguistics is useful in the analysis of culture, and to an extent political associations.\nBede in \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\" (completed in 731) wrote that \"currently, [there are in Britain] the languages of five peoples, namely that of the Angles (English), the Britons (Welsh), the Scots (Gaelic), the Picts and the Latins\" (\"HE\" 1.1).\nA review of the changes in the Brythonic language during this period is given by Kenneth H. Jackson. Studies of Old English, P- and Q-Celtic and Latin have provided evidence for contact among the Britons, the Gaels, and the Anglo-Saxons. The consensus is that Old English has little evidence of linguistic contact. Some scholars have suggested that there is more evidence in the grammar than in the lexicon, though this is challenged by many. Latin continued to be used for writing but the extent of its use for speech has been much disputed.\n\nSimilarly, studies of place names give clues about the linguistic history of an area. England (except Cornwall and Cumbria) shows patchy evidence now of Celtic in its place names. There are scattered Celtic place names throughout, increasing towards the west. There are also Celtic river names and topographical names. An explanation of the toponymic and linguistic evidence is that Anglo-Saxon language and culture became dominant due to their political and social preeminence in the south and east of Britain. Names with a Latin element may suggest continuity of settlement, while some places are named for pagan Germanic deities. Names of British origin may or may not indicate survival of a British population. Names based on the Anglo-Saxon word for the British, \"wealh\", are also taken as indicating British survival. An example is Walton, meaning settlement of the British and this name is found in many parts of England, though it sometimes means \"Wall-town\".\n\nSurviving inscriptions on stones provide another source of information on the settlements of Britons and the Anglo-Saxons. Celtic inscribed stones from this period occur in western England, Wales and southern Scotland, and the CISP project has been set up to record these and provide information online. Later inscriptions in some areas are written in runes and provide information on the settlement of Angles. Inscriptions in parts of Scotland, Wales, and Cornwall, are in ogham, some containing forms which scholars have not been able to understand.\n\nTwo contrasting models of the end of sub-Roman Britain have been described by Richard Reece as \"decline and immigration\" and \"invasion and displacement\". It has long been held that the Anglo-Saxons migrated to Britain in large numbers in the 5th and 6th centuries, substantially displacing the British people. The Anglo-Saxon historian Frank Stenton in 1943, although making considerable allowance for British survival, essentially sums up this view, arguing \"that the greater part of southern England was overrun in the first phase of the war\". This interpretation was based on the written sources, particularly Gildas but also the later sources such as the Anglo-Saxon historian Bede, that cast the arrival of the Anglo-Saxons as a violent event. The toponymic and linguistic evidence was also considered to support this interpretation, as very few British place names survived in eastern Britain, very few British Celtic words entered the Old English language and the Brythonic language and peoples migrated from south-western Britain to Armorica, which eventually became Brittany. This interpretation particularly appealed to earlier English historians, who wanted to further their view that England had developed differently from Europe, with a limited monarchy and love of liberty. This, it was argued, came from the mass Anglo-Saxon invasions. While this view was never universal – Edward Gibbon believed that there had been a great deal of British survival – it was the dominant paradigm. Though many scholars would now employ this argument, the traditional view is still held by many other historians, Lawrence James writing in 2002 that England was \"submerged by an Anglo-Saxon current which swept away the Romano-British.\"\n\nThe traditional view has been partly deconstructed (considerably in some circles) since the 1990s, with a reduction in the numbers of Anglo-Saxons believed to have arrived in Britain. A lower figure is sometimes accepted, which would mean that it is highly unlikely that the existing British population was substantially displaced by the Anglo-Saxons. If fewer Anglo-Saxons arrived, it is proposed that they formed a ruling elite, with acculturation of the local population. Thus some \"Saxon\" graves may be of Britons, though many scholars disagree.\n\nTwo genetic studies published in 2016, using data from ancient burials found in Cambridgeshire, Yorkshire and Durham, found that the ancestry of the modern-day English population contained substantial contributions from both Anglo-Saxon and Celtic peoples.\n\nVarious dates have been proposed to mark the end of Roman Britain, including the end of Roman currency coinage importation in 402, Constantine III's rebellion in 407, the rebellion mentioned by Zosimus in 409, and the Rescript of Honorius in 410. Unlike modern decolonisation, the dating of the end of Roman Britain is complex, and the exact process is unknown.\n\nThere is some controversy as to why Roman rule ended in Britain. The view first advocated by Theodor Mommsen was that Rome left Britain. This argument was substantiated over time, most recently by A.S. Esmonde-Cleary. According to this argument, internal turmoil in the Roman Empire and the need to withdraw troops to fight off barbarian armies led Rome to abandon Britain. It was the collapse of the imperial system that led to the end of imperial rule in Britain. However, Michael Jones has advanced an alternative thesis that argues that Rome did not leave Britain, but that Britain left Rome. He highlights the numerous usurpers who came from Britain in the late 4th and early 5th centuries, and points out that the supply of coinage to Britain had dried up by the early 5th century, so that administrators and troops were not getting paid. All of this, he argues, led the British people to rebel against Rome. Both of these arguments are open to criticism, and the question is still open.\n\nIt was a violent period, and there was probably widespread tension, alluded to in all the written sources. This may have led to the deaths of many Britons. There are also references to plagues. Laycock (\"Britannia the Failed State\", 2008) suggests tribal conflict, possibly even starting before 410, may have sliced up much of Britain and helped destroy the economy. The evidence from land use suggests a decline in production, which might be a sign of population decline.\n\nIt is clear that some British people migrated to Europe, and Armorica in northwest Gaul became known as Brittany. There is also evidence of British migration to Gallaecia, in Hispania. The dates of these migrations are uncertain, but recent studies suggest that the migration from south western Britain to Brittany may have begun as early as 300 and had largely ended by 500. These settlers, unlikely to be refugees if the date was this early, made their presence felt in the naming of the westernmost, Atlantic-facing provinces of Armorica, Kerne/Cornouaille (\"Kernow/Cornwall\") and Domnonea (\"Devon\"). However, there is clear linguistic evidence for close contact between the south west of Britain and Brittany across the sub-Roman period.\n\nIn Galicia, in the north west corner of the Iberian peninsula, another region of traditional Celtic culture, the Suebian \"Parochiale\", drawn up about 580, includes a list of the principal churches of each diocese in the metropolitanate of Braga (the \"ecclesia Britonensis\", now Bretoña), which was the seat of a bishop who ministered to the spiritual needs of the British immigrants to northwestern Spain: in 572 the bishop, Mailoc, had a Celtic name. The settlers had brought their Celtic Christianity with them but finally accepted the Latin Rite at the Council of Toledo in 633. The diocese stretched from Ferrol to the Eo River. In Spain, the area has sometimes been dubbed \"the third Britain\" or \"the last Britain\".\n\nNon-Anglo-Saxon kingdoms began appearing in western Britain, and are first referred to in Gildas' \"De Excidio\". To an extent these kingdoms may have derived from Roman structures. But it is also clear that they drew on a strong influence from Hibernia, which was never part of the Roman Empire. Archaeology has helped further the study of these kingdoms, notably at sites like Tintagel or the hillfort at South Cadbury.\n\nIn the north there developed the British kingdoms of the Hen Ogledd, the \"Old North\", comprising Ebrauc (probable name), Bryneich, Rheged, Strathclyde, Elmet and Gododdin. 5th- and 6th-century repairs along Hadrian's Wall have been uncovered, and at Whithorn in south western Scotland (possibly the site of Ninian's monastery). Chance discoveries have helped document the continuing urban occupation of some Roman towns such as Wroxeter and Caerwent. Continued urban use might be associated with an ecclesiastical structure.\n\nWestern Britain has attracted those archaeologists who wish to place King Arthur as a historical figure. Though there is little contemporary written evidence for this, archaeological evidence does suggest that a Romano-British king might have wielded considerable power during the sub-Roman period, as demonstrated by the creation of sites such as Tintagel and earthworks such as the Wansdyke. Such interpretations continue to attract the popular imagination and the scepticism of academics.\n\nWhile pushed back politically and linguistically, British scholars and ecclesiastics had a significant impact on the Anglo-Saxon newcomers through literacy, ecclesiastical social constructs and historical memory of the Roman period in Britain, particularly after the Christianizing of the Anglo-Saxons. Coming from a fully oral cultural background, the Anglo-Saxons were heavily influenced by the more developed Christianized and literate culture of the Britons. British scholars were often employed at Anglo-Saxon courts to assist in the management of the kingdoms. This reintroduced British culture to those parts of Britain lost to the British politically. The epitome of this process is the adoption of the legendary British war leader, King Arthur, as the national hero of the English, due to the literary work of Welsh historians.\n\nThere is evidence for climate change in the 5th century, with conditions turning cooler and wetter. This shortened the growing season and made uplands unsuited to growing grain. Dendrochronology reveals a particular climatic event in 540. Michael Jones suggests that declining agricultural production from land that was already fully exploited had considerable demographic consequences.\n\nSlaves were important in the economy and the army in the Roman Empire. Estimates for the prevalence of slavery in the Roman Empire vary: some estimate that around 30% of the population of the Empire in the 1st century was enslaved.\nA more recent study suggests 10-15% even for the early empire \"as any greater estimate would require implausible levels of transformation in a pre-modern context.\" The difference the lower percentage in the Later Roman Empire can be attributed to fewer slaves in sub elite households and agricultural estates (replaced by a great expansion in various types of tenancy). The Germanic region was one of the main sources of slaves. It was mainly wholesale dealers, who followed the Roman armies, who sold slaves. After the Empire expanded, there were fewer places to obtain slaves. Around 210, piracy increased around the North Sea and boosted the supply, taken from villages in that area, along with those captured for ransom.\n\nBritain was not easily defensible. It did not pay completely the costs of occupation. Nevertheless the Romans were forced to keep 3 or 4 legions, 30-40,000 men with auxiliary units in place to defend it. They managed fairly well until the collapse of Roman authority after the garrison was reduced in size by Magnus Maximus in 388 and Stilicho in 401. It seems that post-350 the Roman government was having more difficulty in recruiting soldiers.\n\nIn an effort to remedy the situation it resorted to payment instead of provision of recruit, the aurum tironicum. Landowners could pay a set fee to prevent any of their tenants from being pressed into the army (slaves were rarely resorted to even at critical moments in exchange for their freedom). Not enough men wanted to enter military service. The gold from the tax led to a greater use of Germanic or other tribal groups who did not need to be expensively equipped, housed and paid pensions, as the tax was used to recruit mercenaries as Foederati, but it also drained the Treasury. Previously foreigners were put into units, the \"auxilia\", officered by Romans. Roman army units, the smaller Later Roman legions, continued to exist but gradually disappeared in the 5th century leaving defense of the Empire to hirelings.\n\nAfter the Battle of Adrianople, the Foederati, by the Treaty of 382, were allowed to remain with the Empire intact, which reversed the centuries-old Roman policy of destroying barbarian enemies by killing them all, selling them or incorporating them into the Roman army by scattering them across units. The Hospitalitas system granted a third of the land (or fees) of a region to barbarians who had invaded and occupied those lands assigned to them. In return, these people declared loyalty to the Emperor and provided military support, whilst retaining their independence. If the theory is correct, Germanic peoples may have been resident in Britain before and after these reforms. One thing led to another to create a spiral.\n\nThe policy of substituting mercenaries who were paid in gold which should have gone to support the professional standing army and accommodation to their presence spelled the doom of the Western Empire. The \"federates,\" operating from within the boundaries of the Empire, eventually became the new landlords, as there was no professional Roman army to subdue them.\n\nAncient authors bitterly comment on this series of policy mistakes. The East which relied far less on mercenaries escaped Britain's fate. The Britons in the decades post-410 repeated the mistakes the emperors had done with the Visigoths, Burgundians, Sueves, Vandals and Franks - they invited mercenaries to protect them, then those same mercenaries subsequently took control over Britain.\n\nThe population of Britain may have decreased by between 1.5 and 3 million after the Roman period, perhaps caused by environmental changes (the Late Antique Little Ice Age) and, subsequently, by plague and smallpox (around 600, the smallpox spread from India into Europe). It is known that the Plague of Justinian entered the Mediterranean world in the 6th century and first arrived in the British Isles in 544 or 545, when it reached Ireland. It is estimated that the Plague of Justinian killed as many as 100 million people across the world. As a result, Europe's population fell by around 50% between 550 and 700. The later medieval Welsh Lludd and Llefelys mentions a series of three plagues affecting the British of London.\n\nAccording to research led by University College London, Anglo-Saxon settlers could have enjoyed a substantial social and economic advantage over the native Celtic Britons who lived in what is now England, for more than 300 years from the middle of the 5th century. However, this scenario, assuming that the Anglo-Saxons were just Germanic Ingaevones, has been questioned.\n\nThe traditional view about the numbers of Anglo-Saxons arriving in Britain during this period has been deconstructed. Incoming people uniting with the existing population could explain why the island conquest was as slow and incomplete as it was, and why the island was exposed to external attacks by Danish pirates and Normans, as well as other issues about the population composition.\n\nStephen Oppenheimer, basing his research on the Weale and Capelli studies, maintains that none of the invasions since the Romans have had a significant impact on the gene pool of the British Isles, and that the inhabitants from prehistoric times belong to an Iberian genetic grouping. He says that most people in the British Isles are genetically similar to the Basque people of northern Spain and southwestern France, from 90% in Wales to 66% in East Anglia. Oppenheimer suggests that the division between the West and the East of England is not due to the Anglo-Saxon invasion but originates with two main routes of genetic flow – one up the Atlantic coast, the other from neighbouring areas of Continental Europe – which occurred just after the Last Glacial Maximum. He reports work on linguistics by Forster and Toth which suggests that Indo-European languages began to fragment some 10,000 years ago, at the end of the last Ice Age. He claims that the Celtic languages split from the Indo-European earlier than previously suspected, some 6000 years ago. He claims that the English language split from the other Germanic languages before the Roman period, and became the English that was spoken by the Belgae tribes of what is now southern and eastern England, northeastern France, and Belgium prior to their conquest by the Romans, and long before the arrival of the Anglo-Saxon. Bryan Sykes came to fairly similar conclusions as Oppenheimer in his research, which he set forth in his 2006 published book \"Blood of the Isles: Exploring the Genetic Roots of our Tribal History\", published in the United States and Canada as \"Saxons, Vikings and Celts: The Genetic Roots of Britain and Ireland\". In its summary of their article \"Who were the Celts?\", the National Museum of Wales note, \"It is possible that future genetic studies of ancient and modern human DNA may help to inform our understanding of the subject. However, early studies have, so far, tended to produce implausible conclusions from very small numbers of people and using outdated assumptions about linguistics and archaeology\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902922", "title": "Finnskogen", "text": "Finnskogen\n\nFinnskogen (\"Forest of the Finns\") is an area of Norway and Sweden situated in the counties of Innlandet and Värmland respectively, named so because of immigration of Finnish people in the 17th century, the so-called \"Skogfinner/\"Forest Finns\"\".\n\nThe core area of Finnskogen lies in the eastern part of a small region known as Solør, on the border with Sweden. It consists of a forested belt of land, about wide. It is adjacent to the Swedish region with similar Finnish immigration, named \"Finnskogarna\". There are also similar forested areas in other parts of eastern Norway, Brandval, Vinger Finnskog of Kongsvinger (Austmarka), Søre Osen, Finnemarka near the city of Drammen and in Nordmarka just outside Oslo.\n\nFinns, or Finnish people, were encouraged to migrate from the Finnish part of the Kingdom of Sweden to Sweden proper, where they were initially well received by the Duke of Södermanland (who became King Karl IX (1604–1611). At the time, the kingdom of Sweden covered both Sweden and Finland as we know them today. The migrants were settled on crown lands in Värmland and Dalsland to occupy the area immediately adjacent to the border with Denmark-Norway.\n\nMore were encouraged to come to Sweden during the reign of Gustavus Adolphus (1611–1632).\n\nThe local Swedish peasants did not appreciate the immigrants, who lived by slash-burn agriculture (svedjebruk), and tensions led to persecution. In 1636 a Swedish decree evicted all Finns who were not registered as taxpayers, which in practice amounted to an expulsion of most of the Finns. Most moved across the Norwegian border into Solør, forming a colony at Grue. The 1686 census indicates many there were born in Finland, but had been living in Sweden before eventually settling in Norway.\n\nTheir loyalties during the Hannibal War (1643–1645) were with Sweden and some were caught spying on Norwegian troops.\n\nIn 1709 the Danish-Norwegian general Hausmann so distrusted them that he ordered they all be evacuated from Solør. The bailiff declined to evict them on the basis that they were subsistence farmers and so poor they would have starved if moved from the land they customarily used.\n\nBy the 20th century the blood had so intermingled that it was probably impossible to find inhabitants of pure Finnish descent in the Finnskogen. But in Grue, over a quarter of the place names are still in Finnish.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902931", "title": "Tom's Rhinoplasty", "text": "Tom's Rhinoplasty\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" is the eleventh episode of the first season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on February 11, 1998. In the episode, the South Park Elementary boys become infatuated with the new substitute teacher Ms. Ellen, making Wendy Testaburger highly jealous. Meanwhile, Mr. Garrison gets a nose job that makes him resemble actor David Hasselhoff.\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" was the first Valentine's Day-themed episode of the series and was written by series co-creator Trey Parker. The episode advocates the concept of inner beauty through the Mr. Garrison subplot, and shows the boys' efforts to win Ms. Ellen's affection despite the fact that she is a lesbian.\n\nNatasha Henstridge makes a guest appearances as Ms. Ellen, marking the first time a celebrity guest played a major role in a \"South Park\" episode. She is credited as \"The Chick from \"Species\"\" in the opening credits. The episode marked the first time a real photographic image of a person's head (in this case David Hasselhoff) was superimposed over a cartoon body, a practice which would become common throughout the series.\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" introduced the song \"No Substitute\", which was sung by Chef and was later included on \"\". Trey Parker and Matt Stone said they were initially unhappy with \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" when production of the episode concluded, and were surprised when fans responded positively to it.\n\nValentine's Day approaches, and Wendy suggests to her boyfriend Stan ways to spend time together. However, when their schoolteacher Mr. Garrison decides to get a rhinoplasty, a new substitute arrives named Ms. Ellen (Natasha Henstridge) and all the boys in class find themselves inexplicably enamored with her, including Stan. Wendy becomes incredibly jealous and warns Ms. Ellen to stay away from Stan, unaware that the substitute teacher does not return Stan's affection.\n\nConcerned about the children's education, Ms. Ellen reveals she will buy dinner for the winner of a spelling test. The boys actively try to court Ms. Ellen, but Chef (having beaten them to it) warns them she is a lesbian and thus only likes other lesbians. The boys do not realise what this means and try to become lesbians in order to attract Ms. Ellen. Meanwhile, Mr. Garrison's nose job makes him a \"hot and sexy\" man, with his face resembling David Hasselhoff, and he decides to quit teaching to pursue women. Stan wins the dinner (much to Wendy's dismay), but finds out that Ms. Ellen has no intention of making love with him. Wendy however sees them through the window and leaves distraught. The next day, several Iraqi men burst into the classroom and declare that Ms. Ellen is actually an Iraqi fugitive. As she resists arrest, she inadvertently kills Kenny by impaling him with a sword to his face. The soldiers take her into custody and shoot her into the center of the Sun via a rocket.\n\nMr. Garrison becomes a successful model, but he soon finds himself being chased throughout the streets by a large group of women attracted to him. Frightened by all the attention, Mr. Garrison decides to return to his normal looks. Wendy reclaims Stan as her boyfriend, and it is made clear that she encouraged the town's women to pursue Mr. Garrison so relentlessly that he decided to return to teaching. Wendy speaks with the Iraqi men in fluent Arabic and pays them with a wad of American money. Later, Wendy watches joyfully as the rocket blows up in the sun, and Kyle realizes Wendy hired the Iraqis to kill Ms. Ellen. Outraged by this, Kyle angrily confronts Wendy for this, but Wendy declares (with deranged eyes), \"I told her: 'Don't... fuck... with... Wendy... Testaburger!'\" Kyle looks shocked.\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" was written and directed by \"South Park\" co-creator Trey Parker. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on February 11, 1998. It is considered the show's first Valentine's Day episode, since it came out three days before Valentine's Day and involved semi-romantic plot-lines. Natasha Henstridge makes a guest appearance as substitute teacher Ms. Ellen. Following the success of \"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo\", a large number of celebrities started contacting Comedy Central with the hopes of making guest appearances in \"South Park\" episodes, allowing Parker and fellow co-creator Matt Stone to practically take their pick of guest stars. Parker asked for Henstridge solely because he found her attractive in \"Species\", the 1995 science fiction horror film in which she starred. Henstridge was nervous performing the role because she had never conducted a voice over performance before. Henstridge was credited as \"The Chick from \"Species\"\" in the opening credits.\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" marked the first time a real photographic image of a person's head (in this case David Hasselhoff) was superimposed over a cartoon body, a practice which would become common throughout the series. Parker said the technology was not previously available in the earliest episodes of the series. Comedy Central was required to pay royalties to the photographer of the picture used for Hasselhoff's head, but was not required to pay Hasselhoff himself. \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" displayed noticeable differences \"South Park\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s animation, which was gradually changing throughout the first season and settling into the defined look the series has maintained throughout the years. One of the exterior scenes in \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" featured the first perspective angle of a street, which were previously only shown sideways or straight angles. Additionally, the simulated rain during a scene with Wendy watching Ms. Ellen and Stan from outside a restaurant was far more sophisticated than any such animation in previous episodes.\n\nChef sings a song called \"No Substitute\" to Ms. Ellen in an attempt to woo her. The brief song was later expanded and included in \"\", a \"South Park\" soundtrack released in 1998. \"No Substitute\" was performed by Isaac Hayes and was written by Parker, Stone and Bruce Howell, a \"South Park\" composer and producer. During one montage scene in \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\", a jealous Wendy recalls memories of her relationship with Stan while a sad song plays in the background. The song is performed by actress Courtney Ford, who appeared as an extra in the 1998 comedy film \"BASEketball\", which starred Parker and Stone. Like Henstridge, Parker asked Ford to appear in the episode because he found her attractive. The Indigo Girls-style song in \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" was written and sung by Toddy Walters, who played protagonist Polly Pry in Trey Parker's 1996 film, \"Cannibal! The Musical\". The song is called \"I Love Domestic Chores\", and was written \"as sort of a lesbian anthem\".\n\nDuring one scene, Wendy tells Stan that she smelled Ms. Ellen taking a \"smelly dump\" in the bathroom in an attempt to make him less attracted to her. In the original script, Wendy originally told Stan that she had a yeast infection, but Comedy Central censors made Parker and Stone change the line. Parker and Stone said although the network typically provides great leniency in permitting obscene jokes, they often object to lines about female hygiene problems. During a cafeteria scene, a boy visible at a lunch table in the background looks exactly like Craig Tucker, but the color of his hat has been changed to make him appear to be a different character. The idea of Ms. Ellen taking one of the children to dinner came from Parker's real-life experiences. At his school, the children were able to have lunch with the teacher and principal if they were awarded \"Student of the Week\". Parker said he went on one of the lunches once and found the experience \"really, really creepy\" because he had the impression the teacher and principal were having a romantic affair.\n\nParker and Stone had trouble deciding how to end \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" in a way that would bring everything back to normal in South Park. Originally, the episode ended with Ms. Ellen being taken away by the Iraqi soldiers, leaving the impression that she was in fact an Iraqi fugitive. They ultimately decided this was a poor way to end the show, so they recast the ending to make Ms. Ellen an innocent woman who was framed by Wendy. Parker and Stone also struggled with how to make Mr. Garrison decide he wanted his old nose back. It was only a few days before the episode aired that these final decisions about the ending were made.\n\nDescribing the general tone of the show, Teri Fitsell of \"The New Zealand Herald\" explains that \"\"South Park\" is a vicious social satire that works by spotlighting not the immorality of these kids but their amorality, and contrasting it with the conniving hypocrisy of the adults who surround them.\" The humor of the show comes from the disparity between the cute appearance of the characters and their crude behavior. However, Parker and Stone said in an early interview that the show's language is realistic. \"There are so many shows where little kids are good and sweet, and it's just not real ... Don't people remember what they were like in third grade? We were little bastards.\"\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" in general advocates the concept of inner beauty by showing how miserable Mr. Garrison becomes after having his nose job; as a model, he becomes a burnout and heroin addict who only finds happiness once he sheds his new outer image and becomes his old self. The episode also demonstrates the lack of understanding many have about the gay community by portraying the characters as seeking to become lesbians in order to win Ms. Ellen's affection, even though they do not know what a lesbian is.\n\nAfter Mr. Garrison gets a nose job, his face resembles that of David Hasselhoff, the actor and singer best known for the series \"Knight Rider\" and \"Baywatch\". Mr. Garrison refers disparagingly to the 1997 science fiction drama film \"Contact\". Parker and Stone said they went out of their way to include the reference due to their own strong distaste for the film.\n\nThe song that plays when Mr. Garrison strolls down the street after his nose job is \"Shadow Dancing\" by Andy Gibb. When Chef tries to determine how attractive Ms. Ellen is, he asks the boys how she compares various celebrities, including Vanessa L. Williams, Toni Braxton, Pamela Anderson, and Erin Gray. For the latter actress, he specifically asks if Ms. Ellen is as attractive as Gray was in the second season of the NBC series, \"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century\". When Ms. Ellen asks the class about the last lesson Mr. Garrison taught them, Cartman said they had been learning about how actress Yasmine Bleeth was dating Richard Grieco, the star of television series \"21 Jump Street\" and \"Booker\".\n\nThe store Tom's Rhinoplasty first appeared in the background of the short Jesus vs. Santa; it is regularly shown in the background throughout the rest of the series, as well as in the 1999 \"South Park\" film, \"\". A \"South Park\" drinking game included in the book \"The Complete Guide to Television and Movie Drinking\" encourages viewers to drink whenever South Park residents walk by or gather in front of the Tom's Rhinoplasty building.\n\nWhen production of \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" ended, Parker and Stone were dissatisfied with the final product and believed audiences would hate it, but were surprised to receive largely positive feedback from fans, some of whom described it as their favorite of the latter half of the season. \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" has been described as one of the classic episodes of \"South Park\". In 2003, the \"Chicago Tribune\" listed it among the top 10 episodes of the series. Walt Belcher of \"The Tampa Tribune\" praised the episode and said it \"celebrates Valentine's Day [as] only the Comedy Central series can\", although he warned it was not for children. During a brief scene in \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\", Mr. Garrison leans against a mailbox with a United States Postal Service logo printed on the side. The Postal Service contacted Comedy Central after the episode aired and threatened legal action if the logo was used again without permission.\n\n\"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" was released, along with 11 other episodes, in a three-disc DVD set in November 1998. It was included in the third volume, which also included the episodes \"Starvin' Marvin\", \"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo\" and \"Mecha-Streisand\". The DVD commentary recorded by Parker and Stone for \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\" has been cited as one of the primary reasons the commentaries were not included in the \"South Park\" Season One DVD release. Warner Bros., which released the DVD set, refused to include the commentaries due to \"standards\" issues with some of the statements unless Parker and Stone allowed the tracks to be edited, which they refused. Media outlets said the commentary that most bothered Warner Bros. executives was the one for \"Tom's Rhinoplasty\", in which Parker and Stone say they agree with Mr. Garrison's character that the 1997 film \"Contact\" (also released by Warner Bros.) was \"terrible\". The commentaries were ultimately released on CD separately from the DVDs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902932", "title": "Cesson-Sévigné", "text": "Cesson-Sévigné\n\nCesson-Sévigné () is a commune in the Ille-et-Vilaine department in Brittany in northwestern France.\n\nIt is a suburb directly to the east of Rennes, bordered on its west side by the University of Rennes and the Technopole Atalante. It is primarily a residential area for the middle class. The south side is a mix of commercial and industrial areas, the largest to the east of Rennes. One of the French famous grande école Telecom Bretagne also known as ENST Bretagne has one of its campus here. This campus is renowned and reputed for its work in networking domain.\n\nA small rural town in the early 1960s, the town grew quickly during the following decades. In 1999, it was the fifth commune in the department after Rennes, Saint-Malo, Fougères, and Vitré.\n\nInhabitants of Cesson-Sévigné are called \"Cessonnais\" in French.\n\nThe town has a large collection of sculpture by the French Romantic-Realist artist Jean Boucher, who was born there. A sculpture park extends from the Hotel de Ville, and a large statue commemorating Camille Desmoulins occupies a nearby junction. Other sculptures are present in the \"Centre Culturel\", which also hosts a rolling program of exhibitions and other events.\n\nThe town is also graced by a wide variety of parks and gardens, especially the formal garden of the Manoir de Bourchevreuil, which is also open to the public. A large public space exists in the newtown area known as La Monniais.\n\nThe town won the Grand National Award in the Floral Towns competition in 2005 and the gold medal at the European \"Entente Florale\" in 1999.\n\n\nThe commune is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902937", "title": "Bulla (amulet)", "text": "Bulla (amulet)\n\nA bulla, an amulet worn like a locket, was given to male children in Ancient Rome nine days after birth. Rather similar objects are rare finds from Late Bronze Age Ireland.\n\nRoman bullae were enigmatic objects of lead, sometimes covered in gold foil, if the family could afford it. A bulla was worn around the neck as a locket to protect against evil spirits and forces. Bullae were made of differing substances depending upon the wealth of the family.\n\nBefore the age of manhood, Roman boys wore a bulla, a neckchain and round pouch containing protective amulets (usually phallic symbols), and the bulla of an upper-class boy would be made of gold. Other materials included leather and cloth.\n\nA freeborn Roman boy wore a bulla until he came of age as a Roman citizen. Before he put on his \"toga virilis\" (\"toga of manhood\") he placed his boyhood bulla in the care of his parental household deities (Lares). Some modern sources interpret Macrobius's single reference to an amulet worn by a triumphal general during his procession as evidence that the childhood bulla was also a standard item of triumphal regalia.\n\nA girl child did not wear a bulla per se, but another kind of amulet, called a lunula, until the eve of her marriage, when it was removed along with her childhood toys and other things. She would then stop wearing child's clothes and start wearing women's Roman dress.\n\nA small number of bullae have been found in Ireland; they are called \"bullae\" based on their resemblance to the Roman form. The Irish bullae so far found were made of base metal – sometimes clay – covered with a folded over piece of gold foil. The Irish bullae date to the Late Bronze Age, about 1150–750 BCE.\n\nThey were presumably worn suspended round the neck with a cord running through the hole below the flat top. The body of the bulla has roughly vertical sides before making a semi-circle or inverted pointed arch at the bottom. The gold is incised with geometrical decoration.\n\nWhether they were purely for adornment or had an amuletic or other function is unclear. Despite the small weight of gold used they would have been available only for elite groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902938", "title": "Nay", "text": "Nay\n\nNay or NAY may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1902954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902954", "title": "Prelude in C-sharp minor (Rachmaninoff)", "text": "Prelude in C-sharp minor (Rachmaninoff)\n\nSergei Rachmaninoff's Prelude in C-sharp minor (), Op. 3, No. 2, is one of the composer's most famous compositions. Part of a set of five piano pieces entitled \"Morceaux de fantaisie,\" it is a 62-bar prelude in ternary (ABA) form. It is also known as \"The Bells of Moscow\" since the introduction seems to reproduce the Kremlin's most solemn carillon chimes.\n\nIts first performance was by the composer on 26 September 1892, at a festival called the Moscow Electrical Exhibition. After this première, a review of the concert singled out the Prelude, noting that it had “aroused enthusiasm”. From this point on, its popularity grew.\n\nRachmaninoff later published 23 more preludes to complete a set of 24 preludes covering all the major and minor keys, to emulate earlier sets by Bach, Chopin, Alkan, Scriabin and others.\n\nThis work was one of the first the 19‑year‑old Rachmaninoff composed as a \"Free Artist\", after he graduated from the Moscow Conservatory on 29 May 1892. He performed this new work for the first time at one of the concerts of the Moscow Electrical Exhibition on 26 September 1892. It was printed the following year as the second of five \"Morceaux de fantaisie\" (Op. 3), all dedicated to Anton Arensky, his harmony teacher at the Conservatory. Because at the time Russia was not party to the 1886 Berne Convention, Russian publishers did not pay royalties, so the only financial return he ever received for this piece was a 40 ruble (about two months' wage of a factory worker) publishing fee.\n\nThe prelude is organized into three main parts and a coda:\n\n\nThe prelude became one of Rachmaninoff's most famous compositions. His cousin Alexander Siloti was instrumental in securing the Prelude's success throughout the Western world. In the autumn of 1898, he made a tour of Western Europe and the United States, with a program that contained the Prelude. Soon after, London publishers brought out several editions with titles such as \"The Burning of Moscow\", \"The Day of Judgement\", and \"The Moscow Waltz\". America followed suit with other titles (such as \"The Bells of Moscow\"). It was so popular that it was referred to as \"The Prelude\" and audiences would demand it as an encore at his performances, shouting \"C-sharp!\" Because of this, Rachmaninoff grew very tired of it and once said, \"Many, many times I wish I had never written it.\"\n\nRachmaninoff recorded the piece electrically, on Welte-Mignon reproducing pianos, and on Ampico piano rolls.\n\nThe prelude has been arranged for orchestra in several versions. It has been used in many films, and many songs have sampled it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902962", "title": "Viva 105.7", "text": "Viva 105.7\n\nViva 105.7 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1902963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902963", "title": "In Concert (Amy Grant album)", "text": "In Concert (Amy Grant album)\n\nIn Concert is the fourth album by Christian singer Amy Grant, released in 1981 on Myrrh Records.\n\n\"In Concert\" was the first album of a double live set, the other being \"In Concert Volume Two\", which was released later that year. Although the two should have been issued as a double album, budget problems forced the two to be released separately. \"In Concert\" featured two new songs: \"Mimi's House\" and \"Singing a Love Song\", the latter became a Top Ten Christian radio hit. It was re-released in 2007 by Sparrow Records.\n\nThe album was nominated for Grammy Award for Best Gospel Performance, Contemporary.\n\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\nSingles - CCM Magazine (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1902965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902965", "title": "Legs McNeil", "text": "Legs McNeil\n\nRoderick Edward \"Legs\" McNeil (born January 27, 1956 in Cheshire, Connecticut, United States) is an American music journalist. He is one of the three original founders of the seminal \"Punk\" magazine that gave the movement its name; as well as being a former editor at \"Spin\" and editor-in-chief of \"Nerve Magazine\". \n\nAt the age of 19, McNeil gathered with two high school friends, John Holmstrom and Ged Dunn, and decided to create \"some sort of media thing\" for a living. Holmstrom had an idea of combining comics with rock n roll. They settled upon a magazine, assuming that people would \"think [they were] cool and hang out with [them]\" as well as \"give [them] free drinks\", and it worked. Within days of its first publication, \"Punk\" Magazine, McNeil, Holmstrom, and Dunn were famous.\n\nThe name \"Punk\" was decided upon because \"it seemed to sum up...everything...obnoxious, smart but not pretentious, absurd, ironic, and things that appealed to the darker side\". Holstrom wanted to call it \"Teenage News Gazette\" to which Ged said,\"Absolutely not.\" The name Punk was McNeil's idea; Dunn agreed to it instantly, Holmstrom rather reluctantly.\n\nNicknamed \"Resident Punk\" in the magazine, McNeil claims (to much dispute) that he was the first person (along with co-founder John Holmstrom) to have coined the term \"punk\" to describe a certain type of music, fashion, and attitude. He says he came up with the name punk because Telly Savalas used the line \"You lousy punk!\" on the show \"Kojak\". According to McNeil: \"After four years of doing \"Punk\" magazine, and basically getting laughed at, suddenly everything was \"punk,\" so I quit the magazine.\"\n\nMcNeil is the co-author (with Gillian McCain) of \"Please Kill Me: The Uncensored Oral History of Punk\", which has been published in 12 languages and helped launch the oral history trend in music books.\n\nMcNeil is also co-author of \"The Other Hollywood: The Uncensored Oral History of the Porn Film Industry\". As \"Publisher’s Weekly\" said, “This compulsively readable book perfectly captures the pop culture zeitgeist. It doesn't hurt that the history of American pornography is inextricably intertwined with all the subjects that captivate us: sex, drugs, beauty, fame, money, the Mafia, law enforcement and violence.”\n\nMcNeil is also the co-author of \"I Slept with Joey Ramone (A Punk Rock Family Memoir)\" with Mickey Leigh, Joey Ramone’s real brother.\n\nMcNeil’s most recent book, \"Dear Nobody: The True Diary of Mary Rose\" is another collaborative effort with Gillian McCain. \"Dear Nobody\" was published on April 1, 2014 and received widespread critical acclaim as being the authentic version of \"Go Ask Alice\".\n\nMcNeil has appeared on many TV documentaries, from the History Channel to VH1, and has produced and hosted a three-hour TV special on Court TV over three nights on the porn industry, which was the highest-rated original programming in that network’s history.\n\nIn 2016, a 2014 interview with McNeil was featured in \"Danny Says\", the biographical documentary about the influential rock music publicist, Danny Fields, appearing alongside Fields, Iggy Pop, Alice Cooper, and others.\n\n\n\npleasekillme.com - Legs McNeil's website\n"}
{"id": "1902972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902972", "title": "Western League (1885–1899)", "text": "Western League (1885–1899)\n\nThe Western League of Professional Baseball Clubs, also called the Western League, was a minor league baseball league founded on February 11, 1885, and focused in the Midwestern United States.\n\nAfter several failures and reorganizations, the most notable version of the league was organized by Ban Johnson on November 20, 1893. In 1900, the league was renamed the American League, and declared its major league status in 1901 against the older National League of 1876, which was centered in the American Northeast states.\n\nBefore its most notable incarnation in November 1893, the Western League existed in various forms. The League was formed as a minor league on February 11, 1885. The original clubs were located in Indianapolis‚ Kansas City‚ Cleveland‚ Milwaukee‚ Toledo and Omaha/Keokuk, Iowa. The season began on April 18, 1885 with the Indianapolis Hoosiers winning the first title with a record of 27–4–1. The league then folded on June 15, 1885.\n\nThe league was reformed on January 18, 1886 to play an 80-game schedule. Denver would win the pennant on September 20, 1886 with a record of 54 wins and 26 losses. In 1887, the league was dominated by Topeka's Golden Giants, a high-priced collection of major leaguers, including Bug Holliday, Jim Conway, Perry Werden and Jimmy Macullar, which won the title by 15½ games on October 2, 1887. The league returned in February 1888 but after a partial season would dissolve on June 21, 1888. Denver had finished first with a record of 18 wins and 6 losses. \nThe league would not be heard of for over three years until it was revived in 1892. Columbus would win the title with a record of 46 wins and 26 losses. The league would shut down on July 11, 1892.\n\nThe league was revived on May 17, 1893 and had planned a schedule before being shut down on June 20, 1893.\n\nIn a meeting in Detroit, Michigan, on November 20, 1893, the Western League reorganized again. From this point forward, this version of the WL has continued in existence, eventually becoming the modern-day American League.\n\nAt that meeting, Ban Johnson was elected President, and would remain so until his retirement nearly 35 years later. Johnson, a Cincinnati-based newspaper reporter, had been recommended by his friend Charles Comiskey, a former major league star with the St. Louis Browns in the 1880s, who was then managing the Cincinnati Reds. After the 1894 season, when Comiskey's contract with the Reds was up, he decided to take his chances at ownership. He bought the Sioux City team and transferred it to Saint Paul, Minnesota. These two men would be among the cornerstones of the American League.\n\nAfter the 1899 season, the National League announced it was dropping four of its franchises, reducing its membership from 12 to 8 teams. The franchises that were eliminated were Baltimore, Cleveland, Louisville and Washington. This afforded an opportunity for the Western circuit to expand into those vacated cities.\n\nIn a meeting in Chicago on October 11, 1899, the Western League renamed itself the American League. It was still a minor league, subject to the National Agreement, and generally subordinate to the older National League of Major League Baseball, founded 1876. The NL gave permission to the new AL to put a team in Chicago that year, and Comiskey moved his St. Paul club to the South Side. However, the new team in Chicago was subject to rules from the NL. The Cubs (then called the Orphans) were allowed to draft two players each year from the AL team. Comiskey was also barred from using the name \"Chicago\" in all of his dealings, so he cleverly revived the old moniker \"White Stockings\" from the days of Cap Anson for his team. The AL also transferred the Grand Rapids team to Cleveland for the 1900 season.\n\nAfter the 1900 season, the American League declined to renew its membership in the \"National Agreement\" and declared itself a \"major league\". It began raiding NL team rosters and attempting to compete directly against the NL. The franchises in the smaller cities of Buffalo, Indianapolis, Kansas City and Minneapolis were replaced by the larger, more important urban centers of Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington for the 1901 season. The second and third of those cities already had NL teams. Next, Milwaukee moved to St. Louis in 1902. Baltimore, having fallen into disarray, was replaced by New York City in 1903, for the reason that the new league would not be totally respected and have \"major league\" status without a team in the nation's largest city. The American League team lineup settled on five franchises in cities that already had NL teams (Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis) and two in cities that had been recently abandoned by the NL (Cleveland and Washington), but only one in a city remaining from the former Western League lineup of 1899 (Detroit). Four of the other 1899 Western League cities now host Major League Baseball today (Kansas City, Milwaukee, and St. Paul and Minneapolis jointly), while three do not (Buffalo, Grand Rapids, and Indianapolis, but all have minor league teams). This membership list for both leagues lasted in place for nearly a half-century until the move of the Boston Braves to Milwaukee in 1952, the St. Louis Browns to Baltimore, becoming the new Baltimore Orioles in 1954, and the Philadelphia Athletics to Kansas City in 1955.\n\nThe American League's claim to major league status was disputed, but had to be recognized after the Boston Red Sox defeated the NL champion Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series held in late 1903.\n\nWhen Ban Johnson changed his league's name to the American League before the 1900 season, another \"Western League\" was immediately formed to function on the supporting \"minor league\" level. This League operated from 1900 to 1937 and later from 1947 to 1958. Its franchises were located west of the Mississippi River, in the Great Plains and Rocky Mountains states, as in that early part of the 20th century, it was difficult and long-enduring for teams to go on \"road trips\" to distant cities by the then existing railroad passenger train systems. In its post-World War II incarnation, the later Western League included clubs in Denver, Colorado (now represented in the National League by the Colorado Rockies), Des Moines, Iowa, Omaha, Nebraska, and Colorado Springs, Colorado (now all represented by teams of the Class AAA (\"Triple A\") Pacific Coast League).\n\nSeveral other 20th century minor league circuits have also used the same name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902973", "title": "Olympic Park railway station, Sydney", "text": "Olympic Park railway station, Sydney\n\nOlympic Park railway station is located on the Olympic Park line, serving the Sydney suburb of Sydney Olympic Park. It is served by Sydney Trains T7 Olympic Park Line services.\n\nOlympic Park station was designed to support large crowds travelling to and from the stadiums and sports grounds built for the 2000 Summer Olympics. The station and sports facilities were retained after the games.\n\nThe design of the station by Hassell has been critically acclaimed by many. It has won the 1998 BHP Colorbond Award for innovative use of steel architecture, and the 1998 Sir John Sulman Medal, from the Royal Australian Institute of Architects. It was built by Leighton Contractors. It was opened by Premier of New South Wales Bob Carr on 8 March 1998.\n\nThe station is located on a single track balloon loop spur line, but the station itself has 2 tracks and 4 platform faces. Ordinarily, the centre island platform is used for both boarding and alighting, but this changes when the station is operating in major event mode. In this mode, the centre island platform is used by alighting passengers and the two side platforms are brought into use for boarding passengers.\n\nState Transit operates two routes via Olympic Park station:\n\nTransit Systems operates one route via Olympic Park station:\n\nThe station will provide a future interchange with the Parramatta Light Rail.\n\nSydney Olympic Park metro station will be located to the north of the current station and is planned to open in the late 2020s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902976", "title": "Chin (deity)", "text": "Chin (deity)\n\nIn describing the customs of the Mayas inhabiting the Verapaz province (including the Alta Verapaz and Baja Verapaz) of 16th-century Guatemala, Bishop Bartolomé de las Casas mentions sexual relationships, regulated by customary law, between unmarried young men and boys, as well as similar relations prevailing among adolescents receiving instruction in the temples. Chin, together with Cu, Cavil ('idol'), and Maran, is mentioned as the name of the male deity said to have demonstrated sexual intercourse with another 'demon', and thereby to have introduced such relationships: \"From that time on some fathers gave their sons a little boy to be used as a woman; and if someone else took the boy, they demanded pay as is done when someone violates another's wife.\" Institutionalized pederastic prostitution, including transvestism, is recorded in 17th-century Spanish reports of the Itzá Mayas living in the Petén. Among the Classic Period scenes found in a cave of Naj Tunich is a depiction of a naked, sexually excited male creature embracing a nude Maya nobleman, possibly by way of initiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902983", "title": "Jawed", "text": "Jawed\n\nJawed (\"Javed\", \"Javid\" جاود; Urdu \"Jawed\", \"Javed\" جاوید, ) is a masculine given name of Persian origin, with a meaning of \"eternal\".\n\nThe name is from Modern Persian \"eternal\". The word continues Middle Persian \"jāwēd\", from an Old Persian \"*yāvaitat\", ultimately from \"*yauu-\", Iranian oblique stem of \"*āiuu-\" \"age, duration\", cognate with Greek αἰών \"eon\".\n\nIt is not a traditional given name; it was chosen as a pseudonym by Huseyn Javid (Huseyn Abdulla oglu Rasizadeh) in the early 20th century. The given name became popular among Indian Muslims from about the 1940s, and remains a popular name for baby boys in Pakistan.\n\n\n\n\nThere is no tradition of Pakistani surnames.\nJawed is not one of the traditional family names, \nbut it may be chosen as \"secondary\" name, and it may have been picked as \"surname\" by expatriates in western countries.\n\nBritish Pakistani\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902995", "title": "Diplomacy (book)", "text": "Diplomacy (book)\n\nDiplomacy is a 1994 book written by former National Security Advisor and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. It is a sweep of the history of international relations and the art of diplomacy, largely concentrating on the 20th century and the Western World. Kissinger, as a great believer in the realist school of international relations, focuses strongly upon the concepts of the balance of power in Europe prior to World War I, raison d'État and Realpolitik throughout the ages of diplomatic relations. Kissinger also provides insightful critiques of the counter realist diplomatic tactics of collective security, developed in the Charter of the League of Nations, and self determination, also a principle of the League. Kissinger also examines the use of the sphere of influence arguments put forth by the Soviet Union in Eastern and Southern Europe after World War II; an argument that has been maintained by contemporary Russian foreign relations with regard to Ukraine, Georgia and other former Soviet satellites in Central Asia.\n\nThe history begins in Europe in the 17th century, but quickly advances up to the World Wars and then the Cold War. Kissinger refers to himself numerous times in the book, especially when recounting the Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford presidencies.\n\nKissinger dedicated the book to the men and women of the United States Foreign Service.\n\n\nA leather bound gold embossed edition of this book was published by the Easton Press signed by Kissinger.\n\nThe book appears in the film \"Muppet Treasure Island\", in which The Great Gonzo pulls it out of Billy Bones' sea chest.\n\n"}
{"id": "1902999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902999", "title": "Reuters Instrument Code", "text": "Reuters Instrument Code\n\nA Reuters instrument code, or RIC, is a ticker-like code used by Thomson Reuters to identify financial instruments and indices. The codes are used for looking up information on various Thomson Reuters financial information networks (like Bridge and RMDS) and appear to have developed from the Quotron service they purchased in the 1980s.\n\nThe Reuters instrument code (RIC) was originally defined by Herbie Skeete, the Reuters Executive who wrote the original product specifications for the first products on Reuters' Integrated Data Network (IDN). RICs as originally defined by Skeete were meant to be logical and intuitive.\n\nFor equities the codes were composed of a RIC Root (one to four characters – A through Z), followed by a period sign, then a one- or two-character (A through Z) code denoting the exchange on which the instrument is traded. Each company was meant to have a unique RIC root. Thus the RIC Root for International Business Machines would be IBM irrespective of the exchange on which International Business Machines was traded.\n\nGlen Renfrew, the CEO at that time, was persuaded to veto the idea of unique RIC Roots. Also vetoed was Skeete’s intention of making RICs freely available and becoming an ISO standard. Much of Skeete’s original work is still contained within today’s RIC structure, but some key elements have changed over the years. \n\nThe RIC is made up primarily of the security's ticker symbol, optionally followed by a period and exchange code based on the name of the stock exchange using that ticker. For instance, IBM.N is a valid RIC, referring to IBM being traded on the New York Stock Exchange. IBM.L refers to the same stock trading on the London Stock Exchange. The exchange code used in the RIC is proprietary to Reuters. Exchange codes have an ISO standard, ISO 10383, which is not used by the Reuters Instrument Code, but is in common use elsewhere. Ticker symbols are often reused on different exchanges, so in many cases the same ticker symbol references different securities. \n\nRIC codes use \"artificial\" tickers for common indexes and money market instruments. For instance, the US 10-year money market bond is assigned the ticker US10YT, the \"T\" at the end referring to \"Treasury\". Commodities are similarly assigned tickers, for instance crude oil is CL. Indexes have a leading period, for instance .DJI is the Dow Jones Industrial Average.\n\nConfusingly the \"dot notation\" is also used for a number of other purposes. Units are signified with a \".UN\", and a particular exchange like NASDAQ by \".OQ\". This confusion seems to be the result of Reuters attempting to merge the standards used by the wide variety of services they purchased in the 1980s and 90s.\n\nOther examples:\n\nExamples of indices:\n\nExamples of commodity futures:\n\nIn November 2009, The European Commission opened formal anti-trust proceedings against Thomson Reuters to investigate whether Thomson Reuters could be abusing its dominant position in the market for consolidated real-time datafeeds through its RIC licensing practices, in breach of EU antitrust rules. In December 2012, the European Commission accepted Thomson Reuters proposal to remedy those concerns. The EC’s announcement brought the matter to a close, with no finding of liability. In summary, the proposal involves Thomson Reuters agreeing to offer its customers specific licence rights to continue to use its RICs in applications with data from an alternative real time consolidated data feed provider to which they have moved.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903005", "title": "Never Alone (Amy Grant album)", "text": "Never Alone (Amy Grant album)\n\nNever Alone is the third studio album by Christian singer Amy Grant, released in 1980 through Myrrh Records.\n\nBy this point in her life, Amy had entered her second year at Furman University and developed a budding relationship with studio songwriter Gary Chapman. The three songs from the album that they co-wrote obscurely describe their on-again, off-again relationship. Although \"Never Alone\" was not as popular as its predecessor, the 1979 album \"My Father's Eyes\", it still managed to score a Top Ten Christian hit in \"Look What Has Happened to Me\".\n\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\nSingles - CCM Magazine (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1903020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903020", "title": "Glaucidium palmatum", "text": "Glaucidium palmatum\n\nGlaucidium is a genus of plants in family Ranunculaceae, comprising a single species Glaucidium palmatum (Japanese wood poppy; シラネアオイ \"Shirane-aoi\"). It is endemic to northern and eastern Japan on Hokkaidō and northeastern Honshū on mountains close to the Sea of Japan.\n\nIt is a rhizomatous herbaceous perennial plant growing to 40 cm tall with a rigid stem with two large (20 cm diameter) palmately lobed leaves at the top and small membraneous leaves lower on the stem. The flower is produced singly at the top of the stem, 8 cm diameter, with four pink to pale purple (rarely white) petaloid sepals, numerous stamens and two carpels. The fruit is a cluster of follicles.\n\nIt is sometimes placed in its own family Glaucidiaceae, or in the past in the family Paeoniaceae. Paeoniaceae, however, has now been shown unequivocally to belong in Saxifragales, while \"Glaucidium\" is firmly in the family Ranunculaceae.\n"}
{"id": "1903023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903023", "title": "John Lawton (musician)", "text": "John Lawton (musician)\n\nJohn Cooper Lawton (born 11 July 1946 in Halifax, England) is a rock and blues vocalist best known for his work with Lucifer's Friend, Uriah Heep and the Les Humphries Singers.\n\nLawton began his musical career in North Shields, UK, in the early '60s with The Deans, a bunch of kids who decided at random that he should be singer. He then moved on to West One and later Stonewall which included John Miles, Vic Malcolm (later of Geordie) and Paul Thompson (later of Roxy Music).\n\nAfter Stonewall finished their stint at Top Ten Club in Hamburg in 1969, Lawton decided to stay in Germany, after having been offered the job as singer with legendary German rock cult band Lucifer's Friend (1969–1976 and 1979–1995) with whom he recorded seven studio albums. He also joined the Les Humphries Singers, in the early '70s (which included the Eurovision Song Contest in '76).\n\nIn 1976 Lawton joined Uriah Heep as their frontman, recording the albums \"Firefly\", \"Innocent Victim\", \"Fallen Angel\" and \"Live in Europe '79\", touring Europe and the U.S. until September 1979.\n\nDuring his longstanding career Lawton has worked with some big names of rock, on various projects, including Roger Glover's \"Butterfly Ball\" live at the Royal Albert Hall in 1975, featuring David Coverdale, Glenn Hughes, Ian Gillan and Twiggy. He sang on Eddie Hardin's \"Wizard's Convention II\" with Chris Farlowe, Denny Laine, Paul Jones and Tony Ashton.\n\nLawton worked with some of the finest record producers, including Tony Clarke (Moody Blues), Jimmy Miller (Rolling Stones), and Harold Faltermeyer (Pet Shop Boys), who produced the titles Lawton sang on the Lenny McDowell Project \"Lost Paradise\".\n\nLawton sang with German rock band Rebel, later known as Zar, on three albums, during the late '80s -'90s including their hit singles \"Line of Fire\" and \"Eagles Flight\", and moved on to Volker Barber's classical project \"Excalibur\". He also sang on several German commercials, including the \"Colgate Gel\" TV spots, the \"Peter Stuyvesant Travel\" spots, the Stuyvesant single \"Come Together\" and a stint for Harley Davidson Motorbikes.\n\nLawton formed GunHill, later known as JLB (John Lawton Band), in January 1994, touring the UK and Europe. In 1995 he briefly rejoined Uriah Heep for 2 weeks, to tour South Africa and Austria with Deep Purple, filling in for their singer Bernie Shaw, who was suffering from voice problems at the time.\n\nInspired by German top producer Robert Papst and his partner Reinhold Hoffman, Lawton re-recorded one of the Les Humphries Singers' favourites, the 1970s hit \"Mama Loo\", in January 1998. In August 2000, his solo album \"Still Paying My Dues to the Blues\", produced by Robert Papst, was released in Europe, UK and Scandinavia, by Hypertension Music Hamburg and distributed through EDEL Germany. (The album has been re-released in 2010)\n\nDuring the 4th Uriah Heep Annual Convention in London, May 2000, plans were made for a one-off concert by the so-called Hensley/Lawton Band. Lawton was joined by former Heep keyboardist Ken Hensley, for the first time 21 years after Lawton's departure from Uriah Heep in 1979. With them were Paul Newton (their original bassist), and 2 members of Lawton's band Reuben Kane on lead guitar and Justin Shefford on drums. They played a collection of old Heep classics and some of Hensley & Lawton's solo songs, and the concert was recorded for a CD release called \"The Return\".\n\nIn 2001 Lawton teamed up with Ken Hensley to form the Hensley Lawton Band. After extensive touring, during Spring and Summer of 2001, culminating with a concert in Hamburg, Germany, featuring a full orchestra and a new rendition of Heep's old classic \"Salisbury\", both Ken and John returned to their respective solo careers. On 7 December 2001, both John Lawton and Ken Hensley appeared on stage with Uriah Heep during the annual Magician's Birthday Party at the Shepherd's Bush Empire in London. This concert was recorded and released as a CD/DVD.\n\nThe John Lawton Band - \"JLB\" was taken on by Classic Rock Productions in 2001 to record the acoustic CD \"Steppin' It Up\", which features John & Steve Dunning. \"One More Night\" Live at the Mean Fiddler, CD & DVD, was recorded in 2002, which was followed in 2003 by JLB's \"Sting in the Tale\" CD, an original studio rock album. Later that year followed another Live CD & DVD \"Shakin' The Tale\". JLB had been touring extensively with their last gig in Hamburg, September 2004, when Lawton decided to take an indefinite break.\n\nIn May 2006 Lawton joined forces with Dutch guitarist Jan Dumée (ex-Focus) to form the On The Rocks project. On The Rocks - \"OTR\" featured Brazilian musicians Ney Conceição on bass, Xande Figueiredo on drums, and Marvio Ciribelli on keyboards. Lawton and Dumée wrote and recorded the tracks for the debut album \"Mamonama\", released in October 2008.\n\nIn September 2008 John Lawton appeared on stage at the Heepvention 2008 in Spain, with former Uriah Heep members Ken Hensley, Lee Kerslake and Paul Newton, together with Jan Dumee from the OTR project on guitar.\n\nIn December 2008 John entered the world of television by presenting the Bulgarian travel documentary series \"John Lawton presents\" which also includes music from the \"Mamonama\" album. Made by the Bulgarian TV company \"Skat\", the films feature interesting historical landmarks of Bulgarian towns and cities, traditional festivities and interviews with the city mayors and local people. So far the series consists of 19 documentaries, including the municipalities of Karnobat, Sozopol, Tsarevo, Primorsko, Burgas, Smolyan, Pamporovo, Varna, Malko Tarnovo, Velingrad, Shumen, Popovo winter, Popovo spring, Chepelare, Lovech, Kavarna, Stara Zagora, Nedelino.\n\nIn 2009 John again joined Ken Hensley, Lee Kerslake and Paul Newton to appear at Heepvention 2009 in Salo, Finland with a Finnish guitarist completing the line-up.\n\nIn March 2010, John made his acting debut in the motion picture \"Love.net\", filmed and produced by Bulgarian film company Miramar Film. Part of John's scenes were shot at Liscombe Park, UK, featuring a guest appearance by Uriah Heep guitarist Mick Box, with the remainder filmed in Sofia. He also recorded the movie's soundtrack song - Tonight. The film was premiered in Sofia on 26 March 2011.\n\nIn November 2011 John teamed up with Bulgarian band Diana Express to record the album \"The Power of Mind\" which was composed by Dr. Milen Vrabevski. The album was released in 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903034", "title": "Michael Owen (disambiguation)", "text": "Michael Owen (disambiguation)\n\nMichael Owen is an English former footballer.\n\nMichael Owen may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1903044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903044", "title": "Ron Gardenhire", "text": "Ron Gardenhire\n\nRonald Clyde Gardenhire (born October 24, 1957) is an American professional baseball player, coach, and current manager for the Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball (MLB). He played as a shortstop for the New York Mets from 1981 through 1985. He managed the Minnesota Twins from 2002 through 2014. He served as a coach for the Twins from 1991 through 2001, and for the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2017. He won the American League Manager of the Year Award in 2010.\n\nRon Gardenhire was born on a couch to a military family at the U.S. Army base in Butzbach, West Germany. Young Gardenhire expected to join the military, but his passion for baseball was also encouraged by his father. The family later settled in Oklahoma where he attended Okmulgee High School and college at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nThe New York Mets drafted him in the sixth round of the 1979 amateur draft. He played for the Mets for five seasons from 1981 to 1985. In his career, he played shortstop, second base, and third base. He was often plagued by injuries, especially to his hamstring. Only twice did he play in more than 70 games in a season, in 1982 and 1984. Following the 1986 season he was traded to the Minnesota Twins, where he played one season for their Triple-A affiliate before retiring.\n\nHe was six feet (183 cm) tall, and weighed 175 (79 kg) pounds during most of his baseball career.\n\nFor three years after he retired (1988–90), he was a manager in the Minnesota farm system, leading teams in the Class A Midwest League and Class AA Southern League to one second- and two first-place finishes.\n\nOn January 4, 2002, Gardenhire was named manager of the Twins, replacing Tom Kelly, who had won two World Series titles with the Twins. In contrast to Kelly's relatively calm, Bud Grant-like coaching style, Gardenhire was a very active and aggressive manager, frequently exiting the dugout to argue with the umpire, leading some to joke that \"Gardy\" got ejected more times in a season than Kelly did in his entire career. In his 13 seasons managing the Twins, Gardenhire was ejected 73 times. An early 2006 television commercial for the Twins pokes fun at this, showing Gardenhire arguing with an office worker planning to go home after work rather than go to the Twins game.\nGardenhire won the American League Manager of the Year Award in 2010 and has finished as runner-up five times while leading the Twins (in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008, and 2009). He finished third in the voting in 2002, his first season as manager. His five runner-up finishes are tied with Tony La Russa, who won the award outright an additional four times. In 2009, he received the Chuck Tanner Major League Baseball Manager of the Year Award.\n\nIn thirteen seasons as the Twins manager, Gardenhire's team had a losing record five times (2007, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014), and won the division six times (the Twins lost a one-game playoff to the Chicago White Sox to determine the division champion at the end of the 2008 season). Despite all of the team's regular season success under Gardenhire, the Twins advanced to the ALCS only once–his first season, in 2002–and did not advance to the World Series. In Gardenhire's tenure as the manager of the Twins, the Twins posted a playoff record of 6 wins and 21 losses. He is the only manager in MLB history to take a team to the playoffs at least six times and never make it to the World Series, and only one of four with at least four playoff appearances to never appear in it.\n\nOn November 13, 2008, Gardenhire signed a contract extension that kept him as Twins manager through the 2011 season. On November 18, 2010, the Twins announced a two-year contract extension for Gardenhire through 2013. In October 2012, after two consecutive 90 plus loss seasons, Gardenhire was not given a contract extension past the 2013 season. On September 30, 2013, despite having another 90 plus loss season for the third year in a row, Gardenhire was given a 2-year extension through 2015. He had 998 career wins at the end of the 2013 season.\n\nGardenhire earned his 1,000th managerial victory on April 5, 2014 with a 7-3 victory over the Cleveland Indians at Progressive Field. He became the 60th manager in major league history to top one thousand wins. He is only the tenth manager to accomplish this feat with only one team, joining the Twins' previous manager, Tom Kelly, on that list.\n\nOn September 29, 2014, Gardenhire was fired after 13 seasons as Twins manager and 27 years in the Twins organization. The last four years of Gardenhire's tenure were the worst in Twins history. This includes 383 losses and a record of 78-148 from August 1 to the end of the season. His overall regular season record was 1,068–1,039 and his playoff record was 6–21.\n\nOn October 20, 2017, it was announced that Gardenhire had signed a three-year contract to take the helm as manager of the Detroit Tigers, beginning in the 2018 season. He succeeded Brad Ausmus, who posted a 314–332 record in four seasons.\n\nIn his first game as the Tigers' manager, Gardenhire was ejected after what initially appeared to be a walk off win in the 10th inning over the Pittsburgh Pirates was overturned on video review. The Tigers would end up losing to the Pirates 13-10 in 13 innings. \n\nIn 1991, Gardenhire became the Twins' third base coach and held that post for 11 full seasons, including the team's 1991 World Series championship.\n\nGardenhire began the 2017 season as the bench coach of the Arizona Diamondbacks. However, after the first seven games of the season, he left the team on a leave of absence to have and recover from prostate cancer surgery. He was replaced by Jerry Narron, who took over as interim bench coach. After a five-week absence, Gardenhire rejoined the Diamondbacks in May.\n\nGardenhire is married to Carol (née Kissling). The Gardenhires have three children: son Toby, and daughters Tiffany and Tara.\n\nToby was drafted by the Minnesota Twins in the 41st round of the 2005 MLB Draft, spent most of his time as a utility player, and rose as high as the AAA Rochester Red Wings, before retiring. Like his father, Toby was known more for his glove than his bat. After hitting .188 in 50 games at Rochester in 2010, Toby posted a career line of .228/.293/.261 with only two home runs in 430 minor league games while seeing playing time at all nine defensive positions including 1 2/3 innings at pitcher. After a stint as the head coach for the University of Wisconsin-Stout baseball team he joined the Twins system, first with the Cedar Rapids Kernels in the Twins farm system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903047", "title": "Does America Need a Foreign Policy?", "text": "Does America Need a Foreign Policy?\n\nDoes America Need a Foreign Policy?: Toward a Diplomacy for the 21st Century is a 2001 book by Henry Kissinger.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903049", "title": "Deep Impact (horse)", "text": "Deep Impact (horse)\n\nDeep Impact (Japanese : ディープインパクト, March 25, 2002 – July 30, 2019) was a champion Japanese bred Thoroughbred racehorse that won seven Japanese Domestic Grade 1 races, including all races of Japanese Triple Crown (Satsuki Sho, Tokyo Yushun and Kikuka Sho).\n\nDeep Impact's sire Sunday Silence took over from perennial Japanese leading sire Northern Taste (10 time leading sire in Japan) and was leading sire in Japan 12 times. His dam, Wind In Her Hair, a Group One winner, finished second in The Oaks to super-filly Balanchine and was out of Burghclere, a daughter of dual-Classic winner Highclere, who was owned and bred by Queen Elizabeth II. Burghclere in turn was a three-quarters sister to top filly Height Of Fashion, sold by the Queen to Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and subsequently the dam of Epsom Derby winner Nashwan, leading sire Unfuwain and multiple Group One winner Nayef.\n\nDeep Impact won over Admire Japan by two lengths in Kikuka Sho on 23 October 2005, thereby becoming the first horse since Narita Brian 11 years earlier to complete the Japanese Triple crown. He also became the first unbeaten Japanese Triple crown winner since Symboli Rudolf 21 years earlier, but in his next race, Arima Kinen, Deep Impact was defeated by Heart's Cry to suffer his first loss in his racing career.\n\nIn 2006 Deep Impact returned to the turf with an easy victory in the Hanshin Daishōten (Jpn-GII). Then he won the Tenno Sho (spring), beating the world record for a 3200-meter race in the time of (3'13\"4), following this with a victory in the Takarazuka Kinen (G1 – 2200m). In October, he raced in the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe (Fr – Group 1 – 2400m), but finished third. He was heavy favourite for the race, and 1,587,263 € (about $1,238,000) was bet on him in France (especially by many of the Japanese fans that traveled to the racecourse). Two weeks later, news from France Galop revealed Deep Impact was positive tested to Ipratropium. Connections announced the colt would retire to stud after that season in a syndication deal worth 5.1 billion yen. Deep Impact retired after he won the Japan Cup and Arima Kinen races in 2006.\n\n\n\n\nDeep Impact stood at the Shadai Stallion Station in Abira, Hokkaido, where he became one of the world's most dominant stallions. He was crowned Japanese Champion Sire for seven consecutive years from 2012 to 2018 and sired stars including Gentildonna, Real Steel and A Shin Hikari.\n\n\"c = colt, f = filly\"\n\nOn 30 July 2019, Deep Impact was euthanised after suffering a cervical fracture. The 2019 Japan Cup was named the \"Deep Impact Memorial\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1903050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903050", "title": "Claus process", "text": "Claus process\n\nThe Claus process is the most significant gas desulfurizing process, recovering elemental sulfur from gaseous hydrogen sulfide. First patented in 1883 by the chemist Carl Friedrich Claus, the Claus process has become the industry standard. C. F. Claus was born in Kassel in the German State of Hessen in 1827, and studied chemistry in Marburg before he emigrated to England in 1852. Claus died in London in the year 1900.\n\nThe multi-step Claus process recovers sulfur from the gaseous hydrogen sulfide found in raw natural gas and from the by-product gases containing hydrogen sulfide derived from refining crude oil and other industrial processes. The by-product gases mainly originate from physical and chemical gas treatment units (Selexol, Rectisol, Purisol and amine scrubbers) in refineries, natural gas processing plants and gasification or synthesis gas plants. These by-product gases may also contain hydrogen cyanide, hydrocarbons, sulfur dioxide or ammonia.\n\nGases with an HS content of over 25% are suitable for the recovery of sulfur in straight-through Claus plants while alternate configurations such as a split-flow set up or feed and air preheating can be used to process leaner feeds.\n\nHydrogen sulfide produced, for example, in the hydro-desulfurization of refinery naphthas and other petroleum oils, is converted to sulfur in Claus plants. The reaction proceeds in two steps:\n\nThe vast majority of the 64,000,000 tonnes of sulfur produced worldwide in 2005 was byproduct sulfur from refineries and other hydrocarbon processing plants. Sulfur is used for manufacturing sulfuric acid, medicine, cosmetics, fertilizers and rubber products. Elemental sulfur is used as fertilizer and pesticide.\n\nThe process was invented by Carl Friedrich Claus, a German chemist working in England. A British patent was issued to him in 1883. The process was later significantly modified by IG Farben.\n\nA schematic process flow diagram of a basic 2+1-reactor (converter) SuperClaus unit is shown below:\n\nThe Claus technology can be divided into two process steps, thermal and catalytic.\n\nIn the thermal step, hydrogen sulfide-laden gas reacts in a substoichiometric combustion at temperatures above 850 °C such that elemental sulfur precipitates in the downstream process gas cooler.\n\nThe HS content and the concentration of other combustible components (hydrocarbons or ammonia) determine the location where the feed gas is burned. Claus gases (acid gas) with no further combustible contents apart from HS are burned in lances surrounding a central muffle by the following chemical reaction:\n\nThis is a strongly exothermic free-flame total oxidation of hydrogen sulfide generating sulfur dioxide that reacts away in subsequent reactions. The most important one is the Claus reaction:\n\nThe overall equation is:\n\nThe temperature inside Claus furnace is often maintained above 1050°C. This ensures BTEX (Benzene, Toluene, Ethyl benzene and Xylene) destruction which otherwise would clog downstream Claus catalyst. \n\nGases containing ammonia, such as the gas from the refinery's sour water stripper (SWS), or hydrocarbons are converted in the burner muffle. Sufficient air is injected into the muffle for the complete combustion of all hydrocarbons and ammonia. The air to the acid gas ratio is controlled such that in total 1/3 of all hydrogen sulfide (HS) is converted to SO. This ensures a stoichiometric reaction for the Claus reaction in the second catalytic step (see next section below).\n\nThe separation of the combustion processes ensures an accurate dosage of the required air volume needed as a function of the feed gas composition. To reduce the process gas volume or obtain higher combustion temperatures, the air requirement can also be covered by injecting pure oxygen. Several technologies utilizing high-level and low-level oxygen enrichment are available in industry, which requires the use of a special burner in the reaction furnace for this process option.\n\nUsually, 60 to 70% of the total amount of elemental sulfur produced in the process is obtained in the thermal process step.\n\nThe main portion of the hot gas from the combustion chamber flows through the tube of the process gas cooler and is cooled down such that the sulfur formed in the reaction step condenses. The heat given off by the process gas and the condensation heat evolved are utilized to produce medium or low-pressure steam. The condensed sulfur is removed at the liquid outlet section of the process gas cooler.\n\nThe sulfur forms in the thermal phase as highly reactive S diradicals which combine exclusively to the S allotrope:\n\nOther chemical processes taking place in the thermal step of the Claus reaction are:\n\nThe Claus reaction continues in the catalytic step with activated aluminum(III) or titanium(IV) oxide, and serves to boost the sulfur yield. More hydrogen sulfide (HS) reacts with the SO formed during combustion in the reaction furnace in the Claus reaction, and results in gaseous, elemental sulfur.\n\nOne suggested mechanism is that S and S desorb from the catalyst's active sites with simultaneous formation of stable cyclic elemental sulfur.\n\nThe catalytic recovery of sulfur consists of three substeps: heating, catalytic reaction and cooling plus condensation.\nThese three steps are normally repeated a maximum of three times. Where an incineration or tail-gas treatment unit (TGTU) is added downstream of the Claus plant, only two catalytic stages are usually installed.\n\nThe first process step in the catalytic stage is the gas heating process. It is necessary to prevent sulfur condensation in the catalyst bed, which can lead to catalyst fouling. The required bed operating temperature in the individual catalytic stages is achieved by heating the process gas in a reheater until the desired operating bed temperature is reached.\n\nSeveral methods of reheating are used in industry:\n\nThe typically recommended operating temperature of the first catalyst stage is 315 °C to 330 °C (bottom bed temperature). The high temperature in the first stage also helps to hydrolyze COS and CS, which is formed in the furnace and would not otherwise be converted in the modified Claus process.\n\nThe catalytic conversion is maximized at lower temperatures, but care must be taken to ensure that each bed is operated above the dew point of sulfur. The operating temperatures of the subsequent catalytic stages are typically 240 °C for the second stage and 200 °C for the third stage (bottom bed temperatures).\n\nIn the sulfur condenser, the process gas coming from the catalytic reactor is cooled to between 150 and 130 °C. The condensation heat is used to generate steam at the shell side of the condenser.\n\nBefore storage, liquid sulfur streams from the process gas cooler, the sulfur condensers and from the final sulfur separator are routed to the degassing unit, where the gases (primarily HS) dissolved in the sulfur are removed.\n\nThe tail gas from the Claus process still containing combustible components and sulfur compounds (HS, H and CO) is either burned in an incineration unit or further desulfurized in a downstream tail gas treatment unit.\n\nThe conventional Claus process described above is limited in its conversion due to the reaction equilibrium being reached. Like all exothermic reactions, greater conversion can be achieved at lower temperatures, however as mentioned the Claus reactor must be operated above the sulfur dew point (120–150 °C) to avoid liquid sulfur physically deactivating the catalyst. To overcome this problem, the sub dew point Clauss reactors are oriented in parallel, with one operating and one spare. When one reactor has become saturated with adsorbed sulfur, the process flow is diverted to the standby reactor. The reactor is then regenerated by sending process gas that has been heated to 300–350 °C to vaporize the sulfur. This stream is sent to a condenser to recover the sulfur.\n\nOver 2.6 tons of steam will be generated for each ton of sulfur yield.\n\nThe physical properties of elemental sulfur obtained in the Claus process can differ from that obtained by other processes. Sulfur is usually transported as a liquid (melting point 115 °C). In elementary sulfur viscosity increases rapidly at temperatures in excess of 160 °C due to the formation of polymeric sulfur chains. Another anomaly is found in the solubility of residual HS in liquid sulfur as a function of temperature. Ordinarily the solubility of a gas decreases with increasing temperature but with HS it is the opposite. This means that toxic and explosive HS gas can build up in the headspace of any cooling liquid sulfur reservoir. The explanation for this anomaly is the endothermic reaction of sulfur with HS to polysulfanes HS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903054", "title": "List of Aeroméxico destinations", "text": "List of Aeroméxico destinations\n\nAeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect, which are both commercialized as Aeroméxico, serve the following destinations, .\n\nAeroméxico Connect serves the following destinations (as of April 2020):\n"}
{"id": "1903056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903056", "title": "ESTsoft", "text": "ESTsoft\n\nFounded in 1993, ESTsoft is a South Korean application software development company. Its software ranges from desktop to business software for enterprises.\n\nThere are several products marketed under the \"ALTools\" product line. In Korea, \"Al\" means \"egg\", and numerous products under this category have egg-themed icons and mascots. ALTools products include:\n\n\nOther ESTsoft products include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903058", "title": "Pygmy owl", "text": "Pygmy owl\n\nPygmy owls are members of the genus Glaucidium. They belong to the typical owl family, Strigidae.\nThe genus consists of about 31 to 35 species distributed worldwide. The exact number of species is somewhat disputed.\n\nThese are mostly small owls, and some of the species are called \"owlets\". Most pygmy owl species are nocturnal and hunt mainly large insects and other small prey.\n\n\"Glaucidium\" forms a paraphyletic group with \"Surnia\".\n\n\nThe supposed prehistoric species \"\"Glaucidium\" dickinsoni\" is now recognized as a burrowing owl, probably a paleosubspecies \"providentiae\". Bones of an indeterminate \"Glaucidium\" have been recovered from Late Pliocene deposits in Poland (Mlíkovský 2002).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903063", "title": "My Father's Eyes (album)", "text": "My Father's Eyes (album)\n\nMy Father's Eyes is the second studio album by then-teenage Christian singer-songwriter Amy Grant, released in 1979 on Myrrh Records. \"My Father's Eyes\" was a turning point in Grant's career. It gave her first Christian number-one hit in the title track, as well as the Top Ten Christian hit \"Faith Walkin' People.\" The album would be certified gold in 1987 and was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Gospel Performance, Contemporary.\n\nIn 2007, like many other albums by Grant, \"My Father's Eyes\" was reissued by Sparrow Records, her current label.\n\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\n\nSingles - CCM Magazine (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1903073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903073", "title": "Marion Scrymgour", "text": "Marion Scrymgour\n\nMarion Rose Scrymgour (born 13 September 1960) is a former Australian politician. She was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from 2001 to 2012, representing the electorate of Arafura. She was the Labor Party Deputy Chief Minister of the Northern Territory from November 2007 until February 2009, and was the highest-ranked indigenous woman in government in Australia's history. She was also the first indigenous woman to be elected to the Northern Territory Parliament. (See: List of Indigenous Australian politicians)\n\nScrymgour, a senior minister under former Chief Minister Clare Martin, had a rapid rise within the party throughout the 2000s, and despite a reputation for outspoken views on indigenous issues, rose to become Deputy Chief Minister under Paul Henderson after the retirement of long-time deputy Syd Stirling in 2007. She had a controversial term as Education Minister under Henderson, and was shifted to the Attorney-General portfolio in February 2009, in a move widely seen as a demotion. Several days later, she resigned from Cabinet and as Deputy Chief Minister, citing \"health reasons\". Scrymgour remained on the Labor backbench until June 2009, when she resigned from the Labor Party over its stance on remote indigenous communities. She sat in the Legislative Assembly as an independent, and held the balance of power; Labor had held only a one-seat majority before her departure. On 4 August 2009, Scrymgour rejoined the ALP.\n\nScrymgour was born in Darwin, the capital of the Northern Territory. Her mother was a Tiwi Islander, and her father had been forcibly removed as a child from his home in Central Australia. Scrymgour attended primary and secondary school in Darwin, but initially decided against tertiary education, working in several office administration positions. She later undertook correspondence courses as a mature age student in book-keeping, accounting, administration and health economics. She subsequently served as director of the Wurli Wurlinjang Aboriginal Corporation, co-ordinated several trial community care programs around Katherine, and as Director of the Katherine West Health Board Aboriginal Corporation. Scrymgour was also an active member of the Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous Union, and had represented the union at the national conference of the Australian Labor Party.\n\nScrymgour contested and won Labor preselection for the Legislative Assembly seat of Arafura, after the retirement of Maurice Rioli. The seat was considered safe for Labor, and she was re-elected with a lesser majority, due to the presence of two high-profile independent candidates on the ballot. In winning the seat, she became the first indigenous women to be elected to the Legislative Assembly.\n\nScrymgour was promoted to the ministry under Clare Martin on 17 December 2003, as part of a reshuffle caused by the sacking of Health Minister Jane Aagaard. She was assigned the portfolios of Family and Community Services and Environment and Heritage, and in doing so, became Australia's first Aboriginal woman cabinet minister.\n\nAs Minister for Family and Community Services, Scrymgour was tasked with responding to the issues of substance abuse and domestic violence. She chaired a select committee into substance abuse, and was the relevant minister during the roll-out of non-sniffable Opal fuel across remote indigenous communities. She was shifted to a new portfolio after the 2005 election, being appointed Minister for Natural Resources, Environment and the Arts. After a further reshuffle in August 2007, she retained Arts and Museums, regained Family and Community Services and was made Minister for Child Protection. She also oversaw planned changes to the territory's heritage laws, which created a heritage council to protect important sites, as already exists in several states.\n\nScrymgour developed a reputation for outspoken views on indigenous issues during her second term. She clashed with her own party on the issue of the MacArthur River Mine in 2006, and joined three other indigenous MPs in crossing the floor to oppose the mine's expansion. She made national news in late 2007 when she publicly condemned the federal government's intervention into indigenous communities, the Northern Territory National Emergency Response, labelling it \"a vicious new McCarthyism.\"\n\nChief Minister Clare Martin resigned in November 2007 after having lost the support of her caucus, and was replaced by Paul Henderson. The newly elected Henderson appointed Scrymgour as his deputy, which was considered a surprise choice at the time. On 24 December 2007 Scrymgour spent several hours at the emergency department of Royal Darwin Hospital undergoing treatment for \"an emotional and physical collapse\". In January 2008 Scrymgour was appointed Acting Chief Minister of the Northern Territory while the incumbent Paul Henderson was on holiday, becoming the first Aboriginal government leader in Australian history. She served for two weeks.\n\nScrymgour had taken on the education portfolio upon her ascension to Deputy Chief Minister, but had been regularly criticised in the press for her performance, particularly after her controversial sacking of the head of the territory's Education Department in 2008. This culminated in Henderson's decision in February 2009 to remove Scrymgour from the portfolio, shifting her to the less politically difficult Attorney-General role. The following week, Scrymgour resigned from Cabinet and as Deputy Chief Minister, citing recurring problems with depression caused by the death of her father.\n\nOn 1 June 2009, Scrymgour publicly opposed the Government on its announced policy of concentrating indigenous development in 20 larger communities and discouraging \"homeland\" or \"outstation\" settlement, which she labelled as insulting. She said that she realised while recovering from surgery that she had lost touch with her constituents, and that \"I feel strongly because we have lied to Aboriginal people\". On 4 June, after a significant degree of speculation in the media, she resigned from the Labor Party, reducing it to minority government.\n\nOn 4 August 2009, after the defection of another minister, Alison Anderson, Scrymgour announced that she would rejoin the Labor Party. She retired from politics at the 2012 election.\n\nAfter working for the Australian Red Cross in 2013–2014, Scrymgour returned to Wurli Wurlinjang Aboriginal Corporation as its CEO. In December 2013 she was elected as Chairperson of the Aboriginal Medical Services Alliance Northern Territory. In November 2013, Scrymgour was awarded an honorary doctorate in Health Sciences by the University of Sydney, the first Aboriginal recipient of such an honour from the Faculty of Health Sciences.\n\nIn March 2019 Scrymgour was appointed CEO of the Northern Land Council and became the first woman CEO of any land council in the Northern Territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903076", "title": "Brandval", "text": "Brandval\n\nBrandval is a parish and former municipality in Hedmark county, Norway.\n\nBrandval is located in the Norwegian traditional district of Solør. The parish forms the northern part of Kongsvinger municipality. Brandval is situated north of Kongsvinger on the Glåma river. Brandval was separated from Grue municipality in 1867. In 1941 part of Grue was transferred into Brandval. The municipalities of Brandval and Vinger were merged with the city and municipality of Kongsvinger in 1964.\n\nFinnskogen or the Finn's forest is a belt about wide and running continuously along the frontier in the districts of Austmarka, Brandval, Grue, Hof, Åsnes, and Våler.\n\nThe municipality (originally the parish) is named after the old farm Brandval (Norse \"Brandváll\"), since the first church was built there (in 1651). The first element is m 'fire; burning', the last element is m 'clearance made by the use of fire'.\n\nBrandval church (\"Brandval kirke\") is a neo-Gothic, cruciform church dating from 1651. the church was built of wood. The church was subject to a restoration in 1839 and underwent a renovation in 1876–77. Johan Heinrich Günther Schüssler was the architect behind the rebuilding. The baroque pulpit and altar date from 1651. They were made by Lauritz Lauritzen and painted by Thomas Blix in 1728. The Baptismal font is from the Middle Ages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903084", "title": "Gentlemen Take Polaroids", "text": "Gentlemen Take Polaroids\n\nGentlemen Take Polaroids is the fourth (and penultimate) studio album by the English band Japan, released on 24 October 1980 by Virgin Records.\n\nThe album was preceded by the release of the title track as a single, which peaked at number 60 in the UK Singles Chart. The album was moderately successful, peaking at number 51.\n\n\"Gentlemen Take Polaroids\" was the band's first album for the Virgin Records label, after leaving Hansa-Ariola who had released their first three albums. It continued in the vein of their previous album \"Quiet Life\", drawing on its elegant Euro-disco stylings coupled with more ambitious arrangements. This was the last Japan album to feature guitarist Rob Dean, who left the band in spring 1981.\n\nThe album was preceded by the release of the title track as a single in October 1980, which peaked at number 60 in the UK Singles Chart, the group's first single to chart.\n\nThe album itself was moderately successful in the UK. It peaked at number 51, and was later certified Gold by the BPI in 1986 for 100,000 copies sold.\n\nNo further singles were immediately taken from the album, though \"Nightporter\" (influenced by the works of French composer Erik Satie, most particularly his \"Gymnopedies\") was remixed and released as a single in November 1982, just after the band announced that they were breaking up. It peaked at number 29 in the UK Singles Chart, though both the edited 7\" version and the full-length 12\" remix remain unreleased on CD to this day.\n\nThe album was reissued in 2003, with slightly different cover art (taken from the same photo session as the original cover) and three bonus tracks; the instrumentals \"The Width of a Room\" (the only track in the band's catalogue composed by guitarist Rob Dean) and \"The Experience of Swimming\", composed by Richard Barbieri. Both tracks were originally b-sides to the \"Gentlemen Take Polaroids\" double 7\" single, but were also used on later singles. The third bonus track was \"Taking Islands In Africa\", a Steve Nye remixed version from 1981 originally released as b-side on the \"Visions Of China\" 7\" single.\n\nOn August 24, 2018 two new half speed mastered vinyl pressings were released; a single 33rpm version and a deluxe double 45rpm version. Both mastered by Miles Showell at Abbey Road. For the first time all lyrics were printed inside the gatefold of the delxue version and the cover art had cropped the band name and title with the original photograph now covering the whole surface.\n\n\"Gentlemen Take Polaroids\" has been well received by critics. Writing in \"Smash Hits\" magazine in November 1980, Steve Taylor gave the album 8/10 and wrote: \"If Brian Eno, rather than Bryan Ferry, had rerouted the original direction of Roxy Music, this might well have been the result...\"\n\nIn his retrospective review, Ned Raggett of AllMusic called it \"unquestionably the album in which Japan truly found its own unique voice and aesthetic approach.\" \"The Quietus\" wrote that the album \"took the sound of \"Quiet Life\" and refined it into a series of oblique, almost cinematic avant-pop creations that exquisitely surround the frontman’s woozy post-Bryan Ferry croon in layers of pop textures that sounded like little else by Japan’s contemporaries.\n\n† The track \"Burning Bridges\" was put on the album as a last-minute replacement for a track titled \"Some Kind of Fool\", with quite a lot of UK and German pressings of the album listing the latter song on the inner sleeve and on the track listings. \"Some Kind of Fool\" was also going to be released as a single, but was replaced by \"Nightporter\". An overdubbed version with new lyrics was released on Sylvian's solo album \"Everything and Nothing\" in 2000, but the original Japan version has never been released.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903086", "title": "Mayfair Gardens", "text": "Mayfair Gardens\n\nMayfair Gardens () is the first private housing estate on Tsing Yi, Hong Kong. It was built by Sun Hung Kai Properties and established between 1982 and 1984. The estate is composed of eight residential buildings, namely Blocks 5 to 12.\nThe original plan of the estate includes block 1-4, however the location of those blocks is too close to the oil depot, so block 1-4 are not built.\n\nThe original location for block 1-4 becomes the location of the park now, and the original location of the oil depot becomes the location of Rambler Crest today.\n\nThe estate was built on the site of Sai Shan Village. To the east of the estate is Cheung Ching Estate and to the west IVE (Tsing Yi). The estate is surrounded by Sai Shan and Tsing Yi Peak to the north and west.\n\nMayfair Garden has facilities including: private clubs, swimming pool, park, car park, playground, basketball court, tennis court, etc. There is also a small shopping mall.\n\nThe total area of the shopping mall is 69,490 square feet. The shops including 7-11, Fairwood, 759 Store, Wellcome and restaurants providing different nations' cuisine.\n\nTwelve blocks were originally proposed for the site. During the 1980s, there was a growing concern about the environmental safety of Tsing Yi Island. The proximity of Mobil oil depot to Mayfair Gardens triggered the protest of the islanders. The residents demanded a relocation of the depot to a more distant area. The depot remained unmoved, but the planned development of Blocks 1, 2 and 3, together with a bus terminus and a cinema, were forced to be withdrawn.\n\nAlthough the results of the protests were not what the campaigners desired at the time, this was one of the main examples of a civil protest movement in Hong Kong in the mid-1980s. Actions against the government were organised by residents and social workers. The movement encouraged greater participation in newly devised District Board and resulted in more public involvement in policy formulation.\n\nThe area originally intended for Blocks 1-3 is now a basketball court, a tennis court and a playground, so the estate is open to Victoria Harbour despite the existence of the newly built Container Terminal 9 and Rambler Crest which partially blocks the sea view. The oil depot has since been relocated to the west shore of the island, separated from the residential population by the geographic barrier of Tsing Yi Peak.\n\nFollowing the partial withdrawal of the development, Sai Shan Road is the only road access to the housing estate. Its bus terminus is installed at the road. Most residents on the other hand use the footbridge entrance at Ching Hong Road.\n\nThere was an incident that a 12-year-old girl committed suicide because of the academic problem in 2008, therefore some people think that the estate is haunted.\n"}
{"id": "1903093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903093", "title": "Rocket in the Pocket", "text": "Rocket in the Pocket\n\nRocket in the Pocket is a 1998 electronica album released by Console. After receiving much critical acclaim, the album was re-issued in 1999, 2000 and 2002. The song \"Crabcraft\" was used by Björk on her album \"Vespertine\" on the song \"Heirloom\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903094", "title": "Say Somethin' (Mariah Carey song)", "text": "Say Somethin' (Mariah Carey song)\n\n\"Say Somethin\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey. It was written by Carey, Snoop Dogg, Chad Hugo, and Pharrell Williams, and produced by The Neptunes as the seventh overall single from Carey's tenth studio album, \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" (2005). The song is one of few from Carey's catalog in which she does not share production credits. \"Say Somethin'\" features Dogg as a guest artist, and is influenced by R&B and hip-hop music genres. Lyrically, the song is a dialogue in between and male and female, that discuss sexual themes and acts of which they plan to engage in a restroom.\n\nThe song received generally mixed reviews from music critics, many of which both praised and dismissed its production and vocals. Some reviewers felt Carey's performance was too typical for a singer of her stature, while others felt the song's complex instrumentation distracted from the artists. As the fifth international single from the album, the song performed weakly on the singles charts on which it appeared, peaking at number seventy-nine on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Internationally, \"Say Somethin'\" failed to achieve strong chart success, peaking outside the top-twenty in Australia and top-forty in Europe.\n\n\"Say Somethin'\" was accompanied by a high profile and budget music video, filmed by Paul Hunter in Paris, France, and featuring appearances by Carey, Williams, Dogg and fashion designer and \"Vogue\" editor, André Leon Talley. The video features Carey and Williams as love interests being chased by several paparazzi vehicles down a populated Paris road. Other scenes feature Carey trying on several outfits in Louis Vuitton's flagship store on Champs-Élysées, as well as close-up shots of Snoop Dogg. The video concluded with the duo walking together down the Le Pont de Paris bridge, over-looking the Seine river.\n\nFollowing record-breaking success throughout the 1990s, Carey departed from Columbia Records after the release of \"Rainbow\" (1999). Almost a year later, she signed an unprecedented $100 million five-album record contract with Virgin Records, and began work on a film and soundtrack project titled \"Glitter\". Prior to its release on September 11, 2001, Carey suffered an \"emotional and physical breakdown\", and was subsequently hospitalized over a period of several weeks. \"Glitter\" became a box-office bomb, earning less than eight million dollars, and receiving scathing reviews. The soundtrack, while faring slightly better, failed to reach the critical or commercial heights of Carey's previous releases, and eventually lead to the annulment of her record contract with Virgin.\n\nFollowing the events, as well as the release of Carey's succeeding album, \"Charmbracelet\" (2002), she began working on new material for \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" (2005). Towards the end of 2004, Carey was already conceptualizing and writing music for her upcoming album. During a studio rendezvous with Pharrell Williams, Carey was once again introduced to Snoop Dogg, having worked with him on a single from her seventh studio album \"Rainbow\" (1999) titled, \"Crybaby\". Following a brief meeting with the pair, Carey showed them the yet unfinished version of \"Say Somethin'\", and had Dogg complete a rap verse for the song.\n\"Say Somethin'\" had been the second time the pair had collaborated, the first had been on \"Crybaby\" from Carey's seventh studio album \"Rainbow\" in 1999. Following the song's completion in November 2004, Snoop Dogg made several comments regarding his work with Carey in an interview with MTV News, even re-calling past sentiments towards her many years prior:\n\nShe's so soft. She's beautiful too. I always tell her this story: When I was locked up in jail, that song 'Vision of Love' was the hottest song in the world. I used to always say, 'Man, if I could meet her!' So I worked with her, then Pharrell hooked it up for me to work with her again this time.\n\nAfter Carey finished writing and producing the track alongside Williams, Dogg added his rap verse, and added some ulterior beats and components. Before taking the still-uncompleted song to the studio, Dogg described the song and beat \"The beat was just sick and it was bangin'. I was like, 'All right, give me that, M.C.' I took [the song] down to my studio and flipped my style to it.\" After slightly altering the song, as well as adding his verses, Dogg met with Carey once again for her approval on the song, \"When I played [the finished version] for her, she was like, 'Oh, I love it!' I said, 'OK, give me a hug, baby.' She was just as soft as a cotton swab! Lord have mercy! Jesus, M.C.! What I wouldn't ... Let me stop.\"\n\nAs January 2005 drew near, Carey had already completed many tracks for her yet-untitled studio album. However, after releasing the album's title, \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" (2005), \"Say Somethin'\" leaked, and was to be promoted as the project's lead single. While the song was universally chosen as Carey's next single, former Island Records head L.A. Reid suggested Carey travel to Atlanta for a period of three days to work with Jermaine Dupri. In an interview with MTV, Carey recalled the decision with Reid: \"L.A. was like, 'You and Jermaine Dupri make magic together, why aren't you in the studio with him? I said, 'I love Jermaine, is he free? I know he's doing a million things, Usher and this and that.' But Jermaine said, 'Come on down.'\" During the following interval of three days, the pair helmed the album's eventual third and fourth singles, \"Shake It Off\" and \"Get Your Number\". During her trip to Atlanta, Carey began second guessing the album's direction, and described her feelings regarding the decision in an interview with MTV News:\n\nI really started second-guessing myself. And then I realized, like, all right, I have to go with my gut. Because everybody's got an opinion, and so many people's opinions about me are like polar opposites. They're like, 'We love it when she does ballads, make her do the ballads.' Then they're like, 'We want to hear a hip-hop record.' 'Why is she dressing like this? She should show less skin.' 'She should show more.' You know what I mean? I'm like, 'Stay in your lane, and I'll figure it out.'\n\nAfter returning to home to re-arrange the album with Reid, Carey once again traveled to Atlanta in an attempt to create a few more strong singles for the album's roster. On her second stay in Dupri's hometown, the duo completed \"We Belong Together\" and \"It's Like That\", with the latter of the two replacing \"Say Somethin'\" as the albums's lead single. \"Say Somethin\" was then chosen to become the third single from the album, however, those plans were scrapped as well. Following the extended chart success of \"The Emancipation of Mimi\", \"Fly Like a Bird\" was released as the sixth single from the project and \"Say Somethin\" was released as seventh and final single from the album. \"Fly Like a Bird\" was released on April 3, 2006 to urban radio and gospel stations, while \"Say Somethin'\" was serviced to mainstream Top 40 radio. Tom Ferguson from \"Billboard\" did not agree with releasing both singles concurrently, as he had given \"Say Somethin'\" a negative review. According to Ferguson, while the latter had radio appeal, its \"scantily produced drum'n'bass\" only distracted, concluding \"'Fly Like A Bird' is a classic: why muddy the water with this release.\"\n\n\"Say Somethin'\" is a mid-tempo song lasting three minutes and forty-four seconds, while drawing influence from R&B and hip-hop music genres. It incorporates its beat from several musical instruments, including the organ, bass drum and several electronic and computerized sound effects. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by EMI Music Publishing, the song is set in common time with a moderate tempo of 88 beats per minute. Written by Carey, Snoop Dogg, Chad Hugo, and Pharrell Williams, and produced by The Neptunes, the song is composed in the key of E minor, with Carey's vocal range spanning from the low-note of F to the high-note of B. The song's chorus has a chord progression of Emaj7 to Amaj7, while altering to a B minor during the bridge. Dimitri Ehrlich from \"Vibe\" called the song \"a musical oddity\" and described its production as \"strange instrumentation, weird melodic shifts, and hectic drum patters\".\n\nIn his review for \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" (2005), Jozen Cummings from PopMatters described the song's production and instrumentation: \"The track is vintage Neptunes with big drums and intergalactic sound effects, and Carey adds to the breezy, easygoing feel of the song with a voice that is sexy, but subtle, like a shy woman who doesn’t need to say anything at all to get a man’s attention.\" Lyrically, \"Say Somethin'\" recalls an encounter in which a male expresses interest in having a sexual affair in a bathroom with a female, while she agrees and responds \"If its worth you're while / Say somethin' good to me\". In an interview with \"Newsweek\", Carey described how she felt regarding the song: \"You're right. It is a totally different approach for me musically. When I heard it at first I thought it was a cool and interesting track, but I didn't know if it was very me.\" Additionally, Carey outed the lines \"Something like volcanic / You and me seems organic / Just like stars and planets\" as \"nonsense\", but claimed she \"loved it\".\n\n\"Say Somethin'\" garnered generally mixed reviews from music critics, many of which praised Carey for broadening her musical palette with the release, however criticizing its production and hook. Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\" described the song's production as a \"series of gimmicks\", and felt it was reminiscent of melodies used to boost the careers of \"lesser artists\". Concluding the review on a mixed note, Paoletta wrote \"the melody line is palpable and Carey's voice is appreciable, but \"Say Somethin'\" is mostly a reminder of a time when Carey required others to boost her chart heft.\" \"USA Today\" critic Elysa Gardner called the song \"breezy and playful\", while Jim Abbott from the \"Orlando Sentinel\" classified it as a \"high point\" on \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" (2005).\n\nWriter Barry Walters from \"Rolling Stone\" felt the song failed to produce a significant and memorable hook, though noting its dance appeal: \"it has a beat that makes you move, but the songs' pop hook doesn't stick.\" While \"New York Times\" columnist Jon Pareles called the song an \"earthy delight\", Glenn Gamboa from \"Newsday\" felt Carey's vocals could have easily been replaced by a less skilled singer, and wrote \"she sounds like a hook girl in her own song. Her vocals could have been delivered by Kelis or Amerie and no one would have been the wiser.\"\n\n\"Say Somethin'\" was released to rhythmic and Top 40 radio stations in the United States on April 3, 2006, during the same period that \"Fly like a Bird\" was released to Urban radio stations. Though accompanied by a high-profile music video, the song only managed to attain a peak position of number seventy-nine on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Internationally, \"Say Somethin'\" matched its weak stateside charting, debuting at its peak position of number twenty-six on the Australian Singles Chart during the week dated July 23, 2006. Sustaining an appearance on the singles chart for seven weeks, the song fell outside the top-fifty on September 3, 2006. In Switzerland, it appeared on the singles chart on June 18, 2006, at number sixty. The following week, it ascended to its peak of number fifty-five, before spending another four weeks fluctuating in the Swiss Singles Chart. On the UK Singles Chart, \"Say Somethin'\" made its chart debut at number 128 on May 13, 2006. Spending only four weeks in the top 100, the song managed to peak at number twenty-seven in its second week, before plummeting off the chart on July 1, 2006. \"Say Somethin'\" attained positions in other notable countries, charting for one week in Ireland at number twenty-three, and number sixty-three in Germany.\n\nThe label initially wanted \"Say Somethin\" to become the fourth single from the album after \"Shake It Off\". The videos for \"Shake It Off\" and \"Say Somethin\" were originally supposed to be directed by Brett Ratner. However, Carey later chose director Jake Nava instead. Jake Nava was set to film \"Shake It Off\" and \"Say Somethin\" back-to-back in June 2005, however, as filming of the \"Shake It Off\" video ended, the video shoot for \"Say Somethin\" was suddenly cancelled due to the label deciding not to release it as the fourth single.\n\nThe high-profile music video for \"Say Somethin'\" was directed by Paul Hunter, who had previously worked with Carey on videos for both \"Honey\" and \"Don't Forget About Us\", and was predominately shot in Paris, France in March 2006. Snoop Dogg and Pharrell Williams are both featured in the video, with the latter playing Carey love interest. Additionally, a cameo appearance is made by André Leon Talley, a retired fashion designer and \"Vogue\" editor. In an interview with MTV News, Carey described the trip to France, as well as the video's behind-the-scenes moments:\n\nYou know what was so great about being in Paris? Usually I'm inside a hotel room and I don't get to see anything. This time, I finally got to drive around the city, walk around the city and hang out. I love Paris; I love the electricity this city has. And it gave me a new perspective on this song, which is one of the first songs I recorded for [The Emancipation of Mimi]. It's got a hot vibe to it, when you're driving around in the car on a normal, rainy day in Paris, driving around in circles in a Maserati — who doesn't do that every day?\n\nAside from the several actors playing paparazzi throughout the video, Hunter included several shots of actual French paparazzi on scooters, who attempted to photograph Carey during the video's filming. Hunter claimed the additions made the video feel more realistic. For the video's primary filming locations, Carey had Louis Vuitton's flagship store on Champs-Élysées, one of the most prestigious avenues in Paris, shut down. When describing the experience filming in the boutique, Carey explained: \"Obviously, being able to take your pick of anything in the store and have the whole store shut down for you is every girl's dream. You know, just a pretty standard day in the life of anybody. No, just joking. There was a time in my life I only had one pair of shoes, so that's my justification for having that little perk on the job.\" After filming concluded in France, Snoop Dogg's scenes were filmed on a Sunday in Los Angeles. When asked why Dogg was not present during the Paris shoot, Carey jokingly stated:\n\nIf you guys think I'm a diva and I have requirements, Snoop is the next level. He's the hip-hop king! So his requirements to get to Paris are, like, beyond platinum editions; they're, like, beyond ultra-platinum editions; they're like diamond editions. So we love Snoop and we wish he had been here, but I think shooting him in L.A. will be good because we'll have more time, more control. He probably would have gotten really mobbed in the streets here anyway.\nAs the song's musical introduction begins, \"Mimi\" is shown on the screen in black letters. As they fade, a silver Maserati is shown driving down a populated Paris road, with several black Mercedes Benz sedans following in close proximity. As several paparazzi begin photographing Carey's vehicle through the many vehicle's sunroofs and windows, close-up shots of Snoop Dogg, as well as alternate scenes of Carey, dressed in a polka dot bikini, while on a bed of personalized Louis Vuitton luggage are interspersed. As the video returns to the main scene, Carey is shown inside her car with Pharrell Williams, where he begins caressing her legs and touching her sensually. Following the chase, Carey, alongside Dogg, are shown inside a jewelry store, where the pair try on several pairs of earrings and rings. The video resumes with Carey dressed in a long trench-coat, strutting inside Louis Vuitton's flagship store on Champs-Élysées. Scenes of Carey trying on several outfits and stilettos are shown, as \"Vogue\"'s André Leon Talley makes a cameo appearance as an employee. After leaving the boutique, Carey and Williams are shown walking down the Le Pont de Paris bridge, over-looking the Seine river. The pair caress each other intimately, and continue down the public bridge in a close embrace. Serving as the final scene in the video, Williams brings Carey back to his \"bachelor pad\", which in reality, was Carey's hotel room during filming. As the duo reaches the suite, additional close-ups of Dogg's face are shown. The video concludes with Carey sitting atop Williams at a breakfast table, as well as running together down the bridge. The scene fades, and the word \"Fin\" shown, meaning \"Finish\" in French.\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903104", "title": "Bob O'Connor (mayor)", "text": "Bob O'Connor (mayor)\n\nRobert E. O'Connor Jr. (December 9, 1944 – September 1, 2006) was an American politician who was the Mayor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania from January 3, 2006, until his death.\n\nBorn in the Greenfield neighborhood, and a longtime resident of Squirrel Hill, O'Connor graduated from Pittsburgh's Taylor Allderdice High School in 1962 and was inducted into their alumni hall of fame in 2011. He worked briefly as a steelworker, and then entered the restaurant business. He eventually became executive vice-president of the Pappan chain of restaurants in the Pittsburgh area.\n\nHe and his wife, Judy Levine O'Connor, had one daughter, Heidy Garth, and two sons, Corey and Terrence, who became a Catholic priest. Corey is a politician, currently representing the same neighborhoods that his father represented on the Pittsburgh City Council.\n\nO'Connor's political career began with his first election to Pittsburgh City Council in 1991. He served on the council under mayors Sophie Masloff and Tom Murphy.\n\nHe challenged Murphy in the Democratic primaries for mayor in 1997 and 2001. The 2001 race was especially contentious, as there was a five-way Democratic party primary. Both O'Connor and Murphy spent more than $1 million on their respective campaigns and in the end earned around 30,000 votes each in a very close race. O'Connor lost the race by 699 votes, and conceded the race several days after the primary.\n\nIn 1998, he was elected as city council president and later resigned from the city council in 2003 to work for Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell.\n\nIn 2005, O'Connor did not face Tom Murphy, who decided to not seek a fourth term as mayor. O'Connor was able to raise the most money, collect many endorsements, establish the energetic and dedicated \"Delta Team\" led by Bob \"Jabo\" Jablonowski, and beat a group of challengers. Among the runners up in the May 17 Democratic primary were Bill Peduto, a member of the city council, and Michael Lamb, a County Row Office Holder. On November 8, O'Connor defeated Republican lawyer Joe Weinroth and, on January 3, 2006, he was sworn into office as mayor.\n\nWhile in office and after his death, O'Connor was widely referred to as \"The People's Mayor.\" A lifelong sports fan, O'Connor took office soon before the Pittsburgh Steelers' win in Super Bowl XL.\n\nDuring his brief tenure, O'Connor started the \"Redd Up Pittsburgh\" campaign. (\"Redd up\" is a Pittsburgh English term which means \"to clean up\" or \"straighten up\".), and strongly emphasized the positives of the city. Each month, from November 2006 to November 2007, local volunteer organization hosted a \"Redd Up Pittsburgh\" day in a different neighborhood to honor him. On November 17, 2006, the O'Connor family was presented with the Hall of Fame Shining Lights Award for the former mayor's \"Redd Up Pittsburgh\" initiative. He was the first to receive this award.\n\nO'Connor had been in office just seven months when, in early July 2006, he complained of chronic fatigue and underwent multiple tests. On July 10, 2006, O'Connor was diagnosed with primary central nervous system lymphoma, a rare brain cancer. He began intense treatment, including chemotherapy, immediately. Though the prognosis was initially good, he experienced many complications including seizures and infections.\n\nIn August, his condition deteriorated. Yarone Zober, who had been recently appointed deputy mayor, served as acting mayor in his absence. During his illness, thousands of black and gold rubber bracelets, inscribed with the words \"Bob O'Connor...Everybody's Mayor\" and \"The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society\" were sold. The proceeds were earmarked to benefit The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.\n\nOn September 1, 2006, at 8:55 pm EDT, O'Connor died at UPMC Shadyside Hospital, 24 hours after being removed from life support. He was 61 years old. City Council President Luke Ravenstahl became mayor in the wake of O'Connor's death. He was sworn in at 10:36 pm EDT at the City County Building in downtown Pittsburgh.\n\nO'Connor's funeral and burial followed on September 7, 2006, at the Cathedral of Saint Paul and Calvary Cemetery, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The grave is located in the south-west area of the cemetery in the Gethsemane section, lot 6, grave 5. The GPS coordinates are N 40° 24.770 W 079° 55.838. His son Terrence, a Roman Catholic priest, delivered the homily at the funeral Mass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903116", "title": "Canadian Wildlife Service", "text": "Canadian Wildlife Service\n\nThe Canadian Wildlife Service or CWS (), is a Branch of the Department of the Environment, also known as Environment and Climate Change Canada, a department of the Government of Canada. November 1, 2012 marked the 65th anniversary of the founding of Service (originally known as the Dominion Wildlife Service).\n\nThe Canadian Wildlife Service is a Branch of the federal Department of the Environment, and has been Canada's national wildlife agency since 1947. Its core areas of responsibility are the protection and management of migratory birds, species at risk, and their nationally important habitats. Functions of the Canadian Wildlife Service include scientific, regulatory, property management, policy and financial support work. Scientific monitoring of migratory bird and species at risk population sizes and distribution, wetlands and critical habitats occurs throughout the country. Biologists also review environmental assessments, and review and issue permits under the Migratory Bird Regulations, Migratory Bird Sanctuary Regulations, Wildlife Area Regulations, and Species at Risk Act. Canadian Wildlife Service also manages 54 National Wildlife Areas and 92 Migratory Bird Sanctuaries, primarily where key waterfowl and seabird nesting and staging habitats occur. Planning includes preparing Bird Conservation Region Plans under the North American Bird Conservation Initiative, and Recovery Strategies and Management Plans under the Species at Risk Act. Canadian Wildlife Service also leads or supports international and interprovincial agreements regarding biological diversity, alien invasive species, indigenous wildlife management boards, the Canadian Wildlife Directors Committee, and the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. Canadian Wildlife Service delivers many substantial funding programs that support other Federal Departments, Provinces and non-governmental agencies to protect and restore wildlife habitats. Those funds include Habitat Joint Ventures under the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, Interdepartmental Recovery Fund for Species at Risk, Habitat Stewardship Program for Species at Risk, Aboriginal Fund for Species At Risk, National Wetland Conservation Fund, and Species at Risk Partnerships on Agricultural Lands.\n\nPrior to 2006, Canadian Wildlife Service was also home to wildlife research and enforcement staff. Wildlife research is now a part of the Science and Technology Branch, and Enforcement is now a separate Branch. Wildlife research is predominantly waterfowl and seabird population ecology and toxicology, with a few scientists addressing reptiles, polar bears, and caribou. Enforcement perform compliance promotion, patrols, and investigations under powers from the Migratory Birds Convention Act, Canada Wildlife Act, Species at Risk Act, Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, and Wild Animal and Plant Protection and Regulation of International and Interprovincial Trade Act.\n\nWildlife management in Canada is constitutionally a shared responsibility among the federal and provincial / territorial and aboriginal governments. Canadian Wildlife Service works closely with these governments on a wide variety of wildlife issues. The Service engages in cooperative management projects with a number of international and domestic non government agencies and funds a significant number of management and research or monitoring initiatives.\n\nCanadian Wildlife Service in 2017 had approximately 550 staff, with offices in all Canadian provinces and territories except Prince Edward Island. The organization has a regional structure, with a Pacific Region (British Columbia), Northern Region (Yukon, Northwest Territories, Nunavut), Prairie Region (Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba), Ontario Region, Quebec Region, and Atlantic Region (New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland and Labrador). Headquarters in Ottawa/Gatineau has the largest number of staff.\n\nCWS traces its history to the early 20th century with the decline and/or extinction of several species of migratory birds in eastern North America as a result of hunting, including the passenger pigeon. It became apparent to the federal government that the provincial responsibilities toward hunting regulation of migratory birds by various sub-national jurisdictions (provinces in Canada, states in the United States) was limited in scope.\n\nIn 1916, Great Britain (for Canada) and the United States of America signed the \"Migratory Birds Convention\", followed by the Parliament of Canada passing the Migratory Birds Convention Act in 1917, which gave the federal government responsibility for managing migratory bird species either harmless or beneficial to man. The Convention adopted a uniform system of protection for certain species of birds which migrate between the United States and Canada, in order to assure the preservation of species including setting dates for closed seasons on migratory birds and prohibiting hunting insectivorous birds, but allowed killing of birds under permit when injurious to agriculture. The Convention was amended by the Parksville protocol (initialled by the parties in 1995) to update and improve the conservation of migratory birds and to establish a legal framework for the subsistence take of birds. Canada implemented the Protocol by enacting the revised Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994.\n\nWith the federal government's reorganization of the Department of Resources and Development, the Dominion Wildlife Service (DWS), was established in November 1947. As a part of the new Lands and Development Services Branch, it was not meant to be as much of a research organization, but a \"development and administrative service.\" The DWS dealt with policy and methods in the conservation and management of wildlife resources. \"Few people in the 1940s saw wildlife from a holistic point of view. Like trees, birds, mammals, and fish were generally viewed a resources to be responsibly managed for the purpose of generating long-terms economic returns.\" Wildlife was a national asset.\n\nBy 1950 the DWS was known as the Canadian Wildlife Service (CWS). Harrison Lewis was the first head of the new service, remaining in that post until his retirement in 1952. When the CWS was founded, important research on wildlife had been undertaken through the National Museum of Canada. After 1947, CWS scientists and technicians earned recognition for research including work on migratory birds, particularly waterfowl and sea birds, in addition to barren-ground caribou and polar bears in the northern territories. Although Last Mountain Lake Bird Sanctuary in Saskatchewan was first created in 1887, many Migratory Bird Sanctuaries were established in the 1950s and 60s, and National Wildlife Areas in the 1960s and 70s. In 1973 the Canada Wildlife Act was passed, giving the federal government clear authority to undertake wildlife research, acquire lands for wildlife conservation, and deliver interpretation activities. Significant growth of the organization occurred during this period, and CWS began providing broader wildlife research and management services to National Parks.\n\nIn the 1960s, 1970s and into the early 1980s, Canadian Wildlife Service produced \"Hinterland Who's Who\", a successful series of 60-second educational public-service television clips about Canada's native wildlife. The first four black-and-white vignettes - on the beaver, the moose, the gannet, and the loon - were produced through a collaboration with the National Film Board and the CWS. The vignettes resulted in millions of pamphlets about wildlife being mailed in response to viewers' requests to CWS.\n\nIndividual Canadian Wildlife Service scientists and biologists became renowned for their work in conservation. Ernie Kuyt became well known for his pioneering work on the recovery of Whooping Cranes in Wood Buffalo National Park. Ian Stirling had a long career monitoring polar bear populations and discovering the effect of climate change on arctic ice and polar bear survival. Environmental contaminants and toxicological effects on wildlife became a significant focus of research programs in the 1960s and 70s. Tony Keith, director of the National Wildlife Research Centre from 1976 to 1996, presented his work on PCBs and the environment to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). David B. Peakall contributed to the OECD's adoption of \"Minimum Pre-market Data\" criteria regarding common standards for regulation and approval of new pesticides.\n\nIn the 1970s the Department of the Environment was created. Environmental movements of that time encouraged a move away from the protection of individual species, towards a more holistic approach of protecting various ecosystems and the species that inhabited them. With the signing of the 1974 Canada-USA Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement, more funding became available. By 1975 David Peakall as WSC Division Chief was focusing his work on persistent bioaccumulatory organochlorines such as DDT, dieldrin and PCBs. The North American Waterfowl Management Plan (1986) lead to greatly increased funding and partnerships with Ducks Unlimited Canada and the Provinces to protect and enhance upland and wetland habitats for waterfowl, primarily in the Prairie Provinces. The Canadian Environmental Protection Act (1990) and Canadian Environmental Assessment Act (1994) further supported a need for toxicological research on waterbirds and aquatic ecosystems to support regulations and development decisions. In 1976 the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada brought together experts in all taxa from across the country and began preparing lists of species at risk using criteria consistent with the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. By the late 1990s there was political support for a national endangered species law, and in 2002 the Accord for the Protection of Species At Risk in Canada was a precursor to the Species At Risk Act.\n\nIn spite of these increased responsibilities and public awareness, there were deep budget cuts in the 1980s that reduced CWS budgets and reduced staff by 23%. Later austerity budgeting in 1994 lead to more restructuring and elimination of vacant positions. The Fisheries Act (1986) transferred some responsibilities for aquatic ecosystem research to the Department of Fisheries and Oceans, but Canadian Wildlife Service also retracted from servicing the National Parks, cut caribou research in the arctic, several interpretive centers opened in the early 1980s were closed by the late 1980s, and growth of the National Wildlife Areas and Migratory Bird Sanctuaries effectively ended during this period of time.\n\nBy 2006 the Canadian Wildlife Service had been restructured, with research scientists and enforcement officers moved to other Branches of Environment Canada. Publication series and public outreach functions were discontinued, and centralized control of communications reduced the freedom and frequency of CWS staff speaking at conferences or to the media. Attempts were made to eliminate the name \"Canadian Wildlife Service\" to something that reflected a broader role in biodiversity conservation, and the logo of the Loon adopted in the early 1980s was banned for use in official communications. By 2010 the Canadian Wildlife Service no longer had a homepage on-line, despite still existing as an organizational unit within Environment Canada. The changes were ushered in following a dramatic shift in human and financial resources away from migratory bird research and management to the administration and implementation of the Species at Risk Act. Ongoing departmental reorganizations through this time period also impacted the Service through the creation of centralized services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903121", "title": "Collegium Hosianum", "text": "Collegium Hosianum\n\nThe Collegium Hosianum was the Jesuit collegium in Royal Prussia, (after 1945 Poland), founded in 1565, 1566 by Cardinal Stanislaus Hosius in Braunsberg (now Braniewo). The city of Braunsberg was then part of the Diocese of Warmia (Ermland), a prince-bishopric under rule of Cardinal Hosius. The Collegium Hosianum was one of the biggest Jesuit schools and one of the most important centres of Counter-Reformation in Europe and was particularly established to educate Catholic clergy of different countries.\n\nThe first Jesuits were called to Warmia by its cardinal Hosius, in order to counter the widespread Protestant movement in Prussia and elsewhere in Central and eastern Europe. The Jesuits arrived 2 November 1564. They were strongly opposed by the largely Protestant Prussian burghers and caused a religious split in the country. Despite difficult material conditions throughout the 16th century, they quickly founded many educational establishments: gymnasium (1565), \"convictus nobilium\" - school for Polish szlachta (1565), Diocesan Seminary (1567), Papal Seminary (1578) and dormitory for poor students (1582). The 16th century foundation was designed for 20 Jesuits, but the number soon approached 80, which resulted in problems with the finances of the schools and suitable number of school-rooms.\n\nThe \"Collegium\" was opened in a former Fransciscan friary. Renovation of the buildings was possible by funds given by Bishopric of Warmia. The \"Collegium\" was located in the western part of the building, \"convictus\" in the northern, and in the eastern part was located a school. In the first years the \"gymnasium\" was not very big due to lack of classrooms. There were five standard \"classes\" (courses) in it, of which the lowest was \"infirma\", and the highest was \"rhetoric\". To the initial problems of the schools were added boycotting by the Protestants and some fights between German and Polish students.\n\nThe \"Collegium\" in Braniewo distinguished itself from the other Jesuit schools in Poland and all of Europe with a specific curriculum: from 1566 there were taught German language, mathematics, singing and dialectic apart from standard subjects. After opening of the Diocesan and Papal Seminary some theological courses were introduced, and in 1592 also philosophical courses, which was a sign of the high reputation of the school. The school was elite and the number of students was not high, fluctuating from 130 to 300. The \"Collegium\" had an international character; besides local Germans, students came from all over Europe, with the majority of Poles, since the 1580s Swedes and Ruthenians added by Antonius Possevinus.\n\nThe \"Collegium\" was temporally closed in 1626 due to war of Poland with Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus (Polish-Swedish War (1625–1629)), and reopened in 1637. In 1646 Matthaeus Montanus (Matthias Bergh), a canon of Warmia, funded a new, large schoolhouse. In the years 1665-1668 the school was closed again due to destructive Swedish invasion in Prussia and Poland, Swedish Deluge.\n\nIn the 18th century in the \"Collegium\" humanities, theology, mathematics and Greek and Hebrew languages were taught. In 1701 and later Polish Jesuits applied to Rome for changing the \"Collegium\" into full university, but without success. In 1743 they bought from the city of Braunsberg a location for a new schoolhouse, which was built in the next years.\n\nAt the time of the Partitions of Poland the prince-bishopric of Warmia with Braunsberg became a part of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1772, and in 1773 the Society of Jesus was suppressed. The Prussian government turned the closed \"Collegium\" in 1780 into Gymnasium Academicum, from 1818 called Lyceum Hosianum, which in 1912 became a State Academy.\n\nIn 1945 Braunsberg returned to Poland and to its Polish name Braniewo. Of the Collegium, only the ground floor walls and one of the baroque portals were still standing. The rest of the complex was reconstructed between 1960 and 1973, however. A secondary school was reinstated. The right-side corner tower, left over from before the wartime destruction is known as the \"Pfaffenturm\" (\"loosely, \"priest tower\"\") and recalls the position of the former Franciscan monastery. Today it also comprises the assembly hall of the secondary school. The moat section to the south was known as the \"Pflaumengrund\" (\"loosely, \"plumb orchard\"\"). A small open-air arena has been installed, surrounded by the moat's remaining water.\n\nFixed incomes of the Ermland Jesuits came from their real estates, which aggregated in 1603 700 Polish złotys, in 1622 2540 złotys, in 1651 3530 złotys, in 1681 2263 złotys, in 1730 3102 złotys, in 1764 5680 złotys. To the Jesuits belonged (in different periods) villages: Stary Dwór (Althof), Bleishöfen, Kiszpork (Christburg), Daszkowo, Dębiniec, Ławice (Hansdorf), Hiplau, Hirsfelde, Julianowo (Julienshöhe), Klajzak, Krosno (Krossen), Łabuchy (Labuch), Nowa Cerkiew (Neukirchen), Petlików, Rothflies, Ruciana Góra, Sanków, Turznice, Wangory i Wronie.\n\nPapal Seminary (Papal Alumnate) was established officially on 15 March 1581. Its founder was Antonius Possevinus. The Papal seminary served as school for the youths from Protestant countries, who after graduating went back to their countries and encouraged their recatholization. Many alumni after graduating came first to Wilno to study philosophy and theology in Jesuit University of Wilno. In the 16th century the number of alumni fluctuated from 23 to 40. In 1586 the Swedish College was established as an autonomous part of the Papal Seminary.\n\nJohn Drews, rector of the Papal seminary at the end of the 17th century, built a new building with fancy garden and fountains.\n\nDiocesan Seminary served as a seminary for the Bishopric of Warmia. It was funded by Stanislaus Hosius in 1567 and opened on 25 November 1567. In the 16th century it had from 17 to 24 alumni. Diocesan seminary was directed by a rector of the \"collegium\" and by a \"prefect\" (lat. \"praefectus\"), called later a \"regens\", who was responsible for its students. The Seminary was located in the building of the Priestly Fraternity.\n\nThe novitiate of the Polish Province of Society of Jesus was opened in Braunsberg in 1568. The first person who entered the novitiate was Michał Chałkowski, whose examination took place in Braunsberg on 15 June 1569. In the years 1569-1575 126 people applied for admission to the Polish Province of Jesuits, mainly Polish nobles. The first master of novices was Robert Abercromby. The novitiate was located at first in the building of the \"collegium\", then in the old building of the \"convictus\". In 1586 the novitate was moved from Braniewo to Kraków.\n\n\n\nThe original library (about 2000 volumes) was plundered by Swedish troops throughout the Polish–Swedish War (1626–1629) and is still existing at the University of Upsala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903138", "title": "Andreas Romberg", "text": "Andreas Romberg\n\nAndreas Jakob Romberg (27 April 1767 – 10 November 1821) was a German violinist and composer.\n\nRomberg was born in Vechta, in the Duchy of Oldenburg. He learned the violin from his musician father Gerhard Heinrich Romberg and first performed in public at the age of six. In addition to touring Europe, Romberg also joined the Münster Court Orchestra. Cellist and composer Bernhard Romberg was his cousin.\n\nHe joined the court orchestra of the Prince Elector in Bonn (conducted by the Kapellmeister Andrea Luchesi) in 1790, where he met the young Beethoven. He moved to Hamburg in 1793 due to wartime upheavals and joined the Hamburg Opera Orchestra. Romberg's first opera, 'Der Rabe', premiered there in 1794. He also composed his own setting of Messiah (Der Messias).\n\nAfter a time in Paris, Andreas settled in Hamburg where he became a central figure in the city's musical life. In 1815 he succeeded Louis Spohr as music director at the court of the Duke, in Gotha, Thuringia. He died there on 10 November 1821.\n\nAmong his compositions are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903153", "title": "Feature-driven development", "text": "Feature-driven development\n\nFeature-driven development (FDD) is an iterative and incremental software development process. It is a lightweight or Agile method for developing software. FDD blends a number of industry-recognized best practices into a cohesive whole. These practices are driven from a client-valued functionality (feature) perspective. Its main purpose is to deliver tangible, working software repeatedly in a timely manner in accordance with the Principles behind the Agile Manifesto.\n\nFDD was initially devised by Jeff De Luca to meet the specific needs of a 15-month, 50-person software development project at a large Singapore bank in 1997. This resulted in a set of five processes that covered the development of an overall model and the listing, planning, design, and building of features. The first process is heavily influenced by Peter Coad's approach to object modelling. The second process incorporates Coad's ideas of using a feature list to manage functional requirements and development tasks. The other processes are a result of Jeff De Luca's experience. There have been several implementations of FDD since its successful use on the Singapore project.\n\nThe description of FDD was first introduced to the world in Chapter 6 of the book \"Java modelling in Color with UML\" by Peter Coad, Eric Lefebvre, and Jeff De Luca in 1999. Later, in Stephen Palmer and Mac Felsing's book \"A Practical Guide to Feature-Driven Development\" (published in 2002), a more general description of FDD was given decoupled from Java modelling.\n\nFDD is a model-driven short-iteration process that consists of five basic activities. For accurate state reporting and keeping track of the software development project, milestones that mark the progress made on each feature are defined. This section gives a high level overview of the activities. In the figure on the right, the meta-process model for these activities is displayed. During the first two sequential activities, an overall model shape is established. The final three activities are iterated for each feature.\n\nThe FDD project starts with a high-level walkthrough of the scope of the system and its context. Next, detailed domain models are created for each modelling area by small groups and presented for peer review. One or more of the proposed models are selected to become the model for each domain area. Domain area models are progressively merged into an overall model.\n\nKnowledge gathered during the initial modeling is used to identify a list of features by functionally decomposing the domain into subject areas. Subject areas each contain business activities, and the steps within each business activity form the basis for a categorized feature list. Features in this respect are small pieces of client-valued functions expressed in the form <nowiki>\"<action> <result> <object>\"</nowiki>, for example: 'Calculate the total of a sale' or 'Validate the password of a user'. Features should not take more than two weeks to complete, else they should be broken down into smaller pieces.\n\nAfter the feature list is completed, the next step is to produce the development plan and assign ownership of features (or feature sets) as classes to programmers.\n\nA design package is produced for each feature. A chief programmer selects a small group of features that are to be developed within two weeks. Together with the corresponding class owners, the chief programmer works out detailed sequence diagrams for each feature and refines the overall model. Next, the class and method prologues are written and finally a design inspection is held.\n\nAfter a successful design inspection for each activity to produce a feature is planned, the class owners develop code for their classes. After unit testing and successful code inspection, the completed feature is promoted to the main build.\n\nSince features are small, completing a feature is a relatively small task. For accurate state reporting and keeping track of the software development project, it is important to mark the progress made on each feature. FDD therefore defines six milestones per feature that are to be completed sequentially. The first three milestones are completed during the Design By Feature activity, and the last three are completed during the Build By Feature activity. To track progress, a percentage complete is assigned to each milestone. In the table below the milestones and their completion percentage are shown. At the point that coding begins, a feature is already 44% complete (Domain Walkthrough 1%, Design 40% and Design Inspection 3% = 44%).\n\nFeature-driven development is built on a core set of software engineering best practices aimed at a client-valued feature perspective.\n\n\nMetamodelling helps visualize both the processes and the data of a method. This allows methods to be compared, and method fragments in the method engineering process can easily be reused. Usage of this technique is consistent with UML standards.\n\nThe left side of the metadata model shows the five basic activities involved in a software development project using FDD. The activities all contain sub-activities that corresponding to sub-activities in the FDD process description. The right side of the model shows the concepts involved. These concepts originate from the activities depicted in the left side of the diagram.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903159", "title": "Aerius", "text": "Aerius\n\nAerius may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1903160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903160", "title": "Legacy", "text": "Legacy\n\nIn law, a legacy is something held and transferred to someone as their inheritance, as by will and testament. Personal effects, family property, marriage property or collective property gained by will of real property.\n\nLegacy or legacies may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903161", "title": "Matthew 2:10", "text": "Matthew 2:10\n\nMatthew 2:10 is the tenth verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The magi, dispatched by King Herod, have been shown the location of the infant Jesus by the Star of Bethlehem. In this verse they react to this.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:10.\n\nThe main observation on this verse is how hard the author of Matthew strives to prove the joy of the magi. The phrase \"rejoiced with exceedingly great joy\" piles modifiers on the basic joy of the magi. Gundry notes that the Matthew is the only gospel to use such constructions. Reid links the joy felt with the Magi upon first encountering Jesus with the joy of the disciples upon doing the same at .\n\nGundry sees this part of the chapter as an embellishment on the Gospel of Luke, and this verse as a magnified version of . Perhaps the star over Jerusalem was the Holy Spirit, or Angel of the Lord, descending upon the virgin Mary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903166", "title": "Loggerhead sea turtle", "text": "Loggerhead sea turtle\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle (\"Caretta caretta\"), is a species of oceanic turtle distributed throughout the world. It is a marine reptile, belonging to the family Cheloniidae. The average loggerhead measures around in carapace length when fully grown. The adult loggerhead sea turtle weighs approximately , with the largest specimens weighing in at more than . The skin ranges from yellow to brown in color, and the shell is typically reddish brown. No external differences in sex are seen until the turtle becomes an adult, the most obvious difference being the adult males have thicker tails and shorter plastrons (lower shells) than the females.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle is found in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, as well as the Mediterranean Sea. It spends most of its life in saltwater and estuarine habitats, with females briefly coming ashore to lay eggs. The loggerhead sea turtle has a low reproductive rate; females lay an average of four egg clutches and then become quiescent, producing no eggs for two to three years. The loggerhead reaches sexual maturity within 17–33 years and has a lifespan of 47–67 years.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle is omnivorous, feeding mainly on bottom-dwelling invertebrates. Its large and powerful jaws serve as an effective tool for dismantling its prey. Young loggerheads are exploited by numerous predators; the eggs are especially vulnerable to terrestrial organisms. Once the turtles reach adulthood, their formidable size limits predation to large marine animals, such as sharks.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle is considered a vulnerable species by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. \nIn total, 9 distinct population segments are under the protection of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, with 4 population segments classified as \"threatened\" and 5 classified as \"endangered\"\nCommercial trade of loggerheads or derived products is prohibited by CITES Appendix I.\nUntended fishing gear is responsible for many loggerhead deaths. The greatest threat is loss of nesting habitat due to coastal development, predation of nests, and human disturbances (such as coastal lighting and housing developments) that cause disorientations during the emergence of hatchlings. Turtles may also suffocate if they are trapped in fishing trawls. Turtle excluder devices have been implemented in efforts to reduce mortality by providing an escape route for the turtles. Loss of suitable nesting beaches and the introduction of exotic predators have also taken a toll on loggerhead populations. Efforts to restore their numbers will require international cooperation, since the turtles roam vast areas of ocean and critical nesting beaches are scattered across several countries.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle is the world's largest hard-shelled turtle, slightly larger at average and maximum mature weights than the green sea turtle and the Galapagos tortoise. It is also the world's second largest extant turtle after the leatherback sea turtle. Adults have an average weight range of , averaging about , and a straight-line carapace length range of . The maximum reported weight is and the maximum (presumed total) length is . The head and carapace (upper shell) range from a yellow-orange to a reddish brown, while the plastron (underside) is typically pale yellow. The turtle's neck and sides are brown on the tops and yellow on the sides and bottom.\n\nThe turtle's shell is divided into two sections: carapace and plastron. The carapace is further divided into large plates, or scutes. Typically, 11 or 12 pairs of marginal scutes rim the carapace. Five vertebral scutes run down the carapace's midline, while five pairs of costal scutes border them. The nuchal scute is located at the base of the head. The carapace connects to the plastron by three pairs of inframarginal scutes forming the bridge of the shell. The plastron features paired gular, humeral, pectoral, abdominal, femoral, and anal scutes. The shell serves as external armor, although loggerhead sea turtles cannot retract their heads or flippers into their shells.\n\nSexual dimorphism of the loggerhead sea turtle is only apparent in adults. Adult males have longer tails and claws than females. The males' plastrons are shorter than the females', presumably to accommodate the males' larger tails. The carapaces of males are wider and less domed than the females', and males typically have wider heads than females. The sex of juveniles and subadults cannot be determined through external anatomy, but can be observed through dissection, laparoscopy (an operation performed on the abdomen), histological examination (cell anatomy), and radioimmunological assays (immune study dealing with radiolabeling).\n\nLachrymal glands located behind each eye allow the loggerhead to maintain osmotic balance by eliminating the excess salt obtained from ingesting ocean water. On land, the excretion of excess salt gives the false impression that the turtle is crying.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle has a cosmopolitan distribution, nesting over the broadest geographical range of any sea turtle. It inhabits the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans and the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nIn the Atlantic Ocean, the greatest concentration of loggerheads is along the southeastern coast of North America and in the Gulf of Mexico. Very few loggerheads are found along the European and African coastlines. Florida is the most popular nesting site, with more than 67,000 nests built per year. Nesting extends as far north as Virginia, as far south as Brazil, and as far east as the Cape Verde Islands. The Cape Verde Islands are the only significant nesting site on the eastern side of the Atlantic. Loggerheads found in the Atlantic Ocean feed from Canada to Brazil.\n\nIn the Indian Ocean, loggerheads feed along the coastlines of Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, and in the Arabian Sea. Along the African coastline, loggerheads nest from Mozambique's Bazaruto Archipelago to South Africa's St Lucia estuary. The largest Indian Ocean nesting site is Oman, on the Arabian Peninsula, which hosts around 15,000 nests, giving it the second largest nesting population of loggerheads in the world. Western Australia is another notable nesting area, with 1,000–2,000 nests per year.\n\nPacific loggerheads live in temperate to tropical regions. They forage in the East China Sea, the southwestern Pacific, and along the Baja California Peninsula. Eastern Australia and Japan are the major nesting areas, with the Great Barrier Reef deemed an important nesting area. Pacific loggerheads occasionally nest in Vanuatu and Tokelau. Yakushima Island is the most important site, with three nesting grounds visited by 40% of all nearby loggerheads. After nesting, females often find homes in the East China Sea, while the Kuroshio Current Extension's Bifurcation region provides important juvenile foraging areas. Eastern Pacific populations are concentrated off the coast of Baja California, where upwelling provides rich feeding grounds for juvenile turtles and subadults. Nesting sites along the eastern Pacific Basin are rare. mtDNA sequence polymorphism analysis and tracking studies suggest 95% of the population along the coast of the Americas hatch on the Japanese Islands in the western Pacific. The turtles are transported by the prevailing currents across the full length of the northern Pacific, one of the longest migration routes of any marine animal. The return journey to the natal beaches in Japan has been long suspected, although the trip would cross unproductive clear water with few feeding opportunities. Evidence of a return journey came from an adult female loggerhead named Adelita, which in 1996, equipped with a satellite tracking device, made the 14,500 km (9,000 mi) trip from Mexico across the Pacific. Adelita was the first animal of any kind ever tracked across an ocean basin.\n\nThe Mediterranean Sea is a nursery for juveniles, as well as a common place for adults in the spring and summer months. Almost 45% of the Mediterranean juvenile population has migrated from the Atlantic. Loggerheads feed in the Alboran Sea and the Adriatic Sea.\nGreece is the most popular nesting site along the Mediterranean, with more than 3,000 nests per year. Zakynthos hosts the largest Mediterranean nesting with the second one being in Kyparissia Bay. Because of this, Greek authorities do not allow planes to take off or land at night in Zakynthos due to the nesting turtles. In addition to the Greek coast, the coastlines of Cyprus and Turkey are also common nesting sites.\n\nOne record of this turtle was made in Ireland when a specimen washed ashore on Ballyhealy Beach in Co. Wexford.\n\nLoggerhead sea turtles spend most of their lives in the open ocean and in shallow coastal waters. They rarely come ashore besides the females' brief visits to construct nests and deposit eggs. Hatchling loggerhead turtles live in floating mats of \"Sargassum\" algae. Adults and juveniles live along the continental shelf as well as in shallow coastal estuaries. In the northwestern Atlantic Ocean, age plays a factor in habitat preference. Juveniles are more frequently found in shallow estuarine habitats with limited ocean access compared to non-nesting adults. Loggerheads occupy waters with surface temperatures ranging from during non-nesting season. Temperatures from are most suitable for nesting females.\n\nJuvenile loggerheads share the \"Sargassum\" habitat with a variety of other organisms. The mats of \"Sargassum\" contain as many as 100 different species of animals on which the juveniles feed. Prey found in \"Sargassum\" mats may include barnacles, crab larvae, fish eggs, and hydrozoan colonies. Some prey, such as ants, flies, aphids, leafhoppers, and beetles, are carried by the wind to the mats. Marine mammals and commercial fishes, including tuna and mahi-mahi, also inhabit the \"Sargassum\" mats.\n\nLoggerhead sea turtles observed in captivity and in the wild are most active during the day. In captivity, the loggerheads' daily activities are divided between swimming and resting on the bottom. While resting, they spread their forelimbs to about midstroke swimming position. They remain motionless with eyes open or half-shut and are easily alerted during this state. At night, captives sleep in the same position with their eyes tightly shut, and are slow to react. Loggerheads spend up to 85% of their day submerged, with males being the more active divers than females. The average duration of dives is 15–30 min, but they can stay submerged for up to four hours. Juvenile loggerheads and adults differ in their swimming methods. A juvenile keeps its forelimbs pressed to the side of its carapace, and propels itself by kicking with its hind limbs. As the juvenile matures, its swimming method is progressively replaced with the adult's alternating-limb method. They depend entirely on this method of swimming by one year old.\n\nWater temperature affects the sea turtle's metabolic rate. Lethargy is induced at temperatures between 13 and 15 °C (55 and 59 °F). The loggerhead takes on a floating, cold-stunned posture when temperatures drop to around 10 °C. However, younger loggerheads are more resistant to cold and do not become stunned until temperatures drop below 9 °C. The loggerheads' migration helps to prevent instances of cold-stunning. Higher water temperatures cause an increase in metabolism and heart rate. A loggerhead's body temperature increases in warmer waters more quickly than it decreases in colder water; their critical thermal maximum is currently unknown. In February 2015, a live loggerhead turtle was found floating in British Columbian waters of 10.5 °C with extensive algal growth on its carapace.\n\nFemale-female aggression, which is fairly rare in other marine vertebrates, is common among loggerheads. Ritualized aggression escalates from passive threat displays to combat. This conflict primarily occurs over access to feeding grounds. Escalation typically follows four steps. First, initial contact is stimulated by visual or tactile cues. Second, confrontation occurs, beginning with passive confrontations characterized by wide head-tail circling. They begin aggressive confrontation when one turtle ceases to circle and directly faces the other. Third, sparring occurs with turtles snapping at each other’s jaws. The final stage, separation, is either mutual, with both turtles swimming away in opposite directions, or involves chasing one out of the immediate vicinity. Escalation is determined by several factors, including hormone levels, energy expenditure, expected outcome, and importance of location. At all stages, an upright tail shows willingness to escalate, while a curled tail shows willingness to submit. Because higher aggression is metabolically costly and potentially debilitating, contact is much more likely to escalate when the conflict is over access to good foraging grounds. Further aggression has also been reported in captive loggerheads. The turtles are seemingly territorial, and will fight with other loggerheads and sea turtles of different species.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle is omnivorous, feeding mainly on bottom-dwelling invertebrates, such as gastropods, bivalves, and decapods. It has a greater list of known prey than any other sea turtle. Other food items include sponges, corals, sea pens, polychaete worms, sea anemones, cephalopods, barnacles, brachiopods, isopods, Portuguese men o' war, insects, bryozoans, sea urchins, sand dollars, sea cucumbers, starfish, fish (eggs, juveniles, and adults), hatchling turtles (including members of its own species), algae, and vascular plants. During migration through the open sea, loggerheads eat jellyfish, floating molluscs, floating egg clusters, squid, and flying fish.\n\nLoggerheads crush prey with their large and powerful jaws. Projecting scale points on the anterior margin of the forelimbs allow manipulation of the food. These points can be used as \"pseudo-claws\" to tear large pieces of food in the loggerhead's mouth. The loggerhead will turn its neck sideways to consume the torn food on the scale points. Inward-pointing, mucus-covered papillae found in the fore region of the loggerhead's esophagus filter out foreign bodies, such as fish hooks. The next region of the esophagus is not papillated, with numerous mucosal folds. The digestion rate in loggerheads is temperature-dependent; it increases as temperature increases.\n\nLoggerheads have numerous predators, especially early in their lives. Egg and nestling predators include ghost crabs, oligochaete worms, beetles, fly larvae, ants, flesh flies, snakes, gulls, corvids, opossums, bears, rats, armadillos, mustelids, skunks, canids, procyonids, cats, pigs, and humans. During their migration from their nests to the sea, hatchlings are preyed on by dipteran larvae, crabs, toads, lizards, snakes, seabirds such as frigatebirds, and other assorted birds and mammals. In the ocean, predators of the loggerhead juveniles include portunid crabs and various fishes, such as parrotfishes and moray eels. Adults are more rarely attacked due to their large size, but may be preyed on by large sharks, seals, and killer whales. Nesting females are attacked by flesh flies, feral dogs, and humans. Salt marsh mosquitos can also pester nesting females.\n\nIn Australia, the introduction of the red fox (\"Vulpes vulpes\") by British settlers in the 19th century led to significant reductions in loggerhead sea turtle populations. In one coastal section in eastern Australia during the 1970s, predation of turtle eggs destroyed up to 95% of all clutches laid. Aggressive efforts to destroy foxes in the 1980s and 1990s has reduced this impact; however, it is estimated that it will be the year 2020 before populations will experience complete recovery from such dramatic losses.\n\nAlong the southeastern coast of the United States, the raccoon (\"Procyon lotor\") is the most destructive predator of nesting sites. Mortality rates of nearly 100% of all clutches laid in a season have been recorded on some Florida beaches. This is attributed to an increase in raccoon populations, which have flourished in urban environments. Aggressive efforts to protect nesting sites by covering them with wire mesh has significantly reduced the impact of raccoon predation on loggerhead sea turtle eggs. On Bald Head Island in North Carolina, wire mesh screens are used on every confirmed nest to prevent excavation by resident red foxes. A new concern with the steel cage technique is interference with the normal development of the nestlings' magnetic sense due to the use of ferrous wire, which may disrupt the turtles' ability to navigate properly. Efforts are underway to find a nonmagnetic material that will prevent predators gnawing through the barrier.\n\nUp to 40% of nesting females around the world have wounds believed to come from shark attacks.\n\nInfectious bacteria such as \"Pseudomonas\" and \"Salmonella\" attack loggerhead hatchlings and eggs. Fungi such as \"Penicillium\" infect loggerhead sea turtle nests and cloacae.\n\nFibropapillomatosis disease caused by a form of the herpes-type virus threatens loggerheads with internal and external tumors. These tumors disrupt essential behaviors and, if on the eyes, cause permanent blindness. Trematodes of the family Spirorchiidae inhabit tissues throughout the body of the loggerhead, including vital organs, such as the heart and the brain. Trematode infection can be highly debilitating. For example, inflammatory trematode lesions can cause endocarditis and neurological disease. A nematode, \"Angiostoma carettae\", also infects loggerheads, causing histologic lesions in the respiratory tract.\n\nMore than 100 species of animals from 13 phyla, as well as 37 kinds of algae, live on loggerheads' backs. These parasitic organisms, which increase drag, offer no known benefit to the turtle, although the dulling effect of organisms on shell color may improve camouflage.\n\nHatchlings range in color from light brown to almost black, lacking the adult's distinct yellows and reds. Upon hatching, they measure about and weigh about . The eggs are typically laid on the beach in an area above the high-tide line. The eggs are laid near the water so the hatchlings can return to the sea. The loggerhead's sex is dictated by the temperature of the underground nest. Incubation temperatures generally range from 26–32 °C (79–90 °F). Sea turtle eggs kept at a constant incubating temperature of 32 °C become females. Eggs incubating at 28 °C become males. An incubation temperature of 30 °C results in an equal ratio of male to female hatchlings. Hatchlings from eggs in the middle of the clutch tend to be the largest, grow the fastest, and be the most active during the first few days of sea life.\n\nAfter incubating for around 80 days, hatchlings dig through the sand to the surface, usually at night, when darkness increases the chance of escaping predation and damage from extreme sand surface temperatures is reduced. Hatchlings enter the ocean by navigating toward the brighter horizon created by the reflection of the moon and starlight off the water's surface.\n\nHatchlings can lose up to 20% of their body mass due to evaporation of water as they journey from nest to ocean. They initially use the undertow to push them five to 10 m away from the shore. Once in the ocean, they swim for about 20 hours, taking them far offshore. An iron compound, magnetite, in their brains allows the turtles to perceive the Earth's magnetic field, for navigation.\nMany hatchlings use \"Sargassum\" in the open ocean as protection until they reach . Hatchling loggerheads live in this pelagic environment until they reach juvenile age, and then they migrate to nearshore waters.\n\nWhen ocean waters cool, loggerheads must migrate to warmer areas or hibernate to some degree. In the coldest months, they submerge for up to seven hours at a time, emerging for only seven minutes to breathe. Although outdone by freshwater turtles, these are among the longest recorded dives for any air-breathing marine vertebrate. During their seasonal migration, juvenile loggerheads have the ability to use both magnetic and visual cues. When both aids are available, they are used in conjunction; if one aid is not available, the other suffices. The turtles swim at about during migration.\n\nLike all marine turtles, the loggerhead prepares for reproduction in its foraging area. This takes place several years before the loggerhead migrates to a mating area. Female loggerheads first reproduce at ages 28–33 in Southeastern United States and Australia, and at ages 17–30 in South Africa. Age at first reproduction in the Mediterranean, Oman, Japan, and Brazil are unknown. Nesting loggerheads have a straight carapace length of . Because of the large range, carapace length is not a reliable indicator of sexual maturity. Their estimated maximum lifespan is 47–67 years in the wild.\nFemale loggerheads first reproduce between the ages of 17 and 33, and their mating period may last more than six weeks. They court their mates, but these behaviors have not been thoroughly examined. Male forms of courtship behavior include nuzzling, biting, and head and flipper movements. Studies suggest females produce cloacal pheromones to indicate reproductive ability. Before mating, the male approaches a female and attempts to mount her, while she resists. Next, the male and female begin to circle each other. If the male has competitors, the female may let the males struggle with each other. The winner then mounts the female; the male's curved claws usually damage the shoulders of the female's shell during this process. Other courting males bite the male while he is attempting to copulate, damaging his flippers and tail, possibly exposing bones. Such damage can cause the male to dismount and may require weeks to heal.\nWhile nesting, females produce an average of 3.9 egg clutches, and then become quiescent, producing no eggs for two to three years. Unlike other sea turtles, courtship and mating usually do not take place near the nesting beach, but rather along migration routes between feeding and breeding grounds. Recent evidence indicates ovulation in loggerheads is mating-induced. Through the act of mating, the female ovulates eggs which are fertilized by the male. This is unique, as mating-induced ovulation is rare outside of mammals. In the Northern Hemisphere, loggerheads mate from late March to early June. The nesting season is short, between May and August in the Northern Hemisphere and between October and March in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nLoggerheads may display multiple paternity. Multiple paternity is possible due to sperm storage. The female can store sperm from multiple males in her oviducts until ovulation. A single clutch may have as many as seven fathers, each contributing sperm to a portion of the clutch. Multiple paternity and female size are positively correlated. Two hypotheses explain this correlation. One posits that males favor large females because of their perceived higher fecundity (ability to reproduce). The other states, because larger females are able to swim more quickly to mating grounds, they have longer mating periods.\n\nAll sea turtles have similar basic nesting behaviors. Females return to lay eggs at intervals of 12–17 days during the nesting season, on or near the beach where they hatched. They exit the water, climb the beach, and scrape away the surface sand to form a body pit. With their hind limbs, they excavate an egg chamber in which the eggs are deposited. The females then cover the egg chamber and body pit with sand, and finally return to the sea. This process takes one to two hours, and occurs in open sand areas or on top of sand dunes, preferably near dune grasses that the females can use to camouflage the nest. The nesting area must be selected carefully because it affects characteristics such as fitness, emergence ratio, and vulnerability to nest predators. Loggerheads have an average clutch size of 112.4 eggs.\n\nCarl Linnaeus gave the loggerhead its first binomial name, \"Testudo caretta\", in 1758. Thirty-five other names emerged over the following two centuries, with the combination \"Caretta caretta\" first introduced in 1873 by Leonhard Stejneger. The English common name \"loggerhead\" refers to the animal's large head. The loggerhead sea turtle belongs to the family Cheloniidae, which includes all extant sea turtles except the leatherback sea turtle. The subspecific classification of the loggerhead sea turtle is debated, but most authors consider it a single polymorphic species. Molecular genetics has confirmed hybridization of the loggerhead sea turtle with the Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, and green sea turtles. The extent of natural hybridization is not yet determined; however, second-generation hybrids have been reported, suggesting some hybrids are fertile.\n\nAlthough evidence is lacking, modern sea turtles probably descended from a single common ancestor during the Cretaceous period. Like all other sea turtles except the leatherback, loggerheads are members of the ancient family Cheloniidae, and appeared about 40 million years ago. Of the six species of living Cheloniidae, loggerheads are more closely related to the Kemp's ridley sea turtle, olive ridley sea turtle, and the hawksbill turtle than they are to the flatback turtle and the green turtle.\n\nAround three million years ago, during the Pliocene epoch, Central America emerged from the sea, effectively cutting off currents between the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific Oceans. The rerouting of ocean currents led to climatic changes as the Earth entered a glacial cycle. Cold water upwelling around the Cape of Good Hope and reduction in water temperature at Cape Horn formed coldwater barriers to migrating turtles. The result was a complete isolation of the Atlantic and Pacific populations of loggerheads. During the most recent ice age, the beaches of southeastern North America were too cold for sea turtle eggs. As the Earth began to warm, loggerheads moved farther north, colonizing the northern beaches. Because of this, turtles nesting between North Carolina and northern Florida represent a different genetic population from those in southern Florida.\n\nThe distinct populations of loggerheads have unique characteristics and genetic differences. For example, Mediterranean loggerheads are smaller, on average, than Atlantic Ocean loggerheads. North Atlantic and Mediterranean loggerhead sea turtles are descendants of colonizing loggerheads from Tongaland, South Africa. South African loggerhead genes are still present in these populations today.\n\nMany human activities have negative effects on loggerhead sea turtle populations. The prolonged time required for loggerheads to reach sexual maturity and the high mortality rates of eggs and young turtles from natural phenomena compound the problems of population reduction as a consequence of human activities.\n\nLoggerhead sea turtles were once intensively hunted for their meat and eggs; consumption has decreased, however, due to worldwide legislation. Despite this, turtle meat and eggs are still consumed in countries where regulations are not strictly enforced. In Mexico, turtle eggs are a common meal; locals claim the egg is an aphrodisiac. Eating turtle eggs or meat can cause serious illness due to harmful bacteria, such as \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" and \"Serratia marcescens\", and high levels of toxic metals that build up through bioaccumulation.\n\nThe US West Coast is a critical migratory corridor for the Pacific loggerheads, in which these turtles swim across the Pacific to California’s coast from breeding grounds in Japan. Important foraging habitats for juveniles in the central North Pacific have been revealed through telemetry studies. Along with these foraging habitats, high levels of bycatch from industrial-scale fisheries have been found to overlap; with drift gillnets in the past and longline fisheries presently. Many juvenile loggerheads aggregate off the coast of Baja California Sur, Mexico, where small coastal fisheries increase these turtles' mortality risk; fishers have reported catching dozens of loggerheads with bottom-set gear per day per boat. The most common commercial fishery that accidentally takes loggerheads are bottom trawls used for shrimp vessels in the Gulf of California. In 2000, between 2,600 and 6,000 loggerheads were estimated to have been killed by pelagic longlining in the Pacific.\n\nFishing gear is the biggest threat to loggerheads in the open ocean. They often become entangled in longlines or gillnets. According to the 2009 status review of loggerheads by the Fisheries Service, drowning from entanglement in longline and gillnet fishing gear is the turtles’ primary threat in the North Pacific. They also become stuck in traps, pots, trawls, and dredges. Caught in this unattended equipment, loggerheads risk serious injury or drowning. Turtle excluder devices for nets and other traps reduce the number being accidentally caught.\n\nNearly 24,000 metric tons of plastic are dumped into the ocean each year. Turtles ingest a wide array of this floating debris, including bags, sheets, pellets, balloons and abandoned fishing line. Loggerheads may mistake the floating plastic for jellyfish, a common food item. The ingested plastic causes numerous health concerns, including intestinal blockage, reduced nutrient absorption and malnutrition, suffocation, ulcerations, or starvation. Ingested plastics release toxic compounds, including polychlorinated biphenyls, which may accumulate in internal tissues. Such toxins may lead to a thinning of eggshells, tissue damage, or deviation from natural behaviors.\n\nArtificial lighting discourages nesting and interferes with the hatchlings' ability to navigate to the water's edge. Females prefer nesting on beaches free of artificial lighting. On developed beaches, nests are often clustered around tall buildings, perhaps because they block out the man-made light sources. Loggerhead hatchlings are drawn toward the brighter area over the water which is the consequence of the reflection of moon and star light. Confused by the brighter artificial light, they navigate inland, away from the protective waters, which exposes them to dehydration and predation as the sun rises. Artificial lighting causes tens of thousands of hatchling deaths per year.\n\nDestruction and encroachment of habitat by humans is another threat to loggerhead sea turtles. Optimum nesting beaches are open-sand beaches above the high-tide line. However, beach development deprives them of suitable nesting areas, forcing them to nest closer to the surf. Urbanization often leads to the siltation of sandy beaches, decreasing their viability. Construction of docks and marinas can destroy near-shore habitats. Boat traffic and dredging degrades habitat and can also injure or kill turtles when boats collide with turtles at or near the surface.\n\nAnnual variations in climatic temperatures can affect sex ratios, since loggerheads have temperature-dependent sex determination. High sand temperatures may skew gender ratios in favor of females. Nesting sites exposed to unseasonably warm temperatures over a three-year period produced 87–99% females. This raises concern over the connection between rapid global temperature changes and the possibility of population extinction. A more localized effect on gender skewing comes from the construction of tall buildings, which reduce sun exposure, lowering the average sand temperature, which results in a shift in gender ratios to favor the emergence of male turtles.\n\nSince the loggerhead occupies such a broad range, successful conservation requires efforts from multiple countries.\n\nLoggerhead sea turtles are classified as vulnerable by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and are listed under Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, making international trade illegal. In the United States, the Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service classify them as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. Loggerheads are listed as endangered under both Australia's Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 and Queensland's Nature Conservation Act 1992. The Convention on Migratory Species works for the conservation of loggerhead sea turtles on the Atlantic coast of Africa, as well as in the Indian Ocean and southeast Asia. Throughout Japan, the Sea Turtle Association of Japan aids in the conservation of loggerhead sea turtles. Greece's ARCHELON works for their conservation. The Marine Research Foundation works for loggerhead conservation in Oman. Annex 2 of the Specially Protected Areas and Wildlife Protocol of the Cartagena Convention, which deals with pollution that could harm marine ecosystems, also protects them. Conservation organizations worldwide have worked with the shrimp trawling industry to develop turtle exclusion devices (TEDs) to exclude even the largest turtles. TEDs are mandatory for all shrimp trawlers.\n\nIn many places during the nesting season, workers and volunteers search the coastline for nests, and researchers may also go out during the evening to look for nesting females for tagging studies and gather barnacles and tissues samples. Volunteers may, if necessary, relocate the nests for protection from threats, such as high spring tides and predators, and monitor the nests daily for disturbances. After the eggs hatch, volunteers uncover and tally hatched eggs, undeveloped eggs, and dead hatchlings. Any remaining live hatchlings are released or taken to research facilities. Typically, those that lack the vitality to hatch and climb to the surface die.\n\nThe loggerhead sea turtle appears on the $1000 Colombian peso coin. In the United States, the loggerhead sea turtle is the official state reptile of South Carolina and also the state saltwater reptile of Florida.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903171", "title": "Windbreaker", "text": "Windbreaker\n\nA windbreaker, or a windcheater, is a thin fabric jacket designed to resist wind chill and light rain, making it a lighter version of the jacket. It is usually of lightweight construction and characteristically made of a synthetic material. A windbreaker often uses elastic waistbands, and/or armbands, and a zipper to allow adjustments for the current \nweather conditions.\n\nRegular jackets, coats, etc. may include a type of windbreaker as an interlining that can be removed when desired. Windbreakers sometimes include a hood that may be removable and/or stowable. Many windbreakers may also include large pockets on the inside or the outside which allows belongings to be covered from weather such as light wind or rain as mentioned above. Windbreakers may offer \"light to moderate\" insulating protection, more so than a sweater, but less than an overcoat.\n\nWindbreakers are primarily worn during the warmer seasons when wind or rain are expected, or as part of a layering strategy during colder seasons. Brightly colored windbreakers may also be worn by runners as protection from the weather, and as a reflective garment used for safety. A 2012 study demonstrated that adding windbreaker pants and jackets offer a lightweight but effective means of delaying hypothermia if the user is outside walking and encounters unexpected low temperatures.\n\nThe term was first used by the John Rissman company of Chicago for its gabardine jackets.\n\n\"Windbreaker\" is used in the United Kingdom and certain Commonwealth countries, including Australia and India. It can also refer to any glossy synthetic material used to make clothing. Windcheater tops are also commonly known as cagoules or windbreakers in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe term windcheater predates the term windbreaker and was originally used to describe a sort of garment that was more akin to a pullover anorak than a modern windbreaker. Unlike windbreakers, which are waist-length, windcheaters tend to extend down to the thighs, and they lack quilting or net linings.\n\nWindcheater is also used to describe a retail item used on the beach and camping to prevent wind from disturbing social enjoyment. Normally made from cotton, nylon, canvas and recycled sails, these windbreaks tend to have three or more panels held in place with poles that slide into pockets sewn into the panel (like many tents).The poles are then hammered into the ground and a windbreak is formed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903173", "title": "Unrepeatable", "text": "Unrepeatable\n\nUnrepeatable is the title of a performance by British comedian Eddie Izzard. It was filmed on 14 March 1994 at the Albery Theatre, released on VHS and later DVD, and follows his first show, \"Live at the Ambassadors\".\n\nHe covers a wide range of topics, including washing routines, cats and dogs, cross dressing, horror movies such as Dracula, and star trek, which is typical of his \"stream of consciousness\" style of comedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903189", "title": "Quiet Life", "text": "Quiet Life\n\nQuiet Life is the third studio album by English new wave band Japan, first released in 20 December 1979 in Japan, Germany, Canada and other countries, then in the UK in 4 January 1980 (due to a delay in manufacturing the album) by record label Hansa.\n\nThe album was a transition from the glam rock-influenced style of previous albums to a synthpop style. Though sales were initially slow, \"Quiet Life\" was the band's first album to chart and was later certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry for sales in excess of 100,000 copies.\n\nIn 1979 Japan collaborated with famed disco producer Giorgio Moroder for the stand alone single, \"Life in Tokyo\", which featured a dramatic stylistic shift away from the mostly guitar-driven glam rock of their first two albums into an electronic dance style, prefiguring their work on \"Quiet Life\". However, the group did not feel that Moroder was the right choice to produce a full album.\n\nEarly material for an album had been considered and dropped, including the proposed title track \"European Son\", which later appeared on the compilation \"Assemblage\". The band then approached Roxy Music producer John Punter, but he was unavailable at the time and the group began to record with manager Simon Napier-Bell. However, the band learned that Punter was available later in the year and waited for him. Punter worked closely with the group and went on to produce two more albums and touring with them.\n\nRecorded in 1979 and released at the end of that year, \"Quiet Life\" was the last of the three albums the band made for the Hansa-Ariola label. The band switched to Virgin Records in 1980. However, Hansa later issued a compilation album (\"Assemblage\") of singles and album highlights from the band's time with the label.\n\n\"Quiet Life\" has been described as one of the first albums released during the New Romantic era, though the band themselves always refuted they had any connection or involvement with the New Romantic movement. \n\nIn a retrospective review of the band's work, \"The Quietus\" characterised the album as defining \"a very European form of detached, sexually-ambiguous and thoughtful art-pop, one not too dissimilar to what the ever-prescient David Bowie had delivered two years earlier with \"Low\"\". The album is notable for being the first album where singer David Sylvian used his newfound baritone vocal style, which became one of the band's most distinctive hallmarks.\n\nLyrically the title track refer to problems the band was going thorough at the time, having lost their US record contract and the lack of commercial success in the UK. It has been suggested that the rest of the songs is a travelogue relating to impressions the band had gained from touring the world. The oriental sounding \"A Foreign Place\" was left off the album but later appeared as the b-side on the single \"Quiet Life\".\n\nLater in his career David Sylvian said of the album: \"I still feel very attached to it – unusual for me. We reached a peak with this album – we knew what we were doing.\"\n\nThough initially unsuccessful upon its release in the band's native UK (where it peaked at No. 72 in February 1980), the album returned to the charts in early 1982 after the commercial success of 1981's \"Tin Drum\" and the Hansa Records compilation \"Assemblage\". It then peaked at No. 53, two years after its original release, and was eventually certified \"Gold\" by the BPI in 1984 for 100,000 copies sold.\n\nThe title track, \"Quiet Life\", was released as a single in Japan in 1979 and in Germany in 1980. In other countries, including the band's native UK, Hansa chose to promote the album with the standalone single \"I Second That Emotion\" with \"Quiet Life\" as the B-side. Neither single was commercially successful. Eighteen months later, in line with the band's increasing popularity and media profile, Hansa released \"Quiet Life\" as an A-side single in the UK and Ireland in August 1981 (with the instrumental \"A Foreign Place\" as the B-side). The single reached No. 19 on the UK Singles Chart, becoming Japan's first UK Top 20 hit.\n\nA second single, \"All Tomorrow's Parties\", was issued by Hansa in February 1983, two months after Japan had permanently disbanded, and three years after the original album release. It peaked at No. 38 in the UK.\n\nIn its retrospective review of the band, AllMusic wrote: \"\"Quiet Life\" is the album that transformed Japan from past-tense glam rockers into futuristic synth popsters, though they'd been leaning in that direction for a while. It's also a solid proto-New Romantic synthesizer record\". In another retrospective review, The Quietus called it \"an album that pushed the elegant, improbably-coiffed Sylvian into the limelight, aided and abetted by some of the band's best songs. \"Quiet Life\" deserves to be placed alongside \"Travelogue\", \"Mix-Up\" and \"Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark\" as one of the key early British synth-based pop/rock albums\".\n\nThe album appears in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\". \n\nThe title track made an appearance as a playable cassette track in the video game .\n\nThe band originally intended for the track listing to be 1) All Tomorrow's Parties, 2) Fall in Love with Me, 3) Alien, 4) Quiet Life, 5) The Other Side of Life, 6) Despair, 7) In Vogue, 8) Halloween, 9) A Foreign Place, and the notes in the CD cover booklet of the 2006 remastered edition suggest that the listener should try listening to the album in that order.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903199", "title": "Bring the Jubilee", "text": "Bring the Jubilee\n\nBring the Jubilee is a 1953 novel of alternate history by American writer Ward Moore. The point of divergence occurs in July 1863 when the Confederate States of America wins the Battle of Gettysburg and subsequently declares victory in a conflict referred to within the book as the \"War of Independence\" on July 4, 1864, after the surrender of the United States of America. The novel takes place in the impoverished rump United States in the mid-20th century as war looms between the Confederacy and its rival, the German Union. History takes an unexpected turn when the protagonist Hodge Backmaker, a historian, decides to travel back in time to witness the moment when the South won the war.\nThe phrase \"Bring the Jubilee\" is a reference to the chorus of the popular military song \"Marching Through Georgia\".\n\nIn the wake of Robert E. Lee's great victory at the Battle of Gettysburg and subsequent capture of Philadelphia, the United States was forced to recognize Confederate independence with the Treaty of Reading on July 4, 1864, which became known as Southron Independence Day. Lee succeeded Jefferson Davis to become the second Confederate President in 1865 (in reality, the Confederate Constitution set the end of Davis's term in early 1868). Although Lee tried to establish a benevolent national policy, and was able to free the slaves, his anti-imperialistic desires were thwarted by a Congress with increasingly imperialistic ambitions, which sent forces to invade Mexico and eventually conquer the whole of Latin America before moving west to Pacific islands such as Hawaii. The Confederacy thrived as cities like Washington-Baltimore (merged from those two cities plus Alexandria) and Leesburg (formerly Mexico City) became renowned international centers of culture and learning. The Confederacy stood as one of the world's two superpowers following the German Union's decisive victory in the Emperors' War (1914–1916) in Europe (analogous to World War I). The German Union (an apparent merger of the German and Austro-Hungarian empires) spread its hold from the Baltic to the Balkans and formed an alliance with a rejuvenated Spanish Empire. To maintain the balance of power, the Confederacy purchased Alaska from Russia and allied with the British Empire. Tensions grew between the CSA and the Germans up until the 1950s, and people around the world lived under constant threat of impending war, with the defenseless United States certain to be the battleground.\n\nThe Confederacy's living standards, economic growth, political influence, and military strength are reminiscent of the post-World War II United States. Although slavery has been abolished, to a large extent because of the efforts of men such as Robert E. Lee, conditions are still poor for ethnic minorities. Immigration is encouraged nevertheless, with immigrants being made subjects (not citizens) of the Confederacy, similar to the conquered Latin American population. Suffrage is limited to males whose ancestors were Confederate citizens on July 4, 1864. Technology developed along different lines, as the internal combustion engine, incandescent light bulb, and heavier-than-air flying craft were never created. Steam-powered \"minibiles\" and dirigibles are the primary powered means of transportation in wealthier nations; most people still ride horses for short distances or take trains for longer trips. All communication is done by letter or telegraphs, which by this point had become a fixture in all prosperous homes in much the way that telephones had in reality, and all children learned to understand telegraphy at an early age until the act became as common and as natural as reading.\n\nIn sharp contrast to the Confederacy's prosperity, the United States is depicted as a rump state trapped in perpetual recession, with unemployment and corruption rampant. The U.S. is so destitute that a transcontinental railroad is never constructed past Iowa, while the Confederacy built seven. The only community of Americans who are generally prosperous are the Mormons in the western State of Deseret, who still practice polygamy. Otherwise, only successful landowners and the few lucky winners of the highly popular national lottery are able to rise above the semi-destitute lives of average citizens; most able-bodied adults are reduced to \"indenting\" themselves to businesspeople in exchange for the meager economic security that such affords. U.S. citizens are more hostile to Blacks than Confederates, seeing them as a major cause of the Union's downfall, and unwanted competition over the few available jobs. Those blacks who have not left the U.S. for Africa, are constantly derided, harassed, threatened, and sometimes mass-lynched by whites. The Republican and Democratic parties have faded away; a new two party system consists of the Confederate-influenced Whigs and the ineffectual Populists. (The narrator lists William Jennings Bryan, George Norris, and Norman Thomas among the most famous Populists and describes the election of Whig Thomas E. Dewey as President in 1940.) Lastly, the U.S. military is practically nonexistent (apparently a provision of the 1864 treaty), with foreign powers frequently deploying troops unopposed across the U.S. in regions where their nationals have been attacked — a not infrequent occurrence, as many rural areas are poorly governed and lawlessness is rampant in them; highwaymen are a constant threat to the few travelers. The long-standing economic depression has led to a rather puritanical culture favoring late marriage and few children in each family. This, combined with a ban on immigration and the emigration of ambitious young people, has resulted in an overall declining population.\n\nThe narrator of the novel is Hodgins \"Hodge\" McCormick Backmaker, who writes a diary of his life in our timeline, year 1877. Hodge was born in 1921 in the alternate timeline in Wappingers Falls, Dutchess County, New York. In 1938 at age 17, he travels to New York City, the largest city of the United States (and yet a backwater compared to some Confederate cities), in a desperate attempt to gain admittance to a college or university. After being robbed of his few possessions, he comes into contact with the \"Grand Army\", a nationalistic organization working to restore the United States to its former glory through acts of sabotage and terrorism. One of the Grand Army's operations involves counterfeiting Spanish currency, with the goal of provoking war between the Confederacy and the German Union in Spanish territories, sparing the U.S. from becoming the two superpowers' battlefield. Despite remaining critical of the organization's activities, Hodge accepts work and lodging with a Grand Army member working from a bookshop. Content to work for food and the opportunity to read at every waking hour, Hodge stays in the bookshop for six years. (Young Hodge's life is largely autobiographical of Ward Moore.) One friend he meets during this time is Consul Enfandin, an emissary of the Republic of Haiti, the only independent country south of the Mason–Dixon line, other than the Confederacy itself, located in the Western Hemisphere. Hodge leaves New York in 1944 for rural Pennsylvania, at the invitation of a mysterious woman named Barbara Haggerwells, who is part of a small co-operative society named Haggershaven\n\nHodge's aspiration of becoming a historian, specializing in the war between North and South, becomes a reality when he joins this self-sufficient collective of scholars and intellectuals, called Haggershaven, founded by the children of a Confederate Major named Herbert Haggerwells, who settled after the war in the land he had helped defeat. Here Hodge meets Barbara Haggerwells, an emotionally disturbed research scientist on the verge of developing time travel. Many secondary characters with their own subplots are introduced during this part of the story, including some of the last few Asian-Americans alive (after a series of horrifying pogroms against their kind throughout North America) and a mysterious Spanish refugee woman who forms a love triangle with Hodge and Barbara. In 1952, the time machine has been perfected, and Hodge takes the opportunity to finally see in person the Battle of Gettysburg which was fought not far from Haggershaven. Wearing a special watch to keep track of the differences in time, he travels back in time to 1863, where he then inadvertently causes the death of Captain Herbert Haggerwells (\"never to be Major now\", remarks Hodge when he recognizes that the dead man was a younger version of the exalted portrait on Haggershaven's living room walls), who would have occupied Little Round Top for the South during the battle. In Hodge's timeline, Haggerwells' men held the hill so that the Confederates won the Battle of Gettysburg, paving the way for their victory over the Union in Philadelphia a year later; in the resultant timeline (our own), Union Colonel Strong Vincent's 83rd Pennsylvania Infantry and Colonel Joshua Chamberlain's 20th Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment occupy the hill early on and successfully repel Confederate advances. In the novel, Hodge asserts that Little Round Top is the key to the battle, and thus the war. Hodge's actions have led to Union control of the hill, so events play out as they did in our timeline, much to the surprise of Hodge, who witnesses Pickett's Charge having a different outcome than he read about. The South loses the battle, and eventually the war. \n\nWith history changed to make the world we know, Hodge discovers he is unable to return to his previous reality since the circumstances that had made the development of time travel possible have been unalterably changed: technology evolves along different lines, and Haggerwells has died before siring any descendants including Barbara, so Haggershaven and the time machine will never exist. Hodge, stranded in our timeline, hires himself out as a farmhand at the estate which would have been Haggershaven but is now owned by the Thammis family. Between 1863 and 1877 (when he is writing this story), Hodge comes to realize that the changed post-war United States is in some ways superior to the equivalent timeline in his past. He also finds it fascinating that people always talk of the Civil War rather than the War of Southron Independence, since the victors' name for the war takes precedence. However, he has an ominous feeling about the inauguration of Rutherford B. Hayes, suspecting that it will end the Reconstruction Era prematurely and weaken the cause of civil rights. Hodge then explains why he felt his story had to be written down, because he has considered the possibility of other timelines existing in parallel universes but has come to the conclusion that by preventing the future he was born in, he destroyed the only dimension where travel between them was possible. With this, the story ends abruptly in mid-sentence.\n\nAn \"editorial note\" following the story relates how one Frederick Winter Thammis had found Hodge's diary while remodeling his house in 1953, the year the real life book came out. Frederick's father had grown up knowing Hodge as a beloved ex-servant kept on a pension after he was too old to work. The family enjoyed listening to Hodge's stories of the world he was born in, but had not thought him fully sane. Thammis junior says the story reminds him of \"The Wizard of Oz\". Thammis notes that he has found a watch of a unique, two-dialed design with the manuscript, and ends the book by quoting from a recent history book which asks what could possibly have caused the Confederates' failure to occupy Little Round Top, \"an error with momentous consequences\".\n\nGroff Conklin characterized the novel as \"an important original work... richly and realistically imagine[d].\" Richard A. Lupoff described it as \"one of the most ingenious parallel world stories ever written.\" Algis Budrys, however, wrote that \"\"Bring the Jubilee\" has always seemed a little labored to me.\" P. Schuyler Miller similarly suggested the novel's appeal was limited, although he praised its mature, meticulously thought-out structure.\n\n\"The Jewish Daily Forward\" included \"Bring the Jubilee\" among \"the best literary examples of alternate history.\" Aldiss and Wingrove listed it as a \"brilliant alternate history novel\" and noted that its \"wit and ingenuity\" were influential in the genre.\n\nThe theme of the Confederacy winning the Civil War and becoming an independent state was not a new one, as Winston Churchill's segment of \"If It Had Happened Otherwise\" and Murray Leinster's \"Sidewise in Time\" had toyed with the idea in the 1930s. However, Moore's book was more developed and reached a slightly wider audience than those two works, and encouraged many later writers to take up the same thread. Virtually all of them, however, depicted the USA rump state as doing better than in Moore's book. MacKinlay Kantor's magazine serial novella \"If the South Had Won the Civil War\" (1960, published in book form 1961) and Harry Turtledove's \"The Guns of the South\" (1992) also include the plot element of Robert E. Lee succeeding Jefferson Davis as President of a victorious Confederacy (Kantor's book also has Lee win at Gettysburg, while Turtledove's has him aided by time travellers the year after losing the battle). Turtledove later depicted a very different version of Confederate independence in the Southern Victory series of 11 books which begins with Lee winning the war almost 9 months before the Battle of Gettysburg would have taken place, making the questions of Pickett's Charge, Little Round Top, etc., irrelevant. Newt Gingrich and some co-authors published a trilogy of books depicting in detail an alternate history in which the Confederacy wins at Gettysburg and still the Union wins the overall war (in fact, quicker than in actual history).\n\nA shorter, novella-length version of \"Bring the Jubilee\" appeared in the November 1952 issue of \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\" before publication of the novel. Boucher and McComas praised the expansion for including \"a thoroughly justified increase in background detail and depth of characterization\"\n\nAfter the release of the original 1953 Ballantine Books edition, the novel was republished in 1965 by Four Square Science Fiction. It was reissued by Avon Books in the 1970s and by Del Rey Books in 1997. In 2001, the novella was included in the anthology \"The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1903203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903203", "title": "MIND High School", "text": "MIND High School\n\nMIND High School (Moving In New Directions; ) (est. 1975) is an alternative education high school in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Its reputation stems from its community-based programs.\n\nMIND is a partnership between the English Montreal School Board (EMSB) and McGill University's Faculty of Education. The program focuses on providing critical thinking and enriched education through alternative teaching methods.\n\nFounded in 1975 with 125 students from the entire PSBGM (Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal) and 7 staff, MIND was originally known simply as \"The Alternative High School\" and was located primarily on the third floor (with a few classes on the second floor) of the International YMCA at the corner of Parc Avenue and St. Viateur.\n\nA vote was held by the community (students, staff and parents/guardians each had one vote), and \"MIND\" (Moving In New Directions) was declared the new name of the school. Early community votes dealt with the use of recreational drugs at school (rejected), smoking during class (eventually banned on the third floor only), world poverty and debt (no resolution) and student apathy (a surprisingly large meeting with no real solution). Community meetings were held weekly and home group meetings were held every Monday morning.\n\nShortly after, MIND moved to the third floor of the old High School of Montreal building on University Street, which was otherwise occupied by the arts-oriented high school F.A.C.E. Staff consisted of eight teachers including one head teacher, and approximately 133 students in grades 9-11 (secondary III-V). MIND currently has five teachers and 55 students.\n\nIn 1999, MIND moved to its current location in the top floor of the Bancroft elementary school building at Mont Royal and St. Urbain, in the shadow of Mount Royal. In 2003, MIND organized its first soccer team, and was soundly trounced by all of its competitors. The team's uniforms were black and white, with no logo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903216", "title": "Balloon loop", "text": "Balloon loop\n\nA balloon loop, turning loop or reversing loop (North American) allows a rail vehicle or train to reverse direction without having to shunt or even stop. Balloon loops can be useful for passenger trains and unit freight trains such as coal trains.\n\nBalloon loops are common on tram or streetcar systems. Many streetcar and tram systems use single-ended vehicles that have doors on only one side and controls at only one end, or they haul trailers with no controls in the rear car and so must be turned at each end of the route.\n\nBalloon loops were first introduced on tram and, later, metro lines. They did not commonly appear on freight railways until the 1960s, when the modernising British Rail system introduced \"merry-go-round\" (MGR) coal trains that operated from mines to power stations and back again without shunting.\n\nBalloon loops enable higher line capacity (faster turnaround of a larger number of trams) and allow the use of single-ended trams which have several advantages, including lower cost and more seating when doors are on one side only. However, double-ended trams also benefit from the capacity advantage of balloon loops, for example on the former Sydney tram system where loops were used from 1881 until the second-generation system's closure in 1961. Initially the Sydney system was operated by single-ended steam trams and then, from the 1890s, by double-ended electric trams. Lines were looped in the Sydney CBD and the other busiest areas of operation, such as the eastern suburbs lines, as they provided greater turn-around capacity on this very busy system. The Sydney system was the first example of a tramway system using loops and has continued to build them up to 1997 (third-generation system). \n\nLater in the 19th century, looped streetcar (tram) lines also began to appear on systems in the US and soon looped operation with single-ended streetcars became widely used on many North American streetcar systems. European systems were almost universally converted to looped operation in the early 20th century, and most also adopted single-ended trams. Loops were also used on some tramways in Asia, South America and New Zealand, as well as on some other Australian systems in addition to Sydney. Looped operation with single-ended trams is still the predominant method of tramway operation in the world, in spite of the recent construction of some new, typically smaller, stubbed systems with double-ended trams.\n\nOn a balloon loop, the station is on the balloon loop, and the platform may be either curved or straight.\n\n\nThe tram systems in Graz and Vienna employ Balloon Loops\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMultiple stations on a balloon loop:\n\nWith balloon loop:\nThe balloon loop is past the station.\n\nBalloon loops are used extensively on tramway systems with single-ended trams. Usually located at termini, the loop may be a single one-way track round a block. Single-ended trams have a cab at only one end and doors on one side, making them cheaper and having more space for passengers. On tram systems with double-ended trams balloon loops are not required but may still be used as they can provide greater turn-around capacity than a stub terminus; the Birmingham Corporation Tramways terminus at Rednal had a balloon loop in addition to the conventional stub tracks, providing extra capacity to handle weekend and bank holiday crowds visiting the nearby Lickey Hills. \nThe Milan interurban tramway network, although using double-ended trams, had balloon loops at termini within the city limits so that they could be used as backup termini by the single directional trams used on urban service. In Milan, tramway depots are built as balloon loops, just as urban termini. \nAnother example is in Potsdam, Germany.\n\nLoading loops\n\n\n\nUnloading loops\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHas several balloon loops and triangles.\n\n\nThere are several balloon loops at power stations in the UK; these have been provided so that coal trains may unload without stopping (known as the \"merry-go-round\" system). Examples include Cottam, Didcot, Drax, Eggborough, Ferrybridge, and Ratcliffe-on-Soar.\n\nAlso, the Fife Circle line between Edinburgh and the county of Fife acts like a giant balloon loop, branching off after Inverkeithing and connecting again at Kirkcaldy.\n\nAlso, two London Underground lines have balloon loops; the Northern Line has one at Kennington, where trains can terminate, drive around the reversing loop, and then start again whilst others can pass through; whereas the Piccadilly Line has one serving Terminal 4 of Heathrow Airport (half of all trains use this loop to return eastwards back into London, while trains terminating at Terminal 5 must halt and reverse.\n\n\nBoth the French and the British terminals of the Eurotunnel Shuttle service through the Channel Tunnel consist of balloon loops, in opposite directions to even out wear on the wheels.\n\nOccasionally, balloon loops are used for reversing trains on lines with heavy grades and tight curves to equalise wear on both sides of locomotives and rollingstock. Such a balloon loop was constructed at Beech Forest on the Victorian Railways line from Colac to Crowes.\n\nAdvantages of a balloon loop include:\n\nCompared to stations with stub platforms, balloon loops allow:\n\nThe major disadvantage is that a balloon loop is very space consuming. Another disadvantage is that the sharp curves cause noise, as well as wear on wheels and rails. Also, if the platform is located on the curve, the gap between the platform and railcar door is a hazard. The former South Ferry station on the New York City Subway solved this problem by using gap fillers that extended out to the railcar door when the train triggered a switch on the tracks. The older station had been closed, but was reopened as a result of damage to the newer station caused by Hurricane Sandy.\n\nOn systems where, for reasons of economy, the couplings are made non-reversible (e.g. by fitting the air brake pipe along one side of the car only), the use of a reversing loop will cause a proportion of the rolling stock to face the \"wrong\" way and it may not be possible to assemble a complete train in a depot, even if sufficient cars are on hand. This was the case on the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway (now part of the Northern line of London Underground). After the opening of a loop at Charing Cross (Embankment) in 1914 (replaced in 1926 by the present Kennington loop) car ends were marked \"A\" or \"B\" (later, when axles were designated by letters, the \"B\" car ends became \"D\" to match the adjacent axle), and it was not permitted to couple cars together if the ends to be coupled bore the same letter. It was found necessary to provide a turntable at Golders Green depot (near the other end of the line), for use when there was an imbalance of car directions.\n\nTo avoid this problem, on many systems with a balloon loop the couplings and brake hoses are made reversible.\n\nAt coal ports such as Kooragang in Newcastle, New South Wales the space inside the balloon loops is used for storing coal, so that it is not wasted.\n\nAt the Olympic Park station in Sydney, the loop is flattened where the platforms are located, so that the platform faces are straight.\n"}
{"id": "1903221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903221", "title": "Netzer Olami", "text": "Netzer Olami\n\nNetzer Olami is the worldwide youth movement of the World Union for Progressive Judaism (WUPJ) and is affiliated to Arzenu (the Zionist arm of the WUPJ). \"Netzer\" is an acronym in Hebrew for Reform Zionist Youth (\"Noar Tsioni Reformi\", נוער ציוני רפורמי), and Netzer Olami means 'Global Netzer'. (The word 'Progressive' is used as an umbrella term to include Reform, Liberal, Reconstructionist and other 'non-orthodox' Jewish movements - hence the 'World Union for Progressive Judaism', so a better rendition is really Progressive Zionist Youth, but of course the acronym wouldn't work). Today there are 16,000 members active in our different sniffim (chapters) that are located in the following places: Australia, Belarus, Brazil, Germany, Israel (Noar Telem), The Netherlands, North America (NFTY), Panama, Russia, South Africa, Spain, France, United Kingdom (LJY-Netzer, RSY-Netzer) and Ukraine. The Netzer Olami head office is in Beit Shmuel, (The Head Office the World Union for Progressive Judaism) in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Netzer symbol was designed in Melbourne, Australia, by Daniel (Danny) L. Schiff.\n\nEvery year, the \"Netzer Veida\" (the decision-making and ideology forum) attracts participants from most of, if not all, the sniffim. Each \"snif\" (branch) has an equal voice and vote. The official ideology of Netzer Olami is set out in the Netzer Platform, which was last changed in 2003.\n\nThe following is a simplified version of the Netzer Platform 2003:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903231", "title": "Pattern recognition receptor", "text": "Pattern recognition receptor\n\nPattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play a crucial role in the proper function of the innate immune system. PRRs are germline-encoded host sensors, which detect molecules typical for the pathogens. They are proteins expressed, mainly, by cells of the innate immune system, such as dendritic cells, macrophages, monocytes, neutrophils and epithelial cells, to identify two classes of molecules: pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), which are associated with microbial pathogens, and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), which are associated with components of host's cells that are released during cell damage or death. They are also called primitive pattern recognition receptors because they evolved before other parts of the immune system, particularly before adaptive immunity. PRRs also mediate the initiation of antigen-specific adaptive immune response and release of inflammatory cytokines.\n\nThe microbe-specific molecules that are recognized by a given PRR are called pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and include bacterial carbohydrates (such as lipopolysaccharide or LPS, mannose), nucleic acids (such as bacterial or viral DNA or RNA), bacterial peptides (flagellin, microtubule elongation factors), peptidoglycans and lipoteichoic acids (from Gram-positive bacteria), \"N\"-formylmethionine, lipoproteins and fungal glucans and chitin.\n\nEndogenous stress signals are called damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and include uric acid and extracellular ATP, among many other compounds.\n\nThere are several subgroups of PRRs. They are classified according to their ligand specificity, function, localization and/or evolutionary relationships. Based on their localization, PRRs may be divided into membrane-bound PRRs and cytoplasmic PRRs.\n\n\nPRRs were first discovered in plants. Since that time many plant PRRs have been predicted by genomic analysis (370 in rice; 47 in Arabidopsis). Unlike animal PRRs, which associated with intracellular kinases via adaptor proteins (see non-RD kinases below), plant PRRs are composed of an extracellular domain, transmembrane domain, juxtamembrane domain and intracellular kinase domain as part of a single protein.\n\nRecognition of extracellular or endosomal pathogen-associated molecular patterns is mediated by transmembrane proteins known as toll-like receptors (TLRs). TLRs share a typical structural motif, the Leucine rich repeats (LRR), which give them their specific appearance and are also responsible for TLR functionality. Toll-like receptors were first discovered in \"Drosophila\" and trigger the synthesis and secretion of cytokines and activation of other host defense programs that are necessary for both innate or adaptive immune responses. 10 functional members of the TLR family have been described in humans so far. Studies have been conducted on TLR11 as well, and it has been shown that it recognizes flagellin and profilin-like proteins in mice. Nonetheless, TLR11 is only a pseudogene in humans without direct function or functional protein expression. Each of the TLR has been shown to interact with a specific PAMP.\n\nTLRs tend to dimerize, TLR4 forms homodimers, and TLR6 can dimerize with either TLR1 or TLR2. Interaction of TLRs with their specific PAMP is mediated through either MyD88- dependent pathway and triggers the signaling through NF-κB and the MAP kinase pathway and therefore the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules or TRIF - dependent signaling pathway. MyD88 - dependent pathway is induced by various PAMPs stimulating the TLRs on macrophages and dendritic cells. MyD88 attracts the IRAK4 molecule, IRAK4 recruits IRAK1 and IRAK2 to form a signaling complex. The signaling complex reacts with TRAF6 which leads to TAK1 activation and consequently the induction of inflammatory cytokines. The TRIF-dependent pathway is induced by macrophages and DCs after TLR3 and TLR4 stimulation. Molecules released following TLR activation signal to other cells of the immune system making TLRs key elements of innate immunity and adaptive immunity.\n\nMany different cells of the innate immune system express a myriad of CLRs which shape innate immunity by virtue of their pattern recognition ability. Even though, most classes of human pathogens are covered by CLRs, CLRs are a major receptor for recognition of fungi: nonetheless, other PAMPs have been identified in studies as targets of CLRs as well e.g. mannose is the recognition motif for many viruses, fungi and mycobacteria; similarly fucose presents the same for certain bacteria and helminths; and glucans are present on mycobacteria and fungi. In addition, many of acquired nonself surfaces e.g. carcinoembryonic/oncofetal type neoantigens carrying \"internal danger source\"/\"self turned nonself\" type pathogen pattern are also identified and destroyed (e.g. by complement fixation or other cytotoxic attacks) or sequestered (phagocytosed or ensheathed) by the immune system by virtue of the CLRs. The name lectin is a bit misleading because the family includes proteins with at least one C-type lectin domain (CTLD) which is a specific type of carbohydrate recognition domain. CTLD is a ligand binding motif found in more than 1000 known proteins (more than 100 in humans) and the ligands are often not sugars. If and when the ligand is sugar they need Ca2+ – hence the name \"C-type\", but many of them don't even have a known sugar ligand thus despite carrying a lectin type fold structure, some of them are technically not \"lectin\" in function.\n\nThere are several types of signaling involved in CLRs induced immune response, major connection has been identified between TLR and CLR signaling, therefore we differentiate between TLR-dependent and TLR-independent signaling. DC-SIGN leading to RAF1-MEK-ERK cascade, BDCA2 signaling via ITAM and signaling through ITIM belong among the TLR-dependent signaling. TLR-independent signaling such as Dectin 1, and Dectin 2 - mincle signaling lead to MAP kinase and NFkB activation.\n\nMembrane receptor CLRs have been divided into 17 groups based on structure and phylogenetic origin. Generally there is a large group, which recognizes and binds carbohydrates, so called carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) and the previously mentioned CTLDs.\n\nAnother potential characterization of the CLRs can be into mannose receptors and asialoglycoprotein receptors.\n\nThe mannose receptor (MR) is a PRR primarily present on the surface of macrophages and dendritic cells. It belongs into the calcium-dependent multiple CRD group. The MR belongs to the multilectin receptor protein group and, like the TLRs, provides a link between innate and adaptive immunity. It recognizes and binds to repeated mannose units on the surfaces of infectious agents and its activation triggers endocytosis and phagocytosis of the microbe via the complement system. Specifically, mannose binding triggers recruitment of MBL-associated serine proteases (MASPs). The serine proteases activate themselves in a cascade, amplifying the immune response: MBL interacts with C4, binding the C4b subunit and releasing C4a into the bloodstream; similarly, binding of C2 causes release of C2b. Together, MBL, C4b and C2a are known as the C3 convertase. C3 is cleaved into its a and b subunits, and C3b binds the convertase. These together are called the C5 convertase. Similarly again, C5b is bound and C5a is released. C5b recruits C6, C7, C8 and multiple C9s. C5, C6, C7, C8 and C9 form the membrane attack complex (MAC).\n\nThis is another large superfamily of CLRs that includes \n\nThe nomenclature (mannose versus asialoglycoprotein) is a bit misleading as these the asialoglycoprotein receptors are not necessarily galactose (one of the commonest outer residues of asialo-glycoprotein) specific receptors and even many of this family members can also bind to mannose after which the other group is named.\n\n\"For more details, see NOD-like receptor.\"\n\nThe NOD-like receptors (NLRs) are cytoplasmic proteins, which recognize bacterial peptidoglycans and mount proinflammatory and antimicrobial immune response. Approximately 20 of these proteins have been found in the mammalian genome and include nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NODs), which binds nucleoside triphosphate. Among other proteins the most important are: the MHC Class II transactivator (CIITA), IPAF, BIRC1 etc.\n\nSome of these proteins recognize endogenous or microbial molecules or stress responses and form oligomers that, in animals, activate inflammatory caspases (e.g. caspase 1) causing cleavage and activation of important inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, and/or activate the NF-κB signaling pathway to induce production of inflammatory molecules.\n\nThe NLR family is known under several different names, including the CATERPILLER (or CLR) or NOD-LRR family. The most significant members of the NLRs are NOD1 and NOD2. They sense the conserved microbial peptidoglycans in the cytoplasm of the cell and therefore represent another level of immune response after membrane-bound receptors such as TLRs and CLRs. This family of proteins is greatly expanded in plants, and constitutes a core component of plant immune systems.\n\nThree RLR helicases have so far been described: RIG-I and MDA5 (recognizing 5'triphosphate-RNA and dsRNA, respectively), which activate antiviral signaling, and LGP2, which appears to act as a dominant-negative inhibitor. RLRs initiate the release of inflammatory cytokines and type I interferon (IFN I).\n\nRLRs, are RNA helicases, which have been shown to participate in intracellular recognition of viral double-stranded (ds) and single stranded RNA which recruit factors via twin N-terminal CARD domains to activate antiviral gene programs, which may be exploited in therapy of viral infections. It has been suggested that the main antiviral program induced by RLR is based on ATPase activity. RLRs often interact and create cross-talk with the TLRs in the innate immune response and in regulation of adaptive immune response.\nPlants contain a significant number of PRRs that share remarkable structural and functional similarity with drosophila TOLL and mammalian TLRs. The first PRR identified in plants or animals was the Xa21 protein, conferring resistance to the Gram-negative bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Since that time two other plants PRRs, Arabidopsis FLS2 (flagellin) and EFR (elongation factor Tu receptor)have been isolated. The corresponding PAMPs for FLS2 and EFR have been identified. Upon ligand recognition, the plant PRRs transduce \"PAMP-triggered immunity\" (PTI). Plant immune systems also encode resistance proteins that resemble NOD-like receptors (see above), that feature NBS and LRR domains and can also carry other conserved interaction domains such as the TIR cytoplasmic domain found in Toll and Interleukin Receptors. The NBS-LRR proteins are required for effector triggered immunity (ETI).\n\nPRRs commonly associate with or contain members of a monophyletic group of kinases called the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family that include Drosophila Pelle, human IRAKs, rice XA21 and Arabidopsis FLS2. In mammals, PRRs can also associate with members of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase family, distant relatives to the IRAK family. Some IRAK and RIP family kinases fall into a small functional class of kinases termed non-RD, many of which do not autophosphorylate the activation loop. A survey of the yeast, fly, worm, human, Arabidopsis, and rice kinomes (3,723 kinases) revealed that despite the small number of non-RD kinases in these genomes (9%–29%), 12 of 15 kinases known or predicted to function in PRR signaling fall into the non-RD class. In plants, all PRRs characterized to date belong to the non-RD class. These data indicate that kinases associated with PRRs can largely be predicted by the lack of a single conserved residue and reveal new potential plant PRR subfamilies.\n\nA number of PRRs do not remain associated with the cell that produces them. Complement receptors, collectins, ficolins, pentraxins such as serum amyloid and C-reactive protein, lipid transferases, peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGRs) and the LRR, XA21D are all secreted proteins. One very important collectin is mannan-binding lectin (MBL), a major PRR of the innate immune system that binds to a wide range of bacteria, viruses, fungi and protozoa. MBL predominantly recognizes certain sugar groups on the surface of microorganisms but also binds phospholipids, nucleic acids and non-glycosylated proteins. Once bound to the ligands MBL and Ficolin oligomers recruit MASP1 and MASP2 and initiate the lectin pathway of complement activation which is somewhat similar to the classical complement pathway.\n\nResearch groups have recently conducted extensive research into the involvement and potential use of patient's immune system in the therapy of various diseases, the so-called immunotherapy, including monoclonal antibodies, non-specific immunotherapies, oncolytic virus therapy, T-cell therapy and cancer vaccines. NOD2 has been associated through a loss- and gain- of function with development of Crohn's disease and early-onset sarcoidosis. Mutations in NOD2 in cooperation with environmental factors lead to development of chronic inflammation in the intestine. Therefore, it has been suggested to treat the disease by inhibiting the small molecules, which are able to modulate the NOD2 signaling, particularly RIP2. Two therapeutics have been approved by FDA so far inhibiting the phosphorylation on RIP2, which is necessary for proper NOD2 functioning, gefitinib and erlotinib. Additionally, research has been conducted on GSK583, a highly specific RIP2 inhibitor, which seems highly promising in inhibiting NOD1 and NOD2 signaling and therefore, limiting inflammation caused by NOD1, NOD2 signaling pathways. Another possibility is to remove the sensor for NOD2, which has been proved efficient in murine models in the effort to suppress the symptoms of Crohn's disease. Type II kinase inhibitors, which are highly specific, have shown promising results in blocking the TNF arising from NOD-dependent pathways, which shows a high potential in treatment of inflammation associated tumors.\n\nAnother possible exploitation of PRRs in human medicine is also related to tumor malignancies of the intestines. \"Helicobacter pylori\" has been shown by studies to significantly correlate with the development of a gastrointestinal tumors. In a healthy individual \"Helicobacter pylori\" infection is targeted by the combination of PRRs, namely TLRs, NLRs, RLRs and CLR DC-SIGN. In case of their malfunction, these receptors have also been connected to carcinogenesis. When the \"Helicobacter pylori\" infection is left to progress in the intestine it develops into chronic inflammation, atrophy and eventually dysplasia leading to development of cancer. Since all types of PRRs play a role in the identification and eradication of the infection, their specific agonists mount a strong immune response to cancers and other PRR-related diseases. The inhibition of TLR2 has been shown to significantly correlate with improved state of the patient and suppression of the gastric adenocarcinoma.\n\nThe PRRs are also tightly connected to the proper function of neuronal networks and tissues, especially because of their involvement in the processes of inflammation, which are essential for proper function but may cause irreparable damage if not under control. The TLRs are expressed on most cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and they play a crucial role in sterile inflammation. After an injury, they lead to impairment of axonal growth and slow down or even halt the recovery altogether. Another important structure involved in and potentially exploitable in therapy after injury is the inflammasome. Through its induction of proinflammatory cytokines, IL-1β and IL-18 it has been proposed, that inhibition of inflammasome may also serve as an efficient therapeutic method. The involvement of inflammasome has also been researched in several other diseases including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and in atherosclerosis connected with type II diabetes in patients. The suggested therapies include degradation of NLRP3 or inhibit the proinflammatory cytokines.\n"}
{"id": "1903238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903238", "title": "Don Cockell", "text": "Don Cockell\n\nDonald John \"Don\" Cockell (22 September 1928 – 18 July 1983) was an English boxer. He fought for most of his career as a light-heavyweight and became the British and European champion at that weight. Later in his career he moved up to heavyweight and held the British and Commonwealth heavyweight titles. He is best remembered for fighting against Rocky Marciano for the world heavyweight championship. Cockell defeated a number of top heavyweights in his career, including Roland La Starza, Harry Matthews (twice), Tommy Farr, Freddie Beshore, Johnny Arthur, Johnny Williams and Uber Bacilieri. In his earlier incarnation as a Light Heavyweight he defeated top contenders such as Nick Barone, Albert Yvel, Lloyd Marshall and Albert Finch.\n\nHis full name was Donald John Cockell and he was born on 22 September 1928 in Balham, London, the son of Mary Cockell, a domestic servant from Battersea. He never knew his father. He was a blacksmith by trade, and as a result developed a strong physique. He began boxing in fairground booths and soon rose through the amateur ranks until he was ready to turn professional in 1946.\n\nCockell had his first professional fight on 26 June 1946 against Trevor Lowder and won it by a knockout in the fifth round. He continued to build up an impressive fighting record marred by the occasional defeat. By 1950 he was ready to challenge for the vacant British light-heavyweight title recently vacated due to the retirement of Freddie Mills. On 17 October at Harringay Arena he fought Mark Hart and took the title with a knockout in the fourteenth round.\n\nCockell fought and won two more fights before fighting the Frenchman Albert Yvel for his European light-heavyweight title. The bout took place on 27 March 1951 at Earls Court, London and Cockell won by a technical knockout in the sixth round.\n\nCockell had two more wins before defending his British and European titles against Albert Finch, who had previously been British middleweight champion. The bout was held on 16 October 1951, at Harringay Arena, and Cockell won by a knockout in the seventh round.\n\nCockell decisively lost his next fight against the American heavyweight Jimmy Slade. Fighting at Harringay Arena, Cockell was knocked down twice in the first round, once in the second, and twice more in the fourth. The referee then stopped the fight. Cockell followed this defeat with a points win against Italian light-heavyweight Renato Tontini, despite being knocked down twice in the second round.\n\nCockell then fought against Randolph Turpin, who the year before, had beaten Sugar Ray Robinson to become world middleweight champion, before losing his title in the re-match. Cockell was defending his British title, and both fighters were contesting the vacant Commonwealth light-heavyweight title. The bout was at the White City Stadium on 10 June 1952. Cockell was knocked down three times during the fight and lost on a technical knockout in the eleventh round.\n\nOne of the reasons for the defeat was the difficulty that Cockell had in making the weight for light-heavyweight fights. He therefore decided to fight subsequently as a heavyweight. His next three fights, at heavyweight, were all won by technical knockouts. The third one was against the Welshman, Tommy Farr, who had been an excellent heavyweight, fighting against the great Joe Louis, but who was now at the end of his career.\n\nThe fight against Farr was a final eliminator for the British heavyweight title, and so put Cockell in line for a title challenge against the holder Johnny Williams. The bout for the British and Commonwealth titles was held at Harringay Arena on 12 May 1953, and Cockell won on points over fifteen rounds.\n\nCockell then had two more wins before defending his Commonwealth title against Johnny Arthur in Johannesburg, South Africa. He won the fight on points after fifteen rounds.\n\nCockell moved rapidly up the heavyweight rankings by scoring three wins against American fighters. First he beat Roland La Starza on points at Earls Court Arena, then he had successive victories over Harry (Kid) Matthews, first at the White City Stadium and then at Sicks' Stadium, Seattle.\n\nThese victories put him in line for a title fight against the world champion Rocky Marciano. This was the first British world title bid since Tommy Farr had fought Joe Louis in 1937.\n\nOn 16 May 1955, Cockell fought Marciano for the world heavyweight title at Kezar Stadium in San Francisco, CA. Cockell was a 10–1 underdog and weighed 14 st 9 lbs against Marciano’s 13 st 7 lbs. For the first three rounds the fight was fairly even, but as it progressed further Cockell began to take more and more punishment, without being able to hurt Marciano at all. Cockell ended the eighth round hanging through the ropes after withstanding a terrific beating. Marciano won the fight by a technical knockout 54 seconds into round nine after Cockell had been knocked down twice, for counts of eight and seven. After the fight, Marciano stated, \"He's got a lot of guts. I don't think I ever hit anyone else any more often or harder.\"\n\nMany boxing fans in Britain felt that Marciano employed unfair tactics, such as hitting after the bell and low punches, but although the British Boxing Board of Control protested, Cockell himself made no complaints.\n\nIn covering the fight for Sports Illustrated, Budd Schulberg wrote in the May 30, 1955 edition, \"Except for the technicality of wearing eight-ounce gloves, Don Cockell's stand against Rocky Marciano in the fading daylight hours of a cool San Francisco sunlit day was a glorious—or appalling—throwback to this pre-Marquess of Queensberry condition. This was a bare-knuckle brawl with gloves—and not a pleasant sight either—as an uncouth, merciless, uncontrolled and truly vicious fighter (the unbeaten Champion Marciano) wore down an ox-legged, resolute fat man who came into the ring with the honor of the British Empire weighing heavily—and consciously—on his massive, blubbery shoulders. He had promised his Union Jack supporters that he would not let them down, and the first words he mumbled through swollen lips after his fearful beating in nine rounds were an apology to his fellow countrymen for not having done better.\"\n\nHe had 81 official fights, winning 66, of which 38 were by knockouts, and lost 14, with one drawn fight.\n\nThe title fight had taken much out of Cockell, and he lost his subsequent two fights. In September 1955 he lost to the Cuban, Nino Valdes at the White City Stadium by a technical knockout in the third round. He weighed 15 st 6 lbs for the fight. In April 1956 he was knocked out in the second round Kitione Lave, known as the \"Tongan Terror\". That was his final fight. In May 1956 he was stripped of his Commonwealth title and in July he surrendered his British title and retired.\n\nCockell sued the Daily Mail after the newspaper had described him as being ‘overweight and flabby’ for his last fight, and not giving his all. He received £7,500 damages with costs.\n\nHe tried various jobs including running a farm, being a publican, and running a haulage firm based at Ninfield in East Sussex. By 1975 he was working as a craftsman blacksmith in the permanent way machine shops at the London Underground Lillie Bridge Depot in Fulham. His last job was as an emergency maintenance man. He died of cancer on 18 July 1983 at a hospital in Tooting. He was married to Patricia Mary Cockell and had a son Patrick and\nBrother (David Hammond) worked with him\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903240", "title": "Stanley J. Korsmeyer", "text": "Stanley J. Korsmeyer\n\nStanley Joel Korsmeyer (8 June 1950 – 31 March 2005) was an American oncologist. Through his studies of apoptosis, Korsmeyer helped develop the concepts of the role of programmed cell death in carcinogenesis. In 1989 Korsmeyer was among the first to confirm that a particular form of lymphoma arose in certain B cells because they had a genetic flaw that caused them to overexpress a gene, Bcl-2, that was involved in the body's normal process for getting rid of them. He then conducted a number of studies defining the activity of a number of related genes and their role in apoptosis. \n\nKorsmeyer obtained a medical doctorate from the University of Illinois at Chicago, completed a residency at the University of California Hospitals in California, and then trained at the National Cancer Institute under Thomas A. Waldmann and Philip Leder. He then became a tenured professor, first at Washington University and then at Harvard at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, working within the Howard Hughes Medical Institute while at both universities. He was widely respected in the field and received numerous prestigious cancer research awards, including the Bristol-Myers Squibb Award for Distinguished Achievement in Cancer Research and the General Motors Cancer Research Foundation Charles S. Mott Prize. He was an elected member of the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine, and the American Philosophical Society. The American Society for Clinical Investigation has established a scientific award in his name. In 2000 he was awarded the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize by Columbia University. \n\nHe has been credited as the author of nearly 20 articles published since his death from cancer in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903241", "title": "Obscure Alternatives", "text": "Obscure Alternatives\n\nObscure Alternatives is the second studio album by English new wave band Japan, released in October 1978 by record label Hansa.\n\nJapan's first album, \"Adolescent Sex\", had been unsuccessful on the British charts, and their record company required another album, this time aimed at the lucrative US and European markets where rock was dominating the airwaves. Still working with Ray Singer as producer, singer and songwriter David Sylvian in particular found it difficult to take a back seat and began to demand more control over the eventual presentation of the material.\n\n\"Trouser Press\" wrote that the album \"adds more keyboards but still relies on Rob Dean's buzzing guitars and David Sylvian's sneery vocals for its sound\". Certain tracks contain elements of funk and reggae. AllMusic's Amy Hanson described \"Automatic Gun\" as \"a spit-shined punk shocker backed by bright pop guitar\". The title track is described as \"wonderfully atmospheric and slightly menacing\", while \"Love Is Infectious\" \"put the band completely into discordant post-punk art house-dom\". \"...Rhodesia\", Hanson writes, \"brought the funk back and infused it with a Caribbean essence.\n\nThe final track, \"The Tenant\", a piano based instrumental, was the first notable shift towards the direction their later material would take. \"The Tenant\" also marks bassist Mick Karn's recording debut on saxophone.\n\n\"Obscure Alternatives\" was released in October 1978, only seven months after \"Adolescent Sex\". As with the first album, \"Obscure Alternatives\" was commercially unsuccessful in the UK, but garnered moderate success in Japan, where it peaked just outside the Top 20.\n\nThe tracks \"Deviation\" and \"Sometimes I Feel So Low\" were released as singles in certain countries, the latter as a double A-side with a re-recorded version of \"Adolescent Sex\" (the title track of their first album, re-recorded during the sessions for this album). It became Japan's first European hit single, and the re-recorded version of \"Adolescent Sex\" is featured on the 1981 compilation album \"Assemblage\". Both tracks were mixed together to form \"I Can't Wait\", which was club hit for L'il Devious in 2003.\n\nThe album was remastered and re-released in 2004, and included a video for \"Sometimes I Feel So Low\".\n\n\"Trouser Press\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> review was unfavourable, writing: \"The songs are fairly unmelodic, the production nondescript. With a quick listen, you might mistake this for a junior-league Stones imitation.\"\n\nAllMusic was more positive, writing retrospectively: \"Although the set isn't quite up to par with its predecessor, \"Obscure Alternatives\" is still a challenging listen.\"\n\nSylvian has gone on record saying that \"Obscure Alternatives\" should have been their debut album.\n\nAll songs written by David Sylvian.\n\nSide A\n\n\nSide B\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903244", "title": "F.A.C.E. School", "text": "F.A.C.E. School\n\nF.A.C.E. School (in English, Fine Arts Core Education and in French, Formation Artistique au Cœur de l'Éducation) is a bilingual kindergarten, elementary and high school in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is run jointly by the English Montreal School Board (EMSB) and the Commission Scolaire de Montréal (CSDM). F.A.C.E. was founded in 1975 with the name Fine Arts Core Elementary School (F.A.C.E.S.) and occupied the Victoria School building, now part of Concordia University, before moving to its current University Street location, to the east of McGill University's main campus in downtown Montreal. This was previously the home of the High School of Montreal, which had closed in June 1979.\n\nF.A.C.E. currently has over 1,300 students enrolled.\n\nThe Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal previously operated the school.\n\nStudents at FACE have extra arts courses in addition to the academics required by both school boards. With over three more hours of class time per week in high school, the dismissal time varies from 2:30 to 2:50 to 3:45. Even then, students are sometimes required (or elect of their own free will) to stay after school for extracurricular courses and projects.\n\nEach grade at FACE is typically divided into four groups: three of them French, and one of them English; however in some of the lower grades, due to varied numbers of students, there are sometimes two to three English groups or two to four French groups. The groups are identified by the number of the grade, followed by E or F, for English or French, and then by a number when there is more than one group of its language (e.g., the English side group of Grade 10 is 10E, and the French side group of Grade 10 is split into 10F1, 10F2 and 10F3). The population of the school has grown over the years requiring new groups to be added such as 1F4 and 1E2.\n\nFACE has built a reputation for its music program in Canada, partially thanks to many MusicFest Canada awards, among other things.\n\nIn Grades 1 to 3, students must play xylophone and recorder, after which, in Grade 4, students are tested playing trumpet, strings, clarinet and flute for five weeks each. Each student is then placed in a band or orchestra class where he learns to play his or her instrument for seven and a half years until graduation (although some students change instruments partway through). The students showcase their efforts in performances held in the school auditorium at least twice a year.\n\nFrom Grades 1 to 11, all students participate in a choir class, where students sing a selection of classical pieces and contemporary favorites. This class combines all groups in the grade into one large classroom of approximately 120 to 150 people, with five teachers, one or more of whom plays piano . The choir class also performs at least twice a year in the school auditorium or churches.\n\nStarting in Grade 3, students have a Drama class where they learn theatre skills. Once in grade 10, the students are required to put on a public play, everyone in the class must participate whether they act or work in tech. The performances are held in either the school auditorium or the \"P-scène\", a smaller auditorium in the basement of the school (see Facilities below).\nThe grade 11 students also have to opportunity to put on a student production, which is extra-curricular and put on entirely by the students. There can be up to two of these per year.\n\nStudents participate in visual art classes starting in Kindergarten until grade 11.\n\nThe FACE building is situated across University Street from the main campus of McGill University.\n\nWhile principally an art school, FACE has also had its fair share of athletic successes. The school's students consistently do well in school board badminton tournaments and have one Division Three basketball title to their name. The school is quickly becoming a powerhouse in both outdoor and indoor soccer having won a title in both since 2006 and in 2009, the Jazz clinched their first ever playoff berth in Division One basketball. The Jazz men's basketball team advanced to the finals, after finishing first in their division for the first time in 1999.\n\nFACE is divided into five floors, from the basement to the fourth. The kindergarten classes are all on the first floor. Grades one to three generally occupy most of the second floor, while Grades 4 and higher have classes on all floors. There is also a sub-basement.\n\nThere are four staircases going through the basement to the 4th floor. They are called \"red stairs, \"green stairs\", \"blue stairs\" and yellow stairs\". The Yellow stairs lead to the sub-basement. Another staircase, called the black stairs (by students) at the bottom of the blue stairs leads to the sub-basement. The stairs are being repainted and are no longer representative of their name.\n\nFACE contains basic school facilities, such as an office, a cafeteria, a library, four gymnasiums, many science and computer laboratories, and teachers' lounges. However, to suit the school's artistic program, there is also a large auditorium on the first floor which hosts numerous plays, concerts and a fashion show, as well as a smaller one in the basement dubbed the \"P-Scène\" by students, a word play because the room was once host to a swimming pool, which translates to \"piscine\" and is now principally a stage, which translates to the French \"scène\". North of the building, a small, abandoned yard was planted and transformed into an \"urban forest\" where teachers can take their classes for an outdoor teaching experience. It was baptized \"Forêt Frédéric-Back\" and inaugurated in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903246", "title": "Pusheta Township, Auglaize County, Ohio", "text": "Pusheta Township, Auglaize County, Ohio\n\nPusheta Township is one of the fourteen townships of Auglaize County, Ohio, United States. The 2010 census found 1,301 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the southern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nA small portion of Wapakoneta, the largest city and county seat of Auglaize County, is located in northwestern Pusheta Township, and the unincorporated community of Fryburg lies in the township's center.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, Pusheta Township has a total area of , of which is land and , or 0.30%, is water.\n\nIt is the only Pusheta Township statewide.\n\nFormed in 1836, Pusheta Township was originally part of Allen County. The township takes its name from Pusheta Creek.\n\nThe township is split between the Wapakoneta City School District in the north and east, Botkins Local Schools in the south, and New Knoxville Local Schools in the west.\n\nThe northern section of the township is served by the Wapakoneta (45895) post office, the western section by the New Knoxville (45871) post office, and the extreme southern section by the Botkins (45306) post office.\n\nMajor highways include Interstate 75, which crosses the county from north to south, and U.S. Route 33, which sits on the township's northern border.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903248", "title": "The Dream Catcher", "text": "The Dream Catcher\n\nThe Dream Catcher is a 1999 independent drama film, directed by Edward Radtke. It is a road movie, telling the story of two boys on the road. A Jack Kerouac book on film. 16mm film blown up to 35mm. A raw and open escape into the American problem.\n\nIn 1999 Terry Stacey won special mention for cinematography at the Thessaloniki Film Festival.\n\nIn 1999 Paddy Connor won special mention for Acting at the Thessaloniki Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903249", "title": "Cinacalcet", "text": "Cinacalcet\n\nCinacalcet, sold under the brand name Sensipar among others, is a medication used to treat hyperparathyroidism due to kidney failure and high blood calcium due to parathyroid carcinoma.\n\nCinacalcet acts as a calcimimetic (i.e., it mimics the action of calcium on tissues) by allosteric activation of the calcium-sensing receptor that is expressed in various human organ tissues.\n\nCinacalcet was approved in the United States in March 2004, and in the European Union in October 2004. It was the first allosteric G protein-coupled receptor modulator to enter the pharmaceutical market. In 2014, cinacalcet was 76th out of the top 100 drugs in the list of largest selling pharmaceutical products.\n\nCinacalcet is indicated for the treatment of tertiary hyperparathyroidism in people with chronic kidney disease on dialysis and hypercalcemia in people with parathyroid carcinoma. Cinacalcet can also be used to treat severe hypercalcemia in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism who are unable to undergo parathyroidectomy.\n\nIn the treatment of tertiary hyperparathyroidism due to chronic kidney disease on dialysis it does not appear to affect mortality. It does decrease the need for a parathyroidectomy but can cause more issues with low blood calcium levels.\n\nCinacalcet has pregnancy category C in the US, meaning that adequate and well-controlled studies involving cinacalcet in pregnant women have not been done.\n\nStudies have not been done in lactating women; therefore it is not known whether cinacalcet is excreted into human milk.\n\nHypocalcemia (decreased calcium levels) is a contraindication of cinacalcet. Those who have serum calcium levels less than 7.5 mg/dL should not be started on cinacalcet. Hypocalcemia symptoms include parathesias, myalgias, muscle cramping, tetany, and convulsions. Cinacalcet should not be administered until serum calcium levels are above 8.0 mg/dL and/or hypocalcemia symptoms are resolved. Cinacalcet is not approved for pediatric use in the United States.\n\nCommon side effects of cinacalcet include stomach upset, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, nausea, weakness, and chest pain.\n\nClinical trials conducted in the United States by Amgen to determine whether the drug is safe in children were halted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in February 2013, following the death of a 14-year-old patient.\n\nSerious side effects, including overdose symptoms, of cinacalcet include:\n\nCinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of the liver enzyme CYP2D6 and is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2. Dose adjustments may be necessary if people are treated with CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitors and medications that are metabolized by CYP2D6.\n\nCinacalcet is a drug that acts as a calcimimetic (i.e. it mimics the action of calcium on tissues) by allosteric activation of the calcium-sensing receptor that is expressed in various human organ tissues. The calcium-sensing receptors on the surface of the chief cell of the parathyroid gland is the principal negative regulator of parathyroid hormone secretion. Cinacalcet increases the sensitivity of calcium receptors on parathyroid cells to reduce parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels and thus decrease serum calcium levels.\n\nThe intravenously administered drug etelcalcetide has the same mechanism of action.\n"}
{"id": "1903250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903250", "title": "Ohrdruf", "text": "Ohrdruf\n\nOhrdruf is a small town in the district of Gotha in the German state of Thuringia. It lies some 30 km southwest of Erfurt at the foot of the northern slope of the Thuringian Forest. The former municipalities Crawinkel, Gräfenhain and Wölfis were merged into Ohrdruf in January 2019.\n\nOhrdruf was reportedly founded in 724–726 by Saint Boniface, as the site of the first monastery in Thuringia, dedicated to Saint Michael. It was the first of several religious foundations in the town, the latest of which is the Carmelite monastery Karmel St. Elija (founded 1991).\n\nIn 1550, under work began on \"Schloss Ehrenstein\" at the site of the former 8th century monastery.\n\nDuring the 17th century, the \"Schloss\" fell to the Grafen von Hohenlohe who after 1760 made alterations to it in Baroque style.\n\nIn 1695, the orphaned Johann Sebastian Bach came to live and attend school at Ohrdruf, under the care of his older brother Johann Christoph Bach (1671–1721), who had come here in 1690 as organist at the St. Michaelis Kirche (St Michael's Church) and as a teacher at the \"Lyceum\". Johann Sebastian lived in Ohrdruf from the ages of 10 to 15.\n\nIn the 19th century, the town became a centre of toy manufacturing. The Kewpie doll was produced here from 1913. There are still some old molds embedded in the facades of Ohrdruf buildings.\n\nIn 1869, the Hohenlohe family sold the \"Grafschaft Gleichen\" including the castle and town of Ohrdruf to the Duchy of Saxe-Gotha.\n\nThe nearby \"\" (military training area) served as a POW camp during World War I, housing around 20,000 prisoners. It was later used by the Wehrmacht and in the fall of 1944 a section of it became the Ohrdruf concentration camp. The prisoners were used to construct roads, railways and tunnels. The latter were to include a temporary headquarters for the Nazi leadership following the evacuation of Berlin (\"Führerhauptquartier\").\n\nAccording to German historian Rainer Karlsch, the facility built at nearby \"Jonastal\" was one of two locations where Kurt Diebner's team tested its nuclear energy project. During this process, according to Karlsch, prisoners of war were killed under the supervision of the SS.\n\nOhrdruf is believed to be the place where the historical Compiègne Wagon was blown up in an air attack in 1944. Ohrdruf was the first Nazi concentration camp to be liberated by the US Army, on 4 April 1945. Shortly thereafter, Generals Eisenhower, Patton and Bradley came here to look at the piles of dead bodies left behind by the SS.\n\nThe military training area of \"Truppenübungsplatz Ohrdruf\" was taken over in July 1945 by the Red Army, since Thuringia became part of the Soviet occupation zone. The \"Nordlager\" -part of the concentration camp was razed. Two memorials to the dead were erected at around this time. In 1991, ownership was transferred to the German Defence Ministry. Since 1993, the Bundeswehr has been in charge of the area.\n\nThe Soviet troops also used \"Schloss Ehrenstein\" from 1956 until 1971, leaving it in a desolate condition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903252", "title": "Ron Russell", "text": "Ron Russell\n\nRonald S. Russell (July 22, 1926 – March 7, 2019) was a Canadian politician and pilot who lived in Nova Scotia.\n\nRussell was born in Ngongotahā, New Zealand. He was a pilot for the Royal New Zealand Air Force during the Second World War, and later joined the Royal Canadian Air Force. Russell was educated at the Ryerson Institute of Technology and Queen's University. He retired from the RCAF in 1973, and then worked several years as the Manager of Halifax International Airport.\n\nRussell served five years on the municipal council for West Hants before entering provincial politics. He was first elected to the Nova Scotia House of Assembly in the 1978 general election and was re-elected in 1981, 1984, 1988, 1993, 1998, 1999, and 2003; holding the seat until his retirement in 2006.\n\nRussell was Speaker of the House of Assembly of Nova Scotia on three occasions, from 1978 to 1980, from 1991 to 1993 and again from 1998 until 1999. He was the first Speaker to be elected by his peers rather than be appointed by the Premier. He served in the Executive Council of Nova Scotia holding various portfolios under four different Premiers. He was Minister of Consumer Affairs from 1980 to 1981, of Health from 1985 to 1987, and was Solicitor General from 1987 to 1989 under Premier John Buchanan. He was Labour Minister from 1989 to 1991 under Roger Stuart Bacon.\n\nRussell married Anna Isfeld. Russell died on March 7, 2019, at the age of 92.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903265", "title": "Lord of the World", "text": "Lord of the World\n\nLord of the World is a 1907 dystopian science fiction novel by Monsignor Robert Hugh Benson that centres upon the reign of the Antichrist and the end of the world. It has been called prophetic by Dale Ahlquist, Joseph Pearce, Pope Benedict XVI and Pope Francis.\n\nMonsignor Robert Hugh Benson, a former High Church Anglican Vicar, began writing \"Lord of the World\" two years after his conversion to Roman Catholicism rocked the Church of England in 1903.\n\nThe youngest son of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Edward White Benson, and the society hostess Mary Sidgwick Benson, Robert was descended from a very long line of Anglican clergymen. He had also read the litany at his father's 1896 funeral at Canterbury Cathedral and was widely expected to one day take his father's place as the most senior clergyman in the Anglican Communion. After a crisis of faith described in his 1913 memoir \"Confessions of a Convert\", however, Benson was received into the Roman Catholic Church on September 11, 1903.\n\nAccording to Joseph Pearce, \"The press made much of the story that the son of the former Archbishop of Canterbury had become a Catholic, and the revelation rocked the Anglican establishment in a way reminiscent of the days of the Oxford Movement and the conversion of Newman.\"\n\nThe former Vicar found himself inundated with hate mail from Anglican clergy, men, women, and even children. Benson found himself accused of being \"a deliberate traitor\", \"an infatuated fool\", and of bringing dishonor upon his father's name and memory. Although he replied scrupulously to every letter, Benson was deeply hurt. He later wrote that he received considerable solace in the words that an Anglican Bishop had spoken to his mother, \"Remember that he has followed his conscience after all, and what else could his father wish for him than that?\"\n\nAfter his ordination as a Catholic priest at Rome in 1904, Fr. Benson had been assigned as a Catholic Chaplain at Cambridge University. It was during his stay at Cambridge Rectory that \"Lord of the World\" was conceived and written.\n\nAccording to his biographer Fr. Cyril Martindale, the idea of a novel about the Antichrist was first suggested to Fr. Benson by his friend and literary mentor Frederick Rolfe in December 1905. It was Rolfe who also introduced Mgr. Benson to the writings of the French Utopian Socialist Claude Henri de Rouvroy, comte de Saint-Simon.\n\nAccording to Fr. Martindale, as Benson read Saint-Simon's writings, \"A vision of a dechristianised civilisation, sprung from the wrecking of the old régime, arose before him and he listened to Mr. Rolfe's suggestion that he should write a book on Antichrist.\"\n\nWriting during the pontificate of Pope Pius X and prior to the First World War, Monsignor Benson accurately predicted interstate highways, weapons of mass destruction, the use of aircraft to drop bombs on both military and civilian targets, and passenger air travel in advanced Zeppelins called \"Volors\". Writing in 1916, Fr. Martindale compared Mgr. Benson's ideas for future technology with those of legendary French science fiction novelist Jules Verne.\n\nHowever, Mgr. Benson also presumed the survival of European colonialism in Africa, the continued expansion of Imperial Japan, and that predominant travel would continue to be by railway. Like many other Catholics of the era in which he wrote, Monsignor Benson believed in Masonic conspiracy theories and shared the political and economic views of G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc.\n\nIn early 21st century London, two priests, the white-haired Father Percy Franklin and the younger Father John Francis, are visiting the subterranean lodgings of the elderly Mr. Templeton. A Catholic and former Conservative Member of Parliament who witnessed the marginalization of his religion and the destruction of his party, Mr. Templeton describes to the two priests the last century of British and world history.\n\nSince the Labour Party took control of the British Government in 1917, the British Empire has been a single party state. The British Royal Family has been deposed, the House of Lords has been abolished, Oxford and Cambridge have been closed down, and all their professors sent into internal exile in Ireland. Marxism, atheism, and secular humanism, which Templeton describes as the tools of Freemasonry, dominate culture and politics. The Anglican Communion has been disestablished since 1929 and, like all forms of Protestantism, is almost extinct. The world now has only three main religious forces: Catholicism, secular humanism, and \"the Eastern religions\".\n\nNationalism has been destroyed by Marxist internationalism and the world has been divided into three power-blocs. The first, which is generally marked in red on maps, is a European Confederation of Marxist one-party states and their colonies in Africa that use Esperanto for a world language. The second, marked in yellow, is \"the Eastern Empire\", whose Emperor, the \"Son of Heaven\", descends from the Japanese and Chinese Imperial Families. The third, the blue marked, \"the American Republic\", consists of North, South, and Central America.\n\nIn a move that almost toppled Marxism in the Confederation during the 1970s and '80s, the Eastern Empire invaded, annexed, and now rules India, Australia, and New Zealand, as well as all of Russia east of the Ural Mountains. For this and other reasons, Mr. Templeton explains, the Confederation and the Eastern Empire are now on the brink of a global war.\n\nAfter Mr. Templeton completes his story, Fathers Franklin and Francis return to their spartan apartments at Westminster Cathedral.\n\nOliver Brand, an influential Labour MP from Croydon, listens as his secretary, Mr. Phillips, describes the seemingly inevitable rush toward war between Europe and the Eastern Empire. He mentions that a mysterious Senator Felsenburgh has unexpectedly taken charge of the American Republic's peace delegation. Felsenburgh is tirelessly crisscrossing the Empire, delivering speeches to rapt audiences. The Senator shows a remarkable fluency in the languages of his listeners.\n\nIn conversation with his wife, Mabel, Oliver comments that war between Europe and the Empire will be \"Armageddon with a vengeance\", and expresses hope that Senator Felsenburgh will save the day. Although Mabel Brand appears concerned, her husband responds, \"My dear, you must not be downhearted. It may pass as it all passed before. It is a great thing that we are listening to America at all. And this Mr. Felsenburgh seems to be on the right side.\"\nOver breakfast, Oliver frets about his upcoming trip to Birmingham, where the outraged population is again demanding the right to trade freely with the American Republic. As his mind returns to the possible war against the Empire, Brand ponders that the real problem is the survival of religious belief in the Eastern Empire—Buddhism, Islam, Sufism, Confucianism, and Pantheism. In Great Britain, only Catholicism remains in \"a few darkened churches\" and \"with hysterical sentimentality\" in Westminster Cathedral. He ponders with disgust how, against his opposition, Ireland was granted Home Rule and \"opted for Catholicism.\" Furthermore, the city of Rome was \"given up wholly\" in exchange for all church property in Italy to Pope John XXIV, who has transformed it into a Hong Kong-style enclave where \"mediaeval darkness\" reigns supreme. He recalls with outrage how the Italian Republic moved its capital to Turin. As he departs to catch a volor to Birmingham, Oliver looks out at \"the grey haze of London, really beautiful, this vast hive of men and women who had learned at least the primary lesson of the gospel that there was no God but man, no priest but the politician, and no prophet but the schoolmaster.\"\nAs she prepares to board a train to Brighton, Mabel Brand witnesses a Government volor crash into the station. As the Government's Ministers of Euthanasia arrive and begin to finish off the wounded, maimed and dying, Mrs. Brand witnesses Father Percy Franklin arrive. She is stunned to see the priest open his coat, pull out his crucifix and give the Last Rites to the dying Catholic lying next to her. After she returns home, deeply moved and traumatized by what she has witnessed, Mabel tells Oliver that both Father Franklin and the dying man seemed to believe in what they were doing.\n\nWhile deeply grieved that his wife has witnessed the horrors of the accident, Oliver explains Catholic doctrine about the Afterlife, which he mocks as a ridiculous belief that a person's mind can survive despite their brain being dead. According to Brand, for Father Franklin, the soul of the man is either \"in a sort of smelting works being burned\", or if \"that piece of wood took effect\" he is \"somewhere beyond the clouds\" with the Holy Trinity, the Mother of God, and the Communion of Saints. He explains that \"that kind of thing may be nice, but it isn't true.\" Impressed by her husband's explanation of the fallacy of religion, Mabel relaxes.\nAt the residence of the Cardinal-Protector near Westminster Cathedral, Father Percy Franklin finishes writing his Latin language report to Rome about the mass defections taking place among English Catholics and the recent conversions from the crumbling Anglican Communion. As he walks toward the elevator, Father Franklin finds that Father John Francis, whom he has been attempting to nurse through his mounting doubts, has lost his faith and decided to leave the priesthood. In a last-ditch effort to prevent this, Father Franklin explains that Christianity \"may be untrue\", but it cannot be absurd and false as long as educated and intelligent people continue to believe in its teachings. Unmoved, Father Francis rebuffs Father Franklin's argument and, with bottomless self-pity, asks whether they can remain friends. Father Franklin responds, \"What kind of friends could we be?\" An infuriated Fr. Francis leaves in a huff.\n\nAfter saying his prayers before the Eucharist in the Tabernacle, Father Franklin joins his fellow priests as they discuss Felsenburgh over dinner. Later, as he ponders the disintegration of Catholicism throughout the world, Father Franklin decides that what the Church needs most is a new religious order, which will help the Faith to survive and spread in the catacombs.\nWhile giving a speech at Trafalgar Square (now with Nelson's Column replaced with statues of prominent socialists), Oliver Brand is wounded in the arm by a Catholic layman armed with a pistol. After the would-be assassin is beaten to death by the assembled crowd, Oliver informs Mabel of the news. Senator Felsenburgh is crisscrossing the East delivering multiple speeches, possibly on the behalf of the Emperor, trying to disperse the warmongering Eastern Convention (vaguely associated with the Sufis). Even so, Oliver explains that he must travel to Paris to prepare armaments for expected war. He explains that an explosives manufacturer named Benninschein has developed weapons of mass destruction and sold them to both power blocs. Therefore, a war will leave at least one power bloc completely annihilated.\n\nHours later, a glowing Oliver returns from Paris and tells Mabel that, due to Felsenburgh, all chances of war have evaporated. It will soon be announced, and Oliver urges Mabel to come with him at once. Felsenburgh, he explains, will be there.\nAs the Brands depart for their meeting with Felsenburgh, Oliver's secretary, Mr. Phillips arrives at the flat of Father Percy Franklin. Explaining that Oliver Brand's elderly mother used to be a Catholic, Phillips explains that she wishes to return to the Church before her imminent death. Although he knows it might be a setup, Father Franklin feels that he cannot refuse. After having what he expects to be his last Confession heard, he walks to London Victoria Station to catch a train to Croydon. To his shock, Father Franklin encounters cheering crowds and electrified letters announcing the dispersal of the Eastern Convention, the calling off of the expected war, the establishment of \"universal brotherhood\", and Felsenburgh's imminent arrival in London. After secretly arriving at the Brands' home, Fr. Franklin is met by Mrs. Brand and, realizing that she is completely sincere, he receives her back into the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Brands return home an hour earlier than expected. Enraged that a priest would visit his home, Oliver is utterly infuriated that his mother would actually request such a thing. Despite his outraged demands, Father Franklin refuses to reveal who acted as the go-between. To Oliver's shock, Mabel urges Father Franklin to leave in peace. She explains that he will see Felsenburgh and the overflowing joy that his arrival has occasioned in England. This is why, Mabel explains, she is no longer afraid of him or of others like him. Deeply surprised that he will not be arrested, Father Franklin leaves into the summer night.\n\nAs he returns to Victoria Station, Father Franklin encounters a rally being addressed by Senator Felsenburgh. For a brief moment, the Senator's hypnotic powers of persuasion cause the priest to believe in him, but Father Franklin's doubts about the Catholic Faith are soon overcome.\n\nAs Oliver Brand reads Mabel an account of Felsenburgh's arrival in England in the Marxist newspaper \"New People\", it is revealed that the Senator, who speaks all languages with equal fluency, has been hailed as the Mahdi throughout the Islamic World. It boasts that his background has nothing \"that convicts him of sin\", in contrast to the corrupt practices that have \"made the sister continent what she is today\".\n\nIt adds, however, \"Of his actual words we have nothing to say. So far as we are aware, no reporter made notes at the moment; but the speech, delivered in Esperanto, was a very simple one; and very short. It consisted of a brief announcement of the great fact of Universal Brotherhood, a congratulation to all who were yet as live to witness this consummation of history; and at the end, an ascription of praise to the Spirit of the World whose incarnation was now accomplished.\"\n\nThe article proceeds to mock the supernatural as dead. It announces that a new and enlightened age has come and that mankind is finally ready for world peace.\n\nMeanwhile, as her son is away with Felsenburgh, Mrs. Brand takes a sudden turn for the worse. Ignoring Mabel's sermons about how Christianity has divided the human race and caused nothing but terrible violence, Mrs. Brand pleads for Father Franklin to be summoned. When Oliver returns home that day, a weeping Mabel informs him that his mother died an hour before. Clutching her rosary, Mrs. Brand had continued to scream for a priest as long as she was able to speak. Mabel explains, however, that she had had her mother-in-law involuntarily euthanised, knowing that her husband would desire it. Although moved to tears by his mother's passing, Oliver tells Mabel that she did the right thing.\n\nMeanwhile, Father Franklin, who has been summoned to Rome by Pope John XXIV, arrives in Paris to board a volor connection to Italy. As he waits at the main volor station in the former Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Montmartre, Father Franklin ponders how the England that he is leaving behind is beginning to resemble an earthly Hell. Upon his arrival in Rome, Father Franklin is greeted by the Cardinal Protector of England and informed that the Pope will receive him at eleven o'clock.\nUpon being shown into the presence of His Holiness, Father Franklin explains his ideas for the Church's survival under the rule of Julian Felsenburgh. The answer must be increasing standardization and centralization. After recounting the previous steps taken towards centralization, such as the forced merging of all religious orders, the abolition of the Eastern Catholic Churches, and the forced residence of all members of the College of Cardinals in Rome, Father Franklin recommends that violence must never be used – the Mass and the rosary must be the primary weapon against the coming persecution. In conclusion, Father Franklin recommends the forming of a new religious order, with no habit or badge, \"freer than the Jesuits, poorer than the Franciscans, more mortified than the Carthusians: men and women alike – the three vows for their Church; each Bishop responsible for their sustenance; a lieutenant in each country... And Christ Crucified for their patron.\"\n\nAfter the audience, Father Franklin is assigned as an assistant to the ailing Cardinal Protector of England. His duties are to offer daily Mass in the Cardinal's Oratory and to read and summarize all reports from England. During his free hours, Father Franklin takes long walks through the city. He ponders how the Eternal City, which the Pope has divided into four national quarters, now represents a microcosm of the world.\n\nTowards the end of August, as Father Franklin walks toward the celebration of the Pope's Name Day – significantly, the Pope is named John, so the feast in question is the rather unusual choice of the Decapitation, not the more popular Nativity, of St. John the Baptist -, he passes the yoked carriages of the deposed Crowned Heads of Europe. As he recognizes the British Royal Family, the German House of Hohenzollern, the House of Romanov, the Spanish and French Houses of Bourbon, and scores of \"lesser powers\", Father Franklin ponders the \"appalling danger\" their presence constitutes \"in a democratic world.\" The world, he knows, affects \"to laugh at the desperate play-acting of Divine Right on the part of fallen and despised families\", but he shudders to think what could happen if that sentiment ever turns to anger.\n\nHalf an hour later, Father Franklin follows the Pope in a procession through the streets of Rome and ponders the contrast between the Church and the World. \"The two Cities of Augustine lay for him to choose. The one was that of a world self-originated, self-organized and self sufficient, interpreted by such men as Marx and Herve, socialists, materialists, and, in the end, hedonists, summed up at last by Felsenburgh. The other lay displayed in the sight he saw before him, telling of a Creator and of a creation, of a Divine purpose, a redemption, and a world transcendent and eternal from which all sprang and moved. Of the two, John and Julian, was the Vicar, and the other the Ape, of God... And Percy's heart in one more spasm of conviction made its choice...\"\n\nAs the Pope, the College of Cardinals, and the deposed royals assemble in the Vatican, Father Franklin's heart quickens as he watches the Papal Mass that follows, in which the former monarchs serve the Pope at the Altar.\n\nAs Pope John Elevates the Host, Father Franklin ponders that here lies the one hope of the world's dwindling Catholics, \"as mighty and little as once within the manger. There was none other that fought for them but only God.\" He realizes that if God cannot be moved from His silence by the persecution of the Faithful, how could He not respond to the reenactment of His Son's Passion and Death, which pleads now within an \"island of Faith amid a sea of laughter and hatred\"?\n\nAfter the Mass, as an exhausted Father Franklin finally sits down, the heartbroken Cardinal-Protector of England arrives and informs him that Julian Felsenburgh is now President of Europe. As they examine the dispatches late into the night, it soon becomes clear that the news is true. After each of the Great Powers offered him the Presidency and was repeatedly refused, a Convention of Powers offered Felsenburgh a unified proposal. Felsenburgh was to \"assume a position hitherto undreamed of in democracy\"—a House of Government in every Capital, a final veto lasting three years on every motion submitted to him, legal power granted to every motion he submits on three consecutive years, and the title President of Europe.\n\nThe narration reads, \"...all this, Percy saw very well, involved the danger of a unified Europe increased tenfold. It involved all of the stupendous force of Socialism directed by a brilliant individual. It was a combination of the strongest characteristics of the two methods of Government. The offer had been accepted by Felsenburgh after eight hours silence.\"\nTossing and turning through a sleepless night, Father Franklin ponders \"the madness that had seized upon the nations; the amazing stories that had poured in that day of the men in Paris, Who, raving like Bacchantes, had stripped themselves naked in the Place de la Concorde, and stabbed themselves to the heart, crying to thunders of applause that life was too enthralling to be endured... of the crucifixion of the Catholics that morning in the Pyrenees, and the apostasy of three bishops in Germany...\" Heartsick, Father Franklin ponders how God can make no sign and speak no word.\n\nAs morning breaks, the Cardinal-Protector arrives and announces that he is terminally ill. When he dies, Pope John has decided that it will be Father Franklin who will succeed him.\n\nThe following day, Father Franklin arrives for a Papal Allocution. Fully expecting Pope John to issue another Anathema against both Marxism and Freemasonry—the ideological pillars of Felsenburgh's new order— Father Franklin silently laments that the world will simply ignore it. Instead, he is stunned as the Pope instead announces that he is creating an Order of Christ Crucified to spread the Faith in the face of persecution.\n\nMeanwhile, President Felsenburgh has instructed the Parliaments of Europe to institute weekly Humanist ceremonies, inspired by the rituals of Freemasonry, in all the cathedrals and churches which are not in Catholic hands. Attendance is to be optional except for the four annual festivals of Maternity, Life, Sustenance, and Paternity. Those who refuse to attend are threatened with dire consequences.\n\nAs Oliver Brand, now Minister of Public Worship, plans the upcoming festival of the Maternity with ex-priest John Francis, he learns to his dismay that the Cardinal-Protector of England has died and that Father Percy Franklin has taken his place. In conversation with Mabel, Oliver expresses contempt for the Pope's new religious order and calls it the most foolish thing that the Catholic Church could ever have done.\n\nMeanwhile, in Rome, Cardinal Franklin arrives at his offices and reads reports of the new Humanist rituals. He recalls with dismay that John Francis was only recently offering the Mass at Catholic Altars. He ponders that Felsenburgh's rituals are \"Positivism of a kind, Catholicism without Christianity, Humanity worship without its inadequacy.\"\n\nWith a deep sense of pessimism, the Cardinal recalls the outrage which these decrees have caused among the world's Catholics and how, in a recent Audience, he and Cardinal Hans Steinmann of Germany urged Pope John to issue \"a stringent decree... forbidding acts of violence on the part of Catholics.\" The faithful are to be encouraged to be patient, to quietly avoid Humanist worship, to say nothing unless arrested and questioned, and to gladly suffer persecution for Christ's sake. As the Pope considers their proposal, Cardinal Franklin learns that Mr. Phillips—Oliver Brand's now disgraced Secretary—urgently wishes to see him. He gives orders that Mr. Phillips is to arrive in January.\n\nAs Advent proceeds to Christmas, Cardinal Franklin witnesses the new Order of Christ Crucified go forward \"with almost miraculous success.\" Practically the entirety of Rome has enrolled, including the deposed monarchs. From throughout the world, long lists arrive of new members drawn up by their Bishops, \"...but better than all this was the tidings of victory in another sphere. In Paris forty of the new-born Order had been burned alive in one day in the Latin Quarter, before the Government intervened. From Spain, Holland, and Russia had come in other names. In Düsseldorf, eighteen men and boys, taken by surprise at the singing of Prime in the Church of St. Lawrence, had been cast down one by one into the city sewer, each chanting as he vanished: \"Christi Fili Dei vivi miserere nobis\", and from the darkness had come the same broken song until it was silenced with stones. Meanwhile, German prisons were thronged with the first batches of recusants. The world shrugged its shoulders, and declared that they had brought it on themselves, while it yet deprecated mob violence, and requested the attention of the authorities and the decisive repression of this new conspiracy of superstition. And within St. Peter's Church the workmen were busy at the long rows of new altars, affixing to the stone diptychs the brass-forged names of those who had already fulfilled their vows and gained their crowns. It was the first word of God's reply to the world's challenge.\"\n\nWhen Mr. Phillips arrives in Rome on New Year's Day, his news horrifies Cardinal Franklin—English and German Catholics are plotting a suicide bombing against the Abbey where Felsenburgh's inner circle meets. Cardinal Franklin informs Pope John, who immediately dispatches him and the Cardinal Steinmann of Germany, to their respective homelands to try to prevent the bombing. As their volor flies over the Alps, the two Cardinals encounter an enormous squadron of volors heading south from England and Germany. Having also learned of the plot through Mr. Phillips, President Felsenburgh has ordered the Dresden-style destruction of Rome in retaliation.\nUsing Benninschein's new explosives, the Anglo-German volors systematically firebomb the entire city of Rome, killing Pope John, all the assembled Cardinals, and countless unarmed men, women, and children. Meanwhile, news of the plot triggers anti-Christian pogroms to spread throughout the world. In London, Mabel Brand witnesses mobs of militant Atheists crucifying Christian men, women, and children and lynching priests before her very doors. Having believed that only religious belief could incite such violence, Mabel's faith in Felsenburgh is left deeply shaken.\n\nUpon his return home, Oliver Brand attempts to console his wife. He explains that the pogrom has happened because the people of England have not yet been purged from the residue of Christianity. When Mabel asks why the riots were not obstructed by the police, however, Brand admits that the police have been ordered to stand down. Although she admits that she has been contemplating suicide, Mabel relaxes when informed that Felsenburgh will soon be arriving. Oliver reminds her, ominously, that it is over. Rome has already been destroyed and that he co-signed the orders. Devastated, Mabel dissolves in tears.\n\nThe following day, Oliver Brand reads news reports of the riots. According to the Marxist newspaper \"New People\", Westminster Cathedral has been sacked and every altar overthrown. A priest managed to consume the Eucharist moments before being seized and throttled. The Archbishop, two bishops, and eleven priests have been lynched in the sanctuary. Thirty-five convents have been destroyed and St George's Cathedral, Southwark, has been burned to the ground. It is alleged that for the first time since the introduction of Christianity to England that there is not a single functioning church.\n\nThat afternoon, the Brands and all the people of London enter St. Paul's Cathedral for the Feast of Maternity, over which Felsenburgh will preside. After procession with incense and a few opening remarks by turncoat Mr. John Francis, Felsenburgh enters the Cathedral dressed in the red and black robes of a British High Court judge. As the crowd listens with rapt admiration, Felsenburgh speaks of the destruction of Rome and the recent pogroms against Christians. He explains that future generations of men must flush with shame to remember that mankind had once turned its back on the risen light.\nThen, a curtain is torn aside, revealing a statue of a naked mother and child. Felsenburgh leads all the assembled worshipers in prayer to the \"Mother of us all.\" All those present hail the statue as Queen and Mother. The chapter ends with the words, \"Then in the heavenly light, to the crash of drums, above the screaming of the women and the battering of feet, in one thunder peal of worship ten thousand voices hailed Him Lord and God.\"\n\nAfter the destruction of Rome, Cardinals Franklin and Steinmann traveled to the deathbed of the only other survivor of the College of Cardinals — the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem. They held an impromptu Papal Conclave, which resulted in the election of Cardinal Franklin as Pope Sylvester III. Soon after, the Latin Patriarch died and Cardinal Steinmann returned to Berlin, where he was promptly lynched.\n\nPope Sylvester has since reorganized the Church so that it will survive the global persecution under Felsenburgh's Government. He has secretly rebuilt the College of Cardinals, but his actual name and location (Nazareth) are known only to the members of the College.\n\nMeanwhile, Felsenburgh has ordered the \"Test Act\" — all the world's people must either formally disavow the existence of God or be executed without trial. While large numbers of religious believers refuse and are slaughtered, many others agree without any qualms. Mr Philipps, who states that he cannot disavow the existence of God and cannot either confess to Him, is granted a week to make up his mind.\n\nWith the last remnant of her faith shattered, Mabel Brand secretly leaves her husband and checks into a voluntary euthanasia clinic. All of Oliver's attempts to find her are in vain. After the eight-day waiting period required by law, Mabel writes a suicide letter to her husband and voluntarily suffocates herself using a provided gas mask. As her life fades away, Mabel finds, \"something resembling sound or light, something she knew in an instant to be unique, tear across her vision. Then she saw, and understood...\"\n\nDue to an informer—Cardinal Dolgorovski of Moscow—the President has learned of the new Pope and his plans for a secret meeting of remaining Cardinals in Nazareth. The President demands the British Cabinet to join in a volor-bombing attack to wipe out the Church, while allowing the inhabitants of the village to escape. He further suggests that Cardinal Dolgorovski should be executed to prevent him from \"relapse\" and taking over the remnants of the Roman Catholic Church. Oliver Brand and the Cabinet give the President their unanimous assent.\n\nIn Nazareth, Pope Sylvester is told that Cardinal Dolgorovski has refused a direct order to attend. He realizes that Dolgorovski has been turned and that Nazareth is about to be destroyed. He gives orders to warn the city's residents to flee and then offers Mass followed by Eucharistic Adoration.\nAs Felsenburgh personally flies in the volor-squadron, the narration states, \"He was coming now, swifter than ever, the heir of temporal ages and exile of eternity, the final piteous Prince of rebels, the creature against God, blinder than the sun which paled and the earth which shook; and, as He came, passing even then through the last material stage to the thinness of a spirit fabric, the floating circle swirled behind Him, tossing like phantom birds in the wake of a phantom ship... He was coming, and the earth, rent once again in its allegiance, shrank and reeled in the agony of divided homage...\"\nAs volor firebombs begin to rain down on Nazareth, Pope Sylvester and the Cardinals calmly continue to chant the \"Pange Lingua\" before a Host exposed in a Monstrance on the altar. The last words of the novel are: \"Then this world passed, and the glory of it.\" (Sic transit gloria mundi).\n\nMonsignor Benson drew upon history, other works of science fiction, and current events to create a fictional universe.\n\nFrederick Rolfe's anti-Modernist satirical novel \"Hadrian VII\" inspired numerous aspects of \"Lord of the World\", including the introductory first chapter.\n\nAccording to his biographer, Fr. Cyril Martindale, Mgr. Benson's depiction of the future was in many ways an inversion of the science fiction novels of H. G. Wells. Like many other Christians of the era, Benson was sickened by Wells' belief that Atheism, Marxism, World Government, and Eugenics would lead to an earthly utopia. Due to his depiction of a Wellsian future as a murderous global police state, Benson's novel has been called one of the first modern works of dystopian science fiction.\n\nA further source of inspiration was Mgr. Benson's interest in history.\n\nFr. Percy Franklin's constant fear of arrest while carrying out his priestly ministry in London is inspired by Mgr. Benson's research into the aftermath of the English Reformation. Fr. Franklin's suspicion that Fr. Francis may have become a police informant and his belief that Mrs. Brand's request for a priest is a trap to ensnare him are reminiscent of the tactics used by Elizabethan Era priest hunters like Sir Richard Topcliffe.\n\nJulian Felsenburgh's leadership style was modeled after that of Napoleon Bonaparte, whose mistakes he was intended to correct. In one of the three notebooks he kept while writing \"Lord of the World\", Mgr. Benson wrote that while Napoleon's weakness was \"his soft heart: he forgave,\" Felsenburgh, \"never forgives: for political crime he strips of position, making the man incapable of holding office; for treachery to himself he drops them out of his councils.\" He further described the Anti-Christ as \"complete hardness, and kindness\".\n\nThe number of former priests and bishops who reject Catholicism are inspired by the priests who took an oath rejecting the authority of the Holy See following the French Revolution. All were excommunicated by the Pope and became employees of the French Government following the Civil Constitution of the Clergy.\n\nThe word, \"Recusants\", which Fr. Franklin uses to describe Catholics who absent themselves from compulsory Humanist worship, dates from the reign of Queen Elizabeth I of England. The word was originally used to describe both Catholics and Puritans who, despite heavy fines and imprisonment, refused to attend weekly Anglican services.\n\nThe conspiracy to suicide bomb President Felsenburgh and its grisly aftermath are inspired by the Gunpowder Plot of 1605, in which a small group of English Catholic noblemen led by Robert Catesby planned to blow up King James I of England during an address before Parliament. Like its fictional counterpart, the Gunpowder Plot was exploited for propaganda and used to justify a campaign to completely and permanently destroy Roman Catholicism.\n\nThe scene in which President Julian Felsenburgh leads an enormous congregation in the worship of a mother goddess inside St. Paul's Cathedral is inspired by the worship of the Goddess of Reason inside Notre Dame Cathedral during the Reign of Terror.\n\nAs acknowledged in the text, the character of Cardinal Dolgorovski of Moscow is inspired by Judas Iscariot.\n\nThe word \"Test Act\" for Felsenburgh's legislative means to root out Catholicism is no invention of his or of his author, but there actually have been Test Acts in England.\n\nFurther inspiration was gleaned from Mgr. Benson's following of current events.\n\nThe fear among Europeans of the Eastern Empire and its ruler, the Son of Heaven, is inspired by the shock that greeted the territorial expansion of the Japanese Empire before, during, and after the Russo-Japanese War.\n\nThe dystopian Marxist Government of Britain is inspired by the events of the British general election of 1906. Prior to the election, a large number of small Marxist political parties consolidated to form a unified bloc called the Labour Party, which won 29 seats in the House of Commons. The first chapter, which describes the overthrow of the British royal family, the abolition of the House of Lords, the disestablishment of the Church of England, and the closing of the universities is inspired by the Labour Party's platform at the time the novel was written.\n\nThe Marxist uprising that topples the Son of Heaven is inspired by the Russian Revolution of 1905, which Mgr. Benson was following in the newspapers.\n\nJulian Felsenburgh's sermon at St. Paul's and the emotional reaction of his listeners are inspired by press reports of the Reverend Evan Roberts and the 1904-1905 Welsh Revival. Rev. Roberts was similarly able to provoke public displays of emotion in his listeners and is regarded as the inventor of Pentecostalism. He was also the focus of a cult of personality which scandalized more traditional churches. At the height of his ministry, Rev. Roberts' denunciations of literary and cultural societies, competitive sports, and alcohol consumption temporarily caused a sea change in Welsh culture. Countless rugby teams and literary societies were voluntarily disbanded. In Welsh coal mining towns, pubs closed down for lack of business and the National Eisteddfod of Wales was almost deserted. Rev. Roberts, however, eventually came to believe that his ministry was not of God, voluntarily left the public eye, and spent the remaining years of his life resisting efforts to draw him back to the revival circuit. He died, a virtual recluse, in 1951.\n\nThe Anti-Catholic riots that follow the discovery of the planned suicide bombing are inspired by Anti-Jewish Pogroms in the Russian Empire, which also took place with the collusion of senior Government officials and policemen.\n\nBenson first mentioned his ideas in a letter to his mother on 16 December 1905, \"Yes, Russia is ghastly. Which reminds me that I have an idea for a book so vast and tremendous that I daren't think about it. Have you ever heard of Saint-Simon? Well, mix up Saint-Simon, Russia breaking loose, Napoleon, Evan Roberts, the Pope and Antichrist; and see if any idea suggests itself. But I'm afraid it is too big. I should like to form a syndicate on it, but that is an idea, I have no doubt at all.\"\n\nIn a letter to Mr. Rolfe on 19 January 1906, Benson wrote, \"Anti-Christ is beginning to obsess me. If it is ever written, it will be a BOOK. How much do you know about the Freemasons? Socialism? I am going to avoid scientific developments, and confine myself to social. This election seems to hold vast possibilities in the direction of Anti-Christ's Incarnation – I think he will be born of a virgin. Oh! If I dare to write all that I think! In any case, it will take years.\"\nAccording to Father Martindale, the gradual evolution of \"Lord of the World\" can be charted through three of Monsignor Benson's notebooks. The first two reveal that Benson based the physical appearances of Fr. Percy Franklin and President Julian Felsenburgh on \"a rather prominent socialist politician\" whose name Father Martindale does not disclose. Mgr. Benson's notebooks also reveal that Pope Sylvester was originally \"made to take refuge and confront Antichrist in Ireland.\"\n\nOn 16 May 1906, Benson wrote in his diary, \"\"Anti-Christ\" is going forward; and Rome is about to be destroyed. Oh, it is hard to keep it up! It seems to me that I am getting terser and terser until finally the entire story will end in a gap, like a stream disappearing in sand. It is such a fearful lot that one might say, that every word seems irrelevant.\"\n\nOn 28 June 1906, Benson again wrote in his diary, \"I HAVE FINISHED \"ANTI-CHRIST\". And really there is no more to be said. Of course I am nervous about the last chapter – it is what one may call just a trifle ambitious to describe the End of the World. (No!) But it has been done.\"\n\nIn a 28 January 1907 letter, \"Lord of the World\" was praised by Frederick Rolfe. Commenting on Benson's decision to satirize him as \"Chris Dell\" in \"The Sentimentalists\", Rolfe wrote, \"You are worrying yourself most unnecessarily about me, I assure you... I am laughing at the absurdity of the whole thing though I must confess that I was rather amazed when I heard that everybody recognized me in Chris. It was rather a blow to my \"amour propre\"... You will, I hope, reap a rich harvest of shekels from the transaction, and the world will forget \"The Sentimentalists\" when it stands wondering before \"The Lord of the World\".\"\n\nMost modern editions of \"Lord of the World\" contain an error in Book III, Chapter Five, Section III, carried forward from a printer's error in the American edition of the book. A sentence in the second paragraph of Section III began as follows, in the British first edition:\n\n“In short, it seemed that he could do no good by remaining in England, and the temptation to be present at the final act of justice in the East by which those who had indirectly been the cause of his tragedy were to be wiped out…”\n\nIn the corrupted text found in most modern editions, the passage reads (erroneous portion in italics):\n\n\"In short, it seemed that he could do no good by remaining in England, and the temptation to be present at the final act of justice in the East by which \"land, and, in fact, it was more than likely that if she\" were to be wiped out…”\n\nUpon its 1907 publication, \"Lord of the World\" caused an enormous stir among Catholics, non-Catholics, and even among non-Christians. Mgr. Benson was therefore kept busy answering letters from both readers and literary critics. Mgr. Benson's reading of these letters helped inspire his novel \"The Dawn of All\".\n\nIn reply to a critic who expressed a belief that Mabel Brand condemned herself to Hell by committing suicide, Mgr. Benson wrote, \"I think Mabel was alright, really. Honestly, she had no idea that suicide was a sin; and she did pray as well as she knew how at the end.\"\n\nIn a 16 December 1907 letter to Mgr. Benson's brother, British physicist Sir Oliver Lodge wrote, \"The assumption that there can be no religion except a grotesque return to Paganism, short of admitting the supremacy of Mediaeval Rome, is an unexpected contention to find in a modern book... I am wondering what the leaders of the Church think of it. Perhaps Pius X may approve; but it is difficult to suppose that it can meet with general approbation. If it does, it is very instructive.\"\n\nSome critics and readers misinterpreted the novel's last sentence as meaning, \"the destruction, not of the world, but of the Church.\" Some Marxists were reportedly \"delighted\" by the ending and one non-Catholic reader wrote that \"Lord of the World\" had, \"struck heaven out of my sky, and I don't know how to get it back again.\"\n\nOther readers were more admiring. Although \"grave exception\" was taken there to Mgr. Benson's \"sympathetic treatment\" of Mabel Brand's suicide, \"Lord of the World\" was enthusiastically received in France.\n\nIn a letter to Mgr. Benson, Jesuit priest Fr. Joseph Rickaby wrote, \"I have long thought that Antichrist would be no monster, but a most charming, decorous, attractive person, exactly your Felsenburgh. This is what the enemy has wanted, something to counteract the sweetness of Christmas, Good Friday, and Corpus Christi, which is the strength of Christianity. The abstruseness of Modernism, the emptiness of Absolutism, the farce of Humanitarianism, the bleakness (so felt by Huxley and Oliver Lodge) of sheer physical science, that is what your Antichrist makes up for. He is, as you have made him, the perfection of the Natural, away from and in antithesis to God and His Christ... As Newman says, a man may be near death and yet not die, but still the alarms of his friends are each time justified and are finally fulfilled; so of the approach of Antichrist.\"\n\nShortly after Mgr. Benson's novel was published, British historian and future Catholic convert Christopher Dawson paid a visit to Imperial Germany. While there, Dawson witnessed the increasing de-Christianisation of German culture and the rapid growth of the Marxist Social Democratic Party. In response, Dawson called the Kaiser's Germany \"a most soul-destroying place\", and complained that German intellectuals, \"examine Christianity as if it were a kind of beetle.\" Dawson further lamented that his stay in that \"most dreadful\" country reminded him of \"the state of society in \"Lord of the World\".\"\n\nFurthermore, despite Mgr. Benson's subtle contempt for \"Greek Christianity\", Mother Catherine Abrikosova, a Byzantine Catholic Dominican nun, former Marxist, and future martyr in Joseph Stalin's concentration camps, translated \"Lord of the World\" from English to Russian shortly before the Bolshevik Revolution.\n\nAlthough it is not as well known as the dystopian writings of Evgeny Zamyatin, George Orwell, and Aldous Huxley, \"Lord of the World\" continues to have many admirers—especially among Conservative and Traditionalist Catholics.\n\nReviewer Mary Whitebrough noted: \"It is commonly believed than Benson wrote \"Lord of the World\" at least partly in response to the writings of H.G.Wells with their vision of a technologically-advanced secularized future in store for humanity. But it is also possible that Wells, a veteran of numerous debates with Catholics, may have returned the favor. Wells' own \"The Shape of Things to Come\" takes up the basic plot element of \"Lord of the World\" and turns it upside down. In \"Things to Come\", too, a secularized World Government embarks on a head-on confrontation with the Catholic Church and eventually destroys it - but for Wells, the World Secularists are the Good Guys and destroying the Church is a necessary, positive act. (...) To be sure, Wells' World Government is far less brutal than the one predicted by Benson. In Wells' version The Pope and Cardinals are simply dosed with sleeping gas, rather than being firebombed, and Catholics are mainly educated out of their reactionary ways rather than persecuted into martyrdom.(...) It is amusing to note that the Catholic Benson and the Secularist Wells were at one in dismissing the Protestants' power of resistance and seeing only the Catholic Church as a worthy opponent for Secularism. (...) The Three super states into which the world of \"Lord of the World\" is divided - American Republic, European Confederation and Eastern Empire - prefigure George Orwell's \"Oceania\", \"Eurasia\" and \"Eastasia\" in the world of \"Nineteen Eighty Four\". Orwell, omnivorous relentless reader that he was, had likely read \"Lord of the World\". \n\nIn a 2005 essay, Joseph Pearce wrote that, while Orwell and Huxley's novels are \"great literature\", they \"are clearly inferior works of prophecy.\" Pearce explains that while \"the political dictatorships\" that inspired Huxley and Orwell \"have had their day\", \"Benson's novel-nightmare... is coming true before our very eyes.\"\n\nPearce elaborates, The world depicted in \"Lord of the World\" is one where creeping secularism and godless humanism have triumphed over traditional morality. It is a world where philosophical relativism has triumphed over objectivity; a world where, in the name of tolerance, religious doctrine is not tolerated. It is a world where euthanasia is practiced widely and religion hardly practiced at all. The lord of this nightmare world is a benign-looking politician intent on power in the name of \"peace\", and intent on the destruction of religion in the name of \"truth\". In such a world, only a small and shrinking Church stands resolutely against the demonic \"Lord of the World\".\n\nEWTN talk show host and American Chesterton Society President Dale Ahlquist has also praised Monsignor Benson's novel and said that it deserves a wider audience.\n\nMichael D. O'Brien's has cited it as an influence on his Apocalyptic series \"Children of the Last Days\".\n\nOn February 8, 1992, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger criticized U. S. President George H. W. Bush's recent speech calling for \"a New World Order\" in a speech of his own at the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore. In his discourse, the future Pope explained that Monsignor Benson's novel described \"a similar unified civilization and its power to destroy the spirit. The anti-Christ is represented as the great carrier of peace in a similar new world order.\"\n\nCardinal Ratzinger proceeded to quote from Pope Benedict XV's 1920 encyclical \"Bonum sane\": \"The coming of a world state is longed for, by all the worst and most distorted elements. This state, based on the principles of absolute equality of men and a community of possessions, would banish all national loyalties. In it no acknowledgement would be made of the authority of a father over his children, or of God over human society. If these ideas are put into practice, there will inevitably follow a reign of unheard-of terror.\"\n\nIn a sermon in November, 2013, Pope Francis praised \"Lord of the World\" as depicting \"the spirit of the world which leads to apostasy almost as if it were a prophecy.\"\n\nIn early 2015, Pope Francis further revealed Benson's influence upon his thinking, speaking to a plane load of reporters. At first apologizing for making \"a commercial\", Pope Francis further praised \"Lord of the World\", despite its being \"a bit heavy at the beginning\". Pope Francis elaborated, \"It is a book that, at that time, the writer had seen this drama of ideological colonization and wrote that book... I advise you to read it. Reading it, you'll understand well what I mean by ideological colonization.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903268", "title": "Trunked radio system", "text": "Trunked radio system\n\nA trunked radio system is a digital two-way radio system that uses a digital control channel to automatically assign frequency channels to groups of users. In a traditional half-duplex land mobile radio system a group of users (a \"talkgroup\") with portable two-way radios communicate over a single shared radio channel, with one user at a time talking. These systems typically have access to multiple channels, up to 40 - 60, so multiple groups in the same area can communicate. In a conventional (nontrunked) system, channel selection is done manually; before use the group must decide on which channel to use, and manually switch all the radios to that channel. This is an inefficient use of scarce radio channel resources, because the user group must have exclusive use of their channel regardless of how little transmission they are doing. There is also nothing to prevent multiple groups in the same area from choosing the same channel, causing conflicts. A trunked radio system is an advanced alternative in which the channel selection process is done automatically. \n\nTrunking is a more automated and complex radio system, but provides the benefits of less user intervention to operate the radio and greater spectral efficiency with large numbers of users. Instead of assigning a radio channel to one particular user group at a time, users are instead assigned to a logical grouping, a \"talkgroup\". When any user in that group wishes to converse with another user in the talkgroup, a vacant radio channel is found automatically by the system and the conversation takes place on that channel. Many unrelated conversations can occur on a channel, making use of the otherwise idle time between conversations. Each radio transceiver contains a microprocessor which handles the channel selection process. A control channel coordinates all the activity of the radios in the system. The control channel computer sends packets of data to enable one talkgroup to talk together, regardless of frequency.\n\nThe primary purpose of this type of system is efficiency; many people can carry many conversations over only a few distinct frequencies. Trunking is used by many government entities to provide two-way communication for fire departments, police and other municipal services, who all share spectrum allocated to a city, county, or other entity.\n\nIn essence, a trunked radio system is a packet switching computer network. Users' radios send data packets to a computer, operating on a dedicated frequency — called a control channel — to request communication on a specific talk-group. The controller sends a digital signal to all radios monitoring that talkgroup, instructing the radios to automatically switch to the frequency indicated by the system to monitor the transmission. After the user is done speaking, the users' radios return to monitoring the control channel for additional transmissions.\n\nThis arrangement allows multiple groups of users to share a small set of actual radio frequencies without hearing each other's conversations. Trunked systems primarily conserve limited radio frequencies and also provide other advanced features to users.\n\nA \"talkgroup\" is an assigned group on a trunked radio system. Unlike a conventional radio which assigns users a certain frequency, a trunk system takes a number of frequencies allocated to the system. Then the control channel coordinates the system so talkgroups can share these frequencies seamlessly. The purpose is to dramatically increase bandwidth. Many radios today treat talkgroups as if they were frequencies, since they behave like such. For example, on a radio scanner it is very common to be able to assign talkgroups into banks or lock them out, exactly like that of conventional frequencies.\n\nIn some agencies, groups are assigned in a fleet map. This was implemented to make it easier to assign group ID numbers. For example, EMS would be on a separate 'fleet' than police. In those fleets are subfleets or the actual talkgroups. This system is not as common as the typical trunking method, but they do exist. In some communities the ID corresponds to a location or agency. For example, it is common to see a '1' or '2' in front of a police group and another number in front of a fire group.\n\nMost scanners that can listen to trunked radio systems (called trunk tracking) are able to scan and store individual talkgroups just as if they were frequencies. The difference in this case is that the groups are assigned to a certain bank in which the trunked system is programmed. In other words, the talkgroups are stored on the trunked bank.\n\nThe concept of trunking (resource sharing) is actually quite old, and is taken from telephone company technology and practice. Consider two telco central office exchanges, one in town \"A\" and the other in adjacent town \"B\". Each of these central offices has the theoretical capacity to handle ten thousand individual telephone numbers. (Central office \"A\", with prefix \"123\", has available 10,000 numbers from 123-0000 to 123-9999; central office \"B\", with prefix \"124\", the same.)\n\nIf all 10,000 subscribers in \"A\" were to simultaneously call 10,000 subscribers in \"B\", then it would be necessary to have 10,000 lines (in telco parlance \"trunk lines\", or simply \"trunks\") to connect the two towns. However, the odds of that happening are remote, as the number of simultaneous phone calls is usually much lower. Erlang-B is a common formula that predicts the optimal number of trunk lines actually needed under normal conditions.\n\nThis concept has been simply applied to radio user groups, to determine the optimal number of channels needed, under normal conditions, to accommodate a given number of users. In the event of a widespread emergency such as a major earthquake, many more users than normal will attempt to access both the telephone and radio systems. In both cases once the trunking capacity of the systems is fully used, all subsequent users will receive a busy signal.\n\nIn our example of police dispatch, different talk-groups are assigned different system priority levels, sometimes with \"preempt\" capability, attempting to ensure that communication between critical units is maintained.\n\n\"Trunked\" radio systems differ from \"conventional\" radio systems in that a conventional radio system uses a dedicated channel (frequency) for each individual group of users, while \"trunking\" radio systems use a pool of channels which are available for a great many different groups of users.\n\nFor example, if police communications are configured in such a way that twelve conventional channels are required to permit citywide dispatch based upon geographical patrol areas, during periods of slow dispatch activity, much of that channel capacity is idle. In a trunked system, the police units in a given geographical area are not assigned a dedicated channel, but instead are members of a talk-group entitled to draw upon the common resources of a smaller pool of channels.\n\nTrunked radio takes advantage of the probability that with any given number of user units, not everyone will need channel access at the same time, therefore fewer discrete radio channels are required. From another perspective, with a given number of radio channels, a much greater number of user groups can be accommodated. In the example of the police department, this additional capacity could then be used to assign individual talk groups to specialized investigative, traffic control, or special-events groups which might otherwise not have the benefit of individual private communications.\n\nTo the user, a trunking radio looks just like an \"ordinary\" radio: there is a \"channel switch\" for the user to select the \"channel\" that they want to use. In reality though, the \"Channel switch\" is not switching frequencies as in a conventional radio but when changed, it refers to an internal software program which causes a talkgroup affiliation to be transmitted on the control channel. This identifies the specific radio to the system controller as a member of a specific talkgroup, and that radio will then be included in any conversations involving that talkgroup.\n\nThis also allows great flexibility in radio usage - the same radio model can be used for many different types of system users (i.e. Police, Public Works, Animal Control, etc.) simply by changing the software programming in the radio itself.\n\nSince the talkgroups are constantly transmitting on different frequencies, trunked radio systems makes it more difficult for a scanner listener without a programmed trunk tracking scanner to keep up with the conversation.\n\nIn 1997, radio scanners compatible with trunked systems appeared on the market. One of the first companies to bring these devices to market, Uniden, trademarked the term \"trunk tracking\" on December 5, 1997.\n\nThis is not designed to be a list of manufacturers equipment types, it is intended as a list of air protocol types unless significant vendor specific modifications have been made which violate the published standard.\n\nTrunked radio technologies today have generally diverged into three distinct types or \"tiers\". These are not \"official\", but are clearly defined within protocol types:-\n\nThese systems are relatively primitive in their operation and only meet the minimum requirements to be defined as a \"trunked\" radio system. They generally do not have enhanced features such as data communications or registration awareness. They will provide simple trunking facilities for voice calls only.\n\n\nThese systems exhibit some of the characteristics of a high tier trunked radio system but not all features. Therefore, they are suitable for small deployments where users are expected to use the entire network available (such as a private system covering a campus or town). Because of their lack of advanced features they generally are not suited to mission critical deployments, PAMR type operation or uncoordinated shared user types.\n\nDMR/dPMR true Tier 3/Mode 3 protocols are intended eventually to migrate into the \"Advanced Mature high end\" list below but today (2015) cannot be classified as such due to major interoperability issues, lack of mature protocol and lack of clearly defined user interface protocol.\n\n\nSome trunked radio protocols are of special merit since they clearly stand out from the others for the following reasons:-\n\n\nSuch a requirement list dictates that a dedicated control channel with central control (little mobile terminal intelligence) will be used.\n\nMPT1327 was the first mainstream system to meet the requirements of a high tier network and is currently (2015) still by far the world's most successful trunked radio network protocol.\n\nDMR/dPMR does not currently appear on this list due to lack of mature standard (is still under active development), does not meet manufacturer interoperability requirements currently, has significant vendor lock-in issues and has no clearly defined user terminal interface standard.\n\nNXDN Common Air Interface (CAI) was accepted at the meeting of the ITU-R (International Telecommunications Union Radiocommunications Sector) held in November 2016 and it has been added to Report M.2014-3, published in February 2017. It is an open, multi-vendor protocol widely adopted in mission-critical applications in Japan, USA and mainland Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903270", "title": "Matthew 2:11", "text": "Matthew 2:11\n\nMatthew 2:11 is the eleventh verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The magi, dispatched by King Herod, have found the infant Jesus and in this verse present him with gifts in an event known as the Visit of the Wise Men. In art, it is traditionally referred to as the Adoration of the Magi.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:11\n\nThe word house in this verse is much disputed. According to the chronology in Luke, the family left Bethlehem soon after arriving, when Jesus was eight days old. This raises the question of why the family has its own home in the town when the magi visit. Most modern scholars believe that the author of Matthew is fairly clear in this chapter that the Holy Family had lived for some time in the town and was likely originally from Bethlehem, and thus it is logical for them to have a house. This reading contradicts Luke's story of the emergency trip to the town, however. Those willing to accept that Matthew and Luke cannot be exactly synchronized also today generally feel that the magi visited several months after the birth of Jesus. Those who believe in the inerrancy of the Bible believe that it could have been possible that the couple found a house very quickly. Alternatively some have argued that the word \"house\" should actually be translated as \"village,\" but most scholars do not see much evidence for this theory. France argues that there is no contradiction between the stable in Luke and the house in Matthew, as in that era the stable for animals was a part of the average peasant house. It was common for a lower level to house animals and an upper one people. Jesus might just have been born on the lower level of the house his family continue to reside in when the Magi arrive.\n\nThe Magi are reported as worshiping the infant. The Bible makes clear throughout that the only figure who should be worshiped is God. Bruner considers this to be an indirect evidence that Jesus is God, something perhaps never explicitly stated in the New Testament. This is also a sharp difference from Mark. In that gospel Jesus is worshiped only once, but in Matthew it is common. The term \"falling down\" more properly means kneeling with their head on the ground before the infant. Clarke reports that the kneeling here and in had an important effect on the Christian church. Previously both Jewish and Roman tradition had viewed kneeling as undignified. Inspired by these verses, kneeling was adopted in the early church and has remained an important element of Christian worship to this day.\n\nThis verse covers the entirety of the interaction between the Magi and the Holy Family. Bruner notes that Jesus is entirely passive. This is in sharp contrast to many pieces of the apocryphal literature where the infant Jesus regularly performs miracles. Matthew gives no hint of such behaviour anywhere in his infancy narrative. Bruner also notes that the entirety of the Magi's devotion is directed towards the child, with no special treatment given to Mary.\n\nThe gifts of the magi are some of the best known items in the Gospel of Matthew. They are often linked to and Psalm 72. Both of these verses report gifts being given by kings. This played the central role in the tradition that developed that the magi were kings, something that is never stated in the scripture. That there were three gifts also led to the assumption that there were three magi. Matthew never gives an exact number, merely saying that there was more than one.\n\nMany different theories of the meaning and symbolism of the gifts have been advanced. They are seen as gifts for a king, showing Jesus' role as King of the Jews. Myrrh was especially important as a substance traditionally used in the anointing of kings. Another tradition developed that gold represented virtue, incense prayer, and myrrh suffering. The gifts were ascribed to particular magi, who were given individual names and characters: the gold was traditionally given by Melchior, the myrrh by Balthasar, and the incense by Gaspar. John Chrysostom suggested that the gifts were fit to be given not just to a king but to God, and contrasted them with the Jews' traditional offerings of sheep and calves. Accordingly, Chrysostom asserts that the magi worshiped Jesus as God. All three gifts are typical of Arabia and thus somewhat counter the traditional Persian origin of the Magi.\n\nC.S. Mann has advanced the theory that the items were not actually brought as gifts, but were rather the tools of the magi. The magi were astrologers and occultists and all three items have been attested as important tools of the magicians' trade. Mann thus sees the giving of these items to Jesus as showing that the magi were abandoning their occult practices by relinquishing the necessary tools of their trade. Brown disagrees with this theory as the portrayal of the magi and their arts had been wholly positive up to this point with no hint of condemnation.\n\nThe gifts themselves have also been criticized as mostly useless to a poor carpenter and his family. Clarke states that deist Thomas Woolston once quipped, \"If they had brought sugar, soap, and candles they would have acted like wise men.\"\n\nWhat did happen to these gifts is never mentioned in the scripture, but several traditions have developed. One story has the gold being stolen by the two thieves who were later crucified alongside Jesus. Another tale has it being entrusted to and then misappropriated by Judas. Another story is that it was used to finance the family's flight to Egypt.\n"}
{"id": "1903272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903272", "title": "Dardo IFV", "text": "Dardo IFV\n\nThe Dardo is an infantry fighting vehicle designed for the Italian Army as a replacement for the M113 APC. It is designed and built by the Iveco Fiat Oto Melara Syndicated Company based in Rome. Iveco is responsible for the hull and propulsion systems, while Oto Melara is responsible for the weapons and fire control systems.\n\nThe Dardo is primarily armed with the 25mm Oerlikon KBA automatic cannon firing 600 rounds per minute, with 200 rounds of ready to fire ammunition stored in the turret. Two 7.62mm NATO machine guns are also installed in the turret, one coaxially mounted with the main gun. Five rifle ports, two on each side of the hull and one in the rear are provided to allow troops inside to use their personal weapons, if needed.\n\nFire control is provided by the Galileo Avionica Hitfist integrated fire control system, which is capable of measuring target speed and range. The commander is provided with six episcope sights, which provide 360° field of view. The cupola can be further fitted with a panoramic stabilised sight. Additionally, a laser range finder and a thermal imager are provided for the gunner. The commander is equipped with a monitor that displays the view from the gunner night vision system.\n\nFor dealing with heavy armoured threats, two Spike-LR anti tank missiles can be installed, one on each side of the turret. These missiles have a maximum range of 4 km.\n\nThe Dardo hull is built from welded aluminum alloy with add on steel armour plates for increased protection. Over the frontal arc, the vehicle is protected against 25mm APDS projectiles. The side armour protects against 14.5mm API projectiles. Four 80mm smoke grenade launchers are installed on each side of the turret.\n\nThe Dardo is powered by an Iveco V6 turbo-charged after-cooled diesel engine delivering 512 hp (382.2 kW). This drives a ZF-designed automatic transmission system, which is manufactured under license by Iveco Fiat. The transmission system has four forward and two reverse gears, and incorporates the steering system and the hydraulic retarder.\n\nThe running gear consists of six dual rubber-lined road wheels, with three return rollers on each side and connector type tracks. The suspension consists of a torsion bar, bumper and a hydraulic shock absorber on each suspension arm. Disc brakes on each of the final drives controlled by a transmission retarder provide the braking.\n\nTogether, this allows the Dardo to achieve speeds in excess of 70 km/h, maneuver on gradients of more than 60% and ford waters up to a depth of 1.5 m.\n\nThe Dardo IFVs currently in service with the Italian Army are fitted with the \"Hitfist\" IFV turret. The chassis is intended to be the basic model of a family of vehicles, which may include a 120 mm mortar carrier, command (C3I) vehicle, ambulance and light tank with a 105mm gun turret.\n\nDardo IFVs were deployed with the Italian Army as part of the Italian contribution to Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2004. Currently 10 are in Afghanistan to reinforce the Italian Battlegroups there. Also, some are in use with the Italian UNIFIL contingent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903291", "title": "Finchley (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Finchley (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nFinchley was a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first-past-the-post system of election; its best-known MP was Margaret Thatcher, Prime Minister from 1979 to 1990. Although boundary changes meant that she never again attained her large majority of 1959, she was nonetheless returned by comfortable (9,000) majorities at general elections throughout her premiership.\n\nThe seat was abolished in 1997 and split between the Finchley and Golders Green and Chipping Barnet constituencies.\n\n\nIn 1918 the constituency was created as a county division of Middlesex, centred on the town of Finchley, which before 1918 had been located in the Hornsey constituency. In 1934 the Finchley district became a Municipal Borough.\n\nIn 1945 there was an interim redistribution of parliamentary constituencies to split those with more than 100,000 electors, prior to the general redistribution of 1950. Middlesex was significantly affected by the interim changes.\n\nIn 1950 the seat was re-classified as a borough constituency, with the boundaries reverting to those of 1918.\n\nIn 1965 the area of the constituency changed counties from Middlesex to London. Specifically its areas joined with others to form the London Borough of Barnet of Greater London.\n\nLiberal candidate Lady Domini Crosfield withdrew following the formation of the National Government.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940, but it was postponed after the outbreak of World War II. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939, and by the end of that year the following candidates had been selected: \n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1959\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1959\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1964\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1964\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 1966\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1966\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1970\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1970\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election February 1974\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election February 1974\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election October 1974\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election October 1974\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 1979\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1979\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1983\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1983\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 1987\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1987\"/>\n\n"}
{"id": "1903292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903292", "title": "Ofudesaki", "text": "Ofudesaki\n\nThe Ofudesaki (おふでさき, \"Tip of the Writing Brush\") is the most important scripture in Tenrikyo. It is one of Tenrikyo's three scriptures (\"sangenten\" 三原典), along with the \"Mikagura-uta\" (\"The Songs for the Service\") and the \"Osashizu\" (\"Divine Directions\"). A 17-volume collection of 1,711 \"waka\" poems, the Ofudesaki was composed by the foundress of Tenrikyo, Miki Nakayama, from 1869 to 1882.\n\nThe name \"Ofudesaki\" can be split into three smaller segments. \"O\" is an honorific prefix, \"fude\" translates to \"brush,\" and \"saki\" translates to \"tip.\" Thus, the Ofudesaki has been referred to in English as \"The Tip of the Writing Brush.\" It was even once referred to as \"The Book of Revelations\" in early English Tenrikyo literature. It is a convention in Tenrikyo literature to write \"Ofudesaki\" in hiragana (おふでさき) as opposed to kanji.\n\nNakayama's intention for the Ofudesaki is explained in the scripture itself:<poem>This is a world constructed on reason. So I shall press upon you everything with the reason in verse. / \nI shall press, though not by force or word of mouth. I shall press by the tip of My writing brush. /\nIt is all very well if you err in nothing. But should you err, I shall inform you by verse. (Ofudesaki I:21–23)\n\nThe main theme of the Ofudesaki has been described as \"a development toward the perfection of \"Tsutome\", the Service, through which, alone, human salvation can be realized.\" To that end, the Ofudesaki addresses other themes such as the purpose of human existence, the definition of good and evil, the cause of illness, the relationship between God, humans, and the universe, socio-ethical principles, and eschatology. \n\nThe Ofudesaki addresses these themes in different ways. Sometimes the verses employ simple metaphors and allegories. Other times the verses are instructions originally intended for specific people in Miki Nakayama's day.\n\nThe inscription of Part I of the Ofudesaki reads, \"From the 1st month in the 2nd year of Meiji, the year of the Serpent\", which means that the composition of the Ofudesaki began sometime in 1869 according to the Gregorian calendar. This year saw the end of the Boshin War, a civil war between the ruling forces of the Tokugawa shogunate and those seeking to return political power to the Imperial Court, and the beginning of the Meiji Restoration, a period of modernization and reform for the Empire of Japan. \n\nThe inscription continues with the words, \"An old woman of 72 years.\" The ‘old woman’ refers to Miki Nakayama, who at that point had been allegedly possessed by a god for about three decades. In 1853, she had the Nakayama family's main house dismantled and sold and had the remaining rice fields mortgaged a couple of years later. In 1864, a carpenter from Ichinomoto Village named Izo Iburi visited Miki Nakayama, and as a gesture of gratitude, constructed a place where followers could pray, laying down the foundation for the structure known today as Tenrikyo Church Headquarters. From 1866 to 1869, she taught her followers a prayer service.\n\nAn oral account of the writing of the Ofudesaki has been recorded in a Tenrikyo supplementary text (\"jungenten\" 準原典) known as the \"Anecdotes of Oyasama.\" A follower named Shirobei Umetani recalled Miki Nakayama saying:\nYou know there is the \"Fudesaki\". What do you think of it? The seventeen parts of the \"Fudesaki\" were not completed in a short while. God spoke into my ears, saying, ‘Do not look at any writings, even the charge book from a bean curd shop.’ I wondered why. Then God said, ‘Brush, brush, take up the brush.’ I took the brush up for the first time at New Year’s when I became seventy-two years old. And when I took the brush up, My hand moved by itself. From heaven, God did it. After what was to be done was finished, My hand became numb and it could not be moved. God said, ‘Calm Your mind, and read this. If You find something You cannot understand, ask Me.’ I added brush strokes when I found something I could not understand. That is the \"Fudesaki\".\n\nThe seventeen parts of the Ofudesaki were written as follows (brackets indicate that the date is based on assumption since no date is inscribed):\n\nNakayama composed over half of the total number of Ofudesaki verses (i.e. Part III to Part XI) in the years 1874–1875.\n\nIn addition to the manuscripts kept at her residence, Nakayama produced manuscripts that were given to individual followers. The term \"exterior volume\" (\"gesatsu\") comes from an inscription written by the Maegawas (Miki's birth family) in Sanmaiden Village on the cover of one of the manuscript portions that Nakayama gave to them on 18 June 1874. She presented them to the Maegawas as a gesture of gratitude for making the \"kagura\" masks that were to be used in the prayer service she taught her followers. The inscription reads, \"An exterior volume. Written by God. Written in Her seventy-seventh year.\" The Maegawas used the term to distinguish the portions they received from Nakayama from the original Ofudesaki kept at her residence, even though their portions were also in Nakayama's handwriting. The second Shinbashira (leader of Tenrikyo), Shozen Nakayama, later adopted the term to refer to the fourteen verses that were written in Miki Nakayama's handwriting and given away. Though these verses are considered to be the unnumbered verses of the Ofudesaki, they are not published with the Ofudesaki.\n\nThough Miki Nakayama had completed the Ofudesaki in 1882, the scriptures were not printed until 1928. Until then the Ofudesaki was only available in the form of hand-copied manuscripts.\n\nIn March 1883, the local police visited the Nakayama residence and attempted to confiscate the Ofudesaki manuscripts so that they could be destroyed. However, Shinnosuke Nakayama, the grandson of Miki, claimed that two women at the residence, Omasa and Osato, had already burned them in compliance with a patrolman's order. Thereby the Ofudesaki manuscripts remained intact, and have survived to this day.\nIn 1939, Tenrikyo Church Headquarters announced the change of its doctrine and ritual, under pressure to comply with the demands of State Shinto. Copies of the Ofudesaki and the Osashizu (Divine Directions) were recalled from local churches, and the Ofudesaki was not allowed to be preached until the end of World War II. With the adoption of the Constitution of Japan in 1947 and the establishment of freedom of religion in Japan, Tenrikyo Church Headquarters was legally allowed to restore its scriptures to their original form and disseminate them freely. On 26 July 1948, an Ofudesaki with interpretive explanations was published and offered to all local churches.\n\nSince then the Ofudesaki has been translated into a number of languages. A trial translation was published in series in the journal \"Fukugen\" from 1946–7. The first edition English translation was published in 1971, and the sixth edition (the most recent as of 2017) was published in 1993. A volume containing the English (sixth edition), Japanese, and romanization (2nd edition) was published in 1998.\n\nThe verses of the Ofudesaki are generally in a traditional poetic style known as \"waka\". A \"waka\" poem contains thirty-one syllables and is subdivided into two lines. The Ofudesaki is mostly written in a Japanese phonetic syllabary (a precursor to modern \"hiragana\") and employs relatively few \"kanji\" (only forty-nine distinct characters).\n\nNakayama wrote the Ofudesaki in her native language and dialect, the Japanese language in a dialect called \"Yamato kotoba\" or the \"language of the Yamato region.\" Her script seems to be consistent with how rural people in Japan wrote during the late Edo period, when the standardized writing system had yet to be widely adopted. However, as of 2010, a detailed grammatical study has yet to be made of the language of the Ofudesaki.\n\nCommentaries so far have tended to explain specific terms from the perspective that the language of the Ofudesaki is not significantly different from the commonly spoken language of the day, meaning that it suffices to understand the Ofudesaki as a reader of that place and time would have understood it. However, the Ofudesaki contains certain syntactical features that require particular care in interpretation, such as non-indicative moods that may be referred to as subjunctive, optative, or imperative. For example, there are verses that should be construed as an imperative, which indicates a command, but are constructed as an optative expressing a wish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903294", "title": "1997–98 NHL season", "text": "1997–98 NHL season\n\nThe 1997–98 NHL season was the 81st regular season of the National Hockey League. The Stanley Cup champions were the Detroit Red Wings, who swept the Washington Capitals in four games.\nOn June 25, 1997, the National Hockey League approved of four expansion franchises for Nashville, Atlanta, Columbus, and Saint Paul expanding the league to 30 teams by 2000. These franchises became the Nashville Predators in 1998, the Atlanta Thrashers in 1999, and the Columbus Blue Jackets and Minnesota Wild in 2000.\n\nThis was the first season for the Carolina Hurricanes, who were previously known as the Hartford Whalers. The Hurricanes played their home games at the Greensboro Coliseum Complex, a temporary home while awaiting the construction of their permanent home arena in Raleigh. They would remain in the Northeast Division until realignment the following season. It would be another 14 years before another NHL team would relocate.\n\nThis was the first season for Buffalo Sabres coach Lindy Ruff, who until the 2012–13 season was the longest-tenured NHL coach.\n\nThe controversial \"FoxTrax\" puck system was last used this season as well. In August 1998, the NHL signed a five-year, $600 million rights agreement with ABC Sports/ESPN. FOX elected not to use the system in the subsequent \"lame duck\" season.\n\nThis was the last season the Toronto Maple Leafs were in the Western Conference.\n\nThis was the last season of the four-division quasi-geographic alignment inherited from the traditional Adams/Patrick/Norris/Smythe set. The league would change the following season to a six-division, more purely geographic alignment.\n\nFor the first time since 1968–69 season, the Chicago Blackhawks missed the playoffs.\n\nThe all-time record for most shutouts in a season, set at 127 just a year earlier, was broken again as 160 shutouts were recorded, 13 of which were earned by Dominik Hasek, who set a League record with 11 teams shut-out. He zeroed the New York Rangers three times, and Los Angeles, Anaheim, Tampa Bay, Boston, Calgary, Washington, Montreal, Ottawa, Pittsburgh and Edmonton once each. Only two teams, the St. Louis Blues and the Detroit Red Wings, averaged more than three goals scored per game. In addition, only one player, Jaromir Jagr, reached the 100-point plateau during the regular season.\n\nJari Kurri reached 600 goals in his career, finishing with 601.\n\nThe Vancouver Canucks and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim opened the season with a two-game series in Tokyo, Japan, the first time the NHL played regular games outside of North America.\n\n\n\nThe 1998 Stanley Cup Final was played in the 105th year of the Stanley Cup. The series was played between the Western Conference champion Detroit Red Wings and the Eastern Conference champion Washington Capitals. The Red Wings were led by captain Steve Yzerman, Head Coach Scotty Bowman and goaltender Chris Osgood. The Capitals were led by captain Dale Hunter, Head Coach Ron Wilson and goaltender Olaf Kolzig. Detroit swept the series in four games and Steve Yzerman won the Conn Smythe Trophy.\n\nThe NHL Awards took place in Toronto, Ontario\n\nNote: \"GP = Games Played, G = Goals, A = Assists, Pts = Points\"\n\nRegular season\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1997–98 (listed with their first team, asterisk(*) marks debut in playoffs):\n\nThe following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1997–98 (listed with their last team):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903318", "title": "Only Angels Have Wings", "text": "Only Angels Have Wings\n\nOnly Angels Have Wings is a 1939 American adventure drama film directed by Howard Hawks, and starring Cary Grant and Jean Arthur, based on a story written by Hawks. The film also marked the first significant role in a major film for Rita Hayworth. It is generally regarded as being among Hawks' finest films, particularly in its portrayal of the professionalism of the pilots of the film, its atmosphere, and the flying sequences. The supporting cast features Thomas Mitchell and Richard Barthelmess.\n\n\"Only Angels Have Wings\" was based on a number of real incidents witnessed by Hawks, and although \"Air Mail\" (1932), \"Night Flight\" (1933), \"Ceiling Zero\" (1936, also directed by Hawks) and \"Flight From Glory\" (1937) have similar stories, they are not related.\n\nIn 2017, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nGeoff Carter (Grant) is the head pilot and manager of Barranca Airways, a small, barely solvent company owned by \"Dutchy\" Van Ruyter (Sig Ruman) carrying airmail from the fictional South American port town of Barranca through a high pass in the Andes Mountains. Bonnie Lee (Arthur), a piano-playing entertainer, arrives on a banana boat one day. After making her acquaintance, Joe Souther (Noah Beery Jr.) crashes and dies trying to land in fog later that day. Bonnie becomes infatuated with Geoff, despite his fatalistic attitude about the dangerous flying, and stays on in Barranca (\"not\" at his invitation, as he insists on telling her).\n\nThe situation is complicated by the arrival of pilot Bat MacPherson (Richard Barthelmess) and his wife (and Geoff's old flame) Judy (Rita Hayworth). McPherson cannot find work in the United States because he once bailed out of an airplane, leaving his mechanic — the brother of \"Kid\" Dabb (Thomas Mitchell), Carter's best friend — to die in the ensuing crash. When Geoff is forced to ground the Kid because of failing eyesight, he hires MacPherson on the understanding that he will get the most dangerous assignments.\n\nDutchy will secure a lucrative government contract if he can provide reliable mail service during a six-month trial. On the last day of the probation period, bad weather closes the mountain pass. Geoff decides to try to fly a new Ford Trimotor over the mountains instead. The Kid asks to go with him as co-pilot. Geoff refuses, but then lets the Kid toss a coin to decide the matter. When it lands on the floor, Geoff discovers that the coin has two heads. Geoff still agrees to take him along. Just before leaving, Bonnie tries to talk Geoff out of going. She takes his gun out of his holster and points it at him. When she realizes that she cannot stop him, she drops the gun on the table, but it accidentally fires, hitting Geoff in the shoulder.\n\nUnable to fly, Geoff lets MacPherson take his place. However, MacPherson and the Kid are unable to climb high enough; the plane stalls and drops thousands of feet before leveling off. Geoff tells them to turn around, but they decide to try to fly through the fogged-in pass. In the pass, they encounter a flock of condors. One crashes through the windshield, paralyzing the Kid; another hits the No. 1 engine, setting it on fire. Later the No. 2 engine also catches fire. The Kid tells MacPherson to bail out, but he refuses. He turns around and returns to Barranca, managing to crash-land the burning Trimotor on the field. The Kid dies from a broken neck, but not before telling Geoff what MacPherson did. As a result, MacPherson is finally accepted by the other pilots.\n\nBonnie is torn between leaving and staying, and confronts Geoff in the hope he will ask her to stay. However, Geoff does not. Then, with mere hours to spare on the trial period, the weather clears and Geoff has to rush off to secure the all-important contract. Before he goes, he offers to toss a coin to decide: heads, she stays; tails, she leaves. Discouraged, Bonnie gives up. As he leaves, however, Geoff gives her the coin as a \"souvenir.\" At first, she is distraught, but then she discovers that the coin has heads on both sides.\n\nAs appearing in \"Only Angels Have Wings\", (main roles and screen credits identified):\n\nThe film's original script outline was written by Anne Wigton; the working title originally was \"Plane No. 4\". Howard Hawks re-wrote the film's scenario himself, based on a story that he wrote in 1938 titled \"Plane from Barranca.\" While he was scouting locations several years earlier, for the filming of \"Viva Villa!\", Hawks had been especially inspired by the stoic aviation personnel that he had met in Mexico. The film's final script was written and re-written throughout the film's production, mostly by Hawks and Jules Furthman, but also with contributions by Eleanore Griffin and William Rankin.\n\nHawks had previously worked with Cary Grant the year before on \"Bringing up Baby\" and this was the second of five collaborations between the director and star.\n\nHe cast Jean Arthur in the leading role of Bonnie Lee after appraising her acting in several films made by Frank Capra.\n\nHawks then hired silent film star Richard Barthelmess for the role of Bat MacPherson. Barthelmess's career had gradually diminished since sound films became popular in the late 1920s, and he was a controversial choice, mainly because he had recently had a botched plastic surgery operation on the skin under his eyes that resulted in permanent X-shaped scars under both of his eyes. Barthelmess usually wore heavy make-up to hide the scars, but Hawks wanted to use the scars for the character.\n\nHawks had originally cast Dorothy Comingore in the role of Judy MacPherson, but studio head Harry Cohn had been grooming a young starlet that would be advanced for the role. With backing from Cohn, her agent then insisted that Hawks give Rita Hayworth a screen test, which eventually resulted in Hayworth being cast in the role.\n\nShooting of \"Only Angels Have Wings\" began on December 19, 1938 at the Columbia Studio Ranch and Hawks shot the film in chronological sequence whenever possible. Hawks and Arthur initially found working together difficult and Arthur would often argue with Hawks on set. Hawks was attempting to coach Arthur to play a variation of the classical \"Hawksian Woman Archetype\", but Arthur often felt uncomfortable with his direction. Eventually, she unhappily agreed to play the role as he directed her. Years later after Arthur saw Lauren Bacall's performance in \"To Have and Have Not\", Arthur apologized to Hawks and told him that she finally understood what he had wanted from her (epitomized in Bacall's repetition and emphasis on the paradoxical line \"I'm hard to get ... all you have to do is ask me.\") Hawks later said that he considered Arthur to have been good in the film.\n\nInitial shooting was completed on March 24, 1939, 31 days over its shooting schedule. This was followed with several weeks of second unit shooting of aircraft flying in various locations in the western United States. A few re-takes were shot in April with Cary Grant and Victor Kilian. Two days of re-shoots with Rita Hayworth were also shot, but were directed by Charles Vidor.\n\nIn a 1972 interview, Arthur revealed, \"I loved sinking my head into Cary Grant's chest\".\n\nThe \"cast\" also starred a 1929 Hamilton Metalplane, Ford Trimotor and TravelAir 6000 single engine monoplane. All of these types accurately represented the types of aircraft flying in the period depicted by the film. The Metalplane was the airplane Joe Souther crashes while trying to land in heavy fog, and was only used for ground shots. In 2008, one of the movie prop Hamiltons used in the simulated flying scenes for this aircraft was discovered to still exist. The Pilgrim was used in the exciting mine rescue flying scene, while the Ford Trimotor was featured in another dramatic landing that ends in a fiery crash. Midway through the film, Paul Mantz flew a Boeing Model 100 biplane in a spirited aerobatic performance, reprising his earlier scene in \"Flight From Glory\". \"Only Angels Have Wings\" has become very popular among enthusiasts of the aircraft of the golden age of aviation.\n\nTwelve days after the film's final re-shoots were completed, \"Only Angels Have Wings\" premiered in Los Angeles at the Pantages Theater on May 10, 1939. Its official world premiere occurred the next day at Radio City Music Hall. It was heavily promoted by Columbia Studios and ended up making $143,000 on its initial two-week run at radio City Music Hall, and earned over one million dollars overall. It was the third-highest-grossing film of 1939. The film was also Rita Hayworth's breakout role and helped make her a major Hollywood star, with Hayworth appearing on the cover of \"Look\" magazine after the film's success.\n\n\"Only Angels Have Wings\" received good reviews on its release, with Abel Green of \"Variety\" comparing it favorably to \"Flight From Glory\" and praised Barthelmess's performance. Frank S. Nugent in his review for \"The New York Times\" focused on the excitement found in the aerial scenes, also recognizing the talents of the star-studded cast, \"Mr. Hawks has staged his flying sequences brilliantly ... He has made proper use of the amiable performing talents of Mr. Grant, Miss Arthur, Thomas Mitchell, Mr. Barthelmess, Sig Rumann and the rest.\"\n\n\"Only Angels have Wings\" was later selected as one of 12 films representing the U.S. at the first Cannes Film Festival. However, the festival was canceled due to events leading up to World War II.\n\nOn Metacritic, the film holds a score of 86 out of 100, based on 10 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim.\"\n\nTwo weeks after the film's premiere, \"Only Angels Have Wings\" was adapted as a radio play for the May 29, 1939, broadcast of \"Lux Radio Theater\". The film's principal actors Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth, Richard Barthlemess and Thomas Mitchell all reprised their roles, alongside several others. Orson Welles headlined a radio adaptation on \"The Campbell Playhouse\" on February 25, 1940, that starred Welles and Joan Blondell.\n\nJoseph Walker was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Cinematography, Black-and-white, while Roy Davidson and Edwin C. Hahn were nominated for the first-time Best Effects, Special Effects.\n\n\"Only Angels Have Wings\" has become thought of as one of Hawks's best films, with Dave Kehr calling it the \"equilibrium point\" of Hawks's career, bridging themes developed in his early films of the 1930s to some of his darker films of the 1940s and 1950s. Film critics at \"Cahiers du Cinema\" also praised the film in the 1950s as a quintessential support of the auteur theory.\n\n\n\nStreaming audio\n"}
{"id": "1903327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903327", "title": "William Ragsdale", "text": "William Ragsdale\n\nWilliam Ragsdale (born January 19, 1961) is an American actor known best for playing teenaged vampire slayer Charley Brewster in the horror vampire film, \"Fright Night\" (1985), and as Herman Brooks in the television series \"Herman's Head\" (1991-94).\n\nRobert William Ragsdale (he later stopped using his first name) was born in El Dorado, Arkansas, and attended Hendrix College, where he appeared in plays opposite future \"Sling Blade\" actress, fellow Arkansan Natalie Canerday. He garnered attention as the young hero of \"Fright Night\" and \"Fright Night Part 2\" and onstage in Neil Simon's plays, \"Biloxi Blues\" and \"Brighton Beach Memoirs\", two of the three parts of Simon's trilogy, which ends with \"Broadway Bound\". Ragsdale featured in the romance comedy movie \"\" (1991).\n\nRagsdale has had a sporadic career with regard to prime-time television. He featured for three years on \"Herman's Head\". He had a brief recurring role in the television series \"Judging Amy\". He played a television producer for \"Grosse Pointe\", which lasted one season. \n\nHe was cast in the pilot for \"Charmed\", but refused the series to feature in the short-lived situation comedy \"Brother's Keeper\". He appeared on \"Ellen\" as the boyfriend of Ellen Morgan (played by Ellen DeGeneres) before her character revealed her homosexuality. He has had guest roles on television, including a four-episode stint on \"Less than Perfect\", as well as small feature movie roles.\n\nHe played the role of Gary Hawkins in 12 episodes of the television series \"Justified\" from March 2010 through March 2012, during the series' first three seasons. In 2014, he played Chris Smith in the remake of the movie \"Left Behind\".\n\nIn 2017, he appeared in the role of Reverend Todd in the Off-Broadway production of \"Man from Nebraska\" at the Second Stage Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903329", "title": "Xyleborus (beetle)", "text": "Xyleborus (beetle)\n\nWith over 500 species, Xyleborus is by far the largest ambrosia beetle genus in the tribe Xyleborini.\n\n\"Xyleborus\" nowadays includes a number of formerly independent genera. In addition, the genera \"Coptoborus\", \"Cryptoxyleborus\" and \"Euwallacea\" are often included here, too; this may be correct, as they seem to be closely related. Less often, \"Ambrosiodmus\", \"Premnobius\" and \"Xyleborinus\" are included in \"Xyleborus\", but they seem to be well distinct; \"Premnobius\" might even not belong to the Xyleborini at all.\n\nThe different species can be best differentiated by the gallery burrows they build and the tree species they infest. A significant member, \"X. dispar\", causes pear blight.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1903330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903330", "title": "Fran P. Mainella", "text": "Fran P. Mainella\n\nFrances P. Mainella (born 1947) was the 16th Director of the National Park Service of the United States and first woman to hold that position. She was appointed by President George W. Bush and confirmed by the U.S. Senate in 2001. She announced her retirement in July 2006 and resigned effective October 15, 2006. Mary A. Bomar, was sworn-in as the 17th Director on October 17, 2006. Mainella was in charge of the NPS when it allowed Redskin's Owner Dan Snyder to illegally remove 130 trees from his property, and while the park ranger who blew the whistle on this activity, Ranger Robert M. Danno, was persecuted at length. She subsequently gave contradictory accounts of this to federal investigators. \n\nShe currently is a visiting scholar at Clemson University where she is Co-Chair of the US Play Coalition - a partnership to promote the value of play throughout life. Additionally, she serves as Chair of the Public Lands Advisory Council to the National Environmental Education Foundation, a member of Newsweek Magazine’s Environmental Advisory Board, a Fellow of the American Academy for Park and Recreation Administration, a member of the Board of Directors for the Children and Nature Network, a member of the Board of Directors for the National Park Trust, Chair of the National Recreation and Park Foundation, and a national speaker on Nature Deficit Disorder, Play and Parks and Recreation.\n\nShe was born in Willimantic, Connecticut, and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and a master's degree from Central Connecticut State College. In 2002 she received an Honorary Doctorate in Public Service from Central Connecticut State University.\n\nPrior to her position at the National Park Service, Mainella served twelve years as Director of Florida’s State Parks, which were awarded the Gold Medal Award, recognizing Florida as the best state park system in the country.\n\nIn 1998 she received the Pugsley Medal \"for outstanding leadership in enhancing the Florida State Park system\". In addition Clemson University, and the Hartzog Fund named an award after her in 2003 in recognition of her service. The \"Fran P. Mainella Award\" is subtitled the \"Outstanding Woman in Park Resources Award.\"\n\nIn 2002, Clemson University presented her with its Walter T. Cox Award, which recognizes leadership in public service, public land administration, and natural and cultural resource policy. The American Recreation Coalition also presented her with its 2002 Sheldon Coleman Great Outdoors Award. In 2006, she was awarded the William Penn Mott, Jr. Award for Excellence by the National Society for Park Resources. From 2007 to 2010, the Clemson University Board of Trustees presented her with an award for faculty excellence. Clemson also recently named an award in her honor to encourage women to pursue conservation careers. In 2007, Mainella was presented the Pugsley Medal a second time for outstanding national leadership, the highest award given by the American Academy for Park and Recreation Administration. Mainella is one of very few that have ever received this high recognition twice.\n\nShe has also been selected as the Metcalf Lecturer for SUNY- Cortland, the first ever Ralph Steele Lecturer for East Carolina University, and the Calhoun Lecturer for Clemson University. In 2011, Mainella received the outstanding alumni of the year award from the University of Connecticut Neag School of Education.\n\nAdditionally, she has written many article and book publications including the introduction to National Geographic’s 10 Best of Everything National Parks and an acknowledgement to Richard Louv’s new book: The Nature Principle.\n\nA January 19, 2006, report from the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Inspector General entitled \"\"Report of Investigation - Allegations that the National Park Service Improperly Allowed Daniel Snyder to Cut trees on Government Land\"\" reported that Daniel P. Smith, Mainella's Special Assistant at the National Park Service, stated Mainella attended a Washington Redskins vs. New York Giants football game, whereupon she was asked by one of Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder's associates to provide assistance with cutting down trees on the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal, which is managed by the National Park Service. According to the investigation, Snyder had wanted the trees removed for years because they blocked the view from his multimillion-dollar mansion, but had been unsuccessful previously in persuading NPS to allow him to clear cut them. The report said Smith told investigators that during the game, Mainella told Snyder's associate to speak with Smith. After the game, Mainella assigned Smith the project of assisting Snyder. Smith then worked through the National Capital Regional Office of the NPS and the park's Acting Superintendent, Kevin Brandt, to pressure and push for the project's completion. The report noted Smith went so far as to meet with Snyder at Snyder's Potomac, MD mansion to hammer out details of the tree cutting.\n\nThe report stated that when she was asked about her actions regarding Snyder and the trees, Mainella' said she failed to recall these meetings and conversations. However, C&O Canal NPS Acting Superintendent Kevin Brandt stated to investigators that he interacted with Director Mainella on multiple occasions regarding the Snyder deal and that she was the driving force behind the issue from the NPS side. The report concluded that both Smith and Brandt made false statements during the investigation and that Smith and Mainella's contrasting accounts of what happened prolonged the investigation and unnecessarily cost the government additional time and monies. The report further noted that Mainella had apparently falsely claimed during the investigation that the first time she learned of the issue was in an article in the Washington Post, and that she failed to recall if or when she'd ever attended a Washington Redskins football game. The report concluded Snyder should not have cut the trees and the NPS violated law and policy in permitting him to do so. The report further stated the Office of Inspector General had presented their findings to the Fraud and Public Corruption Unit of the U.S. Attorney's Office for Washington, DC for criminal prosecution, but that the U.S. Attorney's Office declined to prosecute the case and the matter was referred back to NPS for administrative adjudication. Shortly thereafter, Mainella resigned as Director of the NPS. Mainella's Special Assistant, Smith, later said in an interview that he had received a letter of reprimand in April 2006 for \"\"overstepping his discretion\"\" but defended his actions, claiming he did \"\"nothing tawdry.\"\"\n\nhttps://www.washingtonpost.com/local/md-politics/whistleblower-in-snyder-tree-case-moves-on-to-a-new-job-wins-settlement-with-park-service/2013/10/03/a8df43c4-1f02-11e3-94a2-6c66b668ea55_story_1.html\n\n"}
{"id": "1903345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903345", "title": "Chladni's law", "text": "Chladni's law\n\nChladni's law, named after Ernst Chladni, relates the frequency of modes of vibration for flat circular surfaces with fixed center as a function of the numbers \"m\" of diametric (linear) nodes and \"n\" of radial (circular) nodes. It is stated as the equation\nwhere \"C\" and \"p\" are coefficients which depend on the properties of the plate.\n\nFor flat circular plates, \"p\" is roughly 2, but Chladni's law can also be used to describe the vibrations of cymbals, handbells, and church bells in which case \"p\" can vary from 1.4 to 2.4. In fact, \"p\" can even vary for a single object, depending on which family of modes is being examined.\n\n"}
