{"id": "1827974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827974", "title": "Kingston and Surbiton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Kingston and Surbiton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nKingston and Surbiton () is a constituency created in 1997 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Ed Davey, the incumbent Deputy Leader of the Liberal Democrats. Kingston and Surbiton has been considered relative to others a very marginal seat, as well as a swing seat since 2010, as the seat has changed hands twice since that year, and its winner's majority did not exceed 6.6% of the vote since the 13.2% majority won in 2010 prior to 2019, when Davey won a 17.2% majority and a majority of the votes cast.\n\n1997–2010: The Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames wards of Berrylands, Burlington, Chessington North, Chessington South, Grove, Hook, Malden Manor, Norbiton Park, Norbiton, St James, St Mark's, Surbiton Hill, Tolworth East, Tolworth South, and Tolworth West.\n\n2010–present: As above less Burlington plus Beverley — and neighbouring Tolworth and Hook wards having been in local government renamed to become Alexandra, Tolworth and Hook Rise, Chessington North and Hook.\n\nThe constituency covers most of the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames, covering the town of Surbiton, Chessington, New Malden, Tolworth and the south of Kingston itself. The remainder of the borough, a northern part of Kingston, has remained since 1997 in the Richmond Park seat.\n\nAs part of its Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, the Boundary Commission made minor changes to re-align the constituency boundaries with the boundaries of the local government divisions (wards); moving the entirety of the Beverley ward into Kingston and Surbiton. It had been partly in Richmond Park until 2002 local elections. The associated public consultation received 11 submissions, of which 10 in support. The revisions came into effect at the 2010 general election.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997, when the number of seats covering the boroughs of Kingston upon Thames and Richmond upon Thames was reduced from four to three. It replaced the former Surbiton constituency completely and also covers the south of the former Kingston constituency.\n\nFormer Chancellor of the Exchequer Norman Lamont represented Kingston from a by-election in 1972 until the 1997 general election, when he was not selected as the Conservative candidate for either of its replacements. Instead, the incumbent Surbiton MP Richard Tracey was selected, while Lamont unsuccessfully contested Harrogate and Knaresborough in North Yorkshire. In the event, Tracey was defeated by the Liberal Democrat candidate Edward Davey by the very narrow margin of 56 votes.\n\nIn the 2011 referendum on whether the UK should adopt the Alternative Vote (AV) system, the Royal Borough of Kingston Upon Thames, which covers most of the constituency, voted against the proposal by 60.5%.\n\nDavey held on to the seat until the general election of 2015, when he was defeated by the Conservative James Berry during the national Liberal Democrat vote collapse. The 2015 result gave the seat the 26th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union, the borough voted to remain in the European Union by 61.6%.\n\nDavey, now knighted, regained the seat for the Liberal Democrats in the 2017 general election with the eighth largest vote share increase for the party nationally.\n\nThe local council, which covers most of the constituency, alternates between Liberal Democrat majority control (1994–1998 and 2002–2014) and no overall control (1986–1994 and 1998–2002). However, in 2014, it became a Conservative-majority council; the last Conservative administration was between 1964 and 1986. Traditionally, the southern wards vote for the Liberal Democrats, whereas the north and north-eastern wards vote for the Conservatives, with some Labour representation in the Norbiton ward.\n\nThe seat is a majority middle-class suburbia, much like its neighbouring constituencies of Wimbledon, Richmond Park and Twickenham. The area has a long-established large urban kernel in Kingston town centre, where waves of public initiatives and spending have overhauled much of the area's cohort of ex-council housing and social housing, which far exceeds that found in the neighbouring borough of Richmond-upon-Thames and is similar to the proportion of such housing stock in the London Boroughs of Merton and Sutton adjoining. The highly commercial town with ancient-founded markets and a public riverside by the River Thames has enjoyed continued economic diversity and prosperity and saw in 2007 a total retail spend of £23.71 billion, placing it 12th among UK towns and cities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827976", "title": "Mitcham and Morden (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Mitcham and Morden (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMitcham and Morden is a constituency in Greater London represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Siobhain McDonagh of the Labour Party.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1974 from the former seats of Mitcham and Merton & Morden.\n\nBetween 1974 and 1982 it was represented by Bruce Douglas-Mann who was elected as a Labour MP but defected in 1982 to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Douglas-Mann was the sole SDP defector to resign his seat; he sought immediate re-election.\n\nIn the by-election Douglas-Mann triggered in May 1982, during the Falklands War, Angela Rumbold (Con) was elected. Rumbold's gain was the last time the Conservative Party would gain (as opposed to win) at a by-election until 22 May 2008 when Edward Timpson won the Crewe and Nantwich by-election.\n\nAt the 1997 general election the seat was won by the Labour Party's Siobhain McDonagh. At the 2001, 2005 and 2010 General Elections, she was re-elected, in the latter election polling the 26th highest share of the vote for the party of the 631 seats contested.\n\nThe 2015 re-election of McDonagh made the seat the 41st safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority and 14th safest in the capital. The seat is one of the capital's two seats in which its majority in 2015 surpassed the Labour Party's landslide 1997 victory (the other being Ilford South).\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Merton wards Mitcham Central, Mitcham East, Mitcham North, Mitcham South, Mitcham West, Morden, and Ravensbury.\n\n1983–2010: Upon redrawing of most of the local government wards, the London Borough of Merton wards of Colliers Wood, Figge's Marsh, Graveney, Lavender, Longthornton, Lower Morden, Phipps Bridge, Pollards Hill, Ravensbury, and St Helier.\n\n2010–present: As above plus Cricket Green ward, minus Phipps Bridge\n\nThe seat is relatively dense suburban — predominantly the housing divides into terraced houses and low-rise apartments in southern parts of Tooting and Streatham at the northern end of the seat. In the south-west of the constituency is the most affluent part, Lower Morden. The name Mitcham and Morden is a partial misnomer — the area of the modern town centre around Morden tube station is in the Wimbledon constituency.\n\nIn the middle, the former coaching stop town of Mitcham with its ancient cricket green retains some village-like characteristics and had relatively poor transport connections during the seat's tenure until the building of the Croydon Tramlink. In the 20th century, Mitcham became surrounded by modern council housing and light industry. Housing varies between the large rented sector, privately acquired properties much of which due to the Thatcher Ministry-introduced right to buy and significant dependence in certain areas on social housing.\n\nAcross the borough, around 40% of the population are ethnic minorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827978", "title": "Putney (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Putney (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nPutney is a constituency created in 1918 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Fleur Anderson, a Labour MP.\n\n1918–1950: The Metropolitan Borough of Wandsworth wards of Putney and Southfields.\n\n1950–1974: As above plus Fairfield ward.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Wandsworth wards of East Putney, Parkside, Roehampton, Southfields, Thamesfield, West Hill, and West Putney.\n\n2010–present: As above less Parkside ward.\n\nWhen created in 1918 the constituency was carved out of the west of the abolished seat Wandsworth. The rest of the latter formed Wandsworth Central, Balham and Tooting and Streatham. Putney formed one of the divisions of the Parliamentary Borough of Wandsworth.\n\nThe seat was Conservative from 1918 until 1964, in a national context of Labour marginal wins in the 1920s, the landslide Labour victory in 1945 and the narrower Labour win in 1950. After the Labour win of 1964, the fairly narrow Heath ministry win of 1970 failed to tip the seat back to the Conservative Party, and the seat was held by Labour for 15 years with Hugh Jenkins as MP.\n\nPutney was next held by Conservative Secretary of State for National Heritage David Mellor from 1979 until 1997 during the party's successive national governments; the 1997 Labour landslide saw Putney gained by Tony Colman (Lab) and a signal early-declared result as the landslide unfolded.\n\nPutney was the first Conservative gain on election night in 2005, when Justine Greening took back the seat from Labour on a two-party swing (Lab-Con) of 6.5%. The 2015 result gave the seat the 148th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority, similar to the 2010 result. The 2017 election saw Greening re-elected, but with a 10% swing to Labour; this heavy swing against the Conservatives has been attributed to the fact that the Borough of Wandsworth (of which Putney is part) voted 75% in favour of remaining in the European Union in the previous year's referendum. In 2019, it was the only seat in the country gained by Labour.\n\nPutney has long had many desirable properties of South-West London with Southfields to the south and the River Thames to the north with Fulham lying across the river.\n\nThe majority of the area as in the 19th century is covered by mid-to-high income neighbourhoods whereas the eastern boundary of the seat eating into Wandsworth town centre is more mixed, and Roehampton which has its University (University of Roehampton and part of the Kingston University campus) consists of, in terms of housing, by a small majority, a diverse council stock that owing to its cost has only fractionally been acquired under the Right to Buy — much of this ward remains in one form or another reliant on social housing.\n\nThe local council is not a bellwether of who will win the Putney seat, and for a considerable time has imposed the lowest council tax in the country. Between 1997 and 2005 Putney had a unique attribute of being the only seat in the country where every single component ward elected a full slate of Conservative councillors, yet the constituency had a Labour MP, Tony Colman.\n\nIn the 2016 EU Referendum, Putney voted 72.24% to Remain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827979", "title": "Richmond Park (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Richmond Park (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRichmond Park is a parliamentary constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Sarah Olney of the Liberal Democrats regained the seat in 2019 from Zac Goldsmith of the Conservative Party, who had won it in the 2017 General Election.\n\nRichmond Park constituency was created in 1997 from Richmond and Barnes, previously held by the Conservative Jeremy Hanley, and a northern section of the Kingston upon Thames seat, held by the former Chancellor of the Exchequer Norman Lamont. Hanley was selected as the Conservative candidate at the first election for the seat but lost to the Liberal Democrat, Jenny Tonge. The seat was held by the Liberal Democrats until 2010, when it was won by the Conservative candidate, Zac Goldsmith.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union, the constituency is estimated to have voted to remain in the European Union by 72%.\n\nOn 25 October 2016, Zac Goldsmith announced his resignation as an MP in protest against the Conservative government's decision to allow a third runway to be built at Heathrow Airport. Goldsmith stood as an Independent candidate in the by-election held on 1 December, but was defeated by Sarah Olney, a Liberal Democrat, after the Conservative Party decided not to nominate its own candidate. It was the first by-election in the constituency since its creation in 1997.\n\nOn 22 April 2017, Goldsmith won the Conservative nomination for Richmond Park and stood in the general election on 8 June, in which Olney also stood for re-election. Despite Olney gaining the largest increase in vote share between general elections in the country, and Goldsmith one of the largest falls, he regained the seat for the Conservatives with a majority of just 45 votes. It marked the shortest period of time that a defeated MP had been out of office before regaining a seat. Olney retook the seat in the 2019 general election, with a majority of nearly 8,000.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Richmond upon Thames wards of Barnes; East Sheen; Ham and Petersham; Kew; Mortlake; Palewell; Richmond Hill; and Richmond Town, and the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames wards of Cambridge; Canbury; Coombe Hill; and Tudor.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Richmond upon Thames wards of Barnes; East Sheen; Ham, Petersham and Richmond Riverside; Kew; Mortlake and Barnes Common; North Richmond; and South Richmond, and the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames wards of Canbury; Coombe Hill; Coombe Vale; and Tudor.\n\nRichmond Park constituency stretches from Barnes in the north to Kingston upon Thames in the south, and includes the whole of East Sheen, Mortlake, Kew, Richmond, Petersham and Ham. The boundaries also include the Royal Park itself.\n\nFrom Kingston Railway Bridge, the boundary follows the middle of the River Thames north (downstream) to Hammersmith Bridge and then southeast as far as Barn Elms. From here it is bounded by the outside of Putney Common and the houses east of Hallam Road and Dyers Lane. At the south end of Dyers Lane the boundary runs along the Upper Richmond Road westwards as far as the Beverley Brook which it then follows south to the northern wall of Richmond Park itself. The boundary then follows the wall of the park as far as the Robin Hood Gate on the A3 road and follows the Beverley Brook south, until it turns west after Malden Golf Course. It then cuts across the golf course to Coombe Road, Coombe Vale, New Malden until the South West Main Line just west of New Malden station. Then the boundary curves north to follow the Kingston branch of the railway line as far as the railway bridge over the River Thames.\nThis means that the constituency includes Coombe, Norbiton, and half of Kingston upon Thames.\n\nAs part of its Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, the Boundary Commission made minor changes to re-align the constituency boundaries with the boundaries of the local government wards. This involved moving the entirety of the Beverley ward into Kingston and Surbiton. It had been split between the two constituencies after ward boundaries were changed in 2002. The public consultation on proposed changes across the boroughs of Kingston and Richmond received 11 submissions, of which ten were in support. The new boundaries came into effect at the 2010 general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827981", "title": "Streatham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Streatham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nStreatham is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Bell Ribeiro-Addy, who was elected as a Labour MP.\n\nIn the 2016 EU referendum, Streatham was estimated to have voted to remain in the European Union by 79%. This was the second highest remain vote in the United Kingdom, behind Vauxhall.\n\n1918–1974: The Metropolitan Borough of Wandsworth ward of Streatham.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Clapham Park, St Leonard's, Streatham Hill, Streatham South, Streatham Wells, and Thornton.\n\n1983–1997: As above plus Town Hall ward.\n\n1997–2010: As above plus St Martin's and Tulse Hill wards.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Brixton Hill, Clapham Common, St Leonard’s, Streatham Hill, Streatham South, Streatham Wells, Thornton, and Tulse Hill.\n\nStreatham is a long constituency comprising the south-west portion of the London Borough of Lambeth. The town of Streatham constitutes the four wards in the southern half of the constituency. At its north-western tip the seat includes half of Clapham Common; the north-east takes in part of Brixton which is shared with neighbouring Vauxhall and Dulwich and West Norwood.\n\nThe northern boundary follows Clapham Park Road, Acre Lane, and Coldharbour Lane through Clapham and Brixton to Lambeth Town Hall. The north-eastern boundary generally follows Effra Road and Tulse Hill, but runs east of the main road to include the part of the Tulse Hill estate and the Cressingham Gardens estate west of Brockwell Park. The boundary skirts the Tulse Hill district centre, following Hardel Rise, Christchurch Road and Norwood Road, and then runs along Leigham Vale and Leigham Court Road. The southern and western constituency boundaries follow Lambeth's borough boundaries with Croydon, Merton and Wandsworth.\n\nThe local government wards in the constituency are currently represented by 20 Labour councillors, 1 Conservative councillor and 3 Green councillors, including Jonathan Bartley, the leader of the opposition on Lambeth Council, and former London MEP Scott Ainslie.\n\nNine Liberal Democrat councillors represented the wards of Streatham Hill, Streatham Wells and St Leonard's, with one additional councillor elected at Clapham Common in 2010. All Streatham wards had been represented by the Liberal Democrats from 1990 to 2014 before Labour subsequently gained seven seats from them at the 2014 council elections. The Liberal Democrats were unsuccessful in gaining any seats back at the 2018 local elections. In a 2019 Thornton Ward by-election, the Lib Dems came within 19 votes of winning the seat.\n\nIn 2018, the Conservatives held one seat and lost two to Labour in Clapham Common by a very narrow margin, whilst the Greens took the other two seats from Labour in St Leonard's.\n\nStreatham was for a few decades solidly Tory suburbia overall: the Conservatives won Streatham when Labour gained large majorities in 1945 and 1966, and it was the only seat in the former LCC area (Inner London) apart from the Chelsea/Kensington/Westminster/City central core to remain consistently Conservative. More recently, demographic and voting pattern changes combined with unfavourable boundary changes converted Streatham into a marginal seat, then into a mid-ranking safe Labour seat. \n\nStreatham has modestly swung against the Conservative Party since the 1980s, even more than other similar seats in South London (such as Croydon North, Dulwich and West Norwood, Lewisham East and West).\n\nThe Conservative Party lost Streatham in 1992, having held it since 1918. The Conservative candidate was beaten into third place by a Liberal Democrat in 2001, and there were swings from Labour to the Liberal Democrats at the two subsequent general elections. In 2010, when the Labour incumbent, Keith Hill, retired and Chuka Umunna stood for the party, there was a serious Liberal Democrat campaign resulting in their best showing to date in the seat, but there was also a marginal increase in the Conservative vote share and Umunna was elected. The 2015 result was the re-election of Umunna, which made the seat the 96th safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nIn 2015 the Conservatives moved into second place with a sharp increase in numerical vote share, and remained there in 2017. However, in 2019, they reverted to third place behind the Liberal Democrats.\n\nThe constituency of Streatham was contested under this name at the 1918 general election, when it approximately followed the historic parish boundaries of Streatham, including a substantial part of Balham, a 19th-century founded and primarily urban parish by that time.\n\nThe constituency was carved out of the former constituency of Wandsworth in the same way as Putney, Wandsworth Central and Balham and Tooting under the Representation of the People Act 1918, the fourth major UK reform, that settled upon single member constituencies, and roughly equal electorates.\n\nThe 1918 boundaries remained unchanged until the 1965 changes to Greater London local government became reflected in the parliamentary constituencies, at the February 1974 general election. This resulted in a net reduction in the size of the area. The western district Streatham Park (location of the Streatham Conservative Club) and the remainder of Furzedown ward went into the Tooting seat.\n\nThe rest of the constituency, including the town of Streatham has since 1965 been in the London Borough of Lambeth. Three other constituencies covered Lambeth from 1974, Vauxhall, Norwood and Lambeth Central. The Clapham constituency was abolished as part of the 1974 changes. The Clapham Park area and Hyde Farm (commonly thought of as part of Balham) came into the Streatham seat, whereas the rest of Clapham went into the Vauxhall seat creating an enduring split.\n\nOn abolition of Lambeth Central at the 1983 election, the constituency gained much of southern Brixton. Following further population decline, Lambeth was paired with Southwark in the next boundary review, and from the 1997 election, Streatham constituency gained areas around Tulse Hill from the former Norwood constituency, the rest of which became part of Dulwich and West Norwood.\n\nIn 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, Streatham is estimated to have posted the highest proportion of support for Remain of any constituency, at 79.5%.\n\nAmong the most ethnically diverse constituencies, Streatham - which covers parts of Clapham, Brixton, Tulse Hill and Streatham itself - is in the south London borough of Lambeth. Only 58.2% of residents are white and it has among the most mixed race and black residents in the country, according to the 2011 Census. It also has Polish, Portuguese and Hispanic communities.\n\nThe bulk of residents are aged 25–44, with relatively few pensioners. Although it is a residential area, it is more popular with young workers than families, having good transport links into central London. Many residents rent, and there is a large social housing sector. Commercially, Streatham High Road is home to over 400 businesses, whilst a £26m ice rink and leisure centre opened in November 2013, part of continuing investment. The population is highly qualified and a high percentage are in full-time work.\n\nAt 6% of the population, Streatham (which is located in the London Borough of Lambeth) has the largest LGBT population in the country.\n\n17% was the largest vote share increase in a Labour held seat for the Liberal Democrats at the 2019 general election.\n\nNB Percentage comparions in the table above are against the notional result on the new constituency boundaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827983", "title": "Sutton and Cheam (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sutton and Cheam (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSutton and Cheam is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. Since 2015, the seat has been held by Paul Scully, a Conservative.\n\nThe area's voters produced a 32.6% swing to the Liberal Party in the 1972 by-election. In the nine prior elections it only returned Conservative MPs and the Liberal candidate polled third behind Labour six times and none stood three times.\n\nThe seat is a marginal seat which has since 1970 frequently flipped between electing Conservative and Liberal/Liberal Democrat candidates. During the Conservative Government 1979-1990, the seat was won by a sufficient majority to be branded a Conservative safe seat. It was regained by the Liberal Democrats in the 1997 general election. The Conservatives regained the seat at the 2015 general election. In June 2016, an estimated 51.28% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\nAt the 2017 general election, the incumbent Conservative MP, Paul Scully, gained an 8.3% swing which moved the seat away from the typical \"marginal\" band of analysis: Scully won by a 24.4% majority. Due to the secret ballot only opinion polls can determine if this rise in popularity had more to do with the campaign of the Liberal Democrat candidate and/or the Conservatives picking up votes from the non-standing party UKIP, whose withdrawal was common in 2017 nationwide, following the vote to leave the EU. UKIP had 378 candidates across the UK, 346 fewer than in 2015. Also not standing, and having lost their deposits in 2015, were two left-wing minor candidates. An 11.6% extra vote share was on hand for four parties as the candidate list fell from seven to four.\n\nThe seat had ranked from 2015 to 2017 the 39th-slimmest margin of majority, specifically in share of the vote as opposed to number of votes, among the 331 Conservative seats. In third place, Labour's vote share almost doubled to 20.4%, their highest in Sutton and Cheam since 1970; a further swing of 3.4% of voters would have made Labour the closest challengers to the Conservatives, before the Liberal Democrats. The Conservatives finished in fourth place in the European Election 2019, trailing significantly behind the Liberal Democrats, the Brexit Party, and the Labour Party.\n\nRichard Sharples, the constituency's Conservative MP from 1954, was a former major in the army, and served as a Home Office Minister, before resigning his seat in 1972 to become Governor of Bermuda.\n\n1945–1950: The Municipal Borough of Sutton and Cheam.\n\n1950–1964: \"as above\" (from 1965 becoming wards of the London Borough of Sutton but not described as such in boundary legislation itself for a time).\n\n1964–1978: The London Borough of Sutton wards of Belmont, Cheam North, Cheam South, Cheam West, Sutton Central, Sutton East, Sutton North, Sutton North East, Sutton South, Sutton South East, Worcester Park North, and Worcester Park South.\n\n1978–2002: The London Borough of Sutton wards of Belmont, Cheam South, Cheam West, North Cheam, Rosehill, Sutton Central, Sutton Common, Sutton East, Sutton South, Sutton West, Worcester Park North, and Worcester Park South.\n\n2002–present: The London Borough of Sutton wards of Belmont, Cheam, Nonsuch, Stonecot, Sutton Central, Sutton North, Sutton South, Sutton West, and Worcester Park.\n\nThe area maintains separate schooling systems, with grammar schools and comprehensive schools, similar to Kingston upon Thames; it has more semi-detached, terraced and detached properties than the Greater London average. Workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.1% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827984", "title": "Tooting (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tooting (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTooting is a constituency created in 1974 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2016 by Rosena Allin-Khan, a member of the Labour Party.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Wandsworth wards of Bedford, Furzedown, Graveney, Springfield, and Tooting.\n\n1983–2010: As above plus Earlsfield, and Nightingale\n\n2010–present: As above minus Springfield, plus Wandsworth Common.\n\nTooting is the south-eastern third of the London Borough of Wandsworth. As well as Tooting itself, it also includes the districts of Earlsfield, Furzedown and Streatham Park and part of Balham. The constituency includes all of Wandsworth Common, a rectangular open space that lends its name to one of the seven wards.\n\nTooting since 2010 is bordered to the west by Putney and Wimbledon; to the other three compass points by Mitcham and Morden, Streatham and Battersea.\n\nThe constituency was created for the February 1974 election from areas which, prior to that election, were within Battersea South, Streatham and Wandsworth Central.\n\nHeld by Labour since its creation, Tooting was a target seat for the Conservatives at the 2010 general election after the party made gains in local elections. However, Sadiq Khan was able to retain the seat for Labour. The Conservatives have generally performed best in the northern half of the seat (Bedford, Earlsfield, Nightingale, Wandsworth Common), whereas Labour are strongest in the southern half, which covers Tooting ward itself, Graveney and Furzedown.\n\nThe 2015 general election result gave the seat the twenty-fourth-most marginal majority of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority. Had the majority obtained by Allin-Khan at her 2016 by-election win been part of the 2015 results, the seat would have been the 136th safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, the constituency voted remain by 74.7%.\n\nAs in the other two constituencies located in the London Borough of Wandsworth, voters have in part supported the Conservatives at local level; however, the southern area has strong enough Labour support to have consistently returned at least seven Labour councillors since 1992.\n\nSadiq Khan, a solicitor by profession, was the Minister of State for Transport and Minister of State for Communities in the government of Gordon Brown. In opposition after 2010, he became the Shadow Secretary of State for Justice and Lord Chancellor. He was the Labour Party's candidate in the 2016 London mayoral election, and was subsequently elected as Mayor of London. Following his election, Khan announced his intention to resign as MP for Tooting, and on 9 May 2016 he was appointed to the ancient office of Crown Steward and Bailiff of The Three Chiltern Hundreds, triggering a by-election.\n\nThe modern Tooting constituency is a simplified name, as it contains much of Balham, Wandsworth Common and Earlsfield, yet the southernmost parts of the area that self-identifies as Tooting are actually in the London Borough of Merton and so in the Mitcham and Morden seat.\n\nTransport links to Central London are good, and the population has expanded steadily due to the area's popularity with commuters looking for affordable property.\n\nUnemployment benefit claimants and registered jobseekers, in November 2012 were lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 3.2% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827985", "title": "Twickenham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Twickenham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTwickenham is a House of Commons constituency in South-West London, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Munira Wilson of the Liberal Democrats.\n\nSince 1945, the boundaries of the seat have been similar to those of the abolished Municipal Borough of Twickenham.\n\nFrom 1931 until 1983, Twickenham was a safe seat of the Conservative Party and from 1983 until 1997 a marginal seat for that party.\n\nLiberal Democrat Vince Cable gained the seat during the 1997 landslide Conservative defeat and held it until 2015. The seat was one of very few in Britain that gave the Liberal Democrats a majority of votes in the 2005 and 2010 elections, being their sixth best performance nationally in 2010. Cable was Secretary of State for Business from 2010 to 2015, but unexpectedly lost his seat to the Conservative candidate Tania Mathias in the 2015 general election during the nationwide collapse in the Liberal Democrat vote.\n\nCable regained the seat in the 2017 snap election by a 14.8% majority and an absolute majority at 52.8% of the vote; this was the highest vote percentage for the Liberal Democrats in any constituency nationally.\n\nThe seat has in the 21st century had notably high turnouts. At the 2015 general election, it had the highest turnout in England and the fourth highest in the UK. In 2017, turnout was 79.7%, the highest for any seat in the UK, ahead of Oxford West and Abingdon gained by the same party.\n\n1918–1945: The Urban Districts of Heston and Isleworth, and Twickenham.\n\n\"1945: boundaries substantially changed – losing territory in the north to form Heston and Isleworth, gaining territory from Spelthorne to the south including Hampton, Teddington, Hampton Wick, Hampton Court Park and Bushy Park\"\n\n1945–1974: The Municipal Borough of Twickenham.\n\n1974–1983: Central Twickenham, East Twickenham, Hampton, Hampton Hill, Hampton Wick, Heathfield, South Twickenham, Teddington, West Twickenham, and Whitton.\n\n1983–1997: Central Twickenham, Hampton, Hampton Hill, Hampton Nursery, Hampton Wick, Heathfield, South Twickenham, Teddington, West Twickenham, and Whitton.\n\n1997–2010: Central Twickenham, East Twickenham, Hampton, Hampton Hill, Hampton Nursery, Hampton Wick, Heathfield, South Twickenham, Teddington, West Twickenham, and Whitton.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Richmond upon Thames wards of Fulwell and Hampton Hill, Hampton, Hampton North, Hampton Wick, Heathfield, St Margaret's and North Twickenham, South Twickenham, Teddington, Twickenham Riverside, West Twickenham, and Whitton.\n\nThe seat covers the south western half of the London Borough of Richmond, that part of the borough on the north bank of the River Thames. It chiefly contains the towns or London districts of Twickenham, Hampton, Teddington and Whitton. Smaller sub-localities by order of commercial activity are Hampton Hill, Hampton Wick, St Margarets, Fulwell, Strawberry Hill and Hampton Court hamlet proper. Features includes Hampton Court Palace, Bushy Park (one of the Royal Parks of London), and the Rugby Football Union's national ground, Twickenham Stadium.\n\nDuring this period the Hamptons (Hampton, Hampton Hill, Hampton Court and Hampton Wick) and Teddington were excluded from the seat, which instead contained two urban districts to the north of subsequent boundaries, Isleworth and Hounslow, an area at the time with key economic sectors of construction, brewing, warehousing and goods transportation. As such these areas had some support for the Labour Party, who in their best result in the seat, lost the 1929 by-election in the seat by 503 votes (1.6% of the vote).\n\nIn 1945, the area saw as an unusual corollary to its shift southwards, the swing nationally, of +11.7% (Con-to-Lab) converted in the more strongly middle-class redefined seat to a major cut in the 24% Conservative majority swinging −15.3% to a Liberal opponent, George Granville Slack. In February 1974 and from 1979 until seizing victory in 1997, the runner-up party became the Liberal Party or their successor, the Liberal Democrats and the ward boundaries became only slightly adjusted to reflect changes made in the borderlines made at the local level of government.\n\nAs described by the boundaries, the area enjoys substantial parkland and Thameside landscapes, coupled with a variety of commuter train services to Central London including semi-fast services from Twickenham itself to London Waterloo.\n\nTwickenham is the only constituency situated entirely within the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames and, as such, is made up completely of middle-class suburbia, similar to the neighbouring constituencies of Kingston & Surbiton, Richmond Park (both in Greater London) and Esher & Walton in Surrey. Workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower in Twickenham than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.7% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThis was the second largest Lib Dem majority by percentage, after Bath and the largest by number. It was also their largest vote share at the 2019 general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827987", "title": "Vauxhall (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Vauxhall (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nVauxhall is a constituency represented in the House of Commons by Florence Eshalomi of Labour Co-op since her election in 2019. \n\nIn the 2016 EU referendum, Vauxhall voted to remain in the European Union by an estimated 81%. This was the highest result in the UK, behind Gibraltar. \n\n1950–1974: The Metropolitan Borough of Lambeth wards of Bishop's, Marsh, Oval, Prince's, and Vauxhall.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Bishop's, Oval, Prince's, Stockwell, and Vassall.\n\n1983–1997: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Bishop's, Clapham Town, Ferndale, Larkhall, Oval, Prince's, Stockwell, and Vassall.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Angell, Bishop's, Clapham Town, Ferndale, Larkhall, Oval, Prince's, Stockwell, and Vassall.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Lambeth wards of Bishop's, Clapham Town, Ferndale, Larkhall, Oval, Prince's, Stockwell, and Vassall.\n\nVauxhall is wholly within the London Borough of Lambeth. The core of the constituency - unchanged from the former Lambeth North - is delimited by the River Thames to the west and north and the boundary with Southwark to the east.\n\nThe seat includes all of Vauxhall, North Lambeth, Stockwell, Kennington and some of Brixton and north Clapham. Its landmarks include the London Eye, the Oval cricket ground, Royal Vauxhall Tavern, SIS building and the National Theatre. Among Britain's most ethnically diverse constituencies, Vauxhall has sizable Jamaican, Portuguese, Ghanaian and Ecuadorian communities.\n\nAt 6% of the population, Vauxhall (which is located in the London Borough of Lambeth) has the largest LGBT population in the country.\n\nThe area has consistently voted in parliamentary elections for Labour Members of Parliament since 1918, except in 1931. This includes the results of the former seat of Lambeth North, which had near-identical boundaries.\n\nSince a 1989 by-election, the seat had been represented by Kate Hoey. Continuing a history as a safe seat for Labour, since her 1989 election, Hoey consistently achieved majorities of 9,100 to 20,200 votes. The 2015 result made the seat the 105th safest of Labour's 230 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nDespite Hoey being a prominent campaigner for leaving the European Union, Vauxhall voted to remain in the EU by 77.6% in the national referendum on 23 June 2016. In the 2017 general election, this led to her seat being targeted by pro-Remain organisations and high-profile individuals seeking to oust her in favour of the pro-EU Liberal Democrat candidate. There had been a change.org petition calling for Hoey's deselection as the Labour candidate for the seat; however, due to party rules this was unsuccessful. While Hoey did significantly increase her majority in 2017, the Liberal Democrat vote total more than trebled, and they moved back into second place having fallen to fourth behind the Conservatives and the Greens in 2015. In May 2018, Hoey's local party passed a vote of no confidence in her, vowing to deselect the MP as well. On 8 July 2019 Hoey announced that she would retire from the House of Commons, and would not seek re-election as a Labour candidate at the next general election.\n\nGeorge Strauss was appointed Minister of Supply from 1947 to 1951 during the Attlee Ministry. Kate Hoey was Minister for Sport (1999-2001) during the Blair Ministry.\n\nThe local government wards in the constituency are currently entirely represented by Labour on Lambeth London Borough Council.\n\nA single Conservative councillor represented the Clapham Town ward from 2002 until losing their seat by sixty votes in the 2006 Council Elections.\n\nThree Liberal Democrat councillors represented the Bishop's ward from 1990 to 2014; they subsequently lost the three ward seats to Labour, as did the sole Liberal Democrat councilors in the Oval and Vassall wards. They failed to gain them back in 2018.\n\nAt the 2018 council elections, Labour won all of the ward seats in the constituency. The Liberal Democrats finished second in the wards of Bishop's, Oval, Stockwell and Prince's. The Conservatives finished the runner up in Clapham Town and the Green Party in Vassall, Ferndale and Larkhall.\n\n13.6% was the largest vote share increase in a Labour held seat for the Liberal Democrats at the 2017 general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827988", "title": "Chinn", "text": "Chinn\n\nChinn is a surname, originating both in England and among overseas Chinese communities.\n\nAs an English surname, it originated as a nickname for people with prominent chins, from Middle English or . It is also a spelling, based on the pronunciation in some varieties of Chinese including Hakka, of the surname pronounced Chen in Mandarin. The similarly-spelled surname Chin also shares both of these origins.\n\nAccording to statistics cited by Patrick Hanks, 1,316 people on the island of Great Britain and four on the island of Ireland bore the surname Chinn in 2011. In 1881 there were 1,032 people with the surname in Great Britain, primarily at Warwickshire and Cornwall.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census found 6,211 people with the surname Chinn, making it the 5,601st-most-common name in the country. This represented an increase in absolute numbers, but a decrease in relative frequency, from 6,146 (5,220th-most-common) in the 2000 Census. In both censuses, about half of the bearers of the surname identified as White, one-quarter as Asian, and one-fifth as Black.\n\n"}
{"id": "1827990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827990", "title": "Afsharid dynasty", "text": "Afsharid dynasty\n\nThe Afsharid dynasty () was an Iranian dynasty that originated from the Afshar tribe in Iran's north-eastern province of Khorasan, ruling Iran (Persia) in the mid-eighteenth century. The dynasty was founded in 1736 by the brilliant military commander Nader Shah, who deposed the last member of the Safavid dynasty and proclaimed himself as the Shah of Iran.\n\nDuring Nader's reign, Iran reached its greatest extent since the Sasanian Empire. At its height it controlled modern-day Iran, Armenia, Georgia (plus two breakaway states of Abkhazia and South Ossetia), Azerbaijan Republic (with the self-declared Republic of Artsakh), parts of the North Caucasus (Dagestan), Afghanistan, Bahrain, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Pakistan, and parts of Iraq, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Oman. After his death, most of his empire was divided between the Zands, Durranis, Georgians, and the Caucasian khanates, while Afsharid rule was confined to a small local state in Khorasan. Finally, the Afsharid dynasty was overthrown by Mohammad Khan Qajar in 1796, who would establish a new native Iranian empire and restore Iranian suzerainty over several of the aforementioned regions.\n\nThe dynasty was named after the Turcoman Afshar tribe from Khorasan in north-east Iran, to which Nader belonged. The Afshars had originally migrated from Turkestan to Azerbaijan (Iranian Azerbaijan) in the 13th century. In the early 17th century, Shah Abbas the Great moved many Afshars from Azerbaijan to Khorasan to defend the north-eastern borders of his state against the Uzbeks, after which the Afshars became native to those regions. Nader belonged to the Qereqlu branch of the Afshars.\n\nNader Shah was born (as Nadr Qoli) into a humble semi-nomadic family from the Afshar tribe of Khorasan, where he became a local warlord. His path to power began when the Ghilzai Mir Mahmud Hotaki overthrew the weakened and disintegrated Safavid shah Sultan Husayn in 1722. At the same time, Ottoman and Russian forces seized Iranian land. Russia took swaths of Iran's Caucasian territories in the North Caucasus and Transcaucasia, as well as mainland northern Iran, by the Russo-Persian War, while the neighbouring Ottomans invaded from the west. By the 1724 Treaty of Constantinople, they agreed to divide the conquered areas between themselves.\n\nOn the other side of the theatre, Nader joined forces with Sultan Husayn's son Tahmasp II and led the resistance against the Ghilzai Afghans, driving their leader Ashraf Khan easily out of the capital in 1729 and establishing Tahmasp on the throne. Nader fought to regain the lands lost to the Ottomans and Russians and to restore Iranian hegemony in Iran. While he was away in the east fighting the Ghilzais, Tahmasp allowed the Ottomans to retake territory in the west. Nader, displeased, had Tahmasp deposed in favour of his baby son Abbas III in 1732. Four years later, after he had recaptured most of the lost Persian lands, Nader felt confident enough to have himself proclaimed shah in his own right at a ceremony on the Moghan Plain.\n\nNader subsequently made the Russians cede the taken territories taken in 1722–23 through the Treaty of Resht of 1732 and the Treaty of Ganja of 1735. Back in control of the integral northern territories, and with a new Russo-Iranian alliance against the common Ottoman enemy, he continued the Ottoman–Persian War. The Ottoman armies were expelled from western Iran and the rest of the Caucasus, and the resultant 1736 Treaty of Constantinople forced the Ottomans to confirm Iranian suzerainty over the Caucasus and recognised Nader as the new Iranian shah (king).\n\nTahmasp and the Qajar leader Fath Ali Khan (the ancestor of Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar) contacted Nader and asked him to join their cause and drive the Ghilzai Afghans out of Khorasan. He agreed and thus became a figure of national importance. When Nader discovered that Fath Ali Khan was corresponding with Malek Mahmud and revealed this to the shah, Tahmasp executed him and made Nader the chief of his army instead. Nader subsequently took on the title Tahmasp Qoli (Servant of Tahmasp). In late 1726, Nader recaptured Mashhad.\n\nNader chose not to march directly on Isfahan. First, in May 1729, he defeated the Abdali Afghans near Herat. Many of the Abdali Afghans subsequently joined his army. The new shah of the Ghilzai Afghans, Ashraf, decided to move against Nader but in September 1729, Nader defeated him at the Battle of Damghan and again decisively in November at Murchakhort, banishing the Afghans from Persian soil forever. Ashraf fled and Nader finally entered Isfahan, handing it over to Tahmasp in December and plundering the city to pay his army. Tahmasp made Nader governor over many eastern provinces, including his native Khorasan, and married him to his sister. Nader pursued and defeated Ashraf, who was murdered by his own followers. In 1738, Nader Shah besieged and destroyed the last Hotaki seat of power, at Kandahar. He built a new city nearby, which he named \"Naderabad\".\n\nIn the spring of 1735, Nader attacked Persia's archrival, the Ottomans, and regained most of the territory lost during the recent chaos. At the same time, the Abdali Afghans rebelled and besieged Mashhad, forcing Nader to suspend his campaign and save his brother, Ebrahim. It took Nader fourteen months to crush this uprising.\n\nRelations between Nader and the Shah had declined as the latter grew alarmed by his general's military successes. While Nader was absent in the east, Tahmasp tried to assert himself by launching a campaign to recapture Yerevan. He ended up losing all of Nader's recent gains to the Ottomans, and signed a treaty ceding Georgia and Armenia in exchange for Tabriz. Nader, furious, saw that the moment had come to depose Tahmasp. He denounced the treaty, seeking popular support for a war against the Ottomans. In Isfahan, Nader got Tahmasp drunk then showed him to the courtiers asking if a man in such a state was fit to rule. In 1732 he forced Tahmasp to abdicate in favour of the Shah's baby son, Abbas III, to whom Nader became regent.\n\nNader decided, as he continued the 1730–35 war, that he could win back the territory in Armenia and Georgia by seizing Ottoman Baghdad and then offering it in exchange for the lost provinces, but his plan went badly amiss when his army was routed by the Ottoman general Topal Osman Pasha near the city in 1733. Nader decided he needed to regain the initiative as soon as possible to save his position because revolts were already breaking out in Persia. He faced Topal again with a larger force and defeated and killed him. He then besieged Baghdad, as well as Ganja in the northern provinces, earning a Russian alliance against the Ottomans. Nader scored a decisive victory over a superior Ottoman force at Yeghevard (modern-day Armenia) and by the summer of 1735, Persian Armenia and Georgia were under his rule again. In March 1735, he signed a treaty with the Russians in Ganja by which the latter agreed to withdraw all of their troops from Persian territory, those which had not been ceded back by the 1732 Treaty of Resht yet, mainly regarding Derbent, Baku, Tarki, and the surrounding lands, resulting in the reestablishment of Iranian rule over all of the Caucasus and northern mainland Iran again.\n\nNader suggested to his closest intimates, after a hunting party on the Moghan plains (presently split between Azerbaijan Republic and Iran), that he should be proclaimed the new king (shah) in place of the young Abbas III. The small group of close intimates, Nader's friends, included Tahmasp Khan Jalayer and Hasan-Ali Beg Bestami. Following Nader's suggestion, the group did not \"demur\", and Hasan-Ali remained silent. When Nader asked him why he remained silent, Hasan-Ali replied that the best course of action for Nader would be to assemble all the leading men of the state, in order to receive their agreement in \"a signed and sealed document of consent\". Nader approved of the proposal, and the writers of the chancellery, which included the court historian Mirza Mehdi Khan Astarabadi, were instructed with sending out orders to the military, religious and nobility of the nation to summon at the plains. The summonses for the people to attend had gone out in November 1735, and they began arriving in January 1736. In the same month of January 1736, Nader held a \"qoroltai\" (a grand meeting in the tradition of Genghis Khan and Timur) on the Moghan plains. The Moghan plain was specifically chosen for its size and \"abundance of fodder\". Everyone agreed to the proposal of Nader becoming the new king, many—if not most—enthusiastically, the rest fearing Nader's anger if they showed support for the deposed Safavids. Nader was crowned Shah of Iran on March 8, 1736, a date his astrologers had chosen as being especially propitious, in attendance of an \"exceptionally large assembly\" composed of the military, religious and nobility of the nation, as well as the Ottoman ambassador Ali Pasha.\n\nIn 1738, Nader Shah conquered Kandahar, the last outpost of the Hotaki dynasty and established Naderabad, Kandahar. His thoughts now turned to the Mughal Empire based in Delhi. This once powerful Muslim state to the east was falling apart as the nobles became increasingly disobedient and the Hindu Marathas of the Maratha Empire made inroads on its territory from the south-west. Its ruler Muhammad Shah was powerless to reverse this disintegration. Nader asked for the Afghan rebels to be handed over, but the Mughal emperor refused.\n\nNader used the pretext of his Afghan enemies taking refuge in India to cross the border and invade the militarily weak but still extremely wealthy far eastern empire. In a brilliant campaign against the governor of Peshawar, he took a small contingent of his forces on a daunting flank march through nearly impassable mountain passes, and took the enemy forces positioned at the mouth of the Khyber Pass completely by surprise, decisively beating them despite being outnumbered two-to-one. This led to the capture of Ghazni, Kabul, Peshawar, Sindh and Lahore.\n\nAs Nader moved into the Mughal territories, he was accompanied by his loyal Georgian subject and future king of eastern Georgia, Erekle II, who led a Georgian contingent as a military commander as part of Nader's force. Following the defeat of Mughal forces priorly, he then advanced deeper into India, crossing the river Indus before the end of year. The news of the Persian army's swift and decisive successes against the northern vassal states of the Mughal empire caused much consternation in Delhi, prompting the Mughal ruler, Muhammad Shah, to summon an overwhelming force of some 300,000 men and march this massive host north towards the Persian army.\nNader Shah crushed the Mughal army in less than three hours at the large Battle of Karnal on 13 February 1739. After this decisive victory, Nader captured Mohammad Shah and entered with him into Delhi. When a rumour broke out that Nader had been assassinated, some of the Indians attacked and killed Persian troops. Nader, furious, reacted by ordering his soldiers to plunder and sack the city. During the course of one day (March 22) 20,000 to 30,000 Indians were killed by the Persian troops, forcing Mohammad Shah to beg Nader for mercy.\n\nIn response, Nader Shah agreed to withdraw, but Mohammad Shah paid the consequence in handing over the keys of his royal treasury, and losing even the Peacock Throne to the Persian emperor. The Peacock Throne thereafter served as a symbol of Persian imperial might. It is estimated that Nadir took away with him treasures worth as much as seven hundred million rupees. Among a trove of other fabulous jewels, Nader also gained the Koh-e-Noor and Darya-ye Noor diamonds (Koh-e-Noor means \"Mountain of Light\" in Persian, Darya-ye Noor means \"Sea of Light\").\n\nThe Persian troops left Delhi at the beginning of May 1739, but before they left, he ceded back to Muhammad Shah all territories to the east of the Indus that he had overrun. Nader's soldiers also took with them thousands of elephants, horses and camels, loaded with the booty they had collected. The plunder seized from India was so valuable that Nader stopped taxation in Iran for a period of three years following his return. Nader attacked the empire to, perhaps, give his country some breathing space after previous turmoils. His successful campaign and replenishment of funds meant that he could continue his wars against Iran's archrival and neighbour, the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Indian campaign was the zenith of Nader's career. After his return from India, Nader fell out with his eldest son Reza Qoli Mirza, who had ruled Persia during his father's absence. Reza had behaved highhandedly and somewhat cruelly but he had kept the peace in Persia. Having heard a rumour that Nader was dead, he had prepared to seize the throne by having the Safavid royal captives, Tahmasp and his nine-year-old son Abbas III, executed. On hearing the news, Reza's wife, who was Tahmasp's sister, committed suicide. Nader was not pleased with the young man's behaviour and humiliated him by removing him from the post of viceroy, but he took him on his expedition to conquer territory in Transoxiana. Nader became increasingly despotic as his health declined markedly. In 1740 he conquered Khanate of Khiva. After the Persians had forced the Uzbek khanate of Bukhara to submit, Nader wanted Reza to marry the khan's elder daughter because she was a descendant of his role model Genghis Khan, but Reza flatly refused and Nader married the girl himself. Nader also conquered Khwarezm on this expedition into Central Asia.\nNader now decided to punish Daghestan for the death of his brother Ebrahim Qoli on a campaign a few years earlier. In 1741, while Nader was passing through the forest of Mazandaran on his way to fight the Daghestanis, an assassin took a shot at him but Nader was only lightly wounded. He began to suspect his son was behind the attempt and confined him to Tehran. Nader's increasing ill health made his temper ever worse. Perhaps it was his illness that made Nader lose the initiative in his war against the Lezgin tribes of Daghestan. Frustratingly for him, they resorted to guerrilla warfare and the Persians could make little headway against them. Though Nader managed to take most of Dagestan during his campaign, the effective guerrilla warfare as deployed by the Lezgins, but also the Avars and Laks made the Iranian re-conquest of this particular North Caucasian region this time a short lived one; several years later, Nader was forced to withdraw. During the same period, Nader accused his son of being behind the assassination attempt in Mazandaran. Reza angrily protested his innocence, but Nader had him blinded as punishment, although he immediately regretted it. Soon afterwards, Nader started executing the nobles who had witnessed his son's blinding. In his last years, Nader became increasingly paranoid, ordering the assassination of large numbers of suspected enemies.\n\nWith the wealth he gained, Nader started to build a Persian navy. With lumber from Mazandaran, he built ships in Bushehr. He also purchased thirty ships in India. He recaptured the island of Bahrain from the Arabs. In 1743, he conquered Oman and its main capital Muscat. In 1743, Nader started another war against the Ottoman Empire. Despite having a huge army at his disposal, in this campaign Nader showed little of his former military brilliance. It ended in 1746 with the signing of a peace treaty, in which the Ottomans agreed to let Nader occupy Najaf.\n\nThe military forces of the Afsharid dynasty of Persia had their origins in the relatively obscure yet bloody inter-factional violence in Khorasan during the collapse of the Safavid state. The small band of warriors under local warlord Nader Qoli of the Turkomen Afshar tribe in north-east Iran were no more than a few hundred men. Yet at the height of Nader's power as the king of kings, Shahanshah, he commanded an army of 375,000 fighting men which constituted the single most powerful military force of its time, led by one of the most talented and successful military leaders of history.\n\nAfter the assassination of Nader Shah at the hands of a faction of his officers in 1747, Nader's powerful army fractured as the Afsharid state collapsed and the country plunged into decades of civil war. Although there were numerous Afsharid pretenders to the throne, (amongst many other), who attempted to regain control of the entire country, Persia remained a fractured political entity in turmoil until the campaigns of Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar toward the very end of the eighteenth century reunified the nation.\n\nThe Safavids had introduced Shi'a Islam as the state religion of Iran. Nader was probably brought up as a Shi'a but later espoused the Sunni faith as he gained power and began to push into the Ottoman Empire. He believed that Safavid Shi'ism had intensified the conflict with the Sunni Ottoman Empire. His army was a mix of Shi'a and Sunni (with a notable minority of Christians) and included his own Qizilbash as well as Uzbeks, Afghans, Christian Georgians and Armenians, and others. He wanted Persia to adopt a form of religion that would be more acceptable to Sunnis and suggested that Persia adopt a form of Shi'ism he called \"Ja'fari\", in honour of the sixth Shi'a imam Ja'far al-Sadiq. He banned certain Shi'a practices which were particularly offensive to Sunnis, such as the cursing of the first three caliphs. Personally, Nader is said to have been indifferent toward religion and the French Jesuit who served as his personal physician reported that it was difficult to know which religion he followed and that many who knew him best said that he had none. Nader hoped that \"Ja'farism\" would be accepted as a fifth school (\"mazhab\") of Sunni Islam and that the Ottomans would allow its adherents to go on the hajj, or pilgrimage, to Mecca, which was within their territory. In the subsequent peace negotiations, the Ottomans refused to acknowledge Ja'farism as a fifth \"mazhab\" but they did allow Persian pilgrims to go on the \"hajj\". Nader was interested in gaining rights for Persians to go on the \"hajj\" in part because of revenues from the pilgrimage trade. Nader's other primary aim in his religious reforms was to weaken the Safavids further since Shi'a Islam had always been a major element in support for the dynasty. He had the chief mullah of Persia strangled after he was heard expressing support for the Safavids. Among his reforms was the introduction of what came to be known as the \"kolah-e Naderi\". This was a hat with four peaks which symbolised the first four caliphs.\n\nAfter Nader's death in 1747, his nephew Ali Qoli (who may have been involved in the assassination plot) seized the throne and proclaimed himself Adil Shah (\"The Just King\"). He ordered the execution of all Nader's sons and grandsons, with the exception of the 13-year-old Shahrokh, the son of Reza Qoli. Meanwhile, Nadir's former treasurer, Ahmad Shah Abdali, had declared his independence by founding the Durrani Empire. In the process, the eastern territories were lost and in the following decades became part of Afghanistan, the successor-state to the Durrani Empire. The northern territories, Iran's most integral regions, had a different fate. Erekle II and Teimuraz II, who, in 1744, had been made the kings of Kakheti and Kartli respectively by Nader himself for their loyal service, capitalized on the eruption of instability and declared \"de facto\" independence. Erekle II assumed control over Kartli after Teimuraz II's death, thus unifying the two as the Kingdom of Kartli-Kakheti, becoming the first Georgian ruler in three centuries to preside over a politically unified eastern Georgia, and due to the frantic turn of events in mainland Iran he would be able to remain \"de facto\" autonomous through the Zand period. Under the successive Qajar dynasty, Iran managed to restore Iranian suzerainty over the Georgian regions, until they would be irrevocably lost in the course of the 19th century, to neighbouring Imperial Russia. Many of the rest of the territories in the Caucasus, comprising modern-day Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Dagestan broke away into various khanates. Until the advent of the Zands and Qajars, its rulers had various forms of autonomy, but stayed vassals and subjects to the Iranian king. Under the early Qajars, these territories in Transcaucasia and Dagestan would all be fully reincorporated into Iran, but eventually permanently lost as well (alongside Georgia), in the course of the 19th century to Imperial Russia through the two Russo-Persian Wars of the 19th century.\n\nAdil made the mistake of sending his brother Ebrahim to secure the capital Isfahan. Ebrahim decided to set himself up as a rival, defeated Adil in battle, blinded him and took the throne. Adil had reigned for less than a year. Meanwhile, a group of army officers freed Shahrokh from prison in Mashhad and proclaimed him shah in October 1748. Ebrahim was defeated and died in captivity in 1750 and Adil was also put to death at the request of Nader Shah's widow. Shahrokh was briefly deposed in favour of another puppet ruler Soleyman II but, although blinded, Shahrokh was restored to the throne by his supporters. He reigned in Mashhad and from the 1750s his territory was mostly confined to Khorasan. In 1796 Mohammad Khan Qajar, the founder of the Qajar dynasty, seized Mashhad and tortured Shahrokh to force him to reveal the whereabouts of Nader Shah's treasures. Shahrokh died of his injuries soon after and with him the Afsharid dynasty came to an end. Shahrokh's descendants continue into the 21st century under the Afshar Naderi surname.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827992", "title": "List of Mississippi locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Mississippi locations by per capita income\n\nMississippi is the poorest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $20,670 (2012).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1827997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827997", "title": "Greenwich and Woolwich (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Greenwich and Woolwich (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGreenwich and Woolwich is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Matthew Pennycook of the Labour Party.\n\nThe seat while dominated in the south by expansive and panoramic Greenwich Park retains constituent connections to work at the former Royal Docks by and Gas Works in North Greenwich and has a considerable social dependency in its Greenwich and Woolwich town centres, including in social housing, heightened by an acute demand for housing, particularly in the western half, SE10 due to architecturally-rich conservation areas and very close proximity to Canary Wharf and City of London.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1997 general election by the merger of the former Greenwich constituency, and the western half of the former Woolwich constituency. It has been controlled by the Labour Party since its creation, where they received their highest share of the vote in 1997; with 44.8%. Thirteen years later, the 2010 general election produced the smallest vote share of 24.7%.\n\nThe 2015 general election result was the 105th-safest Labour majority of 232 seats won by Labour at that election.\n\nReflecting a demographic split in the latter twentieth century were five and eleven-year periods when the two predecessor seats were represented by candidates from the SDP.\n\nThe former Greenwich constituency was a secure Labour Party seat for much of the twentieth century, though it had been a safe Liberal seat throughout most of the nineteenth century. In 1987, it was gained by the Social Democratic Party at a by-election and narrowly regained by Labour five years later at the 1992 general election.\n\nThe former Woolwich constituency (and its predecessor Woolwich East) was a similar safe-Liberal-seat-turned-safe-Labour-seat. Its Labour MP Christopher Mayhew defected to the Liberal Party in 1974 before being defeated, and his Labour successor, John Cartwright, defected to the SDP in 1981. He retained the seat at the 1983 and 1987 general elections, but narrowly lost it to Labour in 1992; in a similar fashion to the neighbouring Greenwich seat. In council elections, since the seat's 1997 creation, most wards have tended to elect Labour councillors and few wards other than the Blackheath Westcombe ward have tended to elect Conservative councillors.\n\nIncluding the pre-1997 predecessors, the area has since World War II been a Labour safe seat, or, as indicated in the 1987 result for Greenwich only, in the best result for a Conservative candidate locally during the years since 1955, occasionally a marginal.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Greenwich wards of Arsenal, Blackheath, Burrage, Charlton, Ferrier, Hornfair, Kidbrooke, Nightingale, Rectory Field, St Alfege, St Mary's, Trafalgar, Vanbrugh, West, and Woolwich Common.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Greenwich wards of Blackheath Westcombe, Charlton, Glyndon, Greenwich West, Peninsula, Woolwich Common, and Woolwich Riverside.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in South London, and as a consequence of changes to ward boundaries, the Boundary Commission for England recommended that part of Woolwich Common ward be transferred to Greenwich and Woolwich from the constituency of Eltham; that parts of Glyndon ward be transferred from Eltham and Erith and Thamesmead; and that parts of Kidbrooke with Hornfair ward, Eltham West ward, and Middle Park and Sutcliffe ward be transferred from Greenwich and Woolwich to Eltham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828000", "title": "Lewisham East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Lewisham East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nLewisham East is a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since the by-election on 14 June 2018 by Janet Daby of the Labour Party.\n\nLewisham East was created for the 1918 general election. From 1945 to 1950 the seat was represented by cabinet minister Herbert Morrison of the Labour Party, who took the seat from its first MP, Conservative Assheton Pownall, a former army officer.\n\nThe seat was abolished in 1950 but recreated in 1974. From 1979 to 1997 the constituency was a marginal seat. The MP from 1983 to 1992 was Minister for Sport Colin Moynihan (Conservative). Since the 1997 general election the seat has swung towards Labour; in 2014 Labour won a landslide victory at the local council elections, with the Liberal Democrats losing ten seats and the Conservatives losing their only remaining councillor, while Steve Bullock was re-elected as the directly elected mayor of Lewisham, having held the office since its creation in 2002. Lewisham East had the 51st largest Labour vote share in the country at the 2015 election, out of 650 constituencies.\n\nThe constituency stretches from Blackheath, which has more in common with the more affluent areas of the Royal Borough of Greenwich (which contains the north and east parts of Blackheath) to the wards to the south of the constituency which contain more social housing and less architectural grandeur. Incidence of social deprivation is highest towards downtown Lewisham and the Rushey Green area of Catford, a low-to-middle income area which was home to one of the first indoor shopping malls in England.\n\nAt the southern end of the constituency is Grove Park, one of the quieter and more prosperous parts of Lewisham, which is more marginal between Labour and the Conservatives than the rest of the borough. Some wards in the constituency are steadily increasing in average income and median age, and thus have become Conservative targets in local elections. Nonetheless, Labour MP Heidi Alexander increased her majority in 2015 and then again in 2017. In the by-election of 2018, the Labour vote fell from 68% to 50%.\n\n1918–1950: The Metropolitan Borough of Lewisham wards of Blackheath, Church, Lewisham Park, Manor, and South, and parts of the wards of Catford and Lewisham Village.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Lewisham wards of Blackheath and Lewisham Village, Grove Park, Lewisham Park, Manor Lee, St Andrew, St Mildred Lee, South Lee, Southend, and Whitefoot.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Lewisham wards of Blackheath, Churchdown, Downham, Grove Park, Hither Green, Manor Lee, St Margaret, St Mildred, and Whitefoot.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Lewisham wards of Blackheath, Catford South, Downham, Grove Park, Lee Green, Rushey Green, and Whitefoot.\nThe 2010 redrawing of boundaries replaced Lewisham West with a cross-borough constituency, Lewisham West and Penge, requiring changes to the other seats in the borough. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828001", "title": "New Forest West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "New Forest West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNew Forest West is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Desmond Swayne, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The District of New Forest wards of Barton, Bashley, Becton, Bransgore and Sopley, Downlands, Fordingbridge, Forest North West, Forest West, Hordle, Lymington Town, Milford, Milton, Pennington, Ringwood North, Ringwood South, and Sway.\n\n2010–present: The District of New Forest wards of Barton, Bashley, Becton, Bransgore and Burley, Buckland, Downlands and Forest, Fernhill, Fordingbridge, Forest North West, Hordle, Lymington Town, Milford, Milton, Pennington, Ringwood East and Sopley, Ringwood North, and Ringwood South.\n\nThis constituency covers the part of the New Forest which is not covered by its other constituency and southern settlements next to the coast just outside its boundaries. Largest settlements are Fordingbridge and Ringwood which are inland and coastal New Milton and Lymington.\n\nThis constituency was created when the old New Forest constituency was divided for the 1997 general election. Since its creation, election results suggest a Conservative safe seat.\n\nFor all areas the relevant local authority has a higher than average proportion of retired people, and a lower than national average extent of social housing and rented housing. Housing types include far above average detached and semi-detached properties. Coast and forest are contained in this area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828002", "title": "Slough (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Slough (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSlough is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament by Tan Dhesi, a member of the Labour Party, since the 2017 UK general election.\nSlough had previously been represented since 1997 by Fiona Mactaggart, also of the Labour Party, until she stepped down from politics.\n\nThe Conservatives gained the new Slough seat in 1983, and held it until 1997, when Labour gained the constituency.\n\nWorkless claimants stood at 3.9% in November 2012, just 0.1% above the national average, and while lower than all of eastern Kent and the Isle of Wight, statistically significantly greater than the regional average of 2.5%. The borough has one of the largest mixed commercial (company headquarters and manufacturing) estates in Europe and fast rail links to London on the Great Western Main Line, to be bolstered by direct city centre services with Crossrail. The area is also the part of the M4 corridor that is the closest to the capital and London Heathrow Airport. The seat has a large Asian population with Hindu, Muslim and Sikh communities, and less than half of the seat's population is White. It has one of the highest proportions of Sikh residents of any seat outside of London and the metropolitan West Midlands at 10%, with its newly elected member, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, becoming Britain's first turbaned Sikh MP in the 2017 general election.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1983 most of the area presently covered by this seat was in the Eton and Slough constituency, which was a marginal seat usually held by the Labour Party. The Labour MP from 1950 to 1964 was the veteran politician Fenner Brockway, a radical progressive social democrat, who led in writing on pacifism, prison reform, anti-colonialism and anti-discrimination, was editor of the \"Labour Leader\", attended talks by the Fabian Society and had joined the fledgling Independent Labour Party in 1907.\n\nThe Slough constituency was created for the 1983 general election from the bulk of the abolished Borough Constituency of Eton and Slough, which contributed 88.2% of the constituency. The remaining northern slice came from the safe Conservative constituency of Beaconsfield.\n\nIt currently covers the Borough of Slough, with the exception of the Colnbrook with Poyle ward, which was added to the Windsor constituency after it was created within the Borough of Slough as a result of minor boundary changes involving the counties of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Surrey in 1998.\n\nAs of the 2017 general election, the seat is one of two Labour seats from a total of eight seats in Berkshire.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Slough.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Slough wards of Baylis, Britwell, Central, Chalvey, Cippenham, Farnham, Haymill, Kederminster, Langley St Mary's, Stoke, Upton, and Wexham Lea.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Slough wards of Baylis and Stoke, Britwell, Central, Chalvey, Cippenham Green, Cippenham Meadows, Farnham, Foxborough, Haymill, Kedermister, Langley St Mary’s, Upton, and Wexham Lea.\n\nThe Foxborough ward was transferred to Windsor for the 1997 general election, but returned in 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828004", "title": "Bareback (sexual act)", "text": "Bareback (sexual act)\n\nBareback sex is physical sexual activity, especially sexual penetration, without the use of a condom. The topic primarily concerns anal sex between men who have sex with men without the use of a condom, and may be distinguished from unprotected sex because \"bareback sex\" denotes the deliberate act of forgoing condom use.\n\nA slang term, \"bareback sex\" comes from the equestrian term \"bareback,\" which refers to the practice of riding a horse without a saddle.\n\nIt is not known when the term (as sexual slang) was first used, although its use did gain momentum in the 1960s with the first appearance in print (as analogous reference) occurring in 1968. The term was used by G.I.'s during the Vietnam War when sex without the use of a condom was known as \"going in\" or \"riding\" bareback. The term was included in the 1972 publication, \"Playboy's Book of Forbidden Words: A Liberated Dictionary of Improper English\".\n\nThe term appeared occasionally in print until the 1980s and then in context to the AIDS epidemic and the discussion of sexual practices. It did not have widespread use in LGBT culture until 1997, when there was an increase of discussion regarding condomless sex (as reflected in print publications).\n\nInitially used for contraceptive purposes, condoms also came to be used to limit or prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs/STDs), even after other contraceptive methods were developed. As AIDS emerged and the sexual transmission of HIV became known in the 1980s, the use of condoms to prevent infection became much more widespread, especially among men who have sex with men (MSM) who engage in anal sex. At the beginning of the AIDS crisis, in the context of the invention and development of safe sex, the uptake of condoms among Western MSM was so widespread and effective that condom use became established as a norm for sex between men. From 1995, several high-profile HIV positive men declared their refusal to wear condoms with other HIV positive men in gay publications, dubbing the practice \"barebacking.\" While these early articulations of barebacking expressed a concern for HIV prevention, in that they generally referred to dispensing with condoms in the context of sex between people of the same HIV status, the moral panic which ensued was so pronounced that barebacking came to be framed as a rebellious and transgressive erotic practice for HIV positive and HIV negative people alike, irrespective of the risks of HIV transmission.\n\nA resurgence of barebacking in first-world gay communities during the 1990s has been a frequent topic for gay columnists and editorialists in \"The Advocate\", \"Genre\" magazine, and \"Out\" magazine. Many of these articles express concern over bareback sex's popularity, and liken it to irresponsible and reckless behavior, despite the fact that a third of gay men take part in the practice. An article in the online resource \"The Body\" lists no fewer than 22 reasons why barebacking has become increasingly acceptable in the gay community. Some of the reasons listed are: the recent perception of HIV as a treatable illness one can live with, insufficient sex education, use of drugs such as crystal meth in sexual settings, and fetishization of bareback sex on various porn and dating sites.\n\nAcademic works suggest that barebacking is a way to reach for transcendence, to overcome the boredom of everyday average life in a hyper-rationalized society. Some men are dispensing with condoms in the context of seroconcordant sex (sex between two men of the same HIV status). Early articulations of barebacking generally refer to sex between two HIV-positive men, whereby barebacking could be considered an early harm reduction strategy, similar to serosorting, which was later endorsed by some public health authorities in the USA.\n\nBareback sex has also become more acceptable since the introduction of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). One of the most popular forms of PrEP is Truvada, a medication previously taken for HIV treatment that, when taken properly, has been shown to prevent HIV-negative users from contracting HIV from infected partners. While these drugs do not necessarily prevent the transmission of other STIs, they have stirred a discussion on what \"safe\" sex without the use of condoms really entails.\n\nA 2005 study by Perry N. Halkitis concluded that the resurgence of barebacking led to an increase in sexually transmitted infections among the MSM community. The study found that of the 448 men who were familiar with barebacking, nearly half reported they had bareback sex in the last three months. In the San Francisco study, fewer men reported engaging in barebacking when the behavior was defined as intentional unprotected anal intercourse with a non-primary partner. Using this definition, 14% of the 390 men who were aware of barebacking reported engaging in the behavior in the past two years. Halkitis and Richard Wolitski also found that HIV-positive MSM were more likely to have bareback sex than were HIV-negative MSM. A 2016 study by Joseph Brennan used textual analysis to read discourse on gay pornography performer Jake Lyons and his decision to perform for bareback studios. Brennan explored the stigma attached to the practice, in particular narratives of 'disposal and disgust' that became associated with the performer, and contributed to a decline in his career.\n\nAn extreme form of barebacking is bugchasing, in which seronegative gay men actively seek to be infected with HIV. These men may seek to contract HIV in order to not have to constantly live in fear of becoming infected.\n\nBareback gay pornography was standard in \"pre-condom\" films from the 1970s and early 1980s. As awareness of the risk of AIDS developed, pornography producers came under pressure to use condoms, both for the health of the performers and to serve as role models for their viewers. By the early 1990s new pornographic videos usually featured the use of condoms for anal sex. However, beginning in the 1990s, an increasing number of studios have been devoted to the production of new films featuring men engaging in unprotected sex. For example, San Francisco-based studio Treasure Island Media, whose work focuses in this area, has produced bareback films since 1999. Other companies that do so include Spunk Video, Lucas Entertainment, SEVP, and Eurocreme. Mainstream gay pornographic studios such as Kristen Bjorn Productions have featured the occasional bareback scene such as in \"El Rancho\" between performers who are real-life partners. Other studios such as Falcon Entertainment and Spunk Video have also reissued older pre-condom films. Also, mainstream studios that consistently use condoms for anal sex scenes may sometimes choose editing techniques that make the presence of condoms somewhat ambiguous and less visually evident, and thus may encourage viewers to fantasize that barebacking is taking place, even though the performers are following safer-sex protocols. (In contrast, some mainstream directors use close-up shots of condom packets being opened, etc., to help clearly establish for the viewer that the sex is not bareback.)\n\nSome bareback pornography studios say that they do not inquire whether their models are HIV positive, but assume that they are infected. For example, Hot Desert Knights (HDK) was one of the studios that initially operated on the assumption that all of their bareback models were HIV positive. However, in February 2008 HDK announced that it would begin testing its models for HIV and engage in a process of \"sero-sorting\", which match HIV-positive performers with other HIV-positive performers, and negative with negative. Critics suggest that sero-sorting may not prevent the development of a multi-strain HIV \"superinfection\". By contrast, BelAmi is one of the studios that claimed from the beginning to test their bareback models for HIV before allowing them to participate in condom-free scenes. A notice on the BelAmi website states: \"all our performers are regularly tested for the presence of HIV or other communicable diseases.\"\n\nAdult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation was formed to promote and facilitate STD testing and safety precautions among pornographic film actors.\n\nThe term \"bareback sex\" is used less frequently among heterosexuals. A 2009 survey by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene found that heterosexual women are more likely to bareback when engaging in anal sex than gay and bisexual men are. Compared to safe sex with condoms, heterosexual bareback sex poses an increased chance of pregnancy and an increased risk of STIs whether vaginally or anally .\n\nIn addition to sexually transmitted infections, mechanical trauma are the same as in anal sex. Unprotected anal sex is a risk factor for formation of antisperm antibodies (ASA) in the recipient. In some people, ASA may cause autoimmune infertility. Antisperm antibodies impair fertilization, negatively affect the implantation process and impair growth and development of the embryo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828005", "title": "Surrey Heath (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Surrey Heath (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSurrey Heath is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Michael Gove, a Conservative who is the current Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster The Home counties suburban constituency is in the London commuter belt, on the outskirts of Greater London. Surrey Heath is in the north west of Surrey and borders the counties of Berkshire and Hampshire.\n\nIn terms of housing 70% of homes are detached or semi-detached at the 2011 census. The detached percentage (45.2%) was at that time the second highest in the South East, behind the New Forest. The area is well connected to London Heathrow Airport, IT, telecommunications and logistics centres of the M3 and M4 'corridors' and to the military towns of Aldershot and Sandhurst. Farnborough with its civil, private aviation base with certain military uses is also nearby, as is Blackbushe Airport.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.7% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe constituency is one of the Conservative party's safest seats, with most wards firmly in their camp, the exception being the Old Dean ward which usually votes Labour at local level. According to the British Election Study, it is the most right-wing seat in the UK as of 2014.\n\nConstituents on balance voted to leave the European Union in 2016 but an analysis of YouGov polling by Focaldata suggested support for remain rose from 48% then to 50.2% in August 2018.\n\nSurrey Heath occupies the northwest corner of the county. It has electoral wards:\n\nThe largest town is Camberley. The Boundary Commission made no boundary changes for Surrey Heath in the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies before the 2010 general election.\n\nThe large village of Ash with Ash Vale and smaller one of Tongham are contiguous, similar to Frimley and Frimley Green.\n\nThe seat was created in 1997 from the most part of North West Surrey (which was abolished) and smaller parts of Woking and Guildford, seats which remain.\n\nOn its creation, Nick Hawkins was elected to Parliament as Surrey North West MP Michael Grylls who had in 1992 achieved a majority of 28,392 retired. One of Hawkins' opponents for selection was future Speaker, John Bercow, selected for Buckingham the same day.\n\nIn 2004, the Conservative constituency association, then the richest in the country, deselected Hawkins for the next election in the hope of obtaining an MP of Cabinet calibre.\n\nThe Member since 2005, Michael Gove saw his longest spell as a Secretary of State in the education brief and is the current Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828006", "title": "Winchester (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Winchester (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWinchester is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Steve Brine, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency is in mid-Hampshire and comprises the northern bulk of the large City of Winchester District as well as Chandler's Ford and Hiltingbury in the Borough of Eastleigh. The largest settlement is Winchester.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Winchester, the Urban District of Eastleigh and Bishopstoke, the Rural Districts of Hursley and Winchester, and the Rural District of South Stoneham except the parish of Bittern.\n\n1950–1955: The Boroughs of Eastleigh, Romsey, and Winchester, in the Rural District of Romsey and Stockbridge the parishes of Ampfield, Chilworth, East Dean, Lockerley, Melchet Park and Plaitford, Michelmersh, Mottisfont, North Baddesley, Nursling and Rownhams, Romsey Extra, Sherfield English, and Wellow, and part of the Rural District of Winchester.\n\n1955–1974: The Boroughs of Romsey and Winchester, and parts of the Rural Districts of Romsey and Stockbridge, and Winchester.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Boroughs of Andover and Winchester, the Rural District of Andover, and parts of the Rural Districts of Romsey and Stockbridge, and Winchester.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Winchester wards of Bishop's Sutton, Bishop's Waltham, Cheriton, Compton, Durley and Upham, Itchen Valley, Littleton, Micheldever, New Alresford, Olivers Battery, Otterbourne and Hursley, Owlesbury and Colden Common, St Barnabas, St Bartholomew, St John and All Saints, St Luke, St Michael, St Paul, Sparsholt, The Worthys, Twyford, Upper Meon Valley, and Wonston, and the District of East Hampshire wards of Alton Holybourne, Alton North East, Alton North West, Alton South East, Alton South West and Beech, Farringdon, Four Marks, Medstead, North Downland and Ropley, and West Tisted.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Winchester.\n\n2010–present: The City of Winchester wards of Colden Common and Twyford, Compton and Otterbourne, Itchen Valley, Kings Worthy, Littleton and Harestock, Olivers Battery and Badger Farm, St Barnabas, St Bartholomew, St John and All Saints, St Luke, St Michael, St Paul, Sparsholt, The Alresfords, and Wonston and Micheldever, and the Borough of Eastleigh wards of Chandler's Ford East, Chandler's Ford West, Hiltingbury East, and Hiltingbury West.\n\nParliament accepted the Boundary Commission's Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies by making slight changes to this constituency for the 2010 general election, removing 11 mostly rural wards in and around Bishops Waltham to a new seat, Meon Valley. In return, Winchester gained four suburban and partially urban wards at the northern edge of Eastleigh.\n\nThe chartered city sent burgesses (equivalent to advisory MPs) to the Model Parliament of 1295 and then to most Parliaments convened by the monarch in the medieval period and thereafter; its representation being fixed at two in number during this long period of English history. As is common, major disruption in representation caused by both infrequency of Parliaments convened and allegiance of the incumbents (whether a Royalist or a Parliamentarian) led to sporadic representation during the Protectorate of England and its Commonwealth which followed the end of most fighting during the English Civil War, in this case the stripping of wealth and status from Sir William Ogle followed his being supportive of the wrong faction at the wrong time.\n\nThe Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 reduced the narrow borough constituency that elected two MPs to only one, permitting the creation of new broader replacement seats in surrounding Hampshire countryside for two abolished boroughs: Andover and Fareham (also known as West and South Hampshire respectively).\n\nThe seat was a Conservative safe seat in terms of majority and length of time held from 1950 until 1997.\n\nAt the 1997 general election the incumbent MP Gerry Malone of the Conservative Party was defeated by Mark Oaten of the Liberal Democrats by just two votes. Malone petitioned the result and it was declared void by the High Court on the grounds of mis-stamped ballots having altered the outcome, necessitating a by-election. This was won definitively by Oaten with a very large majority of 21,556, in an election that saw the Labour vote collapse to 1.7% hence the candidate, Patrick Davies, losing his deposit.\n\nThe events of 1997 swung the constituency strongly away from its usual status as a fairly safe Conservative seat.\n\nThe candidacy of Richard Huggett in both 1997 elections as a \"Literal Democrat\" candidate led in part to the creation of the Registration of Political Parties Act 1998.\n\nOaten stood down at the 2010 general election and was replaced as Liberal Democrat candidate by Martin Tod. Following significant boundary changes, Tod was defeated by Conservative candidate Steve Brine, who took the seat with a majority of 3,048 votes, a modest majority which cannot be described as either marginal or safe.\n\n\nThe ancient capital of Wessex, Winchester is a cathedral city with the arts and humanities-oriented University and an affluent population. Deprivation levels are very low, and the population is a mixture of students, academics, London and Southampton commuters, and those employed locally in high-tech and creative industries.\n\nThe only other large settlement in the constituency is Chandler's Ford which has over 21,000 residents and is largely a dormitory town. The constituency also includes several villages, mostly to the north and east of Winchester, including Micheldever, New Alresford and Kings Worthy. Much of the rural territory previously in the constituency was moved to Meon Valley from the 2010 general election.\n\nWorkless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.4% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n\"Note:\" The percentage differences are compared to the previous general election poll, not the by-election.\n\n\"Note:\" The result reflects the official return made at the time. It was subsequently declared void upon petition.\nBecause of the presence on the ballot paper of Richard Huggett as \"Liberal Democrat Top Choice for Parliament\", Oaten used the description \"Liberal Democrat: Leader: Paddy Ashdown\" to identify himself as the official Liberal Democrat candidate.\n\nTottenham's death caused a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nEast's resignation caused a by-election.\n\nCarter was appointed a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury, requiring a by-election.\n\n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828007", "title": "Bowman H. McCalla", "text": "Bowman H. McCalla\n\nRear Admiral Bowman Hendry McCalla (19 June 1844 – 6 May 1910) was an officer in the United States Navy, who was noted for his roles in the Spanish–American War and putting down the Boxer Rebellion.\n\nBorn in Camden, New Jersey, McCalla was appointed midshipman November 30, 1861. McCalla's courage and leadership during his career often earned him great, and due, respect among his fellow officers.\n\nIn the spring of 1885, during the Panama crisis of 1885, McCalla led an expeditionary force of 750 seamen and marines which landed at Panama to protect American treaty rights when the revolution there threatened to block transit across the isthmus.\n\nAs commanding officer of USS \"Marblehead\", September 11, 1897 to September 16, 1898, he took part in the blockade of Cuba and was responsible for the cutting of submarine cables linking Cienfuegos with the outside world, thus isolating the Spanish garrison there, in May 1898. In June 1898, he led the invasion of Guantánamo Bay.\n\nWhile in command of \"Newark\" during the Boxer Rebellion two years later, he was cited for conspicuous gallantry in battle as he led a force of sailors from Tientsin to Peking. McCalla's force of 112 men spearheaded an international column, under British Admiral Sir Edward Seymour, which was attempting to fight its way to the aid of foreign legations under siege at Peking. In the course of the battle at Hsiku Arsenal, McCalla, along with 25 of his force, was wounded; five were killed. See Seymour Expedition, China 1900.\n\nCommissioned rear admiral October 11, 1903, and entered on the retired list June 19, 1906, McCalla died on May 6, 1910 at Santa Barbara, California, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nIn 1898 he was elected as a veteran companion of the New York Commandery of the Military Order of Foreign Wars. He was also a veteran companion of the Illinois Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States and was vice president of the Military Order of the Dragon.\n\nTwo ships were named USS \"McCalla\" for him. McCalla Field and McCalla Hill at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base are named after him as well.\n"}
{"id": "1828009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828009", "title": "Windsor (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Windsor (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWindsor /ˈwɪnzə/ is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Adam Afriyie of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe re-created constituency, from 1997, has continued a trend of large Conservative Party majorities. In local elections the major opposition party has been the Liberal Democrats, who have had councillors particularly in the town of Windsor itself. Affluent villages and small towns along the River Thames and around the Great Park have continued to contribute to large Conservative majorities, from Wraysbury to Ascot. The only ward with any substantial Labour support is in Colnbrook with Poyle, based in Slough.\n\nContaining one of the least social welfare-dependent demographics and among the highest property prices, the seat has the third highest Conservative share of the vote in the country. At the 2010 election, only two areas voted more strongly towards the Conservative Party: Richmond (Yorks) foremost followed by Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire.\n\nWindsor has had parliamentary representation for centuries, first sending a member in 1301, and continuously from 1424. It elected two members of parliament until 1868, when the constituency was reformed and its representation reduced to one MP. In 1974, the constituency was abolished and a similar one, Windsor and Maidenhead was created. However, in 1997 the constituency was recreated.\n\nThe early political history of the area was strongly influenced by the monarch and members of his or her family. Windsor Castle has been an important royal residence throughout the history of the constituency.\n\nThe pre-1832 franchise of the borough was held by inhabitants paying scot and lot (a local tax). On 2 May 1689 the House of Commons had decided that the electorate should be limited to the members of Windsor Corporation. This was disputed after the next election, in 1690, when the Mayor submitted two returns of different members. The House of Commons reversed the decision of the previous Parliament and confirmed the scot and lot franchise.\n\nThere were 278 electors in 1712. Namier and Brooke estimated that, in 1754–1790, there were about 300 electors.\n\nDuring part of the 18th century the Duke of Cumberland (son of King George II) and the Beauclerk family (descended from King Charles II) had political interests in the borough.\n\nKing George III became personally involved in the hotly contested 1780 general election. George encouraged local landowner Peniston Portlock Powney to stand by paying him £2,500 from the King's personal account. The King wished to defeat Admiral Keppel (later Viscount Keppel), an incumbent. The monarch went so far as to canvass tradesmen who dealt with the royal household. After this royal interference in the election, Keppel lost by a narrow 16 votes. Namier and Brooke suggest the Windsor electorate had an independent streak and were difficult to manage.\n\nIn 1832 a new property based franchise replaced the scot and lot qualification. Under the new system, there were 507 registered electors in 1832. The borough representatives before the Reform Act 1832 included soldiers and people connected with the Royal Household, such as Sir Richard Hussey Vivian (MP 1826–1831) and Sir Herbert Taylor (MP 1820–1823). The constituency also returned politicians prominent in national politics, like the Duke of Wellington's elder brother the Earl of Mornington in the 1780s and 1790s or the future Prime Minister Edward Stanley (subsequently the Earl of Derby) in the early 1830s).\n\nThe Ramsbottom family filled one seat from 1806 until 1845. The borough had been loyal to the King's Pittite/Tory ministers in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, but became more favourable to the Whig interest after John Ramsbottom (MP 1810–1845) was elected.\n\nBy the 1860s the monarch had ceased to interfere in local affairs. The borough fell under the patronage of Colonel R. Richardson-Gardner. Richardson-Gardner was a local landowner, who caused some animosity when following the 1868 general election he evicted tenants who did not support him at the polls. This was the last Parliamentary election the Conservatives lost in Windsor.\n\nDespite (or perhaps because of) his methods, Richardson-Gardner was elected to Parliament in 1874.\n\nSuccessive Conservative MPs, before the First World War, had considerable influence in the constituency; especially when they subscribed generously to local institutions such as a hospital.\n\nThe county division created in 1918 combined the town of Windsor, with territory to its west, south and east which had formerly been in the Wokingham division. The incumbent MP for Wokingham up to 1918, Ernest Gardner, was the first representative of the expanded Windsor constituency. The Conservative Party retained the seat continuously, until 1974 when a Windsor constituency temporarily disappeared from the House of Commons.\n\nThe constituency covers the town of Windsor and various portions of the surrounding area, in Berkshire.\n\nBefore 1868: The parliamentary borough of New Windsor was based upon the easternmost town in Berkshire in South East England, which grew up around Windsor Castle and the narrowly defined electorate could also vote for the county representatives. The north boundary of the constituency was on the River Thames, which was then the border between Buckinghamshire which had a seat of the same name and Berkshire, likewise the rest of the borough adjoined the Berkshire county constituency.\n\n1868–1918: The boundaries of the parliamentary borough were extended by the Parliamentary Boundaries Act 1868 (31 & 32 Vict., c. 46) to include the villages of Clewer and Eton (the latter being in Buckinghamshire, north of the Thames). Between 1885–1918 the seat to the north of the Thames was the Wycombe division of Buckinghamshire and the other neighbouring constituency was the Wokingham division of Berkshire.\n\n1918–1950: The parliamentary borough was abolished by the Representation of the People Act 1918 and replaced by a county division named Windsor. The local government areas (as they existed in 1918) which comprised the constituency were the Municipal Boroughs of New Windsor and Maidenhead, with the Rural Districts of Cookham, Easthampstead, Windsor and a part of Wokingham.\n\nThe new constituency comprised the bulk of the abolished Wokingham division, including Maidenhead and rural areas surrounding Windsor and Maidenhead, but excluding the Municipal Borough of Wokingham itself, and incorporating the abolished Borough, with the exception of Eton, which was added to the Wycombe division of Buckinghamshire.\n\n1950–1974: The constituency was reduced in size by the Representation of the People Act 1948, comprising the Municipal Boroughs of New Windsor and Maidenhead, with the Rural Districts of Cookham and Windsor. Rural areas, including the Rural District of Easthampstead (which incorporated Bracknell) were transferred to the re-established County Constituency of Wokingham.\n\nFor the February 1974 general election, the constituency was abolished and renamed Windsor and Maidenhead, with no changes to its boundaries; this area plus Eton, which was transferred from Buckinghamshire, became the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead established under the Local Government Act 1972.\n\n1997–2010: For the 1997 general election, in order to effect an increase in Berkshire's representation from 7 to 8 MPs in accordance with the Fourth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies, the Windsor and Maidenhead constituency was abolished and two separate constituencies of Maidenhead and Windsor were created. The majority of the electorate in the abolished constituency was included in Maidenhead, whilst Windsor was joined by Eton and Bray. It also included a ward of Slough Borough Council north of the Thames, which was transferred from the Borough Constituency of Slough, and was extended southwards to include a part of the abolished constituency of East Berkshire, including Ascot and Sunningdale.\n\nThe composition of the new constituency was:-\n\n\nIn 1998 there was a small re-alignment of county boundaries in the north east corner of Berkshire. This transferred to the Borough of Slough a small polling district from Surrey and another from Buckinghamshire to form Colnbrook and Poyle This new ward (since renamed Colnbrook with Poyle) was selected for the Windsor constituency, though involved two polling districts (the typically three-four subdivisions of wards).\n\n2010–present: Further to the Fifth Periodic Review, the composition of the constituency is:-\n\n\nThe constituency gained the northern part of the County Constituency of Bracknell, including Binfield. Bray was transferred to Maidenhead and the Foxborough ward of the Borough of Slough returned to the Borough Constituency thereof.\n\nAs there were sometimes significant gaps between Parliaments held in this period, the dates of first assembly and dissolution are given. Where the name of the member has not yet been ascertained or (in the 16th century) is not recorded in a surviving document, the entry \"unknown\" is entered in the table.\n\nThe Roman numerals after some names are those used in \"The House of Commons 1509–1558\" and \"The House of Commons 1558–1603\" to distinguish a member from another politician of the same name.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\nThe bloc vote electoral system was used in two seat elections and first past the post for single member by-elections and general elections from 1868. Each voter had up to as many votes as there were seats to be filled. Votes had to be cast by a spoken declaration, in public, at the hustings (until the secret ballot was introduced in 1872).\n\n\"Note on percentage change calculations:\" Where there was only one candidate of a party in successive elections, for the same number of seats, change is calculated on the party percentage vote. Where there was more than one candidate, in one or both successive elections for the same number of seats, then change is calculated on the individual percentage vote.\n\n\"Note on sources:\" The information for the election results given below is taken from Cruickshanks et al. 1690–1715, Sedgwick 1715–1754, Namier and Brooke 1754–1790, Stooks Smith 1790–1832 and from Craig thereafter. Where Stooks Smith gives additional information or differs from the other sources this is indicated in a note after the result. When a candidate is described as Non Partisan for an election this means that the sources used do not give a party label. This does not necessarily mean that the candidate did not regard himself as a member of a party or acted as such in Parliament. Craig's party labels have been varied to take account of the development of parties. Tory candidates are classified as Conservative from the 1835 United Kingdom general election. Whig and Radical candidates are classified separately until the formal establishment of the Liberal Party shortly after the 1859 United Kingdom general election.\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note (1832): Stooks Smith classified Ramsbottom as a Radical candidate from this election. However as Stenton, editing a book composed of Parliamentary biographies published by a contemporary after the Reform Act 1832, described Ramsbottom as being 'of Whig principles' he continues to be classified as a Whig in this article.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828012", "title": "Witney (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Witney (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWitney is a county constituency in Oxfordshire represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament by the first-past-the-post system of election, and was created for the 1983 general election. It has been a safe Conservative Party seat at recent elections. It is currently represented by Robert Courts of the Conservative Party. It was represented by David Cameron from 2001 until 2016. He served as Prime Minister from 2010 until 2016.\n\nIt was represented from 2001-2016 by David Cameron, Leader of the Conservative Party (2005-2016) and UK Prime Minister (2010-2016). On 12 September 2016, Cameron resigned from serving as an MP triggering the 2016 Witney by-election, at which Robert Courts of the Conservatives retained the seat; albeit with a reduced majority. His vote share subsequently rose to 55% at the 2017 and 2019 general elections.\n\nIt is coterminous with the district of West Oxfordshire, and includes the towns of Carterton, Chipping Norton and Woodstock.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Bampton East petty sessional division, with Witney at its heart, formed one part of the Woodstock constituency.\n\nUntil 1974, much of the seat remained as part of the Woodstock and latterly Banbury constituency. From 1974 to 1983, the area was included in the Mid Oxfordshire seat along with parts of Bullingdon and Ploughley. Since 1983, Witney has been a full parliamentary seat in its own right and comprises the whole of the District of West Oxfordshire with surrounding villages attached until 1997.\n\nCarterton is the second largest populated town with 14,000 and is situated alongside RAF Brize Norton which is vital to the local economy, being one of the largest and busiest Royal Air Force stations in the country.\n\nThe constituency's first MP was Douglas Hurd, who served as a cabinet minister under both Margaret Thatcher and John Major, and retired in 1997. Hurd was succeeded by Shaun Woodward at the 1997 general election. However, Woodward defected to the Labour Party in 1999, and Witney unexpectedly had a Labour MP. Woodward chose not to stand in Witney as a Labour candidate and moved to the Labour safe seat of St Helens South instead, following the practice of Alan Howarth in 1997.\n\nAt the 2001 general election, David Cameron was elected as MP for Witney. Cameron was re-elected to a fourth term as MP for the constituency at the 2015 general election with a majority of 25,155, the highest in his political career; on that occasion his Conservative Party won a surprise overall majority in the House of Commons, taking 330 seats to the opposition Labour Party's 232. However, on 24 June 2016, Cameron announced that he would resign as Prime Minister by that October due to the outcome of the EU Referendum the previous day, in which 51.9% of voters supported leaving the EU. On 12 September 2016, it was announced that Cameron would resign as MP for Witney. This triggered a by-election, which was won by Robert Courts, also a Conservative, albeit with a significantly reduced majority.\n\nBefore the 2019 general election, the Liberal Democrats and Green Party agreed not to run against each other as part of a \"Unite to Remain\" alliance. This led to Andrew Prosser, who had been selected as the Green Party's prospective candidate standing down.\n\n1983–1997: The District of West Oxfordshire wards of Ascott and Shipton, Aston Bampton and Standlake, Bampton, Bladon and Cassington, Brize Norton and Curbridge, Burford, Carterton North, Carterton South, Chadlington, Charlbury, Chipping Norton, Clanfield and Shilton, Combe and Stonesfield, Ducklington, Enstone, Eynsham, Filkins and Langford, Finstock and Leafield, Freeland and Hanborough, Hailey, Kingham, Milton-under-Wychwood, Minster Lovell, North Leigh, Rollright, Stanton Harcourt, Witney East, Witney North, Witney South, Witney West, and Woodstock, and the District of Cherwell wards of Gosford, North West Kidlington, South East Kidlington, and Yarnton.\n\nThe new constituency was largely formed from the majority of the abolished County Constituency of Mid-Oxon, including the settlements of Witney, Carterton, Woodstock and Kidlington. Chipping Norton and surrounding rural areas were transferred from the Banbury constituency.\n\n1997–2010: The District of West Oxfordshire, and the District of Cherwell ward of Yarnton.\n\nThe remaining two wards of the District of West Oxfordshire (Bartons, and Tackley and Wooton) were transferred from Banbury. Kidlington transferred to Oxford West and Abingdon.\n\n2010–present: The District of West Oxfordshire.\n\nAs part of the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies the Boundary Commission reported in 2004 that the seat of Witney could be composed from the entire district of West Oxfordshire, with the District of Cherwell ward of Yarnton being transferred to Oxford West and Abingdon.\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 2015\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2015\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2010\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2010\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 2005\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2005\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2001\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2001\"/>\n\n"}
{"id": "1828013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828013", "title": "Woking (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Woking (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWoking is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Jonathan Lord, a Conservative. Since it was first created for the 1950 general election, it has returned solely Conservative Party candidates.\n\nIt was created in 1950 from the county constituencies of Chertsey and lightly populated parts of Farnham.\n\nWith exceptions in 1974 (February election), 1997, 2005 and 2010, when the majority was less, Woking has returned a Conservative candidate whose majority has exceeded 15% of the votes cast, with a Liberal Democrat the runner-up in the five general elections until 2015 when a Labour candidate polled second place. Its MP since 2010 is Jonathan Lord. The narrowest margin of victory was 11.2% of the vote, in 1997, its most marginal result. The 2015 result made the seat the 41st-safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nThere are a number of Liberal Democrat councillors locally and one Labour-voting ward (Canalside), but the Conservatives usually hold the majority of the wards comfortably.\n\n\nThe 1974-recipient seat of Frimley and Camberley was North West Surrey (abolished in 1997). The 1997-recipient of Ash and Ash Vale was Surrey Heath. The constituency is based around the town of Woking in Surrey. The Boundary Commission for England made no boundary changes for Woking in the review before the 2010 general election.\n\nOn 9 June 2015, it was announced that the 2015 election result had been challenged by the Magna Carta Conservation Party candidate, Ruth Temple. Temple claimed in her petition that Jonathan Lord had been ineligible to stand and was thus not duly elected.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828018", "title": "List of Missouri locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Missouri locations by per capita income\n\nMissouri is the 30th richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $19,936 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1828025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828025", "title": "430 Space Shuttle", "text": "430 Space Shuttle\n\n430 Space Shuttle () is a children's show shown on TVB Jade in Hong Kong that aired from 1 February, 1982 until its final episode on 8 August, 1989. The name represents the show's starting time - 4:30pm. This program aimed to educate children about astronomy or related topics with stories, songs, games and other adventures. It provided an opportunity for children to learn about different topics while being entertained at the same time.\n\nThe host of the programme was Cheung Kwok Keung aka \"KK\", with various supporting actress, as well as the \"silver\" monster Coco and the robot that hung on it, called Lobo. When the programme was broadcasting, many families in Hong Kong were still watching a black-and-white TV and thought Coco was a gold monster. Some children got disappointed when they saw the \"ugly\" silver body on colour TV.\n\n\"430 Space Shuttle\" was replaced in the early 1990s by Flash Fax, another educational children's show.\n\nAmong the show's former hosts are famous Hong Kong actors Stephen Chow and Tony Leung.\n\nDuring \"430 Space Shuttle\", about 20 minutes were used to showcase a cartoon. These cartoons were adapted into Cantonese, and usually from Japanese animation. The first cartoon that aired during this time was Doraemon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828027", "title": "Gove Peninsula", "text": "Gove Peninsula\n\nThe Gove Peninsula is at the northeastern corner of Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory of Australia. The peninsula became strategically important during World War II when a Royal Australian Air Force base was constructed at what is now Gove Airport.\n\nThe Gove Peninsula is on the west coast of the Gulf of Carpentaria within Arnhem Land, a vast tract of Aboriginal-owned land on the Northern Territory coastline. The township of Nhulunbuy is the main commercial and service centre of the Peninsula and is 600 kilometres east of Darwin.\n\nAs Europeans started land exploration throughout the Northern Territory and subsequently settled closer to Yolngu homelands, conflicts with the Yolngu became more frequent. In 1931, an area of was proclaimed as an Aboriginal reserve, named Arnhem Land Aboriginal Reserve. Today the Land Trust holds about as Aboriginal freehold land (with the exception of mining leases).\n\nThe Gove Peninsula was heavily involved in the defence of Australia during World War II. Three operational air squadrons were based there at an airfield on the site of the present Gove airport and at a flying boat base at Drimmie Head. The Peninsula derives its name from a RAAF navigator who died in a mid air collision.\n\nBased on a 2004 NT Government Socio-Economic Snapshot, there is a population of 14,115 within the Gove Peninsula (East Arnhem Region), of which almost 64% are Indigenous people and a population of nearly 4,000 in Nhulunbuy, the majority being non-Indigenous people. Those people not living in Nhulunbuy live in surrounding communities and traditional homelands.In the five years to 2004, the population declined in Nhulunbuy and Groote Eylandt and increased in the non-urban areas. \n\nOwned by the traditional Aboriginal owners, the Yolngu people, it is a place rich in culture with Yolngu maintaining strong ties with their land, religion and traditions.\n\nRather than the name of a clan or family group, Yolngu is the word that Aboriginal people from East Arnhem Land, including the Gove Peninsula, use to refer to themselves. The main five clan groups of the region are Gumatj, Rirratjingu, Djapu, Madarrpa and Dhalwangu.\n\nAny non-Yolngu person is called a Balanda (thought to originate from the word 'Hollander' for a Dutch person).\n\nSituated just 12 degrees south of the Equator, the Gove Peninsula has a monsoon climate. The non-Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory tropics recognise two distinct seasons, the dry season from May to October, and the wet from November to April. During the dry, temperatures range from 15 to 18 degrees Celsius at night to 28 to 30 degrees Celsius during the day. There is virtually no rainfall, clear blue skies and cool ocean breezes. The wet season brings the monsoon weather with hot and humid days ranging from 31 to 35 degrees Celsius and warm nights. Electrical storms are spectacular and there can be cyclonic activity. Humidity is high and rainfall averages between 100 and 300 milli-metres per month with an annual rainfall around 1100 milli-metres.\n\nYolngu however recognise eight seasons derived from changing behaviours and patterns apparent in the land, flora and fauna as follows. Dhuludur (‘the Pre-wet season’, October–November) when the weather is erratic, ‘female’ thunder and lightning storms are frequent, turtles and Threadfin Salmon are hunted, and the ‘male’ thunder shrinks the waterholes. Bärra’mirri (‘the season of Heavy Rain and Growth’, December–January) when there are heavy rains and prolific plant growth, the Magpie Geese arrive and shellfish are harvested. Mayaltha (‘the Flowering season’, February–March) when there are bright sunny days but little bush tucker, flies arrive and mosquito larvae are abundant in the pools. Midawarr (‘the Fruiting season’, March–April) when the east wind signals a time of abundant bush foods, including fruits, nuts and barramundi. Ngathangamakulingamirri (‘a two-week Harvest season’, April) Dharratharramirri (‘the Early Dry season’, May–July) when the trade winds (south-southeast) arrive, the bush is fired, Magpie Lark flocks arrive and sharks and stingrays give birth. Burrugumirri (‘the time of the Birthing of Sharks and Stingrays’, three weeks in July to August) Rarrandharr (‘the Main Dry season’, August–October) when warm southeast winds blow, the soil is hot, young sharks and stingrays are hunted, and the stringybark flowers. National Oceans Office, 2003, Snapshot of the Northern Planning Area, Hobart.\n\nThe Gove Peninsula is barely touched by western development, with the exceptions of Nhulunbuy and the bauxite mine and alumina refinery. There are vast tracts of unspoilt land, beaches and ocean. The land is characterised by a mixture of savannah woodland, wetlands and patches of monsoon forest and rocky escarpment. The beaches, bays and islands are idyllic with stretches of beautiful white sand and clear blue ocean waters. Some favourite destinations of locals and visitors alike are Nanydjaka (Cape Arnhem), Lurrupukurru (Oyster Beach), Rangura (Caves Beach), Baringura (Little Bondi), Ngumuy (Turtle Beach), Garanhan (Macassan Beach), and Daliwuy (Daliwoi Bay).\n\nThere are three marked coastal walking trails, providing relatively short and pleasant walks. These are Daliwuy to Garanhan (3 km, red trail marker), Garanhan to Ngumuy (2.5 km, yellow trail marker) and Ngumuy to Baringura (1.5 km, black trail marker). Yolngu elders have provided interpretive material along the way so visitors can enjoy and appreciate their rich culture and beliefs.\n\nThere are 10 local councils in the region which administer the townships of Nhulunbuy and Angurugu and a number of local communities that primarily service Indigenous people.\n\nNhulunbuy is a purpose built town developed by the former owner of Alcan Gove (Nabalco), a huge bauxite mine and now closed alumina refinery 15 kilometres away. The town is built on a Special Purpose Lease on Aboriginal land and is now the largest town in East Arnhem Land, the fourth largest town in the Northern Territory and the administrative centre for the region.\n\nThe market economy of the Gove Peninsula is centred on the Alcan Gove Mine which is located on leasehold land within the boundaries of Aboriginal freehold land. In November 2013 Rio Tinto announced the closure of the mine associated alumina refinery (but not the bauxite mine) in July 2014 with the loss of 1,100 jobs, or almost 25% of the town's population. The population had already dropped by mid 2014, with some of the workforce retained to monitor the shutdown and survey holding ponds full of toxic compounds but most will be gone by January 2015. A range of measures were announced to support the town and its former workers through the closure and the following three years, but locals anticipate further cuts to services since the school, hospital, power plant and flights were backed by Rio Tinto. The closure of the mine also left flights on the Darwin-Nhulunbuy route to fall to around 50-60% full, causing Qantas to suspend flights on the route from August 17.\n\nThe Commonwealth Government carried out mineral explorations in the 1950s and was successful in discovering a bauxite deposit that covered 65 km and contained an estimated 250 million tonnes. After initial resistance to mining by the government Nabalco was set up and was granted a lease with a commitment to build a township, port facility and mine. The construction of the mine lead to the Gove land rights case which initially resulted in ruling in favour of the mineral company.\n\nOn the night of the 2001 Census there were 13,080 people living in the ‘Indigenous region’ of Nhulunbuy, which covers most of the Gove Peninsula. Of these 60.7% were Aboriginal people.\n\nOn the night of the 2001 Census there were 3,766 people living in the ‘Urban Centre’ of Nhulunbuy. Of these 7.3% were Aboriginal people.\n\nIt is possible to hire four wheel drives, conventional vehicles or bicycles in Nhulunbuy and an airport bus and taxi company service the town.\n\nThe Gove Airport is located 13 km from the town centre of Nhulunbuy. Qantas and AirNorth have a daily flight to Gove from Cairns and Darwin which then connect to cities around the world. The Cairns – Gove flight is 1 hour and 40 minutes duration and Darwin – Gove is 1 hour and 10 minutes.\n\nThe most direct route to Nhulunbuy from a major Highway is via the Central Arnhem Road which leaves the Stuart Highway 52 km south of Katherine. The first 30 kilometres are sealed and then the rest is a gravel road. A four-wheel-drive vehicle is recommended, particularly for the two major river crossings, the Wilton River near Bulman Aboriginals Community and the Goyder River, about 300 kilometres from Nhulunbuy. Fuel needs to be carried as travellers may not be able to purchase fuel along the way. The Central Arnhem Road is 682 kilometres long, plus the 52 kilometres from Katherine to the turnoff makes a long drive, approximately 8 or 9 hours drive with good conditions. Travellers require a permit as the road runs across many Yolngu Clan lands.\n\nNhulunbuy has one public primary school, which incorporates pre-school, and one public secondary school which provides education to a Year 12 level. There is also a private school, Nhulunbuy Christian School, which provides education from Transition to Year 10. Yirrkala has a school which supports further afield community schools.\n\nYolngu culture and ties to the land are still very strong and sacred. Many people still live mainly a traditional life. Each August, Gulkula near Nhulunbuy, holds the Garma festival. This is a celebration of Yolngu culture is considered one of the most important indigenous festivals in Australia. Around 2,000 Indigenous and non-Indigenous people travel from around Australia and the world to attend the festival to learn and contribute. Garma is a Yolngu word for ‘two-way learning process’. There is traditional and contemporary music and dance, art and craft, education, performances and sport. Art and craft is gaining worldwide recognition and is an opportunity for Yolngu to gain economic independence. The Gove Peninsula has three outstanding art centres, Nambara Arts and Crafts near Nhulunbuy, Buku Larrngay Mulka in Yirrkala and Elcho Island Art and Craft. The artists of North East Arnhem continue to paint their sacred designs using ochres on bark. This not only reflects the sanctity of their connection with the land they paint but an artistic discipline that is recognised internationally.\n\nArnhem Land, including the Gove Peninsula, is home to what is commonly referred to as the didgeridoo and Yolngu are master players and craftsmen of the instrument. In this region, the rhythms, techniques and compositions endemic to the people are of outstanding musical interest. \n\nDidgeridoos from north-east Arnhem Land are instruments of the highest cultural integrity. The use of the didgeridoo in this part of Australia continues as an unbroken tradition since time immemorial. In recent times, the Yothu Yindi band and Djalu Gurruwiwi - Mr Didgeridoo himself - has done much to popularise the yidaki around the world. Yidaki are commonly made in north-east Arnhem Land from gadayka - \"Eucalyptus tetradonta\" or Stringybark, gungurru - \"Eucalyptus miniata\" or Woolybutt, and badawili - \"Eucalyptus ferruginea\" or Rusty Bloodwood.\n\nSport is a big part of the lives of people in Nhulunbuy and there are facilities including a sports ground, golf course, yacht club, swimming pool, fishing club, surf-lifesaving club, speedway and skate park.\n\nSailing\n\nGove Harbour is a popular stop off point for yachts sailing the northern coast of Australia or heading to the countries to the north of Australia and beyond. Apart from the months of December to April when cyclones can affect the coast line, the waters surrounding the Gove Peninsula provide excellent sailing conditions. The Gove Boat Club is often packed full of visiting yachties from all over the world and the club often holds regattas and other annual events.\n\nDiving\n\nDiving the colourful and rich coral reefs in the clear waters offshore from Gove is becoming more and more popular. There is drift, deep and multi-level diving available and many reefs and offshore islands to explore. There are two reputable dive companies in Nhulunbuy who offer dive tours and short courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828030", "title": "Meander, Tasmania", "text": "Meander, Tasmania\n\nMeander is a rural locality and town in the Meander Valley Council area of northern Tasmania, Australia. In 2011 it had a population of 415, forty percent of whom worked directly in agriculture, many in the dominant industries of grazing of sheep and cattle, and the dairy industry. The surrounding land has been modified by the original Indigenous inhabitants, who turned forest into grassland, and the later settlers, who have created extensive channels for irrigation and drainage. The town is south of the town of Deloraine, Tasmania and is bisected by the Meander River. It sits between Quamby Bluff and Mother Cummings Peak of the Great Western Tiers mountain range.\n\nMeander's surrounds had been inhabited for thousands of years by the Pallittorre, part of the Northern Tribe of Aboriginal Tasmanians. European immigrants began moving into the area in the 1820s and they came into often violent conflict with the Pallittorre. The Pallittorre were removed from the land by a combination of deliberate government policy, disease and the conflicts with the new settlers. Land grants were first made to the European settlers from 1828, firstly of large areas but later for areas of under . The town of Meander was first gazetted in 1901, though never built as intended, then finally gazetted in another location in 1907. Industry in the town has included sawmilling, dairy, a cheese factory, and an abattoir.\n\nMeander Primary school, built c.1910–11, contains buildings relocated from closed schools formerly in surrounding areas. It, and the adjacent St Saviour's Anglican church, have been classed a \"historic precinct\" by the National Trust. The town has had a Methodist church—later part of the Uniting Church in Australia—and a Baptist church, but only the Anglican church remains in use. The town has a single store, with a post office agency, and a community hall. Timberworld, a timber and prefabricated home supplier, was formerly run by Kim Booth, leader of the Tasmanian Greens political party. The town has had cricket, basketball, badminton, sheep dog and Australian rules football clubs. Two of the football club's players went on to play in the Victorian Football League, a cricket chairman was awarded an Order of Australia for his services to the area, and the town featured in the early life of noted Australian country music singer Jean Stafford.\n\nThe original inhabitants of the Meander area were the Pallittorre, who were part of the Northern Tribe of Aboriginal Tasmanians. There are caves south of Meander, in the Great Western Tiers, with deposits showing aboriginal habitation, though these have not been dated. The deposits were either left by the Pallittorre, or their neighbours the Luggermairrernerpairre who were part of the Big River tribe. The Pallittorre probably inhabited the area for thousands of years; aborigines are believed to have lived in Tasmania for more than 30,000 years. The Northern Tribe had three other bands, based near Emu Bay, Hampshire Hills and Port Sorell. \nThe Pallittorre's numbers have been estimated from as low as 50–60 to as high as 600. They maintained cleared grassy plains by regular careful burning, and used this method also to control undergrowth in the forests. This land management technique enabled easier hunting and food gathering. European colonists noted, after the Pallittorre had been eliminated from the area, how the forests rapidly reclaimed the formerly cleared land. They ranged across the land on a seasonal basis, at least as far as Mole Creek, and lived in villages of bark huts at times. They mined ochre in the Gog Range, trading this with other aborigines, across Tasmania. The Pallitorre congregated in areas in the Meander area, such as Jackeys Marsh - the name 'jackey' being a colloquial term for aboriginal people.\n\nFrom c.1824 the movement of European colonists and their farming practices onto Pallittorre lands brought the two groups into often violent conflict. The conflict increased over time. In retaliation for acts by Europeans, killings of settlers by aborigines in 1827 appear to have been part of a coordinated effort to drive the settlers away. The conflict and violence was from both Europeans and aborigines, though more the former than latter. European disease, deliberate killings, forced exile to the islands of Bass Strait, and the driving of the natives from their land and food sources reduced their population. This reduction was such that during an 1834 visit George Augustus Robinson, Protector of Aborigines, could find only one woman in the area. There are only records of two colonists killed by the Pallittorre. The number of Pallittorre killed is not recorded; Shayne Breen—Lecturer in Aboriginal Studies at the University of Tasmania—has estimated more than one hundred. The removal of the Pallittorre from their land, a pattern echoed across Tasmania, was largely intentional. Deliberate policy, promulgated by Governor Arthur, was to remove the native population from the land and grant it to European settlers.\n\nThe Meander area was first settled by Europeans in 1822, prior to land grants being made. The first land grant in the Meander area was to Robert Garrett, Assistant Colonial Surgeon, in 1828, of near Quamby Bluff. From the 1830s grants were made over much land in the valley, primarily for grazing. Most grants were large (thousands of acres). Government acts enabled and encouraged smaller landholdings, particularly the Waste Lands Act of 1858. This enabled crown land areas of less than to be sold; by 1878 there were 16 holdings of less than .\n\nThe smaller grants led to a growing population. In 1900 a township near the present town was surveyed and reserved for its construction. This first town was gazetted in 1901 but never developed, remaining only a plan. The town was first called Cheshunt Town after the nearby Cheshunt Estate, but the area had been known informally as Meander from c.1888. The present town was planned and laid out a short distance away, then gazetted in 1907.\n\nThe area around the town is primarily used for agriculture, mostly grazing of sheep, cattle and the associated dairy industry. Opium poppies have been grown, for pharmaceutical production, since the 1970s. Early land modification is evident in an irrigation system, consisting of of land with artificial irrigation and drainage channels. These were made in the late 1840s, diverting water from the Meander River and returning excess further downstream, and are still used. Meander sits astride the Meander River, near the Great Western Tiers, between the mountains Quamby Bluff and Mother Cummings Peak.\n\nSt Saviour's Anglican church was built in 1898 and is an actively used church in the parish of Deloraine. Next to the church is the Meander Primary School. The school contains a number of buildings that have been relocated from surrounding settlements to Meander including: The old school building from Montana; Jacky's Marsh school building which is used as a library and kitchen; A building that was part of the school at Golden Valley. The school and St Saviour's Church were classified as a \"historic precinct\" by the National Trust in 1988. Cheshunt is a historic home, owned by the Bowman family, whose former estate covered much of the Meander area. The home is a two-story Victorian building that was designed and completed, in 1852, by noted architect William Archer. The southern wing of the house was completed in 1886.\n\nMeander is in the Meander Valley Council local government area, the Division of Lyons—for the state house of assembly and the federal house of representatives— and the state legislative council electoral division of Western Tiers.\n\nThe town of Meander, and the surrounding area, had a population 293 at the 2006 census. The statistical measurement area was enlarged to at the 2011 census and the population recorded as 415.\n\nThe 2011 census reported agriculture as a significant source of employment; almost 40 percent of those working are employed in the livestock, dairy farming, grain farming and sawmilling industries. As is the case for Tasmania as a whole, Meander's residents are primarily Australian born—84.6% compared to 83.6% for Tasmania and 69.8% for Australia—and have both parents born in Australia (75.5%, the same percentage as Tasmania). With few exceptions English is the only language spoken, and more than 80% of residents reported ancestry from Australia or Great Britain. The population has a similar median age to the rest of Tasmania—41 years compared to 40—but older than the 37 years for the rest of Australia. 47% of residents reported some religious affiliation, 65% of these Anglican and the remainder other Christian churches. All occupied homes are separate buildings, 81.3% of which are owned outright or mortgaged, higher than the 67% for all of Australia. Household income is lower than the state or county; $770 per week for Meander compared to $948 for Tasmania and $1234 for Australia.\n\nOne of the town's more famous residents was Jean Stafford. She is a successful country music singer who spent some of her childhood living in a Meander farm house, attending the Meander school, and was married at the Meander Methodist Church. She has won Golden Guitar awards, as Australia's best female country singer, and was given the Keys to the City of Nashville, Tennessee in 1991.\n\nSchooling started in Meander in 1891, when the Government rented a building from the Meander Church of England, a building now called the Sunday School. They agree to rent it for two years as a school was intended to be built. The first teacher at the \"West Meander School\", Miss Mary Johnson, taught at the school for 21 years from the 1891 opening till 1917, when she moved onto a teaching position in Deloraine. When opened the school, which taught only primary school age children, had 19 students. In 1901 the education department purchased next to the church, and a new school was built c.1910–11. Meander's student population grew to a maximum of 80–90 in 1926, though this may have been a temporary increase due to students from Montana while the school there, which was damaged by fire, was being rebuilt.\n\nSchool ran at various times at localities near Meander including: Montana; Golden Valley; Western Creek; and Jacky's Marsh. A school opened on a property known as Cheshunt in 1907, as the Springdale School. In 1919 it was moved to Montana, and renamed Montana School in 1923. The building burned down December 1926. During rebuilding some students were educated at the Montana Baptist church, others at the school at Meander. The school closed in 1944, by which time there were only seven students. The Montana school building was moved to be part of the Meander School in 1947–48. A school was run at Golden Valley from 1870 to 1945, initially as a 1/2-day school. During most of its life it had around 30 students. After closing the school building was relocated to Meander School. Western Creek had a school from 1893 to 1938. After it closed some students attended Meander's school, but others moved to schools at Mole Creek and Deloraine. Unlike other schools in the area the building was not moved to Meander but instead to Mole Creek's school. Children from Jacky's Marsh travelled to Meander for schooling until 1900 when the Jacky's Marsh school opened. The school was closed 1910–22 and finally closed in 1937. The school building was moved to Meander c1940. From the 1940s school buses brought children from Jacky's Marsh, Montana, Huntsman, Western creek and other nearby areas.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1968 Meander's school was a state school rather than a primary school. The curriculum included secondary schooling and the school taught students from Grade 1 to Grade 9. From 1968 the school became a primary only school known as \"Meander Primary school\". Secondary students were transported by bus to Deloraine's high school. This change was made as it was uneconomic to separately educate what was then a small number of secondary students ; by the end of 1967 there were only 16 secondary students. In 1991, the school had 60 students, in three class groups, taught by five full-time staff. In 2009 it had 62 students,primary school students from grades one through six, and seven teaching staff. At the end of 2014 enrollments had declined and, with expected student numbers below twenty in 2015, the primary school began the process of closing. Students were expected to continue their education either at Deloraine or Mole Creek.\n\nThe first church in Meander was a Methodist chapel, built on the corner of Main Road and East Meander Road on land donated by a local family. It opened in 1886; construction was most likely funded by local Methodists. Until subsequent churches were built it was used by all Christian denominations. Meander's Methodist church became part of the Uniting Church in Australia in 1976, along with many other Methodist churches. The church continued after this to be used by other denominations. It hosted its last service 20 May 1984 and the building was subsequently sold.\n\nA Baptist church was built, also on the main road, and opened in 1923. It was a timber-framed weatherboard building, built on land donated by the first Baptist minister's son, the local butcher. The last service at the church was held 28 April 1985. Prior to this, as attendance declined, the congregations of the Baptist and Uniting Churches had often combined, and roles such as the organist were shared.\n\nA Sunday School building, originally known as the Mission Church, was built in the late 19th century. The Anglican Church of England was holding services in this building from at least 1891. On 22 September 1897 the foundation stone of a new church, St Saviour's, was laid, next to the Sunday School building. St Saviour's opened 3 February 1898 when it was dedicated by Bishop Montagu Stone-Wigg. Sunday School continued in the old building from 1898 to c.1980. The nearby cemetery had its first burial in 1891. St Saviour's was consecrated in November 1902. The church, as of 2009, holds monthly services attended by 6–7 local parishioners.\n\nThe first store opened in Meander in 1892 on the East Meander Road, and was open until 1902. Different stores in Meander have sold a wide variety of goods over the life of the town; some have operated as petrol stations, butchers and grocers. At least six stores have been open at different times in the town. The only store open in the 21st century opened c.1951 and has run under various owners.\n\nThere was a post office in Meander by 1888, probably started the previous year. Prior to this there was an unofficial post office, a mail depot run by locals. The post office continued in a separate building until then postmaster, Harold Taylor, retired in 1977. After this post function was a service provided by the local store. There was a manual telephone exchange in the post office building. This was replaced with an automatic exchange in June 1975.\n\nThe first community hall at Meander was built in 1914. It was built by local resident Fred Bowman, who maintained it until 1945 when responsibility was taken over by a local committee. Locals decided, in 1952, to build a new hall. Funding from the hall came from, competitions, dances and the growing of peas for sale. The hall opened 3 December 1954 and was physically joined to the original c.1957. The Road from Deloraine to Meander was sealed in 1964, an event of some note that was celebrated with a gymkhana and fair. Mains electricity reached Meander in 1952 when power, supplied by the Hydro-Electric Commission, was switched on in Meander's township area December 1952. Meander's street lights were first turned on 12 November 1971.\n\nThe Meander volunteer fire brigade was formed in 1972, though a station was not built until some years after. They received their first fire truck in 1973, which had to be kept at member's houses for the first few years. In 1991 the brigade had approximately 15 members. This brigade was formed in consequence of the Rural Fires Act 1950; an act aimed at combating bushfires.\n\nDue to the heavy forestation in the area, sawmilling was an important and early industry, starting in the 1830s. In the early 20th century, there were around 20 sawmills in Meander and the surrounding localities. Due to a move towards closer settlement—smaller land plots and resulting greater population density—demand for timber in Meander increased and new sawmills were built in Meander in the 1910s and 1920s. Some of these mills continued into the late 20th century. Sawmilling later declined, partly due to lack of timber. Timberworld is the only remaining sawmill, though this is not its only business. It opened in 1985 as a sawmill supplying local Australian blackwood, myrtle beach and Blackheart Sassafras, originally operating from the former Baptist Church building. From 1990 it was owned and run by Kerin Booth and Kim Booth and it relocated to the former site of the Cummings Bros sawmill. Kim Booth, leader of the Tasmanian Greens, later passed management of the company to his son, Bronte. At one time Timberworld employed 30 people. The company now focuses on supply of prefabricated homes.\n\nOn-farm factories in the Deloraine area made cheese, mostly cheddar, during the early 20th century. Cheese was made in the Meander area from at least 1908 when a factory opened on the Cheshunt estate. The last of the area's factories closed prior to World War II. Meander had a resident blacksmith from c.1876, though blacksmithing had been done on private properties before this. Blacksmithing as a separate industry continued into the early 20th century. Prompted by new legislation in the 1980s, that enforced hygiene standards in animal slaughtering, a slaughter-house was opened in Meander. It was registered in 1986. Before this butchering was a more informal or back-yard industry.\n\nMeander's Australian rules football club was formed in 1923, playing in the Chudleigh Association, and won the Association premiership in 1931. The club stopped playing during World War II. After the war they moved to the Central Association, and later the Deloraine Association. From 1966–76 they were part of the Esk Association before returning to Deloraine. The club closed in 1982 due to a lack of both players and support from locals. Some footballers from Meander were noted for their later success in the game. Carl Watson played in the Meander club, before moving to the Latrobe Seniors. He played for Richmond 1925–31 and Essendon for his final Victorian Football League season in 1932. Ron McGowan was at Meander School in the 1950s. He played in various clubs in Tasmania before starting with Footscray where he played 92 games from 1965 to 1972. He later played with South Adelaide, and spent time as Footscray's chairman of the selection committee.\n\nThe Meander cricket club formed circa 1896. It closed from 1912–21 and during 1927–1984 it was mostly involved in social games. The club was revived for competition in the 1980s; a new concrete pitch was built. In 1991 they played in the 'A' Grade of the Westmoreland Cricket Association. In 2012, Neil William Johnston, club chairman since 2009, was awarded the Order of Australia in the general division for service to the community of Meander. He was also a founding member of the fire brigade, local Councillor and involved with the football, badminton and basketball clubs.\n\nMeander badminton club began playing in 1951, joined the Deloraine Association in 1959, and by 1991 fielded four teams. A sheep dog club opened late 1970s. Meander has hosted the Tasmanian Championships four times and the Australian Championships once, in 1990, when the champion was Meander club member Henry Homan. This event was the \"Supreme Australian Championship\" of the Australian Sheepdog Workers' Association. Meander had a basketball club from 1960 to c.1977. The club was primarily a Christian basketball club associated with the Baptist church.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828031", "title": "Zero Hour (2004 TV series)", "text": "Zero Hour (2004 TV series)\n\nZero Hour is a Canadian/British documentary-style television series. It aired on History Television in Canada, on the BBC in the United Kingdom, and on The History Channel in the United States. \"Zero Hour\" has also aired on Channel Seven in Australia (third series aired on Network Ten from 1 May 2010 and now plays on 7mate); on Discovery Channel in Africa, Asia, New Zealand, Brazil, and the Netherlands. The program focuses on retelling the details of tragic man-made disasters which each unfolded in less than an hour.\n\nThree narrators were used over the three seasons, David Morrissey (The Walking Dead, Doctor Who), Paul McGann (Doctor Who, Luther), Sean Pertwee (Gotham, Elementary), son of Jon Pertwee (Doctor Who).\n\nCertain episodes have been partially censored for particular broadcasts. One example is the Columbine High School massacre episode, which had some scenes cut (for intense violence, profanity, and racist slurs) when broadcast on Discovery Channel.\n\nFrom 1 September 2014 to 1 March 2016, all episodes were available for streaming on Netflix. They can still be viewed on Amazon Video.\n\nIn 2008, a DVD box set containing 10 episodes was released by Discovery Channel and Go Entertain. The DVDs were also released separately.\n<br>\nThe episodes included were: <br>\n\"Disaster at Chernobyl\"<br>\n\"Massacre at Columbine High\" (cut version)<br>\n\"Terror in Tokyo & The Bali Bombing\"<br>\n\"The Capture of Saddam Hussein\"<br>\n\"The King of Cocaine\"<br>\n\"The Sinking of the Estonia\"<br>\n\"The Columbia Space Shuttle Disaster\"<br>\n\"A Royal Massacre\"<br>\n\"SAS Mission Impossible\"\n\n\"The Last Hour of Flight 11\" was released on a separate DVD. All other episodes have not been released on DVD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828044", "title": "List of Montana locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Montana locations by per capita income\n\nMontana is the forty-sixth richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $17,151 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1828047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828047", "title": "Putna Monastery", "text": "Putna Monastery\n\nThe Putna monastery () is a Romanian Orthodox monastery, one of the most important cultural, religious and artistic centers established in medieval Moldavia; as with many others, it was built and dedicated by Stephen the Great. Putna was founded on the lands perambulated by the Putna (which has its source in the Obcina Mare mountains, Bukovina). Stephen the Great is famous for building and influencing the building of dozens of churches and monasteries all over Moldavia (allegedly, he founded a religious edifice after each important military victory). The Putna Monastery houses the tombs of Stephen —nowadays, a place of pilgrimage —, and several of his family members. The icon veils and tombstones are held as fine examples of Moldavian art in Stephen the Great’s time.\n\nRight after Stephen the Great won the battle in which he conquered the Kilia citadel, he began work on the monastery as a means to give thanks to God, on July 10, 1466 - the church was to be dedicated to the Virgin Mary. Previous eremitic life (on the place the monastery was built) was proven by humans buried deep under the foundation of the oldest buildings from Stephen the Great. A chronicle of the time mentions that Stephen bought the Vicovu de Sus village in exchange for 200 \"zloty\", and awarded the land and revenue to the treasury of the monastery.\nPutna was completed in three years, but was consecrated only after one more year passed, given that the Moldavians engaged in other battles. On September 3, 1470, during a ceremony attended by Stephen and all his family, the monastery was consecrated by Metropolitan Teoctist, and subsequently became the most important religious site in the area. \n\nThe present church was practically rebuilt between 1653 and 1662 by Vasile Lupu and his successors. Although the building follows the ground plan of a typical 15th and 16th century Moldavian church, it has many architectural and decorative features that are characteristic of 17th century architecture. \n\nFor long, the site was believed to have been designed by a Greek architect named Theodor - the interpretation of the Kilia chronicles on which this was based has since been proven wrong.\n\nThe oldest embroidery of the monastery, dated at the end of the 14th century, is an epitaphion made with silk and gold thread by Euphima, a Serbian nun, daughter of Vojihna, together with her daughter Euprasijka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828051", "title": "USS Marblehead (1861)", "text": "USS Marblehead (1861)\n\nUSS \"Marblehead\" was a built for the United States Navy during the American Civil War.\n\n\"Marblehead\" was launched by George W. Jackman Jr., Newburyport, Massachusetts, 16 October 1861; and commissioned on 8 March 1862; Lieutenant Commander Somerville Nicholson in command.\n\nFirst assigned to the North Atlantic Blockading Squadron, \"Marblehead\" took part in operations along the York and Pamunkey Rivers in Virginia. On 1 May 1862, she participated in the shelling of Confederate positions at Yorktown, supporting General George McClellan's drive up the Peninsula toward Richmond.\n\nIn an unusual engagement, the \"Marblehead\" was docked in Pamunkey River, Confederate cavalry commander JEB Stuart ordered a detachment of southerners to attack the docked ship, but were discovered by Union sailors and marines, who opened fire - Confederate horse artillery, under Major John Pelham unlimbered his guns and fired on \"Marblehead\" - as the ship got under way and the bluecoats called back onto the ship, Pelham's guns raced the ship, firing at it as long as the horse can keep up with it.\n\nThe \"Marblehead\" escaped, and was reassigned to the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron and commenced patrols off the southern east coast in search of Confederate vessels. With monitor in early February 1863, she reconnoitered the Wilmington River, located in Georgia, in an unsuccessful attempt to locate the ironclad ram CSS \"Atlanta\" (ex-\"Fingal\"). Later in the month, on the 23rd, she took possession of the prize \"Glide\" and her cargo of cotton which had been captured by the Coast Survey schooners \"Caswell\" and \"Arago\" at the entrance of Tybee Creek, in Georgia, while en route to Nassau.\n\nDuring her patrols of the coastal rivers, \"Marblehead\" periodically engaged in operations on the Stono River, South Carolina, in support of the Union defenders of James Island. On 16 July 1863, during an assault by Confederate forces on that position, the gunboat came under fire from Southern batteries at Grimball's Landing. Forced further down river, she continued to provide fire support and prevented Confederate reinforcements from reaching the main body of their attack force. She then joined in the bombardment of forts in Charleston, South Carolina harbor before heading north for repairs.\n\nBack on the Stono River with by November, she provided cover for Army troops as they sank piles as obstructions in the river above Legareville, South Carolina, on the 24th. The next month, on Christmas Day, Confederate batteries, in an attempt to remove the support provided by \"Marblehead\" and \"Pawnee\", opened fire on the two gunboats. \"Marblehead\" suffered 20 hits, but was able to capture two of the enemy's 8-inch seacoast howitzers before returning north for repairs and reassignment. Four of her sailors were awarded the Medal of Honor for their actions during this engagement: Contraband Robert Blake, Boatswain's Mate William Farley, Quartermaster James Miller, and Landsman Charles Moore.\n\nOn 2 June 1864, she was ordered to serve as a practice ship for Naval Academy midshipmen at Newport, Rhode Island. A month later this service was interrupted as she resumed coastal patrol duties for five months. She then returned to Newport to serve as a practice ship. After completion of this duty, \"Marblehead\" arrived at the Washington Navy Yard where she decommissioned 19 September 1866. Recommissioned the following month and assigned to the North Atlantic Squadron, she operated in the Caribbean for the next two years.\n\nOn 18 August 1868, she returned to the New York Navy Yard, decommissioned 4 September, and was sold on 30 September.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828052", "title": "Laneco", "text": "Laneco\n\nLaneco was a supermarket chain operating in eastern Pennsylvania and northern New Jersey. At one time it operated four types of stores. The older stores were called Food Lane, which were former Food Fair stores with the least square footage and only carried food products. There were also Laneco's and Laneco SuperCenters these stores were much larger than Food Lanes and offered general merchandise. Sam Walton actually worked with Raymond A. Bartolacci Sr. to develop the Wal-Mart Supercenter. Laneco also operated CR Pharmacies which were often located in Laneco Supercenters.\n\nLaneco was founded by Raymond A. Bartolacci Sr. in 1946. The first store opened as Paramount Foods in Easton, Pennsylvania, and completed its first day of business with a total of less than $20 in sales. The stores were acquired by Supervalu in October 1992, and were closed by them in 2001. The stores were scaled down for the last several years until they were closed. The stores operated with a union and several thousand employees were laid off at the closure of the stores. Laneco had around 16 stores at the time of closure. Many stores were purchased by and converted to Giant such as the Lehighton, PA location, while Redner's picked up a few locations, Country Junction has taken over the Windgap store, Ahearts has taken a few locations such as the Laneco’s in Allentown , Bethlehem, and the smaller location in Phillipsburg and a few still remain vacant today. The Clinton and Whitehouse stores in New Jersey are now Wal-Mart stores and the Laneco in Phillipsburg was demolished, with a Wal-Mart, a White Castle, a Wawa, and a Quaker Steak & Lube now occupying the redeveloped site. The Hometown, PA Laneco would become a TJ Bart's location before eventually closing and the lot being used to build a Wal-Mart. Giant refused to hire any of the ex-Laneco workers because they were members of a union.\n\nLaneco carried a store brand of many grocery products called Why Pay More?. The logo for Why Pay More? items was a smiling woman holding a receipt in her left hand and cash in her right, the latter presumably having been spared by the former.\n\nLaneco Food Lane Supermarkets at web.archive.org\n"}
{"id": "1828054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828054", "title": "Governador Island", "text": "Governador Island\n\nGovernador Island (Ilha do Governador, in Portuguese; literally Governor's Island, in English) is the largest island in Guanabara Bay, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It has a population of about 211,018 inhabitants, in a small area of .\n\nRio de Janeiro's main airport, Galeão - Antônio Carlos Jobim International Airport, and the Galeão Air Force Base are located on Governador Island and occupy about a third of it, in the western and northwestern parts. A small sea inlet that once existed on the northwestern shore was landfilled to build the airport's runway 10/28, thereby increasing the island's area.\n\nOften mentioned by cariocas (inhabitants of Rio city) simply as \"Ilha\" (\"island\"), Governador Island has some favelas, such as the pacified Morro do Dendê, the largest one, but it also has many middle-class neighborhoods and even the third better IDH index in the city, the Jardim Guanabara neighborhood. The island is connected to Fundão Island and to the mainland by a complex of expressway bridges and through a barge in Cocotá Terminal, transporting passengers to downtown in Rio.\n\nThe name means \"Governor's Island\" because one of the first colonial governors of Brazil built a country house on the island in the 16th century. The native name for the island in Old Tupi was \"Paranapuã\", which means \"sea branch\".\n\nPeople from Governador Island suffer from high pollution from Guanabara Bay. Although surrounded by beaches, many of them have become inappropriate for usage even though the bay has been cleaned up in recent years for the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe island is home to only one professional football club, A.A. Portuguesa. Its home is Estádio Luso Brasileiro, which in recent years has been expanded so it can be used professionally by Botafogo, as Estádio Olímpico João Havelange, its normal home, is being used for Olympic purposes. It was also used by Flamengo during 2017 and 2018, in the time being called Ilha do Urubu.\n\nIn July 1981, the then mayor Júlio Coutinho approved a law that effectively divided Governador Island in fourteen different new neighborhoods: Bancários, Cacuia, Cocotá, Galeão, Jardim Carioca, Jardim Guanabara, Moneró, Pitangueiras, Portuguesa, Praia da Bandeira, Ribeira, Tauá and Zumbi.\n"}
{"id": "1828055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828055", "title": "W. D. Workman Jr.", "text": "W. D. Workman Jr.\n\nWilliam Douglas Workman Jr., known as W. D. Workman Jr. (August 10, 1914 – November 23, 1990), was a journalist, author, and a pioneer in the development of the 20th century South Carolina Republican Party. He carried his party's banner as a candidate for the United States Senate in 1962 and for the governorship in 1982. He lost to the Democrats, Olin D. Johnston and Richard Riley, respectively.\n\nWorkman was born in Greenwood in Greenwood County in western South Carolina to W. D. Workman Sr. (1889-1957), a veteran of the United States Army during World War I, known as \"Major\" Workman and thereafter an educator, lawyer and a real estate agent in Greenville in Greenville County. The senior Workman served on the staff of Democratic Governor Robert Archer Cooper. Workman's mother, the former Vivian Virginia Watkins (1889–1981), was the daughter of J. Newt Watkins and a niece of a U.S. District Court judge, H. H. Watkins. Workman had a sister, Vivian Virginia Workman.\n\nThough sources say that Workman Jr. was born in Greenwood, fifty-four miles south of Greenville, it appears that Workman Sr., though born in Charleston lived after 1914 in Greenville. Therefore, it may be that Workman Jr. was also born in Greenville, rather than Greenwood, or he may have been born in Greenwood and was moved to Greenville before he was a year old.\n\nIn 1931, Workman graduated from Greenville High School in Greenville. Like his father and his son as well, the junior Workman graduated in 1935 from The Citadel in Charleston. He majored in English and History. He became not a lawyer, though he did briefly study at George Washington Law School in Washington, D.C., but a newspaper journalist and also managed local radio station WTMA AM in Charleston. In 1940, the U.S. Army called Workman to active duty. He became an intelligence officer, with domestic and then foreign duty in Great Britain, the North Africa, and the Pacific Theater of Operations. After his demobilization in 1945, Workman remained in the United States Army Reserves, from which he retired twenty years later with the rank of colonel.\n\nAfter his World War II service, Workman returned to South Carolina to work for the \"Charleston News and Courier\" at $50 per week. He later moved to \"The State\" in the capital city of Columbia. Workman wrote columns and articles for \"Newsweek\" magazine, the Hall syndicate, and \"South Carolina Magazine\". He appeared regularly on radio and WIS, the NBC television outlet in Columbia, to deliver political commentary. He engaged in public speaking, charging $25 plus expenses for his appearances during the 1950s.\n\nWorkman entered politics as a Republican challenger to Senator Olin Johnston in the general election held on November 6, 1962. He announced his campaign in December 1961, the year the South Carolina GOP elected its first member to the state House of Representatives. The Workman campaign was managed by business entrepreneur Drake Edens, sometimes considered the \"father\" of the modern Republican Party in South Carolina. The election occurred eleven months later, not long after the Cuban missile crisis bolstered Democratic prospects nationwide. In that same year, national attention was focused upon Richard M. Nixon, who lost his bid for governor of California to the incumbent Democrat Edmund G. Brown Sr. Workman claimed that his opponent, Senator Johnston, was too closely tied to the national party, headed by U.S. President John F. Kennedy, who had narrowly won the electoral vote of South Carolina in the 1960 race against Nixon. Workman said that he, unlike Johnston, represented the \"conservative traditions\" of the state. Workman's campaign was the first significant Republican effort in South Carolina since Reconstruction. Two years later in 1964, U.S. Senator Strom Thurmond endorsed Barry Goldwater for President and at the same time defected from the Democratic Party to become the first Republican state officeholder in South Carolina. Thurmond would serve for more than thirty-six years as a GOP senator plus his twelve earlier years as a Democrat.\n\nIn the campaign, Workman said:\nIt is the Republican Party which offers the best hope, and perhaps the last hope, of stemming the liberal tide which has been sweeping the United States toward the murky depths of socialism. ... We must stop floating along the stream of least resistance and get our feet back down on the firm ground of sound, conservative, responsible government.\n\nWorkman finished with 133,390 votes (42.8 percent); Johnston, 178,712 (57.2 percent). In the same 1962 election, James D. Martin of Alabama made an even stronger showing than did Workman in Martin's bid to unseat another entrenched Democratic senator, Lister Hill.\n\nJohnston did not complete the final term to which he was elected. He died in office in 1965 and was succeeded by Governor Donald S. Russell, who resigned as governor and was appointed to the Senate by his gubernatorial successor, Robert Evander McNair. Russell was then unseated in the 1966 Democratic primary by former Governor Ernest Hollings. Workman did not run in the special election to finish Johnston's term held on November 8, 1966; instead the Republican State Senator Marshall Parker waged a strong but losing campaign against Hollings, who in effect became Johnston's long-term Senate successor.\n\nAfter the 1962 campaign, Workman returned to \"The State\", where he was assistant editor and then editor, in which capacity he became restless with the administrative duties of that position. In 1970, \"The State\" endorsed the Democrat John C. West for governor, rather than the Thurmond-backed Republican, U.S. Representative Albert Watson of South Carolina's 2nd congressional district. Workman wrote that West, at the time the lieutenant governor, \"had articulated a far more specific platform than any of his rivals - at least with respect to state issues\" but questioned West's \"ill-defined\" position regarding revenues for promised teacher pay increases. Workman also advocated the election of more Republicans to the legislature during a West administration.\nAfter six years as editor, Workman in 1972 relinquished those duties to spend more time in research and writing. He remained with \"The State\" as an editorial analyst until his retirement in 1979, when he returned to Greenville.\n\nWorkman ran for governor in 1982. He first scored an easy primary victory for the Republican nomination over Roddy T. Martin. Drake Edens, who drowned later in the year, urged the 68-year-old Workman not to make the gubernatorial race. Workman was badly beaten the general election held on November 2, 1982, by the incumbent Democrat Richard Riley, the first South Carolina governor allowed to succeed himself without first sitting out a four-year term. Riley received 468,819 votes (69.8 percent) to Workman's 202,806 (30.2 percent).\n\nIn a speech after the election, Workman said, \"I'm glad I made the fight. I've opened South Carolina to a lot of truisms. One is the need for a two-party system. It would have been a fluke if I had won. All the cards were stacked against me, financial and name recognition.\"\n\nIn addition to his extensive career in newspaper and radio journalism, Workman wrote five non-fiction books, all of which advocated segregation.\n\n\nIn the middle 1950s, Workman, a Southern Baptist at the time, and his wife, the former Heber Rhea Thomas (1918-1988), whom he called \"Tommie\" and an ardent Methodist, were founding members of the Trenholm Road Methodist Church in Columbia. Workman grew disillusioned with his new denomination in areas of political and social matters, particularly after it was renamed \"United Methodist\". In a 1972 letter to \"The Methodist Advocate\", Workman explained his resignation as a delegate to the Southeastern Jurisdictional Conference of the United Methodist Church: \"The actions and pronouncements at the 1972 General Conference make it impossible for me to profess adherence to the prevailing course of present-day Methodism. ... The church so blatantly repudiated United States policy in national and international affairs as to grievously offend my sense of loyalty to country. ...\" In a related letter, Workman expressed disenchantment with the church: \"I fear that the magnitude and the momentum of liberal extremism in the United Methodist Church have reached the point of no return.\"\n\nFrom 1972 to 1985, Workman was the president of the James F. Byrnes Foundation. Established in 1948 by the late James F. Byrnes and his wife, Maude, the foundation provides college scholarship funds and guidance counseling for qualified orphans in South Carolina orphans.\n\nPrior to his gubernatorial race, Workman had already contracted Parkinson's disease. As the disease progressed, he died in 1990, two years after the passing of his wife, a graduate of Winthrop College and the University of South Carolina and an English professor from 1957 to 1977 at Columbia College. The couple had a son, William D. \"Bill\" Workman, III, a former newspaper editor, the mayor of Greenville from 1983 to 1995, and an economic development specialist, and a daughter, Dorrill Dee Workman, and four grandchildren.\n\nW. D. and his wife, Dr. H. Rhea Workman are interred at Greenlawn Memorial Park in Columbia, South Carolina. William Sr. and Vivian Workman are interred at Springwood Cemetery in Greenville.\n"}
{"id": "1828058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828058", "title": "Nureddin Pasha", "text": "Nureddin Pasha\n\nNureddin Ibrahim Pasha (; 1873 – 18 February 1932), known as Nureddin İbrahim Konyar after 1934 and often called Bearded Nureddin (), was a Turkish military officer who served in the Ottoman Army during World War I and in the Turkish Army during the Western Front of the Turkish War of Independence. To distinguish him from namesakes, he was called Beard Nureddin because he was the only high-ranking Turkish officer during the Turkish War of Independence sporting a beard. He is known as one of the most important commanders of the War.\n\nHe was born in 1873 in Bursa. His father, Field Marshal (\"Müşir\") İbrahim Pasha was a high-ranking officer in the Ottoman Army. He entered the Ottoman Military Academy (\"Mekteb-i Füsûn-u Harbiyye-i Şâhâne\"), in Pangaltı, in 1890. He completed the Military Academy as the 31st of the class in 1893 and joined the Ottoman military as an infantry second lieutenant (\"Mülâzım-ı Sani\"). Nureddin Pasha was one of the few to reach high rank without having attended a staff college. He knew Arabic, French, German, and Russian.\n\nHe served in the 40th Infantry Battalion of the Fifth Army between March and April 1893. He served in the headquarters of the \"Hassa Ordusu\" (First Army) between April 1893 and October 1898. On 31 January 1895, he was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant (\"Mülâzım-ı Evvel\") and, on 22 July 1895, to that of captain (\"Yüzbaşı\").\n\nHe took part in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897 as the aide-de-camp of the commander-in-chief Edhem Pasha. After going back to Constantinople, he was assigned to the 1st department (chief of operations) of the headquarters of the First Army. In October 1898, he was appointed to the aide-de-camp of Sultan Abdul Hamid II. In 1901, he was promoted to the rank of major (\"Binbaşı\"). He was appointed Staff Group of the Command of Bulgarian Border between 1901 and 1902. Nureddin Bey fought guerrillas in Macedonia between 1902 and 1903.\n\nIn December 1907, he was assigned to the prestigious Third Army headquarters in Salonika. He was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel (\"Kaymakam\") in 1907 and Colonel (\"Miralay\") in 1908. Before the Young Turk Revolution of 1908, when Müşir İbrahim Pasha attempted to establish discipline in the army, Major Djemal Bey and other members of the Committee of Union and Progress approached his son Nureddin Bey, with warning to the Müşir İbrahim Pasha to keep off their patch. Nureddin Bey joined the Committee of Union and Progress (membership number was 6436). On 19 August 1909, he was demoted to major, because of the Law for the Purge of Military Ranks (\"Tasfiye-i Rüteb-i Askeriye Kanunu\") and sent to reserve under the First Army. In September 1909, he was appointed to the Governor of Küçükçekmece. In April 1910, he was appointed to the vice commander of the 77th Infantry Regiment by 1910 and after became the commander of the 1st Battalion of the 83rd Infantry Regiment.\n\nIn February 1911, Nureddin Bey served on the XIV Corps staff fighting insurgents in Yemen and promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel. In November he became reserve under the XIV Corps. By 1913 he returned from Yemen to command the 9th Infantry Regiment in the last stage of Balkan War. In 1913 he served with the model force (\"numune kıtası\") formed in conjunction with Liman von Sanders's German Military Mission (German: \"\", Turkish: \"\").\n\nBy April 1914 he assumed command of the 4th Division (\"Dördüncü Fırka\"). The commander of the Iraq Area Command Süleyman Askerî Bey committed suicide on 14 April 1915 and Nureddin Bey was assigned to the Iraq Area Command on 20 April. He arrived in June to take command of the battered army in Iraq and he was appointed the Governor of Basra Province and Baghdad Province at the same time.\n\nIn November 1915, Nureddin Bey stopped Major General Charles Vere Ferrers Townshend's 6th Poona Infantry Division of British Indian Army at the Battle of Ctesiphon, and then pursued his retreating opponents to the town of Kut. Several attacks failed to take the town, and he settled down to a siege which ended in a British surrender. German Generalfeldmarschall Colmar von der Goltz arrived at Baghdad on 21 December 1915, changed the name of the Command as the Iraq Army (\"Irak Ordusu\"), inspected his positions and later left to start an invasion of Persia. On 20 January 1916, Enver Pasha, Ottoman Minister of War, replaced Nureddin Bey with Colonel Halil Bey and Nureddin Bey was appointed to the commander of the IX Corps and the provisional commander of the Third Army.\n\nIn October 1916, he was appointed to the commander of the Muğla and Antalya Area Command (\"Muğla ve Antalya Havalisi Komutanlığı\") and ordered to establish the XXI Corps (he became the commander of this corps) based in Aidin and became the Deputy Governor of Aidin Vilayet on 25 October 1918. He was promoted to the rank of Mirliva in 1918.\n\nAfter the Armistice of Mudros, in November 1918, he was appointed to the commander of the XVII Corps based in İzmir and the Governor of Aidin Vilayet at the same time. On 30 December 1918 he was appointed to the commander of the XXV Corps based in Constantinople. On 2 February 1919, because of the breaking out of the rebellion in Urla, he was reassigned to the Governor of Aidin Vilayet and Aidin Area Command (\"Aydın Bölge Komutanığı\").\n\nNureddin Pasha established a consultation committee consisting of delegates of parties, societies and merchant clubs in Smyrna (Izmir), and supported activities of the Society for the Defence of Ottoman Rights in Izmir (\"İzmir Müdafaa-i Hukuk-ı Osmaniye Cemiyeti\"). However, activities of the society slowed down with Nurettin Pasha's departure from İzmir. In order to weaken Turkish defense against Greek landing at İzmir, Allied Powers, especially the British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, wanted to remove Nurettin Pasha from İzmir. Before the Occupation of İzmir, nationalist general Nureddin Pasha was recalled the Governor, who had fallen foul of Chrysostomos of Smyrna. \"Kambur\" Ahmed Izzet Bey was appointed as the new governor on 11 March, and retired general Ali Nadir Pasha was appointed as the new military commander on 22 March.\n\nIn June 1920, he passed to Anatolia to participate in national movement and he was appointed to the commander of the Central Army (\"Merkez Ordusu\") based in Amasya of some 10,000 men on 9 December 1920. The position of the Pontic Greeks took a turn for the worse. He expelled American missionaries and put some local Christians on trial for treason.\n\nNureddin Pasha led against Koçgiri rebels a force of some 3,000 cavalrymen and irregulars including Topal Osman's Laz cut-throats. Rebels were crushed by 17 June 1921.\n\nAccording to some sources, Nurettin Pasha said: (as to some sources, this words belong to Topal Osman):\n\nThe severity of the repression led to angry debates in the Grand National Assembly. The assembly decided to send Nureddin Pasha to a commission of enquiry and to put him on trial. Nureddin Pasha was relieved on 3 November 1921 and recalled to Ankara. But Mustafa Kemal prevented a trial and Nureddin Pasha was soon rehabilitated and became the commander of the First Army in 1922.\n\nOn 9 June, Greek destroyer and battleship \"Kilkis\" bombed İnebolu. Nureddin Pasha advised the general staff of the Ankara government that in view of the danger of a Greek landing in Samsun, all male Greeks aged between 16 and 50 years should be deported to Amasya, Tokat and Karahisar-ı Şarkî (present day: Şebinkarahisar) by the order numbered 2082 and dated 12 January 1921. The Ankara government accepted it on 16 June. And the Central Army deported nearly 21,000 persons and the Samsun Independent Tribunal passed 485 death sentences. The massacres committed from the Central Army were so brutal, than even MP's of the GNAT demanded Nureddin's execution. Eventually, the National Assembly relieved him of command and prosecuted him, but Mustafa Kemal revoked the procedure. After the Greek armored cruiser \"Georgios Averof\" bombed Samsun on 7 June 1922, Greeks in the areas of western and southern Anatolia under Turkish nationalist control were deported by order of the Ankara government.\n\nAfter the commander of the First Army Ali İhsan (Sâbis) was dismissed and sent to the Konya Court Martial, the command of the First Army was offered to Ali Fuat (Cebesoy), and then Refet (Bele). But neither man wanted to serve under İsmet (İnönü). On 29 June 1922, Nureddin Pasha was appointed to the commander of the First Army replacing Ali İhsan and on 31 August, he was promoted to the rank of Ferik.\n\nHe was to re-enter into İzmir at the head of the First Army on 9 September 1922. According to Ütkan Kocatürk, he was assigned the Military Governor (\"Askerî Vali\") of İzmir, but according to other sources, the Commander of the I Corps Mirliva İzzettin Pasha (Çalışlar) was appointed the Military Governor and Abdülhalik Bey (Renda) was appointed the Civil Governor of İzmir. Nureddin Pasha summoned the Greek archbishop Chrysostomos of Smyrna and accused him of treason. Nureddin Pasha pushed him out of the residence and invited a mob of Muslims to deal with him. He was lynched to death.\n\nFalih Rıfkı (Atay), the Turkish nationalist journalist who had come from Constantinople to İzmir to interview Mustafa Kemal, noted in his diary about the Great Fire of Smyrna that began on 13 September 1922 as follows:\n\nAfter the Armistice of Mudanya, his army was relocated in İzmit by the order numbered 42 and dated 11 October 1922.\n\nDuring his time as a commander in İzmit, Nureddin Pasha arranged the kidnapping of former Minister of Interior Ali Kemal Bey. He was seized on 4 November 1922, according to retired Staff Colonel Rahmi Apak (1887–1963) by two police commissars named Mazlûm and Cem, according to historian Cemal Kutay (1909–2006) by agents of the secret organization M. M. (ﻡﻡ, Mim Mim, abbreviation of \"Müsellâh Müdâfaa-i Milliye\" means Armed National Defence) while at a barber's shop in / in front of the Tokatlıyan Hotel and taken out of the British zone to Kumkapı. At night he was put on and brought to İzmit. Staff Captain Rahmi (Apak) ordered a reserve officer Necip Ali (Küçüka) (1892–1941), who was the intern prosecutor, to examine Ali Kemal Bey. After that Ali Kemal Bey was called by Nureddin Pasha. Nureddin Pasha told Ali Kemal to transfer to the military court and Ali Kemal Bey replied that \"I'm ready to go to court\". But Nureddin Pasha ordered Rahmi:\n\nRahmi hesitated to execute this order and sent Captain \"Kel\" Sait to Nureddin Pasha. Rahmi said to Necip Ali: \"Go ahead Necip Ali Bey, take Ali Kemal Beyefendi to the military court\". Necip Ali and Ali Kemal exited through the gate and were attacked by a mob. Necip Ali, who was uninformed about operation, was also attacked and came back to Rahmi's room to complaint about their situations. Ali Kemal Bey was beaten and stoned, got knifed in his back and laid down to the ground. Mob stripped and took his new suits. They robbed the ring on his finger, gold watch, whatever he has in his pockets. Then they bound him with rope at his ankles and dragged downhill him　wearing only underpants and shirts.\n\nNureddin Pasha made a scaffold on the small tunnel, where the railway passes, next to the station and hanged the dead body of Ali Kemal Bey to show İsmet Pasha who travelled through the town by train a few days later on his way to the Conference of Lausanne.\n\nNureddin Pasha sent civil servants to buy 3,000 used civilian suits. He ordered soldiers and officers of infantry battalions and made them pass the British line with those suits at night company by company. First party of them was placed in a boots factory in Beykoz. Two more battalion were sent to pass the Bosphorus and dispatched to houses, mosques and madrasas around Rumeli Hisarı. After the both sides of the Bosphorus were held by a regiment, they surrounded the British garrisons in Haydarpaşa and Kadıköy. Nureddin Pasha appointed Cavalry Lieutenant Colonel Nidai Bey as commander of this organization. Important places in Constantinople were occupied by these armed infantries with civilian clothes. This organization named K.T. (ﮒ ﺕ, Kef Te, abbreviation of \"Geçit Teşkilâtı\" means \"Passage Organization\") that was called Köfte (meatball) by Mehmetçiks, was established by the General Staff and administrated by the First Army. K.T. was disbanded on 8 August 1923, after the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne. The Turkish military units belonging to the III Corps (\"Üçüncü Kolordu\") under the command of Mirliva Shukri Naili (Gökberk) entered Constantinople on 6 October 1923.\n\nIn June 1923, when the First Army was dissolved, he went on leave without command. Kâzım Karabekir was appointed as the First Army inspector. In March 1924, he was appointed to the member of the Supreme Military Council. In December 1924, a by-election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was held in Bursa, Nureddin Pasha stood as an independent and defeated the candidate of the People's Party. He resigned membership after elected as the deputy of Bursa for the Grand National Assembly. However, on 17 January 1925, the status of deputy of Nureddin Pasha was rejected by the Grand National Assembly on the ground of his military register. Nureddin Pasha retired from the army on his own terms. And when the election was held again on 2 February, Nureddin Pasha increased his vote.\n\nIn November 1925, Nureddin Pasha argued that the draft of the Hat Law (\"Şapka İktisasına Dair Kanun\") violated the constitution. But other deputies competed in denouncing him an enemy of the popular will. The Justice Minister Mahmud Esad (Bozkurt) declared \"The grant of freedom is not to be a toy in the hands of reactionaries...The things for the country's interests can not be contrary to the Constitution, was determined not to be.\".\n\nIn October 1927, Mustafa Kemal criticized him in his Nutuk\" \"speech. According to Mustafa Kemal, in 1923 Nureddin Pasha made Âbit Süreyya to publish a booklet of biography (\"Tercüme-i hal\"), in booklet Nureddin Pasha was described as the surrounder of Kut-Al-Amara, the defender of Baghdad, the vanquisher of Yemen, Ctesiphon, Western Anatolia, Afyon Karahisar, Dumlupınar, the conqueror of İzmir.\n\nOn 18 February 1932, he died in his house at Kızlarağası Çeşmesi Street (present day: Müverrih Ağa Street) number 23 in Kadıköy Hasanpaşa neighbourhood. He was married to Nazmiye Hanım (surname: Türe, death 1951) and had two daughters, Semiha Hanım (1896–1950) and Memduha Hanım (1904–1970). Semiha Hanım was married to Hüseyin Pasha, Memduha Hanım was married to Major General Eşref Alpdoğan (1327-P. 19). Some researchers including Uğur Mumcu confused him with the Governor of the Fourth Inspectorate-General Lieutenant General Hüseyin Abdullah Alpdoğan (1310-P. 12).\n\nInscription on his tombstone:\n\nAfter the 12 September coup d'état, to select Atatürk's comrades who would be transfer to the State Cemetery, the Turkish Historical Society identified Nureddin Pasha as one of the Atatürk's closest 50 comrades during the War of Independence and made him honorable member of the Atatürk Research Center. Moreover, Nureddin Pasha was shown not Ferik but Orgeneral (four-star rank) and \"fourth\" man after İsmet İnönü and Fevzi Çakmak. And these decisions were accepted by the General Staff. But because of the public reaction to the decision, the General Staff gave up the transfer of the Nureddin Pasha's body to the State Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828061", "title": "Zero Hour: Crisis in Time!", "text": "Zero Hour: Crisis in Time!\n\n\"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time!\" is a comic book crossover storyline published by DC Comics in 1994, consisting of an eponymous five-issue limited series and a number of tie-in books. \n\nIn the storyline, Hal Jordan, a member of the intergalactic police force known as the Green Lantern Corps, goes mad with grief after the destruction of his home town of Coast City during the \"Reign of the Supermen!\" storyline and attempts to destroy and remake the DC Universe after having obtained immense power as Parallax. The issues of the limited series were numbered in reverse order, beginning with issue #4 and ending with #0. The crossover involved almost every DC Universe monthly series published at the time. \n\n\"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time!\" was the follow-up to the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" limited series. This event served as an opportunity to reconcile continuity problems left unaddressed by \"Crisis\" and other problems that had been unintentionally caused by it. In particular, the revised characters of the post-\"Crisis\" universe had been rolled out gradually, with DC continuing to feature the old versions until the new versions were launched.\n\nThe story begins when characters from alternate realities such as Alpha Centurion, an alternate version of Batgirl, and Triumph suddenly start appearing in the DC Universe. A wave of entropy then moves from the end of time to the beginning, erasing entire historical ages in the process.\n\nThe villain of the story is Extant, formerly Hawk of the duo Hawk and Dove. Extant has acquired temporal powers, using them to unravel the DC Universe's timeline. In a confrontation with the Justice Society of America, Extant ages several of them — removing the effect that has kept young from the 1940s into the present day — leaving them either feeble or dead. However, the true villain behind the destruction of the universe turns out to be Hal Jordan, a member of the Green Lantern Corps. Calling himself Parallax, Jordan has gone insane and is now trying to remake the universe, undoing the events which have caused his breakdown and his own murderous actions following it. The collective efforts of the other superheroes manage to stop Parallax from creating his vision of a new universe, and the timeline is recreated anew, albeit with subtle differences compared to the previous one, after the young hero Damage, with help from the other heroes, triggers a new Big Bang. Although Jordan was severely weakened from using so much energy, he manages to survive even after Green Arrow shoots an arrow into his heart.\n\nDC published a fold-out timeline inside the back cover of \"Zero Hour\" #0 which identified various events and key stories and when they occurred. Although fixed dates were given for the debut of historical characters such as the JSA, the debut of Superman was presented as \"10 years ago\" and subsequent dates were expressed the same way, keeping the calendar years of these events fluid and relative to the present as a way to keep the characters at their present ages.\n\nThe \"Legion of Super-Heroes\" was completely rebooted following \"Zero Hour\", and the various Hawkman characters were merged into one. Each ongoing series at the time retold the origin of its heroes in a #0 issue published after the end of \"Zero Hour\" and resumed their previous numbering the following month or went on to #1. \n\nDC introduced a variation of the pre-\"Crisis\" Multiverse in the form of Hypertime with \"The Kingdom\" mini-series in 1999. However, the \"Infinite Crisis\" event in 2005 eliminated the concept of Hypertime and brought back various pre-\"Crisis\" concepts such as the Multiverse.\n\n\n\n\n\nFollowing the end of \"Zero Hour\", every DC Universe title published a #0 issue retelling the character or team's origins and featured the slogan \"The Beginning of Tomorrow!\" in an event dubbed \"Zero Month\".\n\nIn 2008, fourteen years after the end of \"Zero Hour\", an issue of \"Booster Gold\" vol. 2 was published as \"\"Booster Gold\" #0\", and was announced as an official \"Zero Hour\" tie-in by DC Comics. The issue used the same cover style as the previous tie-ins to the event, referring to the \"\"Crisis in Time\"\" and using the semi-metallic \"fifth color\" ink used on the original \"Zero Hour\" issues. Like the other tie-in issues, Booster's origin was explained as part of the adventure in the issue. The cover was a homage to \"Zero Hour\" #4, with Ted Kord's mask replacing Wally West's, alternate Blue Beetles replacing the alternate Hawkmen, and the superheroes around the edges replaced by Booster in the center.\n\nA trade paperback collecting \"Showcase '94\" #8–9 (1994) and \"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time\" #4–0 (1994), titled \"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time\", was released in 1994. A trade paperback collecting the Batman tie-in issues, titled \"Batman: Zero Hour\", was released on June 7, 2017. A trade paperback collecting the Superman tie-in issues, titled \"Superman: Zero Hour\", was released on June 20, 2018. A hardcover collection collecting \"Showcase '94\" #8–9 (1994), \"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time\" #4–0 (1994), the \"Zero Hour Sampler\" and including a new foreword by Dan Jurgens, was released on May 8, 2018. A 25th Anniversary Omnibus edition collecting \"Showcase '94\" #8–9 (1994), \"Zero Hour: Crisis in Time\" #4–0 (1994), all of the tie-in issues, and including a foreword by Dan Jurgens, an afterword by series editor KC Carlson, and promotional and behind-the-scenes material, was released on October 23, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828073", "title": "Gongola River", "text": "Gongola River\n\nThe Gongola River is in northeastern Nigeria, the principal tributary of the Benue River.\nThe upper course of the river as well as most of its tributaries are seasonal streams, but fill rapidly in August and September.\nThe Gongola rises on the eastern slopes of the Jos Plateau and falls to the Gongola Basin, running northeasterly until Nafada. At one time, the Gongola continued from here in the northeast direction to Lake Chad.\nToday it turns south and then southeast until it joins the Hawal River, its main tributary.\nThe Gongola then runs south to the Benue river, joining it opposite the town of Numan.\n\nThe lower reaches of the river are impounded by the Dadin Kowa Dam near Gombe, and lower down by the Kiri Dam. After the Kiri dam was constructed, downstream flood peaks dropped from to , while flows in dryer seasons increased from to .\nThe river downstream from the dam also narrowed and became less winding, with fewer separate channels.\n"}
{"id": "1828075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828075", "title": "Medion", "text": "Medion\n\nMedion AG is a German consumer electronics company owned by Lenovo. The company operates in Europe, the United States, and the Asia-Pacific region. The company's main products are computers and notebooks, but also smartphones, tablet computers, digital cameras, TVs, refrigerators, toasters, and fitness equipment.\n\nMedion products in Australia and the United States are available exclusively at Aldi and Super Billing Computers, with some products (such as DVD players) branded as \"Tevion\" (Aldi's own brand). Some of Medion's formal laptops were sold in North America at Best Buy stores and were sold in Canada at Future Shop as Cicero Computers.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Medion products, including laptop and desktop computers, have been sold by Aldi, Sainsbury's, Somerfield, Woolworths, and Tesco, as well as being sold direct through Medion's own Web site and various other online retailers.\n\nMedion launched MEDIONMobile as ALDIMobile in Australia in an agreement with Aldi Stores. Medion Australia Pty Limited remains as the owner of ALDIMobile.\n\nIn China Medion products are sold under the Lenovo brand, but not all Lenovo branded products are Medion products.\n\nMedion sponsored Sahara Force India through Formula One Team driver Adrian Sutil in Formula One in 2007 to 2011, until Sutil left the team. In 2013 Sutil returned to Sahara Force India, and Medion returned as a sponsor. Sutil and Medion left the sport at the end of 2013.\n\nOther brands used on Medion products:\n\nThese Medion products can be recognized by the serial number starting with \"MD\" or \"LT\".\n\nOn 1 June 2011, the Chinese multinational Lenovo Group (LNVGY) announced plans to acquire Medion AG. Since August 2011, they hold the majority stake in Medion.\n"}
{"id": "1828077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828077", "title": "List of Nebraska locations by per capita income", "text": "List of Nebraska locations by per capita income\n\nNebraska is the thirty-third richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $19,613 (2000). Nebraska's personal per capita income is $32,276 (2004).\n\nNote: Data are from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828083", "title": "Linguistic turn", "text": "Linguistic turn\n\nThe linguistic turn was a major development in Western philosophy during the early 20th century, the most important characteristic of which is the focusing of philosophy and the other humanities primarily on the relations between language, language users, and the world.\n\nVery different intellectual movements were associated with the \"linguistic turn\", although the term itself is commonly thought to have been popularised by Richard Rorty's 1967 anthology \"The Linguistic Turn\", in which he discusses the turn towards linguistic philosophy. According to Rorty, who later dissociated himself from linguistic philosophy and analytic philosophy generally, the phrase \"the linguistic turn\" originated with philosopher Gustav Bergmann.\n\nTraditionally, the linguistic turn is taken to also mean the birth of analytic philosophy. One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.\n\nAccording to Michael Dummett, the linguistic turn can be dated to Gottlob Frege's 1884 work \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\", specifically paragraph 62 where Frege explores the identity of a numerical proposition. \n\nIn order to answer a Kantian question about numbers, \"How are numbers given to us, granted that we have no idea or intuition of them?\" Frege invokes his \"context principle\", stated at the beginning of the book, that only in the context of a proposition do words have meaning, and thus finds the solution to be in defining \"the sense of a proposition in which a number word occurs.\" Thus an ontological and epistemological problem, traditionally solved along idealist lines, is instead solved along linguistic ones.\n\nThis concern for the logic of propositions and their relationship to \"facts\" was later taken up by the notable analytic philosopher Bertrand Russell in \"On Denoting\", and played a weighty role in his early work in logical atomism.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein, an associate of Russell, was one of the progenitors of the linguistic turn. This follows from his ideas in his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" that philosophical problems arise from a misunderstanding of the logic of language, and from his remarks on language games in his later work. His later work (specifically \"Philosophical Investigations\") significantly departs from the common tenets of analytic philosophy and might be viewed as having some resonance in the post-structuralist tradition.\n\nW. V. O. Quine describes the historical continuity of the linguistic turn with earlier philosophy in \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\": \"Meaning is what essence becomes when it is divorced from the object of reference and wedded to the word.\"\n\nLater in the twentieth century, philosophers like Saul Kripke in \"Naming and Necessity\" drew metaphysical conclusions from closely analyzing language.\n\nDecisive for the linguistic turn in the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the continental structuralism of Ferdinand de Saussure, an approach introduced in his \"Cours de linguistique générale\", published posthumously in 1916. He said language is a system of signs, comparable to writing systems, sign systems used by the deaf, and systems of symbolic rites and can therefore by studied systematically. He proposed the new science semiology—from the Greek \"semeion\" meaning the sign. It was later called semiotics, the science of signs. Prior to the work of Saussure in the early twentieth century, linguistics focused mainly on etymology, an historical analysis (also called a diachronic analysis) tracing the history of the meanings of individual words. Saussure was critical of the comparative philologists of the 19th century, who—basing their investigations only on Indo-European languages—whose conclusions, he said, had \"no basis in reality.\" At that time \"language was to be a \"fourth natural kingdom.\" Saussure approached language by examining the present functioning of language (a synchronic analysis)—a relational approach in which he looked at the \"system of relations between words as the source of meanings.\" Sassure described the synchronic, as the static side of the science of linguistics, in contrast to the diachronic, which has to do with evolution. By comparing different languages, Saussure demonstrated that there is \"no fixed bond\" between the signified—for example the real chair—and the signifier—the 'chair', 'chaise', etc. Spontaneous expressions of reality are not dictated by \"natural forces\". Saussure demonstrated the grammatical consequences of phonetic evolution by illustrating how diachronic facts take on different forms, for example \"chaise\" 'chair' and \"chair\" 'desk', and \"chaire\" 'pulpit'. \n\nSaussure held that definitions of concepts cannot exist independently from a linguistic system defined by difference, or, to put it differently, that a concept of something cannot exist without being named. Thus differences between meanings structure our perception; there is no \"real\" chair except insofar as we are manipulating symbolic systems. We would not even be able to recognize a chair \"as\" a chair without simultaneously recognising that a chair is \"not\" everything else - in other words a chair is defined as being a specific collection of characteristics which are themselves defined in certain ways, and so on, and all of this within the symbolic system of language. Thus, a large part of what we think of as \"reality\" is really a convention of naming and characterising, a convention which is itself called \"language\".\n\nStructuralism was the initial outcome of Saussure's linguistic turn, which later led to poststructuralism with the input of Friedrich Nietzsche's ideas. Influential poststructuralist theorists include Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida. The power of language, more specifically of certain metahistorical tropes, in historical discourse was explored by Hayden White.\n\nThese various movements often lead to the notion that language 'constitutes' reality, a position contrary to intuition and to most of the Western tradition of philosophy. The traditional view (what Derrida called the 'metaphysical' core of Western thought) saw words as functioning labels attached to concepts. According to this view, there is something like 'the \"real\" chair', which exists in some external reality and corresponds roughly with a concept in human thought, \"chair\", to which the linguistic word \"chair\" refers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828089", "title": "Coyote (song)", "text": "Coyote (song)\n\n\"Coyote\" is the opening song from Joni Mitchell's 1976 album \"Hejira\" and also the album's first single.\n\nThough the song had been introduced (in embryonic form) on the tour to support 1975's \"The Hissing of Summer Lawns\", \"Coyote\" was a significant musical departure: where \"Hissing\" was ornate with pianos, layered vocals and percussion, \"Coyote\" was stripped down to electric and acoustic guitars and a fretless bass guitar played by virtuoso Jaco Pastorius. In a sense, this was similar to Mitchell's early albums, but the sound was extremely spacious, even repetitive, with the verses made much longer and more like a long story. Thus, although this is one of the faster-tempo songs on \"Hejira\", it still lasts for an even five minutes. Mitchell's guitar itself was in an unusual (low to high) C-G-D-F-C-E tuning (the same as in the song \"Ladies of the Canyon\") - presumably a type of open tuning designed to play a seventh, ninth, or even eleventh chord.\n\nLyrically, \"Coyote\" is concerned with the difficulty of establishing any sort of connection with people who come from \"different sets of circumstance\" (as the song has it). In particular it describes an encounter (which turns into a one-night stand) between the narrator (possibly meant to be Mitchell herself as there is a reference in the lyrics to her coming home from the studio) and \"Coyote\", a ranch worker. The narrator sings about Coyote pursuing them across Canada, similar to an actual coyote on the prowl. In her 2019 book \"Joni Mitchell: New Critical Readings\", Ruth Charnock described the song as \"either the most flirtatious song about fucking or the most graphic song about flirting ever written.\" In Chris O'Dell's 2009 autobiography \"Miss O'Dell\" she details an affair she had with married playwright Sam Shepard and states that Shepard then cheated on her with Joni Mitchell. O'Dell claims that \"Coyote\" is written about Sam Shepard. The song describes Coyote as being \"far from the Bay of Fundy\". In the summers of 1972 and 1973, Shepard resided in a waterside cottage in West Advocate, Nova Scotia, located on a strip of land which extends into the Bay of Fundy. The narrator also mentions looking an actual coyote in the face while \"on the road to Baljennie near my old home town\", a reference to the former hamlet of Baljennie, Saskatchewan. Mitchell was raised in Maidstone, North Battleford, and Saskatoon in Saskatchewan.\n\nCoyote represents nature contrasted with the narrator's big city (presumably LA) life where \"pills and powders\" are necessary to \"get them through this passion play\". The aforementioned line is also a reference to Bob Dylan's Rolling Thunder Revue concert tour, which Mitchell was a part of in the fall of 1975. During a performance of the song by Mitchell in the film \"\", Roger McGuinn of the Byrds states that, “Joni wrote this song about this tour and on this tour and for this tour,” to which she does not protest.\n\nA version of \"Coyote\" was performed by Mitchell with The Band for the concert movie \"The Last Waltz\" and is included on the soundtrack. The song was also covered by Spirit of the West on the 1992 Mitchell tribute album \"Back to the Garden\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828092", "title": "Upshot-Knothole Simon", "text": "Upshot-Knothole Simon\n\nUpshot–Knothole Simon was a nuclear detonation conducted as part of the U.S. Operation Upshot–Knothole nuclear testing program. Simon was conducted on 25 April 1953 at the Nevada Test Site, and tested the TX-17/24 thermonuclear weapon design which had a yield of 43 kilotons.\n\nThe mass of radioactive material in the mushroom cloud did not disperse as expected, but stayed in a small volume of atmosphere as it traveled eastward. Finally, a couple of days later it became entrained in a severe thunderstorm over New York's Capital District, and most of the radioactive material washed out over a fairly small region (Washington and Rensselaer counties ). Students in a radiochemistry laboratory at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York switched on their geiger counters only to discover radiation levels hundreds of thousands of times higher than normal. Assuming a radioactive spill inside the building, the students were rushed outside to safety – only to discover radiation levels even higher. The professor, Herbert Clark, reported his findings to the AEC, who treated it as some sort of joke. Later he was warned to stay silent, lest he lose access to AEC materials, or even face arrest for treason. The information was suppressed for decades until exposed by a local Congressman, Samuel S. Stratton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828102", "title": "List of New York locations by per capita income", "text": "List of New York locations by per capita income\n\nNew York is the sixth richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $40,272.29 (2004). \n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1828103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828103", "title": "Hejira (album)", "text": "Hejira (album)\n\nHejira is the eighth studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell. The songs on the album were largely written by Mitchell on a trip by car from Maine back to Los Angeles, California, with prominent imagery including highways, small towns and snow. The photographs of Mitchell on the front and back cover were taken by Norman Seeff and appear against a backdrop of Lake Mendota, in Madison, Wisconsin, after an ice storm.\n\nCharacterized by lyrically dense, sprawling songs, as well as the overdubbed fretless bass playing of Jaco Pastorius (whom Mitchell had just met), \"Hejira\" continued the musician's journey beyond her pop records towards the freer, jazz inspired music she would implement on later recordings. Some of the songs were written while Mitchell traveled as a member of Bob Dylan's Rolling Thunder Revue tour, and she performed the album's opening track with The Band at their final concert (later released as Martin Scorsese's \"The Last Waltz\").\n\nThe album did not sell as well as its predecessors, peaking at No. 22 in her native Canada. It reached No. 13 on the \"Billboard\" 200 pop album chart in the United States, where it was certified gold by the RIAA, and No. 11 in the UK, where it attained a silver certification. Critically, the album was generally well received, and in the years since its release, \"Hejira\" has been considered one of the high marks of her career.\n\nAccording to Mitchell, the album was written during or after three journeys she took in late 1975 and the first half of 1976. The first was a stint as a member of Bob Dylan's Rolling Thunder Revue in late 1975. During this time period, she became a frequent cocaine user, and it would take several years for her to kick the addiction.\n\nIn February 1976, Mitchell was scheduled to play about six weeks of concert dates across the US promoting \"The Hissing of Summer Lawns\". However, the relationship between Mitchell and her boyfriend John Guerin (who was acting as her drummer on the string of dates) soured, possibly due to Mitchell's fling with director Sam Shepard during the Rolling Thunder Revue. Tensions became so fraught that the tour was abandoned about halfway through.\n\nThe third trip came soon after when Mitchell traveled across America with two men, one of them being a former lover from Australia. This trip inspired six of the songs on the album. She drove with her two friends from Los Angeles to Maine, and then went back to California alone via Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. She traveled without a driver's licence and stayed behind truckers, relying on their habit of signaling when the police were ahead of them; consequently, she only drove in daylight hours.\n\nDuring some of her solo journeys, Mitchell donned a red wig, sunglasses, and told the varying strangers she met that her name was either \"Charlene Latimer\" or \"Joan Black.\" Despite the disguise, Mitchell was still sometimes recognized.\n\nDuring the recording of her albums \"Court and Spark\" and \"The Hissing of Summer Lawns\", Mitchell grew increasingly frustrated by the rock session musicians who had been hired to perform her music. \"...There were grace notes and subtleties and things that I thought were getting kind of buried.\" The session musicians in turn recommended that Mitchell start looking for jazz instrumentalists to perform on her records. In addition, her relationship with drummer John Guerin (which lasted through a significant portion of the mid-1970s) influenced her decision to move more towards experimental jazz music and further away from her folk and pop roots.\n\nAfter recording the basic tracks that would become \"Hejira\", Mitchell met bassist Jaco Pastorius and they formed an immediate musical connection; Mitchell was dissatisfied with what she called the \"dead, distant bass sound\" of the 1960s and early 1970s, and was beginning to wonder why the bass part always had to play the root of a chord. She overdubbed his bass parts on four of the tracks on \"Hejira\" and released the album in November 1976.\n\nDominated by Mitchell's guitar and Pastorius's fretless bass, the album drew on a range of influences but was more cohesive and accessible than some of her later more jazz-oriented work. \"Coyote\", \"Amelia\", and \"Hejira\" became concert staples especially after being featured on the live album \"Shadows and Light\" alongside \"Furry Sings the Blues\" and \"Black Crow\".\n\nThe album title is an unusual transliteration of the Arabic word more commonly rendered as \"Hegira\" or \"Hijra\", which means \"rupture\", usually referring to the migration of the Islamic prophet Muhammad (and his companions) from Mecca to Medina in 622. She later stated that when she chose the title, she was looking for a word that meant \"running away with honor.\" She found the word \"hejira\" while reading the dictionary, and was drawn to the \"dangling j, like in \"Aja\"... it's leaving the dream, no blame\".\n\nMitchell has described the album as \"really inspired... there is this restless feeling throughout it... The sweet loneliness of solitary travel\", and has said that \"I suppose a lot of people could have written a lot of my other songs, but I feel the songs on \"Hejira\" could only have come from me.\"\n\n\"Hejira\" opens with \"Coyote\", about a one-night stand with a ladies' man, speculated by several biographers to be playwright and actor Sam Shepard. Mitchell would later perform the song with The Band at their 1976 farewell concert, which was eventually released under the title \"The Last Waltz\" (1978).\n\nThe second track on \"Hejira\", \"Amelia\", was inspired by Mitchell's breakup with then- partner John Guerin, and described by her as almost an exact account of her experience in the desert. The song interweaves a story of a desert journey (the \"hejira within the hejira\") with the famous aviator Amelia Earhart who mysteriously vanished during a flight over the Pacific Ocean. Mitchell has commented on the origins of the song: \"I was thinking of Amelia Earhart and addressing it from one solo pilot to another... sort of reflecting on the cost of being a woman and having something you must do.\" The song, each verse of which ends with the refrain \"Amelia, it was just a false alarm\", repeatedly shifts between two keys, giving it a constant unsettled feeling.\n\n\"Furry Sings the Blues\", with Neil Young on harmonica, is an account of Mitchell meeting the blues guitarist and singer Furry Lewis in Beale Street, Memphis during a period when the surrounding area was being demolished. Lewis was displeased with Mitchell's use of his name. Mitchell would return to the song live in concert throughout the years. Like \"Coyote\", \"Furry Sings the Blues\" was sung by Mitchell at The Band's farewell concert. This version of the song was not included on the 1978 version of \"The Last Waltz\" but was included on the 2002 re-release. After not performing live since 2002, Mitchell played \"Furry Sings the Blues\" (as well as \"Don't Interrupt the Sorrow\" from \"The Hissing of Summer Lawns\" and \"Woodstock\" from \"Ladies of the Canyon\") during her birthday tribute at Massey Hall on June 18 and 19, 2013. This was Mitchell's final public performance to date.\n\n\"A Strange Boy\" recounts the affair Mitchell had with one of the men she was traveling with from Los Angeles to Maine; he was a flight attendant in his thirties who lived with his parents.\n\n\"Hejira\" is about Mitchell's reasons for leaving Guerin, and Mitchell described it as probably the toughest tune on the album to write. It features the bass work of Pastorius, who was inspired by Mitchell's use of multi-tracking with her guitar to mix four separate tracks of his carefully arranged bass parts, having them all play together at certain points of the tune.\n\nSide two of \"Hejira\" begins with the epic \"Song for Sharon\", which at eight minutes and 40 seconds stands as the longest track on the album. The lyrics deal with the conflict faced by a woman who is deciding between freedom and marriage. The song references the places Mitchell went during her trip to New York City, including scenes at Mandolin Brothers guitar store in Staten Island and a visit to a fortune teller on Bleecker Street. The song was allegedly written while Mitchell was high on cocaine at the end of her visit to the city.\n\nThe namesake of the song was her childhood friend Sharon Bell, who studied voice and wanted to be a singer when she was young but married a farmer; Mitchell wanted to be a farmer's wife, but ended up becoming a singer. The song also mentions the blowout fight and abandoned midwestern tour that served as the death knell for Mitchell's relationship with Guerin: \"I left my man at a North Dakota junction, and I came out to the Big Apple here to face the dream's malfunction.\"\n\nAccording to biographer Sheila Weller, \"Song For Sharon\" also makes a coded reference to the March 1976 suicide of Jackson Browne's wife, fashion model Phyllis Major. Browne and Mitchell had a brief, \"high-strung\" affair in 1972; on at least one occasion, Browne allegedly physically abused Mitchell. After their relationship dissolved, Browne quickly married Major. Although Major had died from a barbiturate overdose, Mitchell sang \"A woman I knew just drowned herself\", and questioned if her suicide was a means of \"punishing somebody\".\n\n\"Black Crow\"'s lyrics deal with the practical difficulty for Mitchell of traveling from her second home on British Columbia's Sunshine Coast.\n\n\"Blue Motel Room\" was written at the DeSoto Beach Motel in Savannah, Georgia. The song was inspired by the first breakup of the on-again-off-again relationship between Mitchell and Guerin. The lyrics express Mitchell's hopes of rekindling their relationship, and she tells her love interest to rebuff any other suitors: \"Tell those girls that you've got German Measles, honey tell 'em you've got germs.\"\n\n\"Refuge of the Roads\" was written about a three-day visit that Mitchell had made to the controversial Buddhist meditation master Chögyam Trungpa in Colorado on her way back to Los Angeles. According to Mitchell, it was during this visit in early 1976 that Trungpa cured her of her own cocaine addiction. She would later say that this track was one of her own favorite songs, and would rerecord the tune, along with \"Amelia\" and \"Hejira\", with a full orchestra for her 2002 album \"Travelogue\". The famous photo Earthrise by astronaut Bill Anders is alluded to.\n\nThe album was released in November 1976 by Asylum. Commercially the album did not do as well as its two predecessors. Despite reaching #13 on the \"Billboard\" 200 pop album chart and being certified Gold, it failed to get significant airplay on commercial radio. \n\nReviewing for \"Rolling Stone\", Ariel Swartley felt that Mitchell had abandoned melodies and memorable tunes in favour of \"new, seductive rhythms\" and \"lush guitars\", with the resulting sound, despite its \"apparent simplicity\", as \"sophisticated and arresting as anything she's done\". \"Village Voice\" critic Robert Christgau was impressed with the way that \"Mitchell subjugates melody to the natural music of language itself\".\n\nIn 1991 \"Rolling Stone\" placed the cover at No. 11 on its list of best album covers.\n\nIt was voted number 776 in the third edition of Colin Larkin's \"All Time Top 1000 Albums\" (2000).\n\n\nProduction\n\n"}
{"id": "1828111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828111", "title": "Pacoima Dam", "text": "Pacoima Dam\n\nPacoima Dam is a concrete arch dam on Pacoima Creek in the San Gabriel Mountains, in Los Angeles County, California. The reservoir which it creates, Pacoima Reservoir, has a capacity of \n\nBuilt by the Los Angeles County Flood Control District, which became part of the Department of Public Works, it was completed in 1928. At the time, the 371 foot (113m) high dam was the tallest arch dam in the U.S.\n\nThe dam is situated approximately northeast of Sylmar, above the San Fernando Valley.\n\nAs construction of Pacoima Dam began, the County of Los Angeles hired Roy W. Carlson as their concrete and soil testing engineer. He developed the world's first strain meter which could be embedded in concrete. He also developed an adiabatic calorimeter and electrical-resistance thermometers to determine why the temperature of concrete increased during curing and how best to avoid cracking caused by these stresses.\n\nThe Pacoima Dam withstood, but was damaged by, the very strong (>1 \"g\") ground movement which occurred during both the 1971 San Fernando and 1994 Northridge earthquakes. Because of concerns about the stability of the dam and especially its response to potential future earthquakes, the County of Los Angeles, with the technical support of the USGS, began monitoring the dam using continuous GPS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828113", "title": "Goulburn Islands", "text": "Goulburn Islands\n\nThe Goulburn Islands are a group of small islands and islets in the Arafura Sea off the coast of Arnhem Land in Northern Territory of Australia. The largest islands are the North and South Goulburn Islands where the climate is slightly cooler than in Darwin. The Maung Aboriginal people are the traditional owners of the Goulburn Islands.\n\nThe islands are notable for the large number of indigenous languages spoken there. In particular, the Warruwi community on South Goulburn Island - where ar least nine different languages are spoken within a population of only 450 people - has been noted as an example of receptive multilingualism. Mondalmi is one of the most well-known women from the area, as she worked with anthropologist Catherine Berndt to enable study of aboriginal cultures there. The islands and their indigenous inhabitants were featured in the 2015 David Grubin produced PBS documentary \"Language Matters with Bob Holman\" which focused on the loss of many of the planets' native tongues such as those spoken in the Goulburns due to globalisation.\n\nApproximately 300 people live in the Goulburn Islands. The majority of the population reside on South Goulburn Island, in the community of Warruwi and surrounding outstations.\n\nFacilities in the community include a primary through secondary education school, health clinic, supermarket, police station, a council office, and an Aboriginal arts center sustained by public funding.\n"}
{"id": "1828119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828119", "title": "Beulah McGillicutty", "text": "Beulah McGillicutty\n\nTrisa Laughlin (born Trisa Hayes; March 14, 1969) is an American retired professional wrestling valet, better known by her ring name, Beulah McGillicutty. She is best known for her appearances in Extreme Championship Wrestling from 1995–1998.\n\nHayes made a one-off appearance in Stampede Wrestling in Calgary, Alberta in 1988 as Brian Pillman's sister. She was dating Pillman at the time and they had her appear in the crowd to be harassed by the heels so that Pillman could get over as a face by standing up for her.\n\nWhile working as a backup dancer for the singer Prince, Hayes met the baseball player Ron Gant, who introduced her to his friend, professional wrestler Raven. Raven in turn introduced her to Paul Heyman, the owner of Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), an independent professional wrestling promotion based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1995, Heyman introduced Hayes to ECW under the ring name \"Beulah McGillicutty\". Her backstory was that, while Raven and Tommy Dreamer (allegedly former childhood friends) had been attending a summer camp in their teens, they had met Beulah, who was overweight. Beulah had fallen in love with Tommy Dreamer, but he rejected her, so she slept with Raven. Raven's lackey Stevie Richards brought Beulah (now a slim \"Penthouse\" model) to ECW so she could gain revenge on Dreamer by helping Raven. Beulah became Raven's valet, and suffered several piledrivers at the hands of Dreamer during the course of the feud.\n\nAt the same time, Beulah feuded with Francine and Luna Vachon, and was involved in several \"catfights\" with each of them. Her first match was on June 17, 1995, when she pinned Luna after Richards hit her with a chair. At House Party on January 7, 1996, she claimed that she was pregnant and told a shocked Raven that it was Dreamer's baby, intensifying their feud. On the January 16, 1996 episode of \"ECW Hardcore TV\", Beulah left Raven and aligned herself with Dreamer. However, at Hostile City Showdown 1996, Shane Douglas informed Dreamer that Beulah was never pregnant, and also had been cheating on him. When Dreamer demanded to know who with (suspecting Douglas), Raven's new valet Kimona Wanalaya proclaimed that it was her, and she proceeded to kiss Beulah to the mat. After some hesitation, Dreamer kissed both women, proclaiming \"I'll take em both, I'm hardcore!\"\n\nIn 1997, Beulah and Dreamer teamed up for a few intergender tag team matches against Francine and Douglas, with Beulah surprising fans by performing moonsaults in the matches. Later in the same year she defeated Bill Alfonso in what Paul Heyman said was one of the most brutal matches in ECW history, due to the amount of blood lost by Alfonso.\n\nWhen the ECW wrestlers invaded the World Wrestling Federation, appearing on an episode of \"Raw\", Beulah was at Dreamer's side.\n\nIn 1998, Beulah was attacked by Justin Credible and was put out of action. She returned to help Dreamer feud with Credible and his entourage. A few months later, Hayes grew tired of wrestling and Beulah was written out of storylines via The Dudley Boyz breaking her neck with their Dudley Death Drop maneuver.\n\nBeulah returned to the ring on June 12, 2005, at the World Wrestling Entertainment-produced ECW One Night Stand pay-per-view. She interfered in the main event, helping Tommy Dreamer and The Sandman, but their opponents, The Dudley Boyz, won despite her efforts. Beulah was involved in a catfight with Francine, who had just kicked Dreamer in the crotch.\n\nOn August 8, 2010, Hayes appeared at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice, first shown sitting in the front row with her two daughters, before later getting involved in Dreamer's match with Raven by giving Raven a low blow.\n\nIn 2014 Hayes officially retired after accompanying her husband to the ring one final time at his House of Hardcore 7 Pay Per View. During Dreamer's match, Hayes got into a brief cat fight with TNA Knockout Velvet Sky. After the match Hayes thanked all of the fans in attendance and those watching for their love and support over the years.\n\nOn June 7, 2006, it was announced that Beulah would be in the corner of Dreamer and Terry Funk against then-heels, Mick Foley and Edge as an equalizer to the heel gimmick of Lita. On the day of the pay-per-view, the tag match was later changed to a six-person mixed tag match pitting Edge, Foley, and Lita against Dreamer, Funk, and herself. Wrestling barefoot, Beulah handled Lita and appeared on the bottom of a catfight. Dreamer, Funk, and Beulah would lose the match when Edge speared and pinned Beulah with a cover that resembled the \"legs up\" version of the missionary position.\n\nBeulah appeared on the December 29, 2009 edition of \"ECW on SyFy\". She and her twin daughters were sitting in the front row during Tommy Dreamer's last match in World Wrestling Entertainment.\n\nIn 2012, Laughlin published \"Gertrude the Great\", a children's book illustrated by Jill Thompson.\n\nAfter retiring from wrestling in 1998, Hayes returned to college. On October 12, 2002 at the Lake Isle Country Club in Eastchester, New York, Hayes married Tommy Dreamer, with whom she later had twin girls, Brianna Laughlin and Kimberly Laughlin. The twins appeared in the season six episode of \"The Sopranos\" called \"The Ride\" as Domenica Baccalieri, Tony Soprano's baby niece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828122", "title": "Steve Mason (poet)", "text": "Steve Mason (poet)\n\nSteve Mason (1940 in Brooklyn, New York – May 25, 2005) was a decorated United States Army captain, combat veteran of the Vietnam War, critically acclaimed poet and the Poet Laureate of the Vietnam Veterans of America.\n\nMason's poem \"The Wall Within\" was read at the 1984 dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. and has the distinction of being the only American work of poetry on display at the war memorial in Hanoi. The author of four books, his poetry related to his experiences as a captain in the United States Army during the Vietnam War. His work was hailed by veterans and their families nationwide.\n\nDiagnosed with lung cancer as a result of exposure to Agent Orange during the war, he became a participant and active advocate for the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, and spoke at the California State Assembly for a similar law proposed in that state. He died at his home in Ashland, Oregon, at the age of 65. He is survived by four children.\n\n\"The truth is,`` Mason said, ``that the only message I`ve taken from war is peace.`` \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828130", "title": "Chin people", "text": "Chin people\n\nThe Chin people (, ) are Sino-Tibetan ethnolinguistic group native to Chin State of Myanmar. The Chin are one of the founding groups (Chin, Kachin, Shan and Bamar) of the Union of Burma. The Chin speak a variety of related languages, share elements of cultures and traditions. According to BBC News, \"The Chin people... are one of the most persecuted minority groups in Burma.\" The largest subgroup of the Chin people are the Zomi. These people predominantly live in the Chin State, Bago Division, Ayeyarwady Division, Magwe Division, Rakhine State and Sagaing Region of Myanmar, but are also spread throughout Burma, Bangladesh and India. In the 2014 Burmese ethnic census, the Chin ethnicity was again dismissed by the people of the Chin State.\n\nThe name \"Chin\" is disputed. During the British era, the British used the compound term 'Chin-Kuki-Mizo' to group the Kukish language speaking people, and the Government of India inherited this. Chin nationalist leaders in Burma's Chin State popularized the term \"Chin\" following Burma's independence from Britain. More recently the word Chin has been rejected by some in favor of Zomi. Some Zomi nationalists now consider that Chin would mean subtle Paite domination of Chin, Kuki and Zomi identity, which other groups like Hmars, Zous (Zomi), and Koms may not use.\n\nThe term 'Chin' initially as used by the Burmese in Myanmar referred to all the hill tribes in the western frontier of Myanmar. However, in India the same hill tribes are divided into two groups i.e. Kuki-Chin and Naga. The Kukis generally lives south of Nagas and the two group meets in Manipur, India.\n\nNow, the term 'Chin' people refer only to the majority Kuki-Chin speaking communities of Myanmar.\n\nThe Chin people are believed to have come to Burma via the Chindwin Valley in the late ninth or tenth century A.D. They moved westward, and are thought to have settled in the present Chin State around 1300-1400. The Chin practice oral traditions and do not have written historical records.\n\nThe British first conquered Burma in 1824, established rule in 1886, and remained in power until Burma's independence in 1948. The 1886 'Chin Hills Regulation Act' stated that the British would govern the Chins separately from the rest of Burma, which allowed for traditional Chin chiefs to remain in power while Britain was still allotted power via indirect rule (Human Rights Watch, 2009). Burma's independence from Britain in 1948 coincided with the Chin people adopting a democratic government rather than continuing its traditional rule of chiefs. The government did not allow the celebration Chin National Day. Instead of Chin National Day, Chin State Day is celebrated on February 20, the day that marked the transition from traditional to democratic rule in the Chin State (Center for Applied Linguistics, 2007).\n\nThe newfound democracy of Chin State ended abruptly in 1962 with the onset of the military rule of General Ne Win in Burma (Center for Applied Linguistics, 2007). Ne Win remained in power until 1988, when nationwide protests against military rule erupted. These uprisings, commonly known as the 8888 because of the date on which they occurred, were met by an outburst of violence from the military government. The violent government response killed approximately 3,000 people in just a matter of weeks and imprisoned many more (Human Rights Watch, 2009). It was during this period of resistance to military rule that the Chin National Front (CNF) and its armed branch, the Chin National Army (CNA), gained momentum (Human Rights Watch, 2009). In 2012, the Chin National Army organized a ceasefire with the Burma military. In 2015, the Chin National Army (CNA) signed a National Ceasefire Agreement (NCA).\n\nThere are many tribes among the Chin people, such as Chin- Falam, Hakha, Kongtu, Zote, Renthlei, Mivam, Khualsim, Biate, Pang, Hrangkhawl, Hlaipao, Simte, Sihzang, Tedim, Ngaihte, Teijang, Tlanglau, Khyang, Tapong, Zanniat, Yaw, Laizo, Tlosai, Khiangte, Muan, Lochei, Sizo, Yindu, Dapzar, Zophei, Lautu, Lai, Zokhua, Nohro, Notlia, Senthang, Tonzang, Ngawn, Lusei, Khawbung, Darngawn, Guite, Zou, Lairawn, Chawngthu, Chawnthei, Daai, Kom-reng, Thahdou (Kuki), Wakung, Matu, Sa-te, Thiak, Valang, Zotung,Tahaih and Khuafo. The word \"Chin\" is a given name. There are also tons of thousands of Chin people in Mizoram State, India, mainly in the area of the Lai Autonomous District Council (formerly part of Chhimtuipui District). A sizable population also lives in Churachandpur district of Manipur, consisting of smaller tribes such as the Hmar, Paite, Simte, Zou, Gangte, and others. The Bawm tribe in southern Mizoram State and Bangladesh are the descendants of the Mizo, Lai and Haw Thai tribes. The Chin/ Mizo/ Zomi/ Kuki people are scattered into three countries: Burma, Bangladesh, and India. Some of the Chin live in Rakhine State and most of them are Cumtu, Asho, Kongtu and Laitu. They are living in Myebon, Minbya, Ann, Thandwe and Gwa. Among them, the majority is Cumtu Chin. The Chin speak several Cumtu, Kukish, Naga and Maraic languages; Ethnologue lists 49 languages in this group, of which 20 contain the word \"Chin\" in their name.\n\nThere are 10 groups and several tribes and clans within the Chin people such as: Cumtu, Zomi, Matu, Mara, Yaw, Asho, Cho, Kuki, Laimi, Mizo, and Khumi. Each group has hundreds of clans and family names. Although the word \"Chin\" is absent among the Chin language, it is found to be used by these people since the 8th century. Therefore, the majority of people living in Chin State accepted the name \"Hill people\" or \"Chin\".\n\nThe realization that the Chin are one group that share common dialectical roots and customs despite separation by international and state boundaries, brought about movements for unification of the occupied territories and of the people. One of the first movements was the Mizo National Movement which ended with the formation of the Mizoram State in India.\n\nThe Chin National Day is celebrated annually on February 20, which is the day the Chin people gained their human rights from Burma. The first Chin National Day was celebrated in 1951 at Mindat. People display many traditional dance such bamboo dance, sarlam (conquest dance), khuang cawi ( a lady is lifted by crowd), and many other dances from each group. One of the big events on Chin National Day is Chin Traditional Wrestling (LaiPaih). There is also Miss competition from each town or city in Chin State. Other events, such as fashion shows and singing also take place in Chin National Day. Traditional food, such as sabuti(corn soup) and chang(rice cake) are served. \nThere are several tradition dresses such as Matu, Hakha, Falam, Tedim, Zo, Tapong, Zotung, Mindat, Mara etc. Every kind is different but have many similarities at the same time. The designs are different and every kind these traditional dresses are colorful. The main colors use for these traditional dresses are red, green, and black. Accessories such as bracelets, necklaces, hairpins, and rings also play a huge role when it comes to traditional clothing. It completes the overall looks. Chin people do not wear these traditional dresses in daily life. They wear these on special occasions like Sundays, Weddings, Chin National Day, Christmas, and any other important occasions\n\nChin people also compete on soccer, volleyball, and wrestling.\n\nThere are 31 different varieties of the Chin language, which are also spoken in India and Bangladesh. The largest varieties in three countries are:\n\nTraditionally, the Chin peoples were animists. However, in the late 1800s, the first Christian missionaries arrived in the Chin State, and began sharing the message of Christianity with indigenous people. Due to the work of the Baptist Arthur E. Carson, their efforts were successful, and today the majority of Chin are Christians, with most belonging to Protestant denominations, especially Baptist. Many Chin people have served as evangelists and pastors, ministering in places such as the United States, Australia, Guam, and India.\n\nThe Chin people's adoption of Christianity was not followed by the rest of Burma, and, since independence, the military government has persecuted the Chin people on religious grounds.\n\nChristianity grew from 35% in 1966 to 90% in 2010.\n\nSince the late 20th century, a group of Chin, Kuki, and Mizo peoples claim descent from Bnei Menashe, one of the Lost Tribes of Israel and have adopted the practice of Judaism.\n\nThe Chin people in Myanmar are one of the minority ethnic groups that have suffered widespread and ongoing ethnic and religious persecution ever since General Ne Win overthrew the democratically elected government in 1962. The predominant religion in Myanmar is Buddhism, however, the Chin people are largely Christian due to American missionary work in the 19th and 20th century. This has led to continuous attempts at forced assimilation. There have been recorded numerous crimes against humanity in Myanmar's western Chin state, committed mainly by the Tatmadaw (members of the Burmese Army) and police; however, other agents of the military government and the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) are also involved. Despite continued persecution, little has been done on the part of the Chin people to speak out due to fear of reprisal, restrictions on travel, and the press imposed by the Burmese military regime. In their oppression of the Chin people, the Tatmadaw consistently violate the rule of law. The Chin people have been subject to forced labor, torture, arbitrary arrests, unlawful detention, and extrajudicial killings. Such treatment has incited a mass exodus of refugees who have left to neighboring nations such as India, Thailand, and Malaysia, even though doing so will risk further torture, detention, or even death. India is the most common destination for Chin refugees, given its close proximity, yet Mizoram (the state in India with the largest Chin population) does not give them full refugee protection and they have no legal status there.\n\nThe right to life is a non-derogable (not revocable under any circumstances), as outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). The articles in the ICCPR are binding on member states that have ratified the ICCPR, however, Myanmar is one of few states that have neither signed nor ratified it. Article 3 of the UDHR states that everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of a person and article 6 of the ICCPR states that every human being has the inherent right to life and no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his or her life. Myanmar has also ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and article 6 states that parties to the Convention must recognize that every child has the inherent right to life. Despite these international instruments prohibiting extrajudicial killings, they still occur to the Chins in Myanmar.\n\nExtrajudicial killings are committed by the SPDC and the Tatmadaw in Chin state, and the killers are never brought to justice. Human Rights Watch (HRW) has conducted several interviews with Chins who have fled Myanmar to produce a full report outlining the types of persecution that they face. In an interview with HRW, a Chin pastor described an incident that he witnessed in 2006 in Falam township. He stated that the SPDC was searching for members of the opposing Chin National Army (CNA) throughout the entire town, but when no information was given, they beat the village council headman and ultimately shot him dead. The Chin Human Rights Organization (CHRO) documented that between 2005 and 2007, sixteen extrajudicial killings occurred with four of them being children. Also between 2006 and 2010, seven Chin men were killed because they were suspected of supporting the CNA and four Chin women were raped before being murdered.\n\nUnder section 61 of the Myanmar Code of Criminal Procedure 1898, a person who is arrested without a warrant must not be detained for more than twenty-four hours. Section 340 states a person who has proceedings against him or her has the right to legal representation. Also, article 9 of the UDHR states that no one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention, or exile. Despite the presence of legal structures and international law, the rule of law is not followed in Myanmar and arbitrary arrests, detention, and attacks are still carried out by the Tatmadaw and SPDC.\n\nA number of Chins who were interviewed by Human Rights Watch describe the abuses in detail. One Chin man recalls back to the year 2000 when he was 16 years old. He was approached by the Burmese police and Tatmadaw who were accusing him of being connected to the CNA, even though he told them he was not and had never even contacted anyone from the CNA or other opposition groups before. The police and Tatmadaw refused to believe him, and beat him with the end of their guns until the man's head was split open. They also used electricity from a battery to torture him and would only stop if the man would tell them information about the CNA. For the Chins that are unlucky, they will be confined and locked up in detention facilities. These facilities are inadequate and unsuitable for anyone to be detained in. When interviewed by the Human Rights Watch, former innocent prisoners gave detailed descriptions of the harsh conditions inside detention facilities and stated that they were overcrowded, unsanitary, and infested with insects. Furthermore, prisoners are only given gruel to eat and no water to drink, which gave some prisoners no choice but to drink the dirty toilet water.\n\nMyanmar has been a part of the International Labour Organization (ILO) since 1948 and in 1955, it ratified the 1930 Forced Labour Convention (No.29). Article 1 of the Convention states that each member of the ILO which ratifies this Convention undertakes to suppress the use of forced labour in all its forms within the shortest possible period. As a member state of the ILO, Myanmar has an obligation to honour the provisions contained under the eight core Conventions outlined in the ILO, which includes prohibition of forced labour. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also protects children from economic exploitation or any labour that is likely to be harmful to the child's health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development, or likely to interfere with the child's education. The Myanmar government properly responded to its obligations, and in 1999 it issued Legislative Order No. 1/99, which states that whoever unlawfully compels any person to labour against the will of that person shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term of one year, or with a fine, or both. In 2007, the Federation of Trade Unions of Burma (FTUB), which records and reports violations of forced labour in Myanmar collected approximately 3500 cases of forced labour mainly involving the Chins in Chin state. Despite the legal structures set in statute, the military government fails to enforce the law and continuously turns a blind eye to forced labour that the Chins still presently endure. In June 2006, the SPDC Minister of Information stated that the Tatmadaw were doing everything legally and that forced labour was never used.\n\nForty-four Chin people interviewed by Human Rights Watch gave statements that they experienced forced labour themselves, and another fifty-two reported they were forced to porter for the Tatmadaw. One of them remembered that the Tatmadaw would call him to work for months, building houses for the SPDC or erecting fences for the army camp. Nothing was provided for him and he had to bring his own tools and equipment. There was no payment, and if he did not show up to work, the Tatmadaw would beat him. Forced labour disrupts the livelihood of the workers and prevents them from doing their regular jobs to support their families. Another Chin woman told the HRW of times where she was forced to porter more than ten times for the Tatmadaw. She would do it for days on end and would have to carry thirty-kilogram bags for up to twenty miles at a time. If she did not keep up the pace with the Tatmadaw, they would beat her and the other porters too. One time, she even refused orders, but the Tatmadaw replied by saying \"you are living under our authority. You have no choice. You must do what we say\" and beat her again.\n\nIn 2011, there is a research project regarding the human rights violations and health in Chin state. The researchers use \" multistaged household cluster\" sample and heads of household are interviewed on the health status, access to health care, food insecurity, human rights violations such as forced labor and forced displacement during the last 12 months. In the research data that they state that in 618 households, there are 568 cases of people suffering any forced labor. In 597 households, there are 468 cases of people forcing to do build bridges, roads, and buildings. There are also 36 cases of household member being imprisoned or detained.\n\nThe Universal Periodic Review (UPR) on Myanmar had a section for the protection and promotion of human rights in Myanmar. It summarized that Myanmar provided legal provisions under section 348 of the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, concerning the guarantee of non-discrimination of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, poverty, birth, or other status. It states that capital punishment is prescribed under the law to be imposed only for the most serious of crimes and to only be carried out pursuant to the final judgment of a competent court. Further, the UPR states that the Penal Code of Myanmar prohibits torture, degrading treatment, arbitrary arrest, and that arrest of anyone must be done in accordance with procedure established under law. Additionally, it states that Myanmar provides the right of peaceful assembly and freedom of association. The summary seems to be contradictory to the real-life experiences of the Chin people.\n\nStates such as the United States of America, Jordan, New Zealand, Poland, and others have made recommendations to Myanmar concerning its human rights violations. There were recommendations for Myanmar to improve human rights, address humanitarian needs of its people, and engage constructively with its international human rights obligations. Poland in particular expressed regret that, despite constitutional provisions, the Government continued to control and restrict activity of minorities. The U.S. has condemned its systematic human rights violations and noted that government critics were at risk of harassment, arbitrary arrest, torture and ill-treatment, and even extrajudicial killings. It expressed concern over the situation of ethnic minorities.\n\nGiven their persecution in Burma, thousands of Chins are scattered throughout Europe, United States, and Southeast Asia. American Baptist, British, and Swedish Lutheran church groups have helped relocate thousands of Chin people.\n\nGlobal Chin News, World News in Chin, World and Chin-Burmese News in Chin, Chin Cable Network, Chin News Channel, Chinland Today and Chin Articles and News, are some well known Chin media websites that broadcast daily news in Chin languages.\n\nIt is estimated that at least 60,000 Chin people refugees are living in India, while more than 20,000 Chin people refugees are living in Malaysia. Several thousands more are scattered in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nThe majority of Chin refugees entering the United States are Christians who are either young, single males, or young couples, some with children. Most are uneducated and come from small villages. Many Chin are pushed to leave by their parents for fear that they will be forced by the Burmese government to take part in dangerous or difficult jobs that range from road paving to human mine sweeping. It has been documented that civilians forced to porter in Burma's conflict areas are sometimes sent before the troops so that they will detonate mines (Online Burma/Myanmar Library, 2010).\n\nThe Chin people who flee from Burma usually enter the United States directly from Thailand, Malaysia, and India. For most leaving Burma, the trip is illegal, dangerous, and expensive. Many of those who have little money fled through boats, cars, or walk. Other who have more money went through airplanes. There are brokers involved who charge approximately $1,000 per person to transport refugees across the border. If those fleeing are caught by either the Burmese government or the government of the country they are trying to enter, they face imprisonment that may include harsh treatment such as being beaten. Those in refugee camps (located mainly in Thailand) are told that it is easier to gain entry into the United States if they have children; thus, many young, new parents enter the United States and need jobs immediately in order to support their young families.\n\nChins have restricted freedom of movement and their travel is limited by the SPDC which makes it difficult for them to escape persecution in Myanmar. They are left with no choice but to leave, without travel documents, to nearby states. Chins mainly travel to the Indian state of Mizoram and seek protection there. As of 2011, it is estimated that 100,000 Chins were living there. Initially, Mizoram welcomed the Chins. However, as the persecution worsened in Myanmar, the Mizoram population became less generous in terms of the protection it gave and its attitude towards Chins.\n\nThough some have fled persecution in Myanmar, they face a new problem when arriving in Mizoram. There they do not have legal immigration status and are subsequently treated as illegal aliens. As such, the Chins that arrive at Mizoram are placed in a \"protracted, urban refugee situation\" which is defined by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) as a situation where refugees find themselves in a long-standing and intractable state of limbo. Their lives may not be at risk but their basic rights and essential economic, social, and psychological needs remain unfulfilled after years of exile. They face challenges related to livelihood, food, shelter, and healthcare. For some refugees, survival may be more difficult when compared to their former lives in Myanmar. Local integration is extremely challenging for Chins since they do not speak the local language and are not used to the regional culture and practices. Thus, many Chin live and do informal work on the outer margins of the community. As a result of not having any legal immigration status, many Chins have reported being arrested, detained, and fined for being foreigners. Some Chins are victims of labour exploitation and crime but do not report it to the police for fear of deportation.\n\nThe Young Mizo Association (YMA) is a voluntary association in Mizoram whose mandate is to provide community service, which includes \"conservation of Mizo culture and heritage\". In the past, it has issued orders forcing Chins to leave Mizoram because they do not want foreigners in their country. This breaches the international principle of non-refoulement because if Chins were to be sent back to Myanmar, persecution and suffering would be inevitable for them. One interviewee who spoke to the Human Rights Watch recalled that members of the YMA carried sticks and went to each of the Chins' houses to ensure that they left Mizoram. The police also arrested Chins who did not leave and confined them in jail.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828131", "title": "Davisson–Germer experiment", "text": "Davisson–Germer experiment\n\nThe Davisson–Germer experiment was a 1923-27 experiment by Clinton Davisson and Lester Germer at Western Electric (later Bell Labs), in which electrons, scattered by the surface of a crystal of nickel metal, displayed a diffraction pattern. This confirmed the hypothesis, advanced by Louis de Broglie in 1924, of wave-particle duality, and was an experimental milestone in the creation of quantum mechanics.\n\nAccording to Maxwell's equations in the late 19th century, light was thought to consist of waves of electromagnetic fields and matter was thought to consist of localized particles. However, this was challenged in Albert Einstein's 1905 paper on the photoelectric effect, which described light as discrete and localized quanta of energy (now called photons), which won him the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921. In 1924 Louis de Broglie presented his thesis concerning the wave–particle duality theory, which proposed the idea that all matter displays the wave–particle duality of photons. According to de Broglie, for all matter and for radiation alike, the energy formula_1 of the particle was related to the frequency of its associated wave formula_2 by the Planck relation:\nAnd that the momentum of the particle formula_4 was related to its wavelength by what is now known as the de Broglie relation:\nwhere h is Planck's constant.\n\nAn important contribution to the Davisson–Germer experiment was made by Walter M. Elsasser in Göttingen in the 1920s, who remarked that the wave-like nature of matter might be investigated by electron scattering experiments on crystalline solids, just as the wave-like nature of X-rays had been confirmed through X-ray scattering experiments on crystalline solids.\n\nThis suggestion of Elsasser was then communicated by his senior colleague (and later Nobel Prize recipient) Max Born to physicists in England. When the Davisson and Germer experiment was performed, the results of the experiment were explained by Elsasser's proposition. However the initial intention of the Davisson and Germer experiment was not to confirm the de Broglie hypothesis, but rather to study the surface of nickel. \nIn 1927 at Bell Labs, Clinton Davisson and Lester Germer fired slow moving electrons at a crystalline nickel target. The angular dependence of the reflected electron intensity was measured and was determined to have the same diffraction pattern as those predicted by Bragg for X-rays. At the same time George Paget Thomson independently demonstrated the same effect firing electrons through metal films to produce a diffraction pattern, and Davisson and Thomson shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1937. The Davisson–Germer experiment confirmed the de Broglie hypothesis that matter has wave-like behavior. This, in combination with the Compton effect discovered by Arthur Compton (who won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1927), established the wave–particle duality hypothesis which was a fundamental step in quantum theory.\n\nDavisson began work in 1921 to study electron bombardment and secondary electron emissions. A series of experiments continued through 1925.\nDavisson and Germer's actual objective was to study the surface of a piece of nickel by directing a beam of electrons at the surface and observing how many electrons bounced off at various angles. They expected that because of the small size of electrons, even the smoothest crystal surface would be too rough and thus the electron beam would experience diffused reflection.\n\nThe experiment consisted of firing an electron beam (from an electron gun, an electrostatic particle accelerator) at a nickel crystal, perpendicular to the surface of the crystal, and measuring how the number of reflected electrons varied as the angle between the detector and the nickel surface varied. The electron gun was a heated tungsten filament that released thermally excited electrons which were then accelerated through an electric potential difference, giving them a certain amount of kinetic energy, towards the nickel crystal. To avoid collisions of the electrons with other atoms on their way towards the surface, the experiment was conducted in a vacuum chamber. To measure the number of electrons that were scattered at different angles, a faraday cup electron detector that could be moved on an arc path about the crystal was used. The detector was designed to accept only elastically scattered electrons.\n\nDuring the experiment, air accidentally entered the chamber, producing an oxide film on the nickel surface. To remove the oxide, Davisson and Germer heated the specimen in a high temperature oven, not knowing that this caused the formerly polycrystalline structure of the nickel to form large single crystal areas with crystal planes continuous over the width of the electron beam.\n\nWhen they started the experiment again and the electrons hit the surface, they were scattered by nickel atoms in crystal planes (so the atoms were regularly spaced) of the crystal. This, in 1925, generated a diffraction pattern with unexpected peaks.\n\nOn a break, Davisson attended the Oxford meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in summer 1926. At this meeting, he learned of the recent advances in quantum mechanics. To Davisson's surprise, Max Born gave a lecture that used diffraction curves from Davisson's 1923 research which he had published in \"Science\" that year, using the data as confirmation of the de Broglie hypothesis.\n\nHe learned that in prior years, other scientists – Walter Elsasser, E. G. Dymond, and Blackett, James Chadwick, and Charles Ellis – had attempted similar diffraction experiments, but were unable to generate low enough vacuums or detect the low-intensity beams needed.\n\nReturning to the United States, Davisson made modifications to the tube design and detector mounting, adding azimuth in addition to colatitude. Following experiments generated a strong signal peak at 65 V and an angle θ = 45°. He published a note to \"Nature\" titled, \"The Scattering of Electrons by a Single Crystal of Nickel\".\n\nQuestions still needed to be answered and experimentation continued through 1927.\n\nBy varying the applied voltage to the electron gun, the maximum intensity of electrons diffracted by the atomic surface was found at different angles. The highest intensity was observed at an angle θ = 50° with a voltage of 54 V, giving the electrons a kinetic energy of .\n\nAs Max von Laue proved in 1912, the periodic crystal structure serves as a type of three-dimensional diffraction grating. The angles of maximum reflection are given by Bragg's condition for constructive interference from an array, Bragg's law \nfor \"n\" = 1, \"θ\" = 50°, and for the spacing of the crystalline planes of nickel (\"d\" = 0.091 nm) obtained from previous X-ray scattering experiments on crystalline nickel.\n\nAccording to the de Broglie relation, electrons with kinetic energy of have a wavelength of . The experimental outcome was via Bragg's law, which closely matched the predictions. As Davisson and Germer state in their 1928 follow-up paper, \"These results, including the failure of the data to satisfy the Bragg formula, are in accord with those previously obtained in our experiments on electron diffraction. The reflection data fail to satisfy the Bragg relation for the same reason that the electron diffraction beams fail to coincide with their Laue beam analogues.\" However, they add, \"The calculated wave-lengths are in excellent agreement with the theoretical values of h/mv as shown in the accompanying table.\" So although electron energy diffraction does not follow the Bragg law, it did confirm de Broglie's equation.\n\nDavisson and Germer's accidental discovery of the diffraction of electrons was the first direct evidence confirming de Broglie's hypothesis that particles can have wave properties as well.\n\nDavisson's attention to detail, his resources for conducting basic research, the expertise of colleagues, and luck all contributed to the experimental success.\n\nIt wasn't until the 1960s that vacuum tubes were adequately made reliable and available to expand on the electron diffraction technique, but since that time, scientists have used LEED diffraction to explore the surfaces of crystallized elements and the spacing between atoms.\n"}
{"id": "1828132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828132", "title": "List of North Carolina locations by per capita income", "text": "List of North Carolina locations by per capita income\n\nNorth Carolina is the twenty-eighth richest state in the United States of America, with a per capita income of $20,307 (2000).\n\nNote: Data is from the 2010 United States Census Data and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1828134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828134", "title": "George Moose", "text": "George Moose\n\nGeorge Edward Moose (born June 23, 1944) is an American diplomat who served as Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Ambassador to the UN agencies in Geneva, and as Ambassador to the Republics of Benin and Senegal. He is primarily known for serving as Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs in the Clinton Administration during the genocide in Rwanda.\n\nGeorge Moose was born in New York City in 1944 and was raised in Denver, Colorado. He earned a degree from Grinnell College and attended the Maxwell School of Syracuse University before entering the Foreign Service in 1967. Ambassador Moose had early assignments in Washington D.C., Barbados, Vietnam, and the U.N. in New York. He speaks Vietnamese and French.\n\nSecretary Moose headed the American delegation which participated in the first Tokyo International Conference on African Development in October 1993.\n\nIn 2002 he was promoted to the rank of Career Ambassador.\n\nHe is currently teaching a course at the George Washington University Elliott School of International Affairs entitled \"Reinventing the United Nations\" and is currently a fellow at the Harvard University Institute of Politics, where he leads a study group on Africa in the multilateral system. He has served on the Board of Directors of Search for Common Ground since 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828135", "title": "Escape (magazine)", "text": "Escape (magazine)\n\nEscape magazine was a British comic strip magazine founded and edited by Paul Gravett and Peter Stanbury. Nineteen issues were published between 1983 and 1989. Eddie Campbell, Phil Elliott and Glenn Dakin were amongst the many cartoonists published within its pages.\n\n\"Escape\" has its origins in the explosion of small press or minicomics that occurred in the UK in the early 1980s. Paul Gravett was running a stall at the Westminster Comic Mart in London called Fast Fiction where he would sell other people's self-published comics for a small cut. These would generally be short-run publications, usually photocopied and assembled by hand, by creators who couldn't find a professional outlet for their work with many coming from an art school background with unique approaches to comic art.\n\nAt the same time awareness was growing of international developments in the medium. Art Spiegelman and Françoise Mouly's \"RAW magazine\" had started pushing the boundaries in the USA while European anthologies such as \"Métal Hurlant\", \"Charie Mensuel\" and \"PLG\" showed not only radically different styles of comic art to the usual UK/US variety but a more mature and analytical approach to the medium.\n\nGravett brought his knowledge and enthusiasm while his partner Peter Stanbury, employed at the time at \"Harpers & Queen\", brought experience in print design and production and together they decided to publish, from their flat, a magazine featuring this home-grown talent along with showcasing examples of new and interesting comics from around the world.\n\nShort for Bande Dessinée, BD became the ideological anchor for \"Escape\". Gravett wanted to apply the values of and respect attributed to French comics to his new breed of British artists. Visually this was reflected in the work of Phil Elliott and Rian Hughes, but it also infused the whole attitude of the magazine, that some comics at least deserved be taken seriously. By identifying with the relatively exotic and beautifully produced volumes from Europe, \"Escape\" distanced itself from the action-adventure style of \"2000AD\" and the American superheroes of Marvel and DC and established itself not only as something new, but something important.\n\nIn 1981, having passed the Fast Fiction stall and distribution to Phil Elliott and before starting \"Escape\", Gravett was employed as promotions manager for \"Pssst!\", an attempt to publish a British equivalent of the lavish French Bande Dessinée magazines. While disillusioned with the direction, or lack of, \"Pssst!\" was taking, his job brought him into contact with many more new and innovative cartoonists around the UK. To some of these, such as Glenn Dakin in Manchester, he introduced the concept of self-publishing small press comics and sending them out to like minded souls, thus widening the net for Fast Fiction. \"Pssst!\" was forced to close after 10 issues, leaving Gravett with a good idea of how \"not\" to run a magazine and a pool of talent.\n\nThe first seven issues of \"Escape\" were published between 1983 and 1985 as A5, or digest-sized, booklets of between 56 and 84 pages in length with black and white interiors and colour covers. The covers were wrap-around and, for the first five issues, hand-separated by Stanbury until full-process colour became viable. The smaller size was chosen to physically differentiate it from other comics around at the time with a nod to the photocopied small press comics that usually came in this format. It was also easy to put in your pocket. The first issue had a print run of 2000 and had a disproportionate reaction from the music and style media bringing in subscribers and advertising, notably the \"NME\" and \"Time Out\".\n\nWhile the contents of each issue followed a pattern of running home grown talent alongside features on comics from around the world (with an emphasis on European BD and American \"art comics\") the roster of artists changed regularly with new creators being brought in every issue. Despite, or more likely, because of the wildly different styles and approaches embraced by the magazine \"Escape\" had a solid identity and loyal, if disparate, readership. As the landscape of the comics industry changed through the 1980s \"Escape\" was there to report it and try to influence where people should be looking.\n\nIn 1986 \"Escape\" changed to the larger industry standard American magazine format (8.25\"x11\") enabling them to reprint work by the international creators they'd previously only written about. Jacques Tardi and Gary Panter appear in issue eight and George Herriman's Krazy Kat became a regular feature. The logo also changed to a bold new design with extra prongs for the E and A and the magazine took on a more professional feel. Of the twelve issues published in this format eight had covers by non-British illustrators as \"Escape\" moved away from its small press origins and fully embraced a more international, Art-based ideology.\n\nA year later, and after protracted negotiations, \"Escape\" became the first periodical to be published by Titan Books, a graphic novel repackaging house responsible for collections of \"Judge Dredd\" and American titles such as \"Swamp Thing\". Gravett and Stanbury retained complete editorial control over the contents and direction of the magazine (despite some pressure from Titan). Despite a 60% sell through on predominantly London-based newsstands Titan were reluctant to push for wider national distribution and after two years and ten issues they parted company. A third, more ambitious, incarnation was planned but failed to find a backer and \"Escape\" folded in 1989.\n\nAlongside the magazine itself, \"Escape\" served as an imprint for self-contained graphic novels. These included the following:\n\n\nTwo exhibition booklets were also produced under the \"Escape\" banner:\n\n\nThe influence of \"Escape\" on subsequent publications and movements is not in doubt, but somewhat hard to pin down. \n\nPublications such as \"Deadline\" and \"Heartbreak Hotel\" shared the combination of comic strips by relative newcomers and lifestyle articles designed to reach a non-comics audience.\n\nThere are notable influences too on Fleetway's experiments with comics for more mature audiences. Later issues of \"Crisis\" featured Paul Grist and reprinted European work while the short-lived \"Revolver\" employed \"Escape\" regulars Rian Hughes and Julie Hollings amongst others. \n\nWhile, with the exception of Eddie Campbell, the core group of artists associated with \"Escape\" did not necessarily go on to great riches. The magazine did publish early work by notable creators including Neil Gaiman, Dave McKean, Paul Johnson, James Robinson and Rian Hughes.\n\nFor the British small press scene \"Escape\", along with Fast Fiction, had been an important focal point both artistically and socially. This continued into the 1990s with the magazine holding a pivotal place in the history of the scene.\n\nInternational distribution brought \"Escape\" artists American exposure, most notably to the cartoonists informally known as the Highwater Books scene. Highwater publisher Tom Devlin and cartoonist Tom Hart both cite \"Escape\", and Glenn Dakin in particular, as influential in forming their attitudes towards comic art. Canadian cartoonist Seth has recently written about the influence Chris Reynolds had on him.\n\nIt should, however, be remembered that \"Escape\" was part of a wider and at the time quite vibrant environment in British comics and that artists did move freely from publication to publication. While the magazine did carve out an important niche and break new ground, the work of \"Knockabout\" and \"Warrior\" and aspects of the \"Harrier Comics\" line should be taken into account.\n\nThe core group of artists featured in Escape came mainly from the British small press and Underground comics scenes of the late 70's and early 80's. \n\n\nIn a late 2009 interview Gravett described his plans for 2010 which involve launching Escape Books followed, eventually, by a return of the magazine:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828137", "title": "German National Prize for Art and Science", "text": "German National Prize for Art and Science\n\nThrough statutes of 30 January 1937, the German National Order for Art and Science () was an award created by Adolf Hitler as a replacement for the Nobel Prize (he had forbidden Germans to accept the latter award in 1936 after an anti-Nazi German writer, Carl von Ossietzky, was awarded the 1935 Nobel Peace Prize). The prize was to be awarded each year to three outstanding German citizens who would receive 100,000 Reichsmarks which could be equally divided. Along with the prize money the recipient also received a certificate with the Order.\n\nThe Order, a round four pointed platinum star, with four gold National Eagles attached was designed by sculptor Müller-Erfurt, Berlin. It was to be worn on the left breast. In the centre is a medallion with a red enameled centre with the gold head of Pallas Athene. On an ivory coloured enameled background in gold letters was the inscription \"FÜR KUNST UND WISSENSCHAFT\" (For Art and Science). This was surrounded by diamonds set in a gold border.\n\nThe total number of National Prizes awarded between 1937 and 1939 was nine, making it the rarest award given in Nazi Germany. Due to the outbreak of the Second World War in Europe, no further awards were made.\n\nThe German National Prize was awarded to nine people.\n\nThe award announcement was held on 7 September 1937 and the award ceremony took place on 30 January 1938 by Adolf Hitler in the Reich Chancellery. The first five winners were:\n\nThe award announcement was made on 6 September 1938, the presentation by Hitler took place 30 January 1939 in the Chancellery. The winners of this second year were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828138", "title": "The People Under the Stairs", "text": "The People Under the Stairs\n\nThe People Under the Stairs is a 1991 American horror comedy film written and directed by Wes Craven and starring Brandon Adams, Everett McGill, Wendy Robie, A. J. Langer, Ving Rhames, and Sean Whalen. The plot follows a young boy and two adult robbers who become trapped in a house belonging to a strange couple after breaking in to steal their collection of rare coins.\n\nCraven has stated that \"The People Under the Stairs\" was partially inspired by a news story from the late 1970s, in which two burglars broke into a Los Angeles household, inadvertently causing the police to discover two children who had been locked away by their parents. The film was a surprise commercial success and has received generally mixed to positive reviews from critics and audiences, and has been analyzed for its satirical depiction of gentrification, class warfare, and capitalism.\n\nPoindexter \"Fool\" Williams is a resident of a Los Angeles ghetto. He and his family are being evicted from their apartment by their landlords, the Robesons. The Robesons, who are believed to be a married couple, call themselves Mommy and Daddy. They have a daughter named Alice.\n\nLeroy, his associate Spencer, and Fool break into the Robesons' house by using Spencer to pose as a municipal worker. The Robesons leave the home shortly but Spencer does not return. Fool and Leroy break into the house to look for Spencer, and Fool finds his dead body and a large group of strange, pale children in a locked pen inside a dungeon-like basement.\n\nThe Robesons return and Fool flees while Leroy is shot to death by Daddy. Fool runs into another section of the house, where he meets Alice. She tells him that the people under the stairs were children who broke the \"see/hear/speak no evil\" rules of the Robeson household. The children have degenerated into cannibalism to survive and Alice has avoided this fate by obeying the rules without question. A boy named Roach whose tongue was removed as punishment for having called out for help to escape (thus breaking the \"speak no evil\" rule enforced by Mommy and Daddy) also evades the Robesons by hiding in the walls.\n\nFool is discovered by Daddy and is thrown to the cannibalistic children to die. However, Roach helps Fool escape, but is critically wounded. As he dies, he gives Fool a small bag of gold coins and a written plea to save Alice. Fool reunites with Alice and the two escape into the passageways between the walls. Daddy releases his Rottweiler dog Prince into the walls to kill them. Fool tricks Daddy into stabbing Prince and he and Alice reach the attic, where they find an open window above a pond. Alice is too afraid to jump and Fool is forced to escape without her, but he promises to return for her.\n\nFool learns that he has enough gold to pay for both his rent and for his mother's surgery. He also finds out that Mommy and Daddy are actually brother and sister, coming from a long line of disturbed, inbred family members. They started out as a family that ran a funeral home, selling cheap coffins for expensive prices, before entering the real estate business, leading them to become greedier and more unhinged. Fool vows to help right the wrong. He reports the Robesons to child welfare and as the police are investigating the house, Fool sneaks back in and reveals to Alice that she is not their daughter; she was stolen from her birth parents, as were all the other children in the basement.\n\nMommy finds out that Alice knows the truth and believes that Fool has turned her against them, so she attempts to kill Alice. However, the cannibal children charge at Mommy, causing her to flee and run into a knife held by Alice. The children seize her and throw her into the basement, where she lands, dead, at Daddy's feet. Daddy finds Fool at the vault, where Fool sets off explosives, demolishing the house and causing the money to blow up through the crematorium chimney and into the crowd of people outside. Daddy is killed in the explosion and Alice and Fool reunite in the basement. Meanwhile, the people outside claim the money distributed by the blast, and the freed children venture into the night.\n\nAccording to writer-director Craven, the film's story was partially inspired by a real-life news story from 1978. The case involved two African-American burglars who made a forced entry into a house in Los Angeles, California, which unintentionally led to the local law enforcement discovering a pair of children who had been locked away by their parents.\n\nThe film was made on a relatively low budget of $6 million, without significant studio interference. The Thomas W. Phillips residence, located at 2215 S. Harvard Blvd in Los Angeles, was used in the film as the house of the Robesons. Everett McGill and Wendy Robie were cast as the Robesons after having starred together as the married couple \"Big\" Ed and Nadine Hurley in the television series \"Twin Peaks\".\n\nThe film opened at the spot at the box office, taking in over $5.5 million that weekend, and stayed in the top 10 for a month until early December. The film went on to gross over $24,204,154 domestically (U.S.) and $7,143,000 internationally, bringing its worldwide total to $31,347,154.\n\n\"The People Under the Stairs\" has received a generally mixed to positive response from critics. The film holds a 62% approval rating on the movie review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 26 critic reviews with an average rating of 5.51/10. Marjorie Baumgarten of \"The Austin Chronicle\" wrote that \"this is the work of the Wes Craven we came to admire\". Vincent Canby, writing for \"The New York Times\", described \"The People Under the Stairs\" as \"an affirmative-action horror film\", containing \"its share of blood and gore\", and lauded the film for being \"mostly creepy and, considering the bizarre circumstances, surprisingly funny\" in that \"it's impossible not to like fiends who, having just dispatched someone in an especially nasty way, can't contain their natural high spirits. They dance.\"\n\nChicago-based \"Siskel & Ebert\" had mixed responses to the movie on their TV show. Roger Ebert of \"The Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the movie a \"thumbs down\" review and admitted a distaste for gory horror films but nonetheless gave Craven credit for \"creating a distinctive visual world\" featuring dark humor and biting social commentary. Gene Siskel of \"The Chicago Tribune\" gave \"The People Under the Stairs\" a reserved \"thumbs up\", warning viewers about some disturbing material but also saying \"if you like this kind of picture, [Craven] does it as well as you can imagine.\"\n\nRichard Harrington of \"The Washington Post\" criticized Craven's directing, going on to state that \"Craven also wrote the script here, based on a news story about California parents who kept their children locked in the basement for many years. That's scary -- and so is how far Craven has fallen.\" Nigel Floyd of \"Time Out\" wrote of the film that \"There are a few push-button frights, but a total dearth of mind-disturbing terror; the humour, too, is broad, crowd-pleasing stuff\".\n\nS.C. Dacy of \"Empire\" gave the film four out of five possible stars and called it \"brilliantly deceptive\", writing that it is \"Not just a disturbing ride but also a hard-hitting political statement\". Brent McKnight of \"PopMatters\" wrote that the film \"is a careful synthesis of genres, steeped in horror, with a satiric bite, and action and thriller traits thrown in just for the hell of it\", calling it \"easily one of the director's most original, deranged, and off the wall films\".\n\nNoel Murray of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote that \"footage from the first Gulf War on the Robesons' TV—coupled with the depiction of them as a wealth-hoarding perversion of the typical upstanding suburban couple—marks the movie as a satire\", and called the Mommy and Daddy characters a \"cartoonish parody of conservatism\". S.C. Dacy of \"Empire\" referred to the Robesons as a \"camouflaged Ronald and Nancy Reagan\", and Brett Gallmann of ComingSoon.net referred to them as \"nightmare versions of Ronald and Nancy Reagan\". Jonny Coleman of \"LA Weekly\" called the film \"a satire of late capitalism, specifically in an L.A. run ragged by the free market of the '80s and the violence it created\", noted the comparisons between the Robesons and the Reagans, and compared them to more contemporary figures like Donald Sterling and Donald Trump.\n\nIn a 1991 interview with \"Fangoria\", Craven stated that the film \"is much closer to \"The Hills Have Eyes\" than anything I've done in a long time ... It's a raw film with no dreams in it whatsoever. It's an extraordinary, real situation involving an awful family that shouldn't exist, but unfortunately, often does. In the 2015 Blu-ray commentary track released by Scream Factory, Craven refers to the Robesons' house as representing \"the whole society of the United States\".\n\n\"The People Under the Stairs\" was released on VHS by MCA/Universal Home Video in the spring of 1992, and was later released on DVD in 2003. The film received a Blu-ray release in Region B by Arrow Video on November 4, 2013, featuring a high-definition transfer of the film, an audio commentary by actor Brandon Adams moderated by Calum Waddell, along with various interviews and a theatrical trailer. The film was released in Region A as a Blu-ray Collector's Edition by Scream Factory in 2015, featuring audio commentaries by Wes Craven with Michael Felsher, and by actors Brandon Adams, A. J. Langer, Sean Whalen, and Yan Birch. The Scream Factory release also includes interviews with members of the cast and crew, behind-the-scenes footage, a \"making of\" featurette, a theatrical trailer, and TV spots.\n\nCraven at one point said he would like to remake the film along with \"The Last House on the Left\" and \"Shocker\". However, after the release of the 2009 remake of \"The Last House on the Left\", news of a remake fell dormant until 2015, when it was announced (shortly before Craven's death) that the director was developing a \"People Under the Stairs\" TV series for the SyFy Channel.\n\nUniversal Studios Florida has incorporated the house of Mommy and Daddy, along with other elements of the film's plot, into a maze attraction in the past for their annual Halloween Horror Nights event. It is also featured on the drive-in movie screen in the \"Twister...Ride It Out\" attraction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828141", "title": "Timothy Ting", "text": "Timothy Ting\n\nTimothy Ting or Ting Ting-yu (; born 1954) is a Taiwanese politician and sociologist.\n\nTing graduated from National Taiwan University (NTU) with a bachelor's degree in sociology before going on to the University of Michigan for his doctorate. He has a son and a daughter, whom he sent to Lincoln, Nebraska for their education in the 1990s.\n\nTing served as an assistant professor of sociology at Kansas State University before returning to Taiwan, where he successively took up associate professorships at National Chengchi University and his alma mater NTU. In 1997 he left his post at NTU to work in the opinion polling industry. He eventually began working for Gallup Taiwan, a research organisation. In a 2006 letter to the \"Taipei Times\", a spokesperson for the U.S.-based Gallup denied any association with Ting or his company.\n\nTing was appointed third deputy mayor of Taipei by Hau Lung-pin in August 2011. His financial declaration at the time he took office showed that he owned investment properties in a number of cities. These included four in Shanghai and Beijing, making him the public official with the largest number of properties in mainland China. During his time in office, one issue to which he turned his focus was urban renewal; he stated that Taipei was at a disadvantage compared to other major cities in Asia such as Hong Kong, Beijing, and Shanghai due to its age, having been mostly constructed in the 1960s and 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "1828149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828149", "title": "América Futebol Clube (MG)", "text": "América Futebol Clube (MG)\n\nAmérica Futebol Clube (also known as América Mineiro or simply América) is a Brazilian club from Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais. Founded in 1912, the club preserves its name and crest since its inception. The original home kit colours are white and green only; the black color was incorporated in the 1970s.\nThe team also played with a red home kit between 1933 and 1942, as a protest to the introduction of professionalism.\nIt hosts its matches at Independência stadium, being the only professional club in Belo Horizonte to have its own stadium.\nThe club has the third largest fan base among the teams from Minas Gerais.\n\nAmérica is one of the most traditional and successful teams from Minas Gerais. It has won the state championship 16 times, and finished as runners-up in another 15 occasions.\nThe first 10 victories were in a row, between 1916 and 1925, being the national record of successive accomplishments (together with ABC); the most recent was in 2016.\nOther major accomplishments were the Brazilian Second Division in 1997 and 2017, South-Minas Cup in 2000, and Brazilian Third Division in 2009.\n\nThe club has a long reputation in forming young talents in football.\nAmong others, it has revealed the world-class players Tostão, Éder Aleixo, Yuji Nakazawa, Gilberto Silva, Fred and Danilo.\nAmérica has won the three most important junior tournaments in Brazil: São Paulo Juniors Cup (1996), Brazilian Championship U-20 (2011) and Belo Horizonte Juniors Cup (2000 and 2014).\n\nOn 30 April 1912, a group of young men who played football purely for the love of the game decided to turn their team into a football club. In the first meeting, the founders decided that the name of the club would be América Foot-Ball Club, and the colors would be green and white. The first matches were played on the mayor's field. In 1913, América and Minas Gerais Futebol Clube fused, and the club changed its colors to green, white and black. Between 1916 and 1925, the team won ten state championships in a row.\n\nIn 1933, as a protest to the professionalization of Brazilian football, the club changed its colors to red and white. In 1943, the club professionalized its football division, and returned to its previous colors. In 1948, América won its first state championship as a professional club.\n\nIn 1997, América won the Série B for the first time, and in 2000, the club won the Copa Sul-Minas first edition, beating Cruzeiro in the final. In 2004, after a poor performance in the Série B, América was relegated to the Campeonato Brasileiro Série C, and in 2007, the club finished in Campeonato Mineiro's last position, and was relegated to the following year's Campeonato Mineiro Second Division. América won the Série C in 2009, beating ASA in the final. The following year, the team was fourth at Série B and returned to the top level of the Brazilian championship after ten years. On 14 June 2013, América signed a cooperation contract with the Tahitian Football Federation to develop under-20 national players.\n\nThe club's official anthem was composed by Vicente Motta. There are also two other anthems: The unofficial anthem, which was composed by Fernando Brant and Tavinho Moura, and the supporters' anthem, whose lyrics were composed by Márcio Vianna Dias and sung by Fernando Ângelo. América's mascot, was created by the cartoonist Fernando Pierucetti, and is a red-eyed white cartoon rabbit with clearly protruding teeth.\n\nAmérica's greatest rivals are Cruzeiro and Atlético Mineiro. The derby between América and Atlético Mineiro is known as \"O Clássico das Multidões\" (\"The Derby of the Masses\"), and was first played on November 15, 1913, in a friendly game that ended in a 1–1 draw.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe club will use fixed squad numbers in 2019 Campeonato Brasileiro Série B for the first time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828157", "title": "The Beast with Five Fingers", "text": "The Beast with Five Fingers\n\nThe Beast with Five Fingers is a 1946 mystery horror film directed by Robert Florey from a screenplay by Curt Siodmak, based on a short story written by W. F. Harvey and first published in 1919 in \"The New Decameron\". The film stars Robert Alda, Victor Francen, Andrea King, and Peter Lorre. The film's score was composed by Max Steiner.\n\nFrancis Ingram (Victor Francen) is a noted pianist who lives in a large manor house near a small, isolated Italian village. Ingram suffered a stroke which left his right side immobile, and he has to use a wheelchair to get around. He has retreated to the manor house for the past few years—seen by only a few close friends. These include his nurse, Julie Holden (Andrea King); a musicologist (and amateur astrologist), Hillary Cummins (Peter Lorre); a friend, Bruce Conrad (Robert Alda); and his sister's son, Donald Arlington (John Alvin). Ingram has fallen in love with Julie Holden, and has changed his will so that she receives the vast bulk of his enormous estate when he dies. But Julie is secretly in love with Conrad. The change in the will disinherits Arlington and Cummins, and Cummins tries to expose Holden's affair. Ingram, outraged at the slander on his beloved's good name, tries to choke Cummins to death. Only Julie's arrival (after meeting Conrad in the garden) saves him.\n\nLater that night, Ingram begins to suffer hallucinations from poison put in his food and drink. He climbs into his wheelchair, makes it to the top of the stairs, and calls out for Julie (who never comes to his aid). Ingram falls down the stairs, breaking his neck. (The audience does not see if Ingram was pushed or he fell.) Commissario Ovidio Castanio (J. Carrol Naish) of the local police investigates the death, but finds little sign of murder.\n\nA few days later, Raymond Arlington (Charles Dingle) (Donald's father) arrives, determined to ensure that his son gets the inheritance. Duprex (David Hoffman), Ingram's attorney, is \"persuaded\" (by the agreement of his getting a third of the estate) into helping Raymond overturn the new will in favor of the old one, telling him that there are suspicions regarding Ingram's death. That night, Duprex is murdered by an unseen assailant. Commissario Castanio begins to investigate. The Arlingtons try to search for the old will, while suspicion falls on Cummins after he tries to remove several expensive old books from the manor house. That night, everyone hears Ingram playing the piano in the main hall, but when they go to check no one is there. Donald, too, is attacked and almost choked to death. Commissario Castanio discovers that someone has broken into the Ingram mausoleum and that Ingram's left hand has been cut off. But it seems impossible for anyone to have gotten in or out.\n\nThe audience now begins to see a disembodied hand moving around the manor house. The hand attacks Cummins, but he is able to assuage the hand's quest for vengeance by returning to the hand Ingram's signet ring. He locks the hand in a closet, but when Conrad and Holden appear to see what has happened — the hand has disappeared. Meanwhile, Donald Arlington remembers the combination and location of an old safe in the house, and Commissario Castanio and his father accompany him to the room where it is located. They discover the old will...and the disembodied hand. In a fit of madness, Donald Arlington flees the house with Conrad in pursuit. He comes to his senses, and is not harmed. Julie realizes that Cummins, who is now firmly convinced that the hand is out for vengeance and even sees it playing the piano, is responsible for the attacks and confronts him; he tries to kill her, but she is able to escape by claiming to believe his claims about the hand. Cummins (now completely mentally unhinged) tries to burn it in the fire, but the hand crawls out and chokes him, fading out of existence after he dies.\n\nCommissario Castanio and Conrad discover a hidden record player with a recording of Ingram's piano playing and conclude that Cummins had been playing it to scare people. He theorizes that Cummins cut off the hand, killed Duprex, and tried to kill Arlington. By that point, his mind had snapped, making him believe his own fabricated plot.\n\nThe film was Warner Bros.' only foray into the horror genre in the 1940s and was Peter Lorre's last film with the studio.\n\nGraham Baker was reported as working on a script for Warner Bros in 1945. Robert Florey was assigned to direct with Andrea King and Paul Henreid to star. The screenwriter Curt Siodmak had originally written the film for Henreid, who turned it down. Robert Alda was cast instead.\n\nFilming started 27 November 1945. The piece much played throughout the film is a slightly modified version of Brahms' transcription for left hand of the chaconne from Johann Sebastian Bach's Violin Partita in D minor, performed by Warner Bros. pianist Victor Aller. The hand of pianist Victor Aller is shown playing the piano and throughout the movie.\n\nThe film was released on Laser Disc by MGM/UA Home Video on March 16, 1999 and released on DVD by Warner Brothers on October 1, 2013.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 89% based on , with a weighted average rating of 6.6/10.\nAuthor and film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film two and a half out of a possible four stars, calling it \"[an] Intriguing, if not entirely successful mood piece\".\nBob Mastrangelo from Allmovie gave the film a positive review, calling it \"effectively eerie\", and praised the film's special effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828159", "title": "William C. deMille", "text": "William C. deMille\n\nWilliam Churchill DeMille (July 25, 1878 – March 5, 1955) was an American screenwriter and film director from the silent film era through the early 1930s. He was also a noted playwright prior to moving into film. Once he was established in film he specialized in adapting Broadway plays into silent films.\n\nDe Mille was born in Washington, North Carolina, to Henry Churchill de Mille (1853–1893), an actor and playwright from North Carolina, and Matilda Beatrice Samuel (1853–1923) who was also a play and screenwriter. Her father was a Christian whilst his mother was born to a Sephardic Jewish family in Liverpool but converted to her husband's faith.\n\nWilliam was the elder brother of Cecil B. DeMille, who altered the capitalization of his last name when he went to Hollywood, claiming that it fit better on marquees. (William continued to be known as \"de Mille\", and his daughter Agnes also chose \"de Mille\".) William received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University followed by graduate studies at the Academy of Dramatic Arts, at schools in Germany, and a second stint at Columbia studying under Brander Matthews.\n\nIn 1903, he married Anna Angela George, the daughter of notable economist Henry George. Anna and William had two children, Agnes de Mille – named after a younger sister who died in childhood – who became a noted choreographer and Peggy George, who became an actress.\n\nProfessionally, their life was stable. In 1905, he became successful Broadway playwright, following its development in 1904.\n\nWilliam had nine plays he wrote or co-wrote – one of them with Cecil – produced on Broadway between 1905 and 1913, and another two productions mounted in 1929 and 1936, the latter of which he produced and directed as well.\n\nHis first play, \"Strongheart\" was eventually released as a movie by his brother as \"Braveheart\" (1925). Two of William's works, \"The Warrens of Virginia\" (1907) and \"The Woman\" (1911) were produced by the flamboyant impresario David Belasco. The former featured future film star Mary Pickford and Cecil, both struggling actors playing minor roles.\n\nHe wrote a number of vaudeville sketches including \"In 1999\", \"Food\", \"Poor Old Jim\", \"The Squealer\", \"The Martyrs\", and \"The Deceivers\".\n\nCecil eventually moved to Hollywood, and William followed. His directorial debut was \"The Only Son\" (1914).\n\nWilliam C. deMille and Anna Angela George divorced in 1927.\nOne of the writers of \"Miss Lulu Bett\" was Clara Beranger, whom deMille married in 1929.\n\nAt about this time, he met Lorna Moon, an established New York author from Scotland, who also wrote sophisticated Hollywood comedies.\n\nIn 1998, Richard de Mille, who had grown up in Cecil's household, revealed in the memoir \"My Secret Mother, Lorna Moon\" that William C. deMille was his father and screenwriter Moon his biological mother. Richard had been adopted by Cecil B. and Constance DeMille to avoid a family scandal.\n\nIn addition to his filmmaking fame, William deMille was an early member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. (His brother was a founding member.)\n\nWith Douglas Fairbanks, he co-hosted the 1st Academy Awards in 1929, and he solely hosted the 2nd Academy Awards the following year. He served as President of the Academy briefly. DeMille helped found the USC Film School in 1929, and after his East Coast theatrical career failed to revive in the early 1930s, he was active on the faculty there until his death.\n\nDeMille died on March 5, 1955 in Playa del Rey, California. He is interred in the Hollywood Forever Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828160", "title": "Instance (computer science)", "text": "Instance (computer science)\n\nIn object-oriented programming (OOP), an instance is a concrete occurrence of any object, existing usually during the runtime of a computer program. Formally, \"instance\" is synonymous with \"object\" as they are each a particular value (realization), and these may be called an instance object; \"instance\" emphasizes the distinct identity of the object. The creation of an instance is called instantiation.\n\nIn the context of POSIX-oriented operating systems, the term \"(program) instance\" typically refers to any executing process instantiated from that program (via the fork() and exec() system calls); that is, each executing process in the OS is an instance of some program which it has been instantiated from.\n\nIn class-based programming, objects are created from classes by subroutines called constructors, and destroyed by destructors. An object is an instance of a class, and may be called a class instance or class object; instantiation is then also known as construction. Not all classes can be instantiated abstract classes cannot be instantiated, while classes that can be instantiated are called concrete classes. In prototype-based programming, instantiation is instead done by copying (cloning) a prototype instance.\n\nAn object may be varied in a number of ways. Each realized variation of that object is an instance of its class. That is, it is a member of a given class that has specified values rather than variables. In a non-programming context, you could think of \"dog\" as a type and your particular dog as an instance of that class.\n\nAn important distinction is between the data type, which is interface, and the class, which is implementation.\n\nThe meaning of the term \"type\" in computer science is rather similar to the meaning of the word \"type\" in everyday language. For example, a barman can ask a client what type of beverage does he or she want coffee, tea or beer? A particular cup of coffee that the client receives is in the role of an instance, while two cups of coffee would form a set of two instances of coffee, determining its type at the same time.\n"}
{"id": "1828165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828165", "title": "Poul-Henning Kamp", "text": "Poul-Henning Kamp\n\nPoul-Henning Kamp (born 1966) is a Danish computer software developer known for work on various projects. He currently resides in Slagelse, Denmark. \n\nPoul-Henning Kamp has been committing to the FreeBSD project for most of its duration. \nHe is responsible for the widely used MD5crypt implementation of the MD5 password hash algorithm,\na vast quantity of systems code including the FreeBSD GEOM storage layer, GBDE cryptographic storage transform, part of the UFS2 file system implementation, FreeBSD Jails, malloc library, and the NTP timecounters code.\n\nHe is the lead architect and developer for the open source Varnish cache project, an HTTP accelerator.\n\nIn 2006, Kamp had a dispute with electronics manufacturer D-Link in which he claimed they were committing NTP vandalism by embedding the IP address of his NTP servers in their routers. The dispute was resolved on 27 April 2006.\n\nA post by Poul-Henning on the FreeBSD mailing lists is responsible for the popularization of the term \"bike shed discussion\", and the derived term \"bikeshedding\", to describe Parkinson's law of triviality in open source projects - when the amount of discussion that a subject receives is inversely proportional to its importance.\n\nPoul-Henning Kamp is known for his preference of a Beerware license to the GNU General Public License (GPL).\n\nPoul-Henning Kamp has published a substantial number of articles over the years in publications like Communications of the ACM and ACM Queue mostly on the topics of computing and time keeping. \nA selection of publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828174", "title": "Liffey Champion", "text": "Liffey Champion\n\nThe Liffey Champion is a local newspaper for north County Kildare and the Lucan area of west Dublin. It is based in Leixlip. The first edition was printed on 17 May 1991.\n\nPublished weekly every Thursday, the paper has a respectable circulation. It is in a tabloid format, and varies in length, averaging about 48 pages long, with approximately half of its pages being printed in full colour.\n\nThe paper is currently priced at €1.90. Its journalists cover local authority meetings of South Dublin County Council and Kildare County Council, along with local court proceedings in Kilcock and Naas, and various meetings in the local communities. The paper provides its readers with extensive and accurate coverage of local news, major events and sport, including Gaelic football, hurling and rugby.\n\nThe newspaper is not a member of the Audit Bureau of Circulations Irish division, and as such, no official circulation figures exist. The publisher supplies figures of 7,500 (free registration required). None of the other newspapers in its circulation area are members of the ABC either, so comparisons are hard to make.\n\nDespite being a relatively small newspaper, the \"Liffey Champion\" has had a number of journalists and photographers who have gone on to take up a variety of positions in national and international media.\n\nFormer photographer Morgan Treacy, is a multi-award winning sports photographer with INPHO sports agency.\n\nFormer \"Champion\" journalist Darren Ennis went on to work for the \"Irish Daily Star\", \"Irish Independent\" and Newstalk radio station, before a career with Reuters (international news agency) where he was awarded global journalist of the year in 2009. He left Reuters in January 2010 to take up his current role as press, media and strategic communications advisor to Catherine Ashton, the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.\n\nLocal journalist from Leixlip David Lynch worked for the \"Champion\" before working for a variety of other media, he is an award winning author, journalist and historian who has since reported from Palestine, Israel and Lebanon.\n\nFormer \"Champion\" journalist Sharon Tobin worked as a news reporter in TV3 and now works with RTÉ News.\n\nFormer \"Liffey Champion\" journalist Deirdre O'Keeffe was a women's magazine editor and now works with the \"Evening Herald\" and regularly appears on TV3's \"Midday\" programme.\n\nFormer \"Liffey Champion\" News Editor Nicola Donnelly went on to become Deputy Editor and then Acting Editor of \"The Meath Post\" before becoming a freelance court reporter for national media outlets. In 2015, her talent was recognised when she became a Law Society of Ireland Justice Media Award winner.\n\nPetrina Vousden worked for both the \"Liffey Champion\" and its local rival \"Leinster Leader\" - she is now a journalist with \"The Daily Mail\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1828177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828177", "title": "Great Kei River", "text": "Great Kei River\n\nThe Great Kei River is a river in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. It is formed by the confluence of the Black Kei River and White Kei River, northeast of Cathcart. It flows for and ends in the Great Kei Estuary at the Indian Ocean with the small town Kei Mouth on the west bank. Historically the Great Kei River formed the southwestern border of the Transkei region as was formerly known as the Nciba River. \n\nThe Great Kei River is a meandering river course and is formed by the convergence of the Black Kei River and the White Kei River in Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality, north-east of Cathcart and southeast of Queenstown. The Great Kei river flows from the junction of the Black and White Kei rivers for approximately 225 kilometers (140 miles) southeastwards along winding courses to the Indian Ocean. It terminates at the Great Kei estuary by Kei Mouth, a coastal resort town. Its longest tributary is the Tsomo in the north. The name has it origins as far back as 1752 and is based on a Khoisan word for the river meaning 'sand'. \n\nThe Great Kei previously formed the southwestern border of the Transkei region which can be accessed via the 'Pont', one of only two car-transporting river ferries in South Africa. The pont is currently operational and motorists are frequently ferried from the southwestern bank to the northeastern bank into the Wild Coast.\n\nThe estuaries from the Great Kei river to southern Mozambique are classified as subtropical. These systems are characterized by warm waters of more than 16 degrees Celsius. The climate is warm and humid almost year-round as a result. Minimum winter temperatures range from 12- 14 degrees Celsius and the area receives rainfall throughout the year.\nThe inland sections of the Great Kei River flow through Albany thickets and Forest biomes, terminating in Indian coastal thicket at its mouth. The Kei river mouth hosts the southernmost naturally occurring mangrove forests in Southern Africa. Swamp forests occur north of the Mngazana estuary, and salt marshes are found south of the Great Kei estuary.The Great Kei river mouth is popular with anglers due its variety of estuarine fish species. However, some species such as the South African Cob and White steenbras are critically endangered. Many coastal bird species are found in the area such as the near-threatened African oystercatcher, sandpipers, and kingfishers.\n\nAttempts to build a bridge over the Kei river started in 1877 when building materials were shipped into East London from Britain by ox wagon and rail. Work on the bridge was interrupted multiple times due to conflicts in the area including the 9th Frontier War where Newey and his team were forced to retreat to the Royal Hotel in Komga as Gcaleka warriors began crossing the Kei for battle. A few British soldiers were killed by Xhosa warriors at Moordenaarskop (Murderers’ Hill), a hill close to the old bridge. From 1907 to 1917, a railway line was carried on a timber bridge downstream of the Great Kei. The timber bridge was destroyed after a flood and the railway line was relocated over to a new adjacent road bridge. The bridge was again dismantled in 1946 and re-erected again in 1947. It took two and a half years to complete the building of the bridge.At the end of the conflicts, the bridge was completed and is still in use by locals and farmers.The Great Kei Bridge is next to the Kei Bridge and is located in Amathole District Municipality. The Great Kei Bridge has a length of about 0.46 kilometers.\n\n\nThe N2 road passes through Komga and Butterworth in an area is known as the Great Kei Pass or Kei Cuttings. It is a known for its high prevalence of accidents due to mist and wandering cattle. This section of the N2 passes across the Great Kei River. The Kei Cuttings lie inland from the Kei Mouth, Morgans Bay and Chintsa West.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828183", "title": "Battle of Sardarabad", "text": "Battle of Sardarabad\n\nThe Battle of Sardarabad (, \"Sardarapati č̣akatamart\"; ) was a battle of the Caucasus campaign of World War I that took place near Sardarabad, Armenia from 21 to 29 May 1918, between the regular Armenian military units and militia on one side and the Ottoman army that had invaded Eastern Armenia on the other. As Sardarabad is approximately west of the capital of Yerevan, the battle not only halted the Ottoman advance into the rest of Armenia, but also prevented the complete destruction of the Armenian nation. In the words of Christopher J. Walker, had the Armenians lost this battle, \"[I]t is perfectly possible that the word Armenia would have henceforth denoted only an antique geographical term.\"\n\nAfter the October Revolution of 1917 in Russia and the ceasefire signed between the Third Army of the Ottoman Empire and the Transcaucasian Commissariat in Erzincan, newly forming Armenian detachments came to replace Russian forces retreating from the Caucasian Front, particularly from the territory of Western Armenia. Taking advantage of the military-political situation of the time, the Ottoman government set its mind on regaining control of territories occupied by the Russian Army during World War I and invading Eastern Armenia and the South Caucasus afterwards. The German government, the Ottoman Empire's ally, objected to this attack and refused to help the Ottoman Army in the operation. The Ottoman Army intended to crush Armenia and seize Russian Transcaucasia and the oil wells of Baku.\n\nLaunching an assault in February 1918, the Third Army of the Ottoman Empire occupied Western Armenian settlements one after another. Following the failure of Trabzon peace talks in April, Third Army commander Mehmed Wehib Pasha moved his forces towards Transcaucasia. Taking advantage of the conciliatory policy of the leadership of the newly-proclaimed Transcaucasian Federative Republic, the Turkish military units captured the heavily fortified Castle of Kars on 25 April, thus creating a direct threat to Alexandrapol. Following the siege of Kars, the Ottoman Forces Command put forward new conditions to the Transcaucasian authorities, demanding the surrender of Akhalkalaki, Akhaltsikhe and Alexandrapol, as well as of Alexandropol–Julfa railway, which the Turkish troops could use to reach Tabriz and get their hands on all the Transcaucasian railroads before the end of the war against the British. Unwilling to wait for the end of negotiations with the Transcaucasian delegation in Batumi, the Turkish forces took Alexandropol with a quick offensive on 15 May, creating a threat of conquest for all of Eastern Armenia.\n\nIn order to break into Eastern Armenia, the Turkish Military Command made a regrouping of its troops. A special detachment commanded by Yakub Shevki Pasha was formed in Kars from subdivisions of the 1st Caucasian Army Corps (under the command of Major-General Kazim Karabekir Pasha) and the 2nd Caucasian Army Corps of the Third Army (under the command of Major-General Yakub Shevki Pasha). Within the newly-formed detachment, the 36th Division (under the command of Colonel Pirselimoğlu Hamdi Bey) and the 9th Division (under the command of Colonel Rüştü Paşa) of the 1st Caucasian Army Corps, as well as the 11th Division (under the command of Colonel Cavit Erdel) and the 5th Division (under the command of Colonel Mürsel Pasha) of the 2nd Caucasian Army Corps were to operate against the Armenian forces. Besides the detachment in question, also participating in combat operations in the course of the invasion of Eastern Armenia was the 12th Division of the 4th Army Corps of the Second Army, which supervised Surmali mountain passes on the eve of the Battle of Sardarapat and had a mission to invade Igdir Province.\n\nTo be able to resist the attack, commander of the Armenian Corps, commander-in-chief of the Armenian Armed Forces Tovmas Nazarbekian decided to safeguard the strategic roads to Yerevan and Tiflis.\n\nA part of the Armenian troops that had left Alexandropol, including some units of the 1st Division of the Armenian Corps, as well as several units within the Special Armenian Detachment, retreated towards the Ararat Plain. Here under the general command of Movses Silikyan, the Detachment of Yerevan of the Armenian Armed Forces was created with a task to thwart the Turkish attack on Yerevan.\n\nThe invasion of the Turkish army put the Armenian political leadership in both Tiflis and Yerevan into a difficult situation. On 19 May, after invading Surmali, Turkish General Halil Kut (the uncle of Enver Pasha) declared in Batumi that \"the Armenians have been defeated and must be obeyed.\" On the other hand, the Armenian delegation represented in the negotiations of Batumi (Alexander Khatisian, Hovhannes Kajaznuni) in a cable sent to Khachatur Karchikyan, the Armenian member in the Transcaucasian Commissariat, recommended \"against showing resistance to Turks.\"\n\nAmid a widespread panic in the Aleksandropolsky Uyezd, the Ararat Plain and Yerevan following the attack of the Turkish troops, the Yerevan city council at a session on 18 May approved mayor Tadevos Tosyan's proposal to hand over the city to the Turks with no resistance, evacuate the population and lead them to the mountains. But the decision to surrender Yerevan yielded no practical results, as the Executive Body of the Armenian National Council of Tbilisi – the Special Committee – headed by Yerevan National Council chairman Aram Manukian sharply opposed such a development and overthrew the decision (supreme power in Yerevan and the province of Yerevan was given to the Special Committee). By the order of Aram Manukian and with the help of as many as 1500 residents, Yerevan's defenses, especially the area near Yerablur, were fortified.\n\nOn 18 May, Aram Manukian accompanied by Yerevan's commandant Arshavir Shahkhatuni, visited Etchmiadzin to urge Catholicos George V to leave the town for security reasons. But he not only rejected the proposal, but also encouraged the military to resist the Ottoman advance. Later legend claimed that church bells pealed for six days calling on Armenians from all walks of life – peasants, poets, blacksmiths, and even the clergymen – to rally to form organized military units. Civilians, including children, aided in the effort as well, as \"Carts drawn by oxen, water buffalo, and cows jammed the roads bringing food, provisions, ammunition, and volunteers from the vicinity\" of Yerevan.\n\nIn the days that followed, Manukian played a vital role in stabilizing the situation in Yerevan and the adjacent areas and tipping the scale in the Armenians' favor. In the morning of 19 May, he ordered the Commander of the 1st Division, Major-General Movses Silikyan' to stop the retreat of Armenian forces and avert the Turkish attack on Yerevan at any cost. To this end, Manukian promised to carry out organizational work in a short period of time, collect manpower and ammunition. In the subsequent days, recruitment was organized on Astafyan street, in the English park, in front of the Teachers' Seminary and elsewhere for volunteers to join the army at the start of the Battle.\n\nForming part of the 36th Turkish Division moving towards Alexandropol-Yerevan were the 106th, 107th and 108th Infantry Regiments, one rifle battalion, two artillery divisions. The Turkish army was further supported by a separate cavalry regiment and another one of 1,500 Kurdish fighters. The Turkish forces were a total of 7,500 – 10,000 soldiers and officers, including the Kurds. The Turks had 40 cannons at their disposal.\n\nDuring the Battle of Sardarapat, the forces of the Armenian side formed part of the Yerevan detachment, whose other units took part in the Battle of Bash-Aparan against the 9th Turkish Division. Major-General Movses Silikyan was the Commander of the detachment, while Colonel Alexander Vekilyan served as the Chief of Staff based in the building of the Gevorgian Seminary of Etchmiadzin in Vagharshapat. The Commander-in-Chief of the forces fighting in the Battle of Sardarapat was the Deputy Commander of the Yerevan detachment, Colonel Daniel Bek-Pirumyan, while Alexander Chneour was the Chief of Staff. Included in these forces were the 2nd Division of the Armenian Corps and several squads of the Special Armenian Detachment. Forming part of the 2nd Division (under the command of Movses Silikyan) were the 5th (3rd battalion, under the command of Poghos Bek-Pirumyan) and 6th (12 companies, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Abraham Dolukhanyan) regiments, the 2nd Cavalry Regiment with four cavalry battalions (Colonel Zalinyan), a partisan infantry regiment made up of eight battalions (Colonel Aleksei Perekrestov), a partisan cavalry regiment of three battalions (Colonel Korolkov), the Border Battalion (Lieutenant Colonel Silin), the Patrol Battalion of the 2nd Division. One battalion from the Fourth Regiment of the 1st Division was stationed in Davalu to defend the southern direction.\n\nIncluded in the Yerevan unit from the Special Armenian Detachment were the 1st (Colonel Yuzbashev) and 2nd (Colonel Chakhmakhchev) Infantry Regiments of Van from the 3rd Special Brigade, the 2nd Special Cavalry Regiment of Zeytun (four cavalry battalions, Colonel Salibekyan), the infantry regiments of Khnus and Karakilisa (Colonel Kazimirsi) which formed part of the military units of the 2nd Special Brigade, the Regiment of Erzincan (6 battalions, Karapet Hassan-Pashaian) of the 1st Special Brigade, as well as the 1st Special Cavalry Regiment (military starshina Pavel Zolotarev).\n\nFive infantry batteries under Colonel Christophor Araratyan's command were included in the Yerevan detachment, which also involved several squads composed of Western Armenian intellectuals, a Yezidi cavalry battalion (under the command of Usub Bek and Jangir Agha), as well as a great number of militia troops. The Armenian forces were composed of a total of 9,000–10,000 soldiers and officers, and amounted to 6,000–6,500 after some part of them were dispatched to the Bash-Aparan Front. The Armenians had 28 cannons at their disposal but only 16–20 were used in the course of combat operations.\n\nOn the eve of the occupation of Alexandropol, one of the tasks of the Armenian troops was the defense of railways and roads connecting Alexandropol to Yerevan and Tiflis. Following the fall of Alexandropol, those groups had to retire to Hamalu-Karakilisa and the Ararat Plain due to progressing Ottoman forces. On 19 May, the 26th Turkish Division took the Gharaghula (Getap) train depot near the Akhuryan River and started to advance towards Yerevan. Some subdivisions from the 2nd Special Brigade composed of the infantry regiments of Khnus and Karakilisa, as well as a part of the 1st Special Brigade (the Infantry regiment of Erzincan and other units) gradually withdrew from Ani and Aragats railway stations on the left bank of Akhuryan River towards Sardarapat from 16 to 19 May. During the retreat, even before clashing with the main Ottoman forces, they would come under fire from the vanguard Kurdish cavalry of the 36th Division. The retreat of those subdivisions via the Alexandropol-Yerevan route played an essential role for the Yerevan detachment in terms of buying time and regrouping forces. On 16–17 May, some of the squads of the Yerevan detachment based in Sardarapat were urgently sent to Araks and Karaburun stations to resist the Ottoman advancing towards the Ararat Plain, while some others were sent to Yerevan to get ready for the battle and receive enhancement by volunteers and armaments.\n\nUnder these circumstances, by the order of Armenian Corps commander Tovmas Nazarbekian and Chief of Staff of the Corps Evgeny Vyshinsky, the Armenian forces were regrouped and rearranged in order to stop Ottoman attacks in separate areas, particularly in Alexandropol-Sardarapat and Karakilisa. According to an instruction received from the General Staff on 19 May, Major-General Movses Silikyan decided to concentrate the troops he had at his disposal in Etchmiadzin and avert the Turks' attack on Yerevan through a counter-attack. On 20 May, the vanguard Armenian troops were forced to abandon Araks and Karaburun stations, retire from the foothills of Mastara, Talin and Ashnak, basing themselves in Sardarapat. In the evening of 20 May, the retreating troops of the 1st Special Brigade – the Regiment of Erzincan and half a battalion from the Regiment of Khnus (under the command of Karapet Hassan-Pashaian) – moved deeper from Sardarapat to the village of Khznauz.\n\nAs a result of the Turkish invasion in Alexandropol-Yerevan direction, the groups defending Surmali were in danger of being cut off from the main forces of the Yerevan detachment and surrounded by the Ottomans. On 18 May, the enemy forces attacked the Armenian unit in Koghb, which, by Silikyan's order, withdrew towards the Karakala bridge. On 19 May, the military units of the 4th Turkish Corps invaded Surmali from Bayazet, seeking to cross the Araks River and reach the rear of the Yerevan detachment. After showing some resistance in mountain passes and high grounds near Igdir, the Armenian units (1st and 2nd regiments of Van) had to retreat to Igdir on 20 May, where they received an order from Yerevan to cross to the left bank of Araks across the bridge of Margara, burning down the aforementioned bridges afterwards. After capturing Surmali, the Ottoman forces were thus cut off from the Sardarapat theater. The Armenian volunteers arranged the defense of the bridges, thwarting any attempt by the Turks to cross the river and attack the Armenians from the rear.\n\nBy the order of Silikyan, some of the 3rd Special Brigade subdivisions (4th regiment of Van, under the command of Colonel Tigran Baghdasaryan) were stationed in those areas to defend the rear from the south and prevent the Ottomans from crossing the river.\n\nOn 21 May, the 108th Turkish Infantry Regiment, including cavalry and infantry subdivisions, went on with their offensive from an area adjacent to Araks railway station. The Sardarapat detachment, conducting defensive artillery operations, started to retreat and withdrew to the Kurakanlu-Kyorpalu-Zeyva Hayi initial positions. The Turks came close to Kyorpalu (7 km west of Etchmiadzin). Advancing along the railroad, on 21 May, the detachment of Zihni Bey overtook an Armenian unit composed of 600 infantry and 250 cavalry, and then took Sardarabad. (now in the territory of the city of Armavir) that evening and the village of the same name 2 km south of the station, as well as the village of Gechrlu. Keeping up with their attack, the Turkish forces took the Verin Kolibeklu settlement (now in the territory of the village of Aknalich) and proceeded to Ghamishlu train depot (now in the territory of the village of Zartonk), 20 km far from Yerevan.\n\nThe Turkish forces moving along the railroad sought to advance towards Zangibasar, which would put the Armenian troops south of the railroad, the locals and as many as 100,000 Western Armenian refugees at risk of being cut off from Yerevan and destroyed. But Captain Khoren Igitkhanyan's artillery battery stationed in the village of Artashar managed to pin the enemy to the spot.\n\nDespite the retreat, the defense of bridges on the left bank of the Araks River was significantly enhanced. At the same time, more Armenian units were sent to the battleground from Yerevan.\n\nCommander of the Yerevan detachment Movses Silikyan and his Chief of Staff, Colonel A. Vekilyan drew up a tactical plan designed to throw the counter-attacking Turkish forces out of Sardarapat. In the evening of 21 May, all the detachments of the Sardarapat Front were given relevant instructions for the next day with an order to coordinate military action. Included in the Armenian forces fighting in the Sardarapat Front were the 5th and 6th regiments, the Infantry Regiment of Karakilisa (Lieutenant-Colonel Areshyan) of the 2nd Special Brigade, the Partisan Infantry Regiment, the Yezidi Cavalry Battalion, the Western Armenian volunteer groups, four artillery batteries.\n\nOn the night of 21–22 May, an exchange of fire between the Armenian militia and the Yezidi Cavalry Unit commanded by Jahangir Agha and the Turkish troops near the village of Molla Bayazet prevented the enemy from attacking the Armenian forces from the rear. The shooting gave Dolukhanyan and Perekrestov the opportunity to array the troops for the battle, at the same time enabling Captains Sergo Atanesyan and Vladimir Sakkilari to marshal their artillery units.\n\nDeputy commander of the Yerevan detachment, commander of the forces of the Sardarapat Front Colonel Daniel Bek-Pirumyan came to lead the crucial counter-attack of the Armenian forces. In the early hours of 22 May, the Armenian side launched an offensive along the entire front-line of the villages of Kurakanlu-Kyorpalu-Zeyva Hayi-Ghurdughuli. The attack was carried out by the 5th and 6th Regiments in the center, which managed to destroy the vanguard Turkish troops with support from artillery and machine guns near the Ghamishlu depot. In particular, military batteries under the command of Kh. Igitkhanyan, V. Sakkilari, Nikolay Klich and S. Atanesyan, positioned on the hills close to the battleground, as well as machine gun subdivisions of other military units, managed to suppress the enemy's artillery fire and inflict casualties on their infantry and cavalry ranks, which enabled the Armenian infantry and militia to launch a counter-offensive in full force. Perekrestov's volunteer regiment, the squads of Igdir, Zeytun and Khnus, 1st Special Cavalry Regiment struck the enemy from the sides and the rear. The Turkish forces attempted to resist, which at some points involved bayonet fighting, but were forced to flee after suffering major losses.\n\nThe Armenian units continued their advance and took back Gechrlu, Molla Bayazet, the village of Sardarapat and the station of the same name, as well as the field lying to the right of it. One battalion of the 5th Armenian Regiment attacked in the direction of Kosh-Talish and liberated the villages of Ujan and Kosh by the evening. The vanguard Turkish forces were entirely destroyed in the fighting, with more than 500 casualties registered on their side overall. The Armenians, meanwhile moved forward 15–20 km.\n\nAfter suffering defeat on 22 May, the Turkish forces took advantage of the fact that the Armenians stopped pursuing them to avoid diverging from their initial objectives, and retreated towards Araks station, basing themselves on the hills nearby. In the days that followed, the 449 (Tulki-tapa) and 440 (Cimni Gir) high grounds north of the station had a great tactical significance for both sides.\n\nOn 23 May, no combat operations were carried along the main front of Sardarapat, with only one military unit from Igdir clashing with the enemy near Dzhafarabat. After winning the battle, the Igdir detachment joined the Sardarapat detachment under Daniel Bek-Pirumyan's command, while the subdivisions of the 2nd Special Regiment of Zeytun were entrusted with the defense of the bridges on Araks River. Repeated Turkish attempts to cross the river were met with fierce resistance by the 5th Armenian Regiment. On the other parts of the front, the two sides were chiefly engaged in exploration of enemy positions and arraying of troops for the battle. On 22 and 23 May, a group of clergy representatives led by Bishop Garegin Hovsepyan and Archbishop Zaven visited the front to encourage the soldiers. Ahead of the crucial battle of 22 May, Bishop Karekin met the soldiers of the 5th Regiment and addressed them.\n\nAfter the battles of 22 May, Major-General Movses Silikyan moved a part of detachments he had at his disposal – the 6th Regiment, the 2nd Cavalry Regiment, the Partisan Cavalry Regiment and other units – to the Bash-Aparan Front to block the advancement of the Turkish troops proceeding towards Yerevan. Movses Silikyan ordered elements of the 5th Armenian Regiment under Poghos Bek-Pirumyan, a reserve guerrilla unit, and a special cavalry regiment to check the advance of the Ottoman army. The Armenians' first victory in the Sardarapat Front was of crucial importance not only in terms of boosting combat readiness of the army and ensuring further victories, but also overcoming the panic among the Armenian population of the province of Yerevan and the Western Armenian refugees. On 24 May, Major-General Silikyan urged the nation to join the battle:Armenians, hurry up to free the homeland… There’s no time to lose. All the men under the age of 50 are obliged to take up arms: I demand that everyone come with their weapons and ammunition for the defense of the homeland … – \"Movses Silikyan (22 May 1918)\"Residents of Yerevan and the surrounding villages would send water and food, other essentials for those fighting in the battle.\n\nAfter the first defeat in the Sardarapat Front, the Turkish command staff, seeking to succeed and make progress, adopted the tactics of weakening the rear of the Armenian troops by means of riots in villages populated by Turkic-speaking peoples. Such unrest was observed in the Davalu-Ghamarlu region on 22 May, the first day of the counter-offensive. When the Armenian population of Davalu was transferred by train to Garamlu for security reasons that day, the 4th Regiment of Van overseeing the transfer was attacked by a mob of 5,000 from Turkish and Kurdish villages nearby. The five-hour confrontation was especially fierce in the vicinity of the villages of Avshar and Shirazlu which the Armenian troops ultimately captured. Later in the day, however, the Regiment came in the village of Yuva. The Armenian side suffered 37 casualties overall, while Turkish casualties exceeded 100.\n\nTill the end of the Battle of Sardarapat and the departure to Dilijan at the beginning of June, the 4th Regiment of Van overseeing Ghamarlu protected the rear of the Yerevan detachment from Sharur, as well as foiling the Turks' attempt to cross the Araks River.\n\nOn 24 May, the Turkish side launched an offensive but was thrown back sustaining heavy losses from Armenian artillery fire. The initial positions of both sides remained unchanged. In order to conceal defeats and major losses, the Turkish command staff made up a fake story about the sinking of Turkish echelon in the Akhuryan River and disseminated it through the press.\n\nBy the order of Major-General Movses Silikyan, a regrouping of the Armenian forces was carried out. As a result, the main Armenian strike forces – the companies of the 5th Rifle Regiment, as well as one cavalry company from the 1st Special Cavalry Regiment, the Patrol Department of the Yerevan detachment – were stationed in the direction of Sardarapat-Araks railway station. In the left wing, the Partisan Infantry Regiment, the remaining subdivisions of the 1st Special Cavalry Regiment, four cannons from the 2nd Battery were dispatched to the villages of Sardarapat and Molla Bayazet. The detachment of Igdir (1st and 2nd Regiments of Van) based themselves in the village of Kyarimarkh, while the 2nd Cavalry Regiment (Zeytun), the Regiment of Karakilisa, as well as several volunteer groups were sent to the Araks River. The right wing, meanwhile, was protected by forces designed for quick military manoeuvres, including the Regiment of Erzincan in Khznauz and half a company from the Squad of Khnus, as well as the Battalion of Maku in Kosh and one company from the Regiment of Karakilisa.\n\nThe Partisan Cavalry Squad under the command of Captain Pandukht (Mikayel Seryan) was stationed in the front-line positions of the right wing, while some subdivisions of the 5th Regiment of the Sardarapat military unit went to the villages of Upper Kulibeklu (near the village of Aknalich) and Turkish Zeyva.\n\nOn 25 May, the vanguard subdivisions of the 5th Regiment, supported by four artillery batteries and Captain Tachat Hovakimyan's machine gun squad, attacked the 440th and 449th hills, but met persistent resistance from the Turkish side and were forced to retreat to their initial positions. Another Armenian military column attacked along the railway towards the Araks station and stopped about 3 km away, encountering persistent resistance from Turkish frontline units. A very strong grouping of enemy troops turned out to have been dispatched to Araks station, whereas the Armenian intelligence had reported that the main forces of the Turks were based at Karaburun station and in Nerkin Talin.\n\nIn the early hours of 26 May, the reserve companies of the 5th Regiment were brought forward from the rear. According to a roadmap drawn by Commander Movses Silikyan, the right, central and left columns were set to capture Araks and Karaburun stations with a simultaneous attack and throw the rival back to Alexandropol by attacking along the entire area from the slopes of Mount Aragats to the banks of Akhurian River.\n\nLater in the morning of that same day, the 1st Battalion of the 5th Regiment, by the arbitrary order of Stabs-kapitan Vardan Jaghinyan, launched an unsuccessful offensive on the Cimni Gir (440) high ground and was forced to retreat to its initial positions, suffering major losses, including Jaghinyan himself. No actions were taken on the other part of the front, with only Colonel A. Perekrestov's Partisan Machine Gun Regiment striking the Turkish troops near Araks station.\n\nAfter the unsuccessful assaults of 25–26 May, Silikyan came up with a new plan which sought to perform a quick manoeuvre of detachments in Khznauz and Kosh and support the frontal attack on Turkish-held hills with strikes from the rear. At the same time, the central and left wings of the main front were reinforced by the Igdir Regiment and the Patrol forces of the Partisan Regiment, brought forward from the rear.\n\nAt dawn of 27 May, the Khznauz detachment initiated manoeuvres and successfully bypassed the left wing of the Turkish vanguard forces. At the same time, the detachment of Kosh to the right of that of Khznauz was unable to overcome the resistance of Turks near the village of Nerkin Kalakut and had to stop, with Erzincan Regiment Commander K. Hassan-Pashaian sending two companies for help. At 9 a.m. on the same day, the Armenian artillery units in the main front of Sardarapat carried out powerful strikes on the rival's positions for half an hour, suppressing fire from artillery and machine gun subdivisions from the other part of the battleground. The central detachments then launched an offensive on the enemy positions, waiting for an attack from the rear for a decisive blow.\n\nTo encourage his soldiers, Colonel Daniel Bek-Pirumyan wore his military uniform inside out to reveal the red lining and led his army into battle. After bypassing the left wing of the Turkish troops at noon, the detachment of Khznauz turned sharply to the south, reaching the rear of the 440 and 449 hills. Following this brilliant tactical maneuver, the main forces of the central front of Sardarapat attacked and, with support from the Erzincan Regiment, managed to capture the high grounds nearby at 2:00 pm.Our entrenched lines got up and with shouts of \"hurrah\" pursued them. A group of Turks was successfully surrounded, but the main part fled, running head over heels, because the detachment of Captain Hassan Pashaian with the Erzincan regiment, already operated in their rear. A few moments later the Turks started to flee abandoning everything including their munitions, supplies, their wounded and dead. The battle was won. Armenia was saved. \"– Alexander Chneour\"\n\nOn the same day Perekrestov's left column launched an assault along the railway and captured Araks station, as well as Mastara depot in the evening. Captain Pandukht's cavalry unit, meanwhile, started an offensive south of Nerkin Kalakut, overturned the resistance of Turkish forces with the help of companies from Kosh and Khznauz, then cut through the Turkish troops to the north-west of the battleground. On 27–28 May, Pandukht's squad weighed heavily upon smaller Turkish units, passed through Talin, Gyuzlu and Kirmizlu to rapidly penetrate into Sogyutlu, where Pandukht was joined by a local 1000-member squad. A cannon was seized from Turks, and a large number of troops were taken captive as a result.\n\nDuring the decisive battles on 27 May, the Turks were completely defeated, forced to retire to Karaburun Station-Mount Karaburun line in a panic. Exhausted after winning the battle, the Sardarapat detachment was ordered to stop and base themselves on the heights of Mastara depot. During that day, a 100-member Kurdish unit was thrown back while attempting to cross the Araks River near Margara.\n\nOn the night of 27–28 May, the Armenian forces moved forward and reached the Karaburun station-Mount Karmrasar line. Unable to resist the Armenian side's attacks after a brief engagement in Karaburun-Ashnak, the Turks began to withdraw towards the Aragats station-Kirmizlu-Verin Agdzhakala on 28 May, where they were once again thrown back to the north. As a result of that day's fighting, the Armenian side seized Karaburun and Aragats stations, as well as Nerkin Talin, Verin Talin and Mastara, while Armenian intelligence units reached Ani station and found out that there were no Turkish troops on their way to Ani and Aghin stations. The next day on 29 May, however, the Turkish forces were significantly reinforced, which enabled them to initiate a counter-offensive on Aragats station. Heavily pressed by the Turkish units and under threat of encirclement by them, the vanguard Armenian forces retreated and based themselves at the Karaburun station. In the right wing of the battleground, meanwhile, the Armenians fought heavy battles near the village of Shirvandzhug. It was on that same day that Major-General Movses Silikyan, the commander of the Yerevan detachment, addressed the people and the army for the second time urging them to continue the triumphant battles to take Alexandropol too.Armenians! The heroic activity of our brave troops is going on, and the Turkish forces are retreating. We must take Alexandropol back from the Turks who seized the city so treacherously. They require Akhalkalak, Alexandropol and Etchmiadzin along with the Holy See, most of the Yerevan province, Nakhijevan. Can we tolerate such an insult? Armenians, assemble hurriedly, kick the enemy out of our native bleeding soil. To arms, everybody. To Alexandropol. \"Ashkhatank No 5 (205), June 5 (23) 1918. – Movses Silikyan\"But after the Armenian delegation accepted a three-day ( 26–29 May) Turkish ultimatum in Batumi, a ceasefire was signed that same day (29 May). By the order of General Tovmas Nazarbekian all the Armenian forces ceased attacks. This marked the end of the Battle of Sardarapat. The soldiers of the Sardarapat Front and the command staff were extremely dissatisfied with the news of the ceasefire and cessation of attacks. According to the commander of the Armenian artillery unit, Colonel Christophor Araratyan, although the Yerevan detachment was in a favorable situation when the ceasefire was being signed, they were forced to stop the assault because Yerevan would been open for the enemy's attack from the northeast. According to some analyses, the cessation of attacks in the Battle of Sardarapat was also influenced by the fact that the Armenian military warehouses were almost empty, as well as by the danger of Turkish troops launching another counter-attack after receiving fresh supplies.\n\nOnce the truce was established in Batumi, clashes continued in some sections of the Sardarapat Front but no significant changes were made. Following the signing of the Treaty of Batum on 14 June, all the Armenian units withdrew from their posts to the borderline prescribed by the agreement.\n\nIn the Battle of Sardarapat, Turkish casualties amounted to 3,500, while the Armenian side's losses were far less, although no accurate data is available.\n\nWith the Ottoman forces in a full rout, General Silikyan wished to press on his advantage with the hope of dislodging the Ottomans from Alexandropol and Kars. But, almost immediately, he was informed of the ongoing negotiations between the Ottoman leadership and the Armenian National Council in Tiflis and was told by Corps Commander Tovmas Nazarbekian to cease military operations in the region. Though members of the National Council were widely criticized for issuing this order at the time, this decision was carried out because the ammunition stores had been all but been depleted and Ottoman commanders had received fresh reinforcements.\n\nThe nine-day Battle of Sardarapat ended with Armenia's full victory, as a result of which the rival was thrown back 50–65 km and the immediate threat to Yerevan was eliminated. The victory played an important role in the partial failure of the Turkish invasion of Eastern Armenia, as well as in securing a victorious counter-offensive in Bash-Aparan and the heroic resistance in Karakilisa. The Battle of Sardarapat saved the locals and Western Armenian refugees from imminent massacre. The victory secured at a great cost also contributed to the enhancement of the role of Yerevan-based political and social organizations, as well as of local authorities and leading figures. In fact, this triumph laid the foundation for the establishment of a newly independent Armenia.\n\nThe Ottoman defeats at Sardarabad, Bash Abaran, and Karakilisa staved off the annihilation of the Armenian nation, and the victories here were instrumental in allowing the Armenian National Council to declare the independence of the First Republic of Armenia on 30 May (retroactive to 28 May). Though the terms that Armenia agreed to in the Treaty of Batum (4 June 1918) were excessively harsh, the little republic was able to hold out until the Ottomans were forced to withdraw from the region with the end of World War I in late 1918.\n\nThe battle of Sardarabad holds a special place in Armenian historical memory and is often compared to the 451 A.D. battle of Avarayr. Leaders of the First Republic frequently invoked the name of the battle, exhorting their people to aspire to the example of those who had fought and participated in it. The battle was seldom mentioned or given little significance in Soviet historiography until after the death of Joseph Stalin. In the mid-1960s, a number of Soviet historians began to highlight its importance, as well as that of Bash Abaran and Karakilisa. The Soviet military historian Evgenii F. Ludshuvet, for example, emphasized that these battles, fought by the \"Armenian Dashnak forces\", helped slow down the Turkish advance on Baku and helped relieve some pressure against that city. Notable Soviet Armenian literary figures such as Hovhannes Shiraz and Paruyr Sevak, whose work \"Sardarapat\" was turned into a popular song, composed songs and wrote poems that lionized the Armenian fighters. Ivan Bagramyan, a Marshal of the Soviet Union and himself a participant of the battle, described its importance in the following manner:\nAfter the commemoration of the Armenian Genocide's fiftieth anniversary in 1965, Soviet authorities agreed to the construction of a monument and park dedicated to the Armenian victory near the site of the battle. Architect Rafayel Israyelian was commissioned to design the monument, which was completed in 1968.\n\nThe battles of Sardarabad, Bash Abaran and Karakilisa are collectively known as the \"Heroic battles of May\" in Armenian historiography (Մայիսյան հերոսամարտեր \"Mayisyan herosamarter\").\n\nEach year, the President of Armenia, visits the memorial on 28 May. During that day, many cultural and military events and parades take place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828187", "title": "Great Fish River", "text": "Great Fish River\n\nThe Great Fish River (called \"great\" to distinguish it from the Namibian Fish River) () is a river running through the South African province of the Eastern Cape. The coastal area between Port Elizabeth and the Fish River mouth is known as the \"Sunshine Coast\". The Great Fish River was originally named \"Rio do Infante\", after João Infante, the captain of one of the caravels of Bartolomeu Dias. Infante visited the river in the late 1480s.\n\nThe name Great Fish is also a misnomer, since it is a translation of the Dutch Groot Visch Rivier, which was the name of a tributary in the vicinity of Cradock, which at its confluence with the Little Fish (Klein Visch Rivier) forms what is properly called the (Eastern Cape) Fish River.\n\nThe Great Fish River originates east of Graaff-Reinet and runs through Cradock. Further south the Tarka River joins its left bank. Thence it makes a zig-zag turn to Cookhouse, from where it meanders down the escarpment east of Grahamstown before its final near-straight run to its estuary 8 km northeast of Seafield, into the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe river is generally permanent, having water all year round, although its headwaters rise in an arid region, and the natural flow can be sluggish in the dry season beyond the ebb and flow of the tidal reaches; now, water from the Orange River system can be used to keep up its flow in dry periods. The river is tidal for roughly 20 km.\n\nIts main tributaries are the Groot Brak River, the Tarka River and the Kap River on the left side, and the Little Fish River () on the right side.\nThe Great Fish River is part of the Fish to Tsitsikama Water Management Area.\n\n\nRiver mouth: The climate is temperate with around 650mm of rainfall that falls mainly during spring and autumn. Mean temperatures range from 12 °C to 24 °C with extremes as low as 2 °C or as high as 40 °C.\n\nIn the 1970s, a major water project brought Orange River water, via the Fish River, for agricultural and industrial use. The tunnel for this was a major engineering undertaking, with the intake at Oviston (an acronym, in Afrikaans, for Orange-Fish Tunnel). Oviston is on the shores of the Gariep Dam. A hydro-electric generating plant is placed at the Fish River egress, but is uneconomic and is not in use.\n\nMixing of waters from two watersheds has been environmentally disastrous - much of the Fish River ecosystem is now taken over by Orange River flora and fauna.\n\nRiver mouth: Valley thicket, dune thicket, riparian vegetation and fynbos. The eastern Cape giant cycad, the red and the white milkwood are protected trees. Other significant species include the acacia, white pear, Karoo boer-bean, \"Strelitzia nicolai\", dune poison bush, wild plum, coral tree and small knobwood.\n\nThere is a small population of the endangered Eastern Province rocky (\"Sandelia bainsii\") in the Kat River, part of the Great Fish river basin.\n\nThe Fish River mouth area supports several species of large and small mammals including five antelope species, bushpigs, various rodent species including mongoose, hyrax, hares, rats and mice, bats, and the shy Southern African wildcat, the small spotted genet, striped polecat and the Cape porcupine. The most commonly viewed wild mammal is the vervet monkey, which has been known to grab food under the nose of unsuspecting guests at the Fish River Sun Resort.\nThere are over 135 species of marine and terrestrial birds found along the river including the colourful Knysna lourie, giant kingfisher and the majestic fish eagle.\nThere are 26 species of snakes, of which only five are venomous.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the river formed the border of the Cape Colony and was hotly contested during the Xhosa Wars of 1779 to 1878 between the Xhosa nation on the one side and the Dutch farmers and the 1820 Settlers from England on the other, and in 1835, the Fingo people were permitted to settle on the river's banks. During apartheid, the lower reaches formed the western boundary of the nominally independent Ciskei homeland.\nBetween 1846 and 1847, the Fish River mouth area became a hive of activity during the War of the Axe, one of several frontier wars at the time between the Xhosa nation and the British colonists. A ferry was constructed at the Fish River to link the Cape Colony (western side of the river) with Waterloo Bay (the small bay near the mouth of Old Woman's River which now flows through the Fish River Sun resort). Waterloo Bay, named after the first ship which unloaded cargo in the bay, served as a landing place for soldiers and supplies in the war. Several ships wrecked along the Fish River coast during these years.\nThe following are notable historical sites at the Fish River mouth, mostly encompassed within the Fish River Sun Resort premises which the establishment has endeavoured to protect:\n\nThe main military camp was on the eastern bank of the Old Woman's River, called Cape Maitland, in honour of Sir Peregrine Maitland, Governor of the Cape Colony. The name was later changed to Fort Albert in honour of Queen Victoria's husband. The camp consisted of huts and tents surrounded by an earthwork and was abandoned at the end of the war. The camp site was ‘rediscovered’ when large quantities of artifacts were unearthed during the construction of the Fish River Sun golf course.\n\nA certain Sergeant C. Broxholm is rumoured to have built the only structure that survived the war, located on the eastern side of the river. Built in 1846, he sold the building a year later to Mr. J Kidd of the Wesleyan Missionary Society who hoped to undertake missionary work at Waterloo Bay.\n\nSome of the soldiers that died during the occupation of Waterloo Bay were buried in a small cemetery near the eastern bank of the Old Woman's River. The graves were not marked but it is believed that members of the 6th and 45th regiments and Cape Levy were buried there. A clearing among the dune scrub marks the site on the Fish River Sun Resort property.\n\nA large civilian camp with the accompanying trading stores and inns which followed the military activities was apparently situated on the western side of the Old Woman's River. All historical remains are currently covered by the golf playing surface.\n\nThe remains of the vessels \"Catherine\" and \"Justina\" can still be seen by divers. The ships were wrecked in the 1840s and are located within 1 km of the mouth of the Fish River.\n\n\nThe Fish River Sun Hotel and Country Club Resort is a Sun International resort destination at the mouth of the Fish River on the south-eastern coastline of South Africa. \nThe Fish River Sun opened its doors in March 1989 as a hotel and casino. The 184,000 hectare property on the eastern banks of the Fish River fell within the then Ciskei region, a former Bantustan homeland during the apartheid administration. The hotel, casino and golf course continued to be a popular and successful tourism attraction in the region, mostly due to the casino, as licenses are awarded sparingly in South Africa. \nThe resort establishment suffered a huge knock when its casino license was not extended after its ten-year period, ending in 1999. The accommodation format was converted from a hotel to a vacation club functioning on a timeshare basis. The Eastern Cape Gambling Board granted another casino license in nearby Port Elizabeth, also operated by Sun International, in the Boardwalk Casino and Entertainment World Complex. As part of the license bid, the Boardwalk agreed to supplement the costs of maintaining the Fish River Sun as part of its obligation to rural development in the province.\nActivities include swimming, guided nature walks, golf, dune boarding, canoeing, fishing, mini-golf, and spa treatments.\n\nThere is a golf course designed by Gary Player and rated in the top 30 golf courses in South Africa. Old Woman's River runs through the course. The course has hosted some large events including the Africa Open in 2008.\n\nGreat Fish Point is a lighthouse situated near the mouth of the Great Fish River, about 25 km from the coastal holiday resort of Port Alfred.\n\nBefore the lighthouse was built in 1898, two ship's lamps exhibiting fixed green lights were erected on a flagstaff at Port Alfred, but these lights later proved to be inadequate. The clockwork system which used to drive the lens is still intact and on display.\n\nAlthough the lighthouse itself is only 9 metres high, it is situated 76 metres above sea level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828198", "title": "Cirrina", "text": "Cirrina\n\nCirrina or Cirrata is a suborder and one of the two main divisions of octopuses. Cirrate octopuses have a small, internal shell and two fins on their head, while their sister suborder Incirrina has neither. The fins of cirrate octopods are associated with a unique cartilage-like shell in a shell sac. In cross-section, the fins have distinct proximal and distal regions, both of which are covered by a thin surface sheath of muscle.\n\nThe suborder is named for small, cilia-like strands (cirri) on the arms of the octopus, a pair for each sucker. These are thought to play some role in feeding, perhaps by creating currents of water that help bring food closer to the beak. Cirrate octopuses are noteworthy for lacking ink sacs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828203", "title": "Treaty of Arras (1482)", "text": "Treaty of Arras (1482)\n\nThe Treaty of Arras was signed at Arras on 23 December 1482 by King Louis XI of France and Archduke Maximilian I of Habsburg as heir of the Burgundian Netherlands in the course of the Burgundian succession crisis.\n\nThe dukes from the House of Valois-Burgundy, a cadet branch of the French royal House of Valois, had ruled over a significant amount of territories on both sides of the border between the Kingdom of France and the Holy Roman Empire. When the last Burgundian duke Charles the Bold died at the Battle of Nancy on 5 January 1477, his territories in France including Burgundy proper, Flanders, Artois and the Picardy were seized as reverted fiefs by the French king. Before his death however, Charles had arranged with Emperor Frederick III of Habsburg the marriage of their children Mary the Rich and Archduke Maximilian, which took place on 19 August 1477.\n\nMaximilian did not hesitate to defend the heritage of his wife, culminating in the 1479 Battle of Guinegate, where he defeated the troops of King Louis XI. However, after Mary of Burgundy died on 27 March 1482, leaving the inheritance of her father to her son, Maximilian had to cope with difficulties to prevail as an accepted regent for their son. To settle the conflict with France, he by the Treaty of Arras agreed to marry his daughter, Archduchess Margaret of Austria, to the Dauphin of France, the later King Charles VIII, bringing the Imperial County of Burgundy to the French crown as her dowry. France retained most of its Burgundian fiefdoms except for the affluent County of Flanders, which passed to Maximilian (but soon rebelled against the archduke).\n\nAlthough the betrothal was later renounced and Charles VIII would marry Duchess Anne of Brittany, the Burgundian inheritance effectively remained under French control thus ending the dream of a Burgundian kingdom or an independent Duchy of Burgundy once and for all. Maximilian however remained dissatisfied with the agreement and in 1493 forced King Charles VIII to sign the Treaty of Senlis, by which he re-acquired the County of Burgundy as well as the French counties of Charolais and Artois.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828223", "title": "Chaitya", "text": "Chaitya\n\nA chaitya, chaitya hall, chaitya-griha, or caitya refers to a shrine, sanctuary, temple or prayer hall in Indian religions. The term is most common in Buddhism, where it refers to a space with a stupa and a rounded apse at the end opposite the entrance, and a high roof with a rounded profile. Strictly speaking, the chaitya is the stupa itself, and the Indian buildings are chaitya halls, but this distinction is often not observed. Outside India, the term is used by Buddhists for local styles of small stupa-like monuments in Nepal, Cambodia, Indonesia and elsewhere. In the historical texts of Jainism and Hinduism, including those relating to architecture, \"chaitya\" refers to a temple, sanctuary or any sacred monument.\n\nMost early examples of chaitya that survive are Indian rock-cut architecture. Scholars agree that the standard form follows a tradition of free-standing halls made of wood and other plant materials, none of which has survived. The curving ribbed ceilings imitate timber construction. In the earlier examples, timber was used decoratively, with wooden ribs added to stone roofs. At the Bhaja Caves and the \"Great Chaitya\" of the Karla Caves, the original timber ribs survive; elsewhere marks on the ceiling show where they once were. Later, these ribs were rock-cut. Often, elements in wood, such as screens, porches, and balconies, were added to stone structures. The surviving examples are similar in their broad layout, though the design evolved over the centuries.\n\nThe halls are high and long, but rather narrow. At the far end stands the stupa, which is the focus of devotion. Parikrama, the act of circulambulating or walking around the stupa, was an important ritual and devotional practice, and there is always clear space to allow this. The end of the hall is thus rounded, like the apse in Western architecture. There are always columns along the side walls, going up to the start of the curved roof, and a passage behind the columns, creating aisles and a central nave, and allowing ritual circumambulation or pradakhshina, either immediately around the stupa, or around the passage behind the columns. On the outside, there is a porch, often very elaborately decorated, a relatively low entranceway, and above this often a gallery. The only natural light, apart from a little from the entrance way, comes from a large horseshoe-shaped window above the porch, echoing the curve of the roof inside. The overall effect is surprisingly similar to smaller Christian churches from the Early Medieval period, though early chaityas are many centuries earlier.\n\nChaityas appear at the same sites like the vihara, a strongly contrasting type of building with a low-ceilinged rectangular central hall, with small cells opening, off it, often on all sides. These often have a shrine set back at the centre of the back wall, containing a stupa in early examples, or a Buddha statue later. The vihara was the key building in Buddhist monastic complexes, used to live, study and pray in. Typical large sites contain several viharas for every chaitya.\n\n\"Caitya\", from a root \"cita\" or \"ci\" meaning \"heaped-up\", is a Sanskrit term for a mound or pedestal or \"funeral pile\". It is a sacred construction of some sort, and has acquired different more specific meanings in different regions, including \"caityavṛkṣa\" for a sacred tree.\n\nAccording to K.L. Chanchreek, in early Jain literature, \"caitya\" mean \"ayatanas\" or temples where monks stayed. It also meant where the Jain idol was placed in a temple, but broadly it was a symbolism for any temple. In some texts, these are referred to as \"arhat-caitya\" or \"jina-caitya\", meaning shrines for an Arhat or Jina. Major ancient Jaina archaeological sites such as the Kankali Tila near Mathura show Caitya-tree, Caitya-stupa, Caitya arches with Mahendra-dvajas and meditating Tirthankaras.\n\nThe word \"caitya\" appears in the Vedic literature of Hinduism. In early Buddhist and Hindu literature, a \"caitya\" is any 'piled up monument' or 'sacred tree' under which to meet or meditate. Jan Gonda and other scholars state the meaning of \"caitya\" in Hindu texts varies with context and has the general meaning of any \"holy place, place of worship\", a \"memorial\", or as signifying any \"sanctuary\" for human beings, particularly in the \"Grhya sutras\". According to Robert E. Buswell and Donald S. Lopez, both professors of Buddhist Studies, the term \"caitya\" in Sanskrit connotes a \"tumulus, sanctuary or shrine\", both in Buddhist and non-Buddhist contexts.\n\nThe \"chaitya arch\", gavaksha (Sanscrit \"gavākṣa\"), or chandrashala around the large window above the entrance frequently appears repeated as a small motif in decoration, and evolved versions continue into Hindu and Jain decoration, long after actual chaitya halls had ceased to be built by Buddhists. In these cases it can become an elaborate frame, spreading rather wide, around a circular or semi-circular medallion, which may contain a sculpture of a figure or head. An earlier stage is shown here in the entrance to Cave 19 at the Ajanta Caves (c. 475–500), where four horizontal zones of the decoration use repeated \"chaitya arch\" motifs on an otherwise plain band (two on the projecting porch, and two above). There is a head inside each arch.\n\nEarly Chaitya halls are known from the 3rd century BCE. They generally followed an apsidal plan, and were either rock-cut or freestanding.\n\nThe earliest surviving spaces comparable to the \"chaitya\" hall date to the 3rd century BCE. These are the rock-cut Barabar Caves (Lomas Rishi Cave and Sudama Cave), excavated during the reign of Ashoka by or for the Ajivikas, a non-Buddhist religious and philosophical group of the period. According to many scholars, these became \"the prototype for the Buddhist caves of the western Deccan\", particularly the \"chaitya\" halls excavated between the 2nd century BCE and 2nd century CE.\nEarly chaityas enshrined a stupa with space for congregational worship by the monks. This reflected one of the early differences between early Buddhism and Hinduism, with Buddhism favoring congregational worship in contrast to Hinduism's individual approach. Early chaitya grhas were cut into living rock as caves. These served as a symbol and sites of a \"sangha\" congregational life (\"uposatha\").\n\nThe earliest rock-cut chaityas, similar to free-standing ones, consisted of an inner circular chamber with pillars to create a circular path around the stupa and an outer rectangular hall for the congregation of the devotees. Over the course of time, the wall separating the stupa from the hall was removed to create an apsidal hall with a colonnade around the nave and the stupa.\n\nThe chaitya at Bhaja Caves is perhaps the earliest surviving chaitya hall, constructed in the second century BCE. It consists of an apsidal hall with a stupa. The columns slope inwards in the imitation of wooden columns that would have been structurally necessary to keep a roof up. The ceiling is barrel vaulted with ancient wooden ribs set into them. The walls are polished in the Mauryan style. It was faced by a substantial wooden facade, now entirely lost. A large horseshoe-shaped window, the chaitya-window, was set above the arched doorway and the whole portico-area was carved to imitate a multi-storeyed building with balconies and windows and sculptured men and women who observed the scene below. This created the appearance of an ancient Indian mansion. This, like a similar facade at the Bedse Caves is an early example of what James Fergusson noted in the nineteenth century: \"Everywhere ... in India architectural decoration is made up of small models of large buildings\".\n\nIn Bhaja, as in other chaityas, the entrance acted as the demarcation between the sacred and the profane. The stupa inside the hall was now completely removed from the sight of anyone outside. In this context, in the first century CE, the earlier veneration of the stupa changed to the veneration of an image of Gautama Buddha. Chaityas were commonly part of a monastic complex, the vihara.\n\nThe most important of rock-cut complexes are the Karla Caves, Ajanta Caves, Ellora Caves, Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves, Aurangabad Caves and the Pandavleni Caves. Many pillars have capitals on them, often with carvings of a kneeling elephant mounted on bell-shaped bases.\n\nA number of freestanding constructed chaitya halls built in durable materials (stone or brick) have survived, the earliest from around the same time as the earliest rock-cut caves. There are also some ruins and groundworks, such as a circular type from the 3rd century BCE, the Bairat Temple, in which a central stupa was surrounded by 27 octagonal wooden pillars, and then enclosed in a circular brick wall, forming a circular procession path around the stupa. Other significant remains of the bases of structural chaityas including those at Guntupalle, with many small round bases, and Lalitgiri.\n\nAn apsidal structure in Sanchi has also been dated, at least partially, to the 3rd century BCE: the so-called , one of the first instances of a free-standing temple in India. Temple 40 has remains of three different periods, the earliest period dating to the Maurya age, which probably makes it contemporary to the creation of the Great Stupa. An inscription even suggests it might have been established by Bindusara, the father of Ashoka. The original 3rd century BCE temple was built on a high rectangular stone platform, 26.52x14x3.35 metres, with two flights of stairs to the east and the west. It was an apsidal hall, probably made of timber. It was burnt down sometime in the 2nd century BCE. Later, the platform was enlarged to 41.76x27.74 metres and re-used to erect a pillared hall with fifty columns (5x10) of which stumps remain. Some of these pillars have inscriptions of the 2nd century BCE.\n\nThe base and reconstructed columns on three sides of Temple 18 at Sanchi were presumably completed by wood and thatch; this dates from the 5th century CE, perhaps rebuilt on earlier foundations. This stands next to Temple 17, a small flat-roofed temple with a lower mandapa at the front, of the basic type that came to dominate both Buddhist and Hindu temples in the future. The two types were used in the Gupta Empire by both religions.\n\nThe Trivikrama Temple, also named \"Ter Temple\", is a now a Hindu temple in the city of Ter, Maharashtra. It was initially a free-standing apsidal structure, which is characteristic of early Buddhist apsidal \"caityagriha\" design. This structure is still standing, but is now located at the back of the building, since a flat-roofed mandapa structure was probably added from the 6th century CE, when the temple was converted into a Hindu temple. The apsidal structure seems to be contemporary to the great apsidal temple found in Sirkap, Taxila, which is dated to 30 BCE-50 CE. It would have been built under the Satavahanas. The front of the apsidal temple is decorated with a chaitya-arch, similar to those found in Buddhist rock-cut architecture. The Trivikrama Temple is considered as the oldest standing structure in Maharashtra.\n\nAnother Hindu temple which was converted from a Buddhist chaityagriha structure is the very small Kapoteswara temple at Chezarla in Guntur district; here the chamber is straight at both ends, but with an rounded brick vault for its roof, using corbelling.\n\nApparently the last rock-cut chaitya hall to be constructed was Cave 10 at Ellora, in the first half of the 7th century. By this time the role of the chaitya hall was being replaced by the vihara, which had now developed shrine rooms with Buddha images (easily added to older examples), and largely taken over their function for assemblies. The stupa itself had been replaced as a focus for devotion and meditation by the Buddha image, and in Cave 10, as in other late chaityas (for example Cave 26 at Ajanta, illustrated here), there is a large seated Buddha taking up the front of the stupa. Apart from this, the form of the interior is not much different from the earlier examples from several centuries before. But the form of the windows on the exterior has changed greatly, almost entirely dropping the imitation of wooden architecture, and showing a decorative treatment of the wide surround to the chaitya arch that was to be a major style in later temple decoration.\n\nThe last stage of the freestanding chaitya hall temple may be exemplified by the Durga temple, Aihole, of the 7th or 8th century. This is apsidal, with rounded ends at the sanctuary end to a total of three layers: the enclosure to the sanctuary, a wall beyond this, and a pteroma or ambulatory as an open loggia with pillars running all round the building. This was the main space for parikrama or circumambulation. Above the round-ended sanctuary, now a room with a doorway, rises a shikara tower, relatively small by later standards, and the mandapa has a flat roof. How long construction of chaitya halls in plant materials continued in villages is not known.\n\n\nThe broad resemblance between chaityas and the traditional huts still made by the Toda people of the Nilgiri Hills has often been remarked on. These are crude huts built with wicker bent to produce arch-shaped roofs, but the models for the chaitya were presumably larger and much more sophisticated structures.\n\nThe similarity of the 4th century BCE Lycian barrel-vaulted tombs of Asia Minor, such as the tomb of Payava, with the Indian architectural design of the Chaitya (starting at least a century later from circa 250 BCE, with the Lomas Rishi caves in the Barabar caves group), suggests that the designs of the Lycian rock-cut tombs traveled to India, or that both traditions derived from a common ancestral source.\n\nEarly on, James Fergusson, in his \"\" Illustrated Handbook of Architecture\"\", while describing the very progressive evolution from wooden architecture to stone architecture in various ancient civilizations, has commented that \"In India, the form and construction of the older Buddhist temples resemble so singularly these examples in Lycia\". Ananda Coomaraswamy and others also noted that \"Lycian excavated and monolithic tombs at Pinara and Xanthos on the south coast of Asia Minor present some analogy with the early Indian rock-cut caitya-halls\", one of many common elements between Early Indian and Western Asiatic art.\n\nThe Lycian tombs, dated to the 4th century BCE, are either free-standing or rock-cut barrel-vaulted sarcophagi, placed on a high base, with architectural features carved in stone to imitate wooden structures. There are to the free-standing structures. One of the free-standing tombs, the tomb of Payava, a Lykian aristocrat from Xanthos, and dated to 375-360 BCE, is visible at the British Museum. Both Greek and Persian influences can be seen in the reliefs sculpted on the sarcophagus. The structural similarities with Indian Chaityas, down to many architectural details such as the \"same pointed form of roof, with a ridge\", are further developed in \"The cave temples of India\". Fergusson went on to suggest an \"Indian connection\", and some form of cultural transfer across the Achaemenid Empire. Overall, the ancient transfer of Lycian designs for rock-cut monuments to India is considered as \"quite probable\".\n\nAnthropologist David Napier has also proposed a reverse relationship, claiming that the Payava tomb was a descendant of an ancient South Asian style, and that the man named \"Payava\" may actually have been a Graeco-Indian named \"Pallava\".\n\nIn Nepal, the meaning of chaitya is somewhat different. A Nepalese chaitya is not a building but a shrine monument consisting of a stupa-like shape on top a plinth, often very elaborately ornamented. They are typically placed in the open air, often in religious compounds, averaging some four to eight feet in height. They are constructed in memory of a dead person by his or her family by the Sherpas, Magars, Gurungs, Tamangs and Newars, among other people of Nepal. The Newar people of the Kathmandu Valley started adding images of the four Tathagatas on the chaitya's four directions mainly after the twelfth century. They are constructed with beautifully carved stone and mud mortar. They are said to consist of the Mahābhūta — earth, air, fire, water, and space.\n\nIn classical Cambodian art chaityas are boundary markers for sacred sites, generally made in sets of four, placed on the site boundary at the four cardinal directions. They generally take a pillar-like form, often topped with a stupa, and are carved on the body.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828226", "title": "1889 in film", "text": "1889 in film\n\nThe following is an overview of the events of 1889 in film, including a list of films released and notable births.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828230", "title": "Stephanie Bellars", "text": "Stephanie Bellars\n\nStephanie Bellars (born January 25, 1976), known by her ring name Gorgeous George, is an American professional wrestling valet and former exotic dancer. She began her career in wrestling in 1999 as manager to her then-boyfriend \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage. She has worked for World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) under the names Gorgeous George, George Frankenstein, and simply George.\n\nBellars debuted under the name Gorgeous George at WCW Spring Stampede 1999 alongside then-boyfriend Randy Savage as his manager. The following month, she competed in her first match at WCW Slamboree 1999, defeating referee Charles Robinson in a match with Savage's job on the line. She remained with Savage throughout the summer of 1999 until they eventually broke up and she left WCW.\n\nIn July 2000, Gorgeous George joined Extreme Championship Wrestling and remained there through October before ECW eventually shut down in early 2001. Gorgeous George made several appearances at independent wrestling events in 2003 and 2004 including Women's Extreme Wrestling, 3PW, and NCW. At a 3PW event in 2003, she wrestled Jasmin St. Claire in a match that ended up with the two women kissing in the ring.\n\nAfter years away from the wrestling business, George began appearing with Women Superstars Uncensored in October 2008. While she mostly worked as a manager, she also competed in a tag team tournament and a battle royal. In 2011, she made a one time appearance for National Wrestling Superstars.\n\nShe was married to Doyle Wolfgang von Frankenstein (Paul Caiafa), guitarist of the American horror punk band, the Misfits. They married on September 1, 2001 and have a daughter, Boriss, who was born on August 17, 2002. The couple's divorce was finalized in October 2013. On October 26, 2015 Bellars announced that she was working on her autobiography with American Combat Association president & professional mixed martial arts fighter Matt Granahan. Granahan wrote \"Rough and Tumble\", a history book on MMA and pro wrestling in 2008 with World Shooto Champion Erik Paulson. No date was announced on the release of her autobiography.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828233", "title": "Alan McDonald (Northern Ireland footballer)", "text": "Alan McDonald (Northern Ireland footballer)\n\nAlan McDonald (12 October 1963 – 23 June 2012) was a Northern Ireland footballer and manager. As a player, he spent most of his career in England with Queens Park Rangers, as well as having short spells with Charlton Athletic and Swindon Town. He was capped 52 times for Northern Ireland and played at the 1986 FIFA World Cup in Mexico. After retiring as a player, he managed IFA Premiership side Glentoran from June 2007 until his resignation at the end of February 2010. McDonald collapsed and died whilst playing golf at the Temple Golf Club near Lisburn on 23 June 2012.\n\nMcDonald joined Queens Park Rangers on 4 October 1979 as a youth player and spent 17 years with the club. Unable to break into the first-team early on in his career, he gained his first league experience whilst on loan at Charlton Athletic and made his league début versus v Crystal Palace on 4 April 1983. His QPR début was at Wolves on 24 September 1983 in a 4–0 away win. McDonald and QPR reached the final of the League Cup in 1986. By the late 1980s, McDonald was playing as stopper in QPR's sweeper system. During his time the club's best finish came in 1993 when they finished in fifth place and were the highest placed London club in the first season of the newly formed Premiership. Their worst came in 1996 when they were relegated.\n\nMcDonald's last game for QPR was on 31 March 1997 in a home match v Wolves. He joined Swindon Town on a free transfer in the summer of 1997, making 36 appearances and scoring once in his last season as a player, 1997–98.\n\nMcDonald played 52 times for Northern Ireland, including the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, and worked as an assistant manager at Swindon Town and Northern Ireland national team.\n\nMcDonald returned to QPR briefly in February 2006 as assistant to manager Gary Waddock but Waddock struggled as manager and McDonald left in September 2006. McDonald was appointed as coach of Glentoran to help manager Paul Millar. McDonald almost left the club when he heard that Roy Walker was appointed new manager, but due to not having UEFA badges, McDonald stepped in and was appointed manager.\n\nIn June 2007 he became manager of Glentoran in his native Belfast, where he stayed for three seasons, guiding the club to the IFA Premiership title in 2008–09. He also coached his country's under-21 side. After McDonald was appointed manager of Glentoran, he started to bring in new faces. He signed Dungannon Swifts winger David Scullion along with Rory Hamill. McDonald also brought in young promising players, including Daryl Fordyce, Philip Carson, Matty Burrows, and Shane McCabe. He also added goalkeeper Michael Dougherty as backup to Elliott Morris, and brought in Hearts defender Johnny Taylor. In his first full season as manager of the East Belfast club, McDonald led Glentoran to win the County Antrim Shield over Crusaders. In McDonald's second season, he led the club to become Irish Premiership champions after four years. During his second season McDonald continued to bring in new faces, after selling Michael Dougherty, McDonald brought in Dundela keeper James Taylor. In his third season in charge McDonald started by signing former Northern Ireland international Keith Gillespie and Newry City player Richard Clarke. But Glentoran went on a losing streak, and after a 6–0 home defeat to Coleraine, fans turned against McDonald and calling for him to resign. McDonald stayed on until his side lost 2-0 to Dungannon Swifts F.C. and McDonald resigned after the game.\n\nMcDonald did not manage since resigning from Glentoran, although he was linked with the Ballymena United manager's job following the resignation of Roy Walker. McDonald also owned a trophy shop in Bangor.\n\nOn the morning of 23 June 2012, McDonald collapsed and died while playing golf at Temple Golf and Country Club near Lisburn, Northern Ireland. The IFA posted a short statement on its official website – \"The Irish FA is saddened by this morning's news of the sudden death of Alan McDonald. Our thoughts are with his family at this time. We are deeply shocked at the death of Alan, who won over 50 caps for Northern Ireland. To die at such a young age is terrible.\" Former Northern Ireland manager Sammy McIlroy described himself as \"shellshocked\" and said Norman Whiteside was \"devastated.\" QPR posted a message on www.qpr.co.uk which read: \"Queens Park Rangers Football Club is desperately saddened to learn of the passing of former captain and assistant manager Alan McDonald.\" In honour of his memory the club's plane for the 2012–13 pre-season tour was named \"The Alan McDonald\". In addition to this the club held a minute's applause for McDonald before their opening 2012–13 match against Swansea City.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828238", "title": "WJIV", "text": "WJIV\n\nWJIV (\"Victory 101.9\") is a commercial American Christian radio station licensed to Cherry Valley, New York. The signal coverage area includes the Capital District of Albany, the Mohawk Valley, Oneonta, and Utica/Rome. The transmitter tower is located about 3 miles (5 km) east of Cherry Valley village. The format of the station includes Christian talk and ministry programs, along with Southern gospel music.\n\nWJIV first signed on June 6, 1948 as WVCV, an affiliate of the Rural Radio Network, a service that provided farming news and rural entertainment to areas that generally lacked this type of specialized programming.\n\nA call sign change to WRRC was made in 1953 to reinforce the station's \"Rural Radio\" identity. The Rural Radio Network survived until 1960, dropping most of the farm related programming in favor of an over-the-air simulcast of WQXR-FM New York, along with live weather reports from each of the stations in the network every hour.\n\nOn February 1, 1960, the network was purchased by the Ivy Broadcasting Company, a corporation headed by Woody Erdman. In April 1966, Ivy sold WJIV and the other four FM stations to Chenango and Unadilla Communications, a small upstate New York telephone company. In 1968, C&U was acquired by Continental Telephone, however FCC regulations prohibited control of broadcast licenses by large phone companies - so Continental was forced to divest WJIV.\n\nTelevangelist Pat Robertson acquired the five-station network as a tax-deductible gift. Mr. Robertson was already operating Channel 27 WYAH-TV and FM station WXRI in Virginia Beach, and incorporated the five upstate New York stations into his Christian Broadcasting Network on January 1, 1969.\n\nFloyd Dykeman purchased WJIV from CBN on March 30, 1981, and kept the religious format. Dykeman increased the station's power to its current level in 1984, then sold the station to Detroit-based religious broadcaster Midwest Broadcasting in 2000.\n\nThe call sign WJIV had previously been assigned to the E.D. Rivers, Jr., station on 900 kHz in Savannah, Georgia (now known as WJLG). Midwest Broadcasting changed its name to Christian Broadcasting system in 2003 .\n\nWJIV currently offers Christian themed talk and news programs, as well as traditional religious broadcasting. Some of the most popular national programs include The Dave Ramsey Show, Back to the Bible, and Focus on the Family.\n\nThe station also offers local weather and community updates throughout its broadcast day.\n"}
{"id": "1828240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828240", "title": "Calgary Vipers", "text": "Calgary Vipers\n\nThe Calgary Vipers were a professional baseball team based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. They were part of the Western Division of the independent North American League. The Vipers have played all of their home games at Foothills Stadium. Previously, the Vipers played in the Northern League from 2005 to 2007. The Vipers were champions of the Golden Baseball League in 2009, having defeated the Tucson Toros in the Championship Series.\n\nManagement problems surfaced just prior to the end of the 2011 season. By the end of the 2011 Season, it became apparent that the Vipers were financially moribund, and would not be back for 2012.\n\nCalgary had been served by the Triple-A Calgary Cannons of the Pacific Coast League (PCL) for 18 years until the team relocated to Albuquerque, New Mexico in 2002. The Calgary Outlaws played half a season in 2003 in the independent Canadian Baseball League before the league folded, leaving the city without professional baseball in 2004. The college level Okotoks Dawgs of the Western Major Baseball League also began play in 2003.\n\nThe Northern League announced on April 3, 2004, that it was expanding to Alberta, granting new franchises to Edmonton and Calgary. The Calgary franchise was to be owned by a pair of Japanese businessmen, Hiro Masawa and Naoto Higuchi, and incorporated as Calgary Baseball LLC. Due to the distance between the Alberta franchises and the Northern League's base in the midwest United States, the two teams were required to pay a C$60,000 annual travel subsidy to offset the costs for the other teams to fly into the city.\n\nCalgary Baseball LLC had promised to significantly renovate the aging Foothills Stadium as part of an ambitious plan for the team. However, little movement was seen with the franchise, causing the league to investigate the status of the team in November, 2004. A month later, on December 10, commissioner Mike Stone announced that he had revoked the franchise, stripping Calgary Baseball LLC of its ownership. On February 11, 2005, the league sold the franchise to Winnipeg businessman Jeffrey Gidney. He had less than three months before the start of play to hire staff, sign players and name the team. The team quickly named themselves the Vipers, and began signing players.\n\nDespite the short time frame, the Vipers managed to build a quality team on the field, finishing second in the Northern division in both halves of the season. They played the first game in franchise history, on the road against the Sioux City Explorers on May 20, 2005, losing 7–3. They won their first game the following night, defeating the Explorers 12–2. The team played its first game at home on May 27, defeating the Joliet Jackhammers 9–8 in 11 innings.\n\nOff the field, the Vipers finished last in attendance, averaging just over 1100 fans. However, crowds slowly improved as the season went on and the Vipers grew from a bare bones operation, and as the weather improved following a month of June that featured record amounts of rainfall.\nOn June 13, 2006, a string of bean balls in the first two innings touched off two major brawls between the Vipers and their provincial rivals, the Edmonton Cracker-Cats. After Edmonton's Greg Morrison was hit by a Calgary pitch for the fourth time in five games, the Cracker-Cats responded by throwing at two Calgary players. The resulting melee was so violent that the umpires sent both teams off the field, and suspended the game for over an hour to consult with league officials. When the Cracker-Cats refused to return to the field afterward, the game was declared a forfeit and the Vipers were awarded a 9-0 victory.\n\nThe league came down hard on both teams, as both managers and seven players were suspended a total of 79 games. Morrison blamed Calgary manager Mike Busch for the incident, believing that Busch continues to hold a grudge after both Morrison, and another former Viper, J.P. Fauske defected to the Cracker-Cats after leaving the Vipers after a falling out with the Calgary manager late in the 2005 season.\n\nThe Vipers finished first in their division in the first half of 2007 with a record of 29–19, and qualified for the playoffs for the first time. During the season, outfielder Darryl Brinkley became the first minor league baseball player of the modern era to achieve a .400 batting average. Brinkley was named the Independent League Player of the Year by \"Baseball America\".\n\nIn the playoffs, they faced the second half winning Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks in the North Division championship. The Vipers defeated the RedHawks 9–4 in the first game of the series to win their playoff debut, en route to a three-game sweep of Fargo as they won the pennant and earned a berth in the Northern League Championship Series. The Vipers won the first game of the final series against the Gary SouthShore RailCats, 7–6, on a two-run, walk-off home run by Carlos Duncan. The teams traded wins in the first four games, forcing the series to a decisive fifth game. The RailCats won the game, and the championship, 5–1.\n\nThe playoff run would prove to be the team's last hurrah in the Northern League, as both the Vipers and Edmonton Cracker Cats announced that they were leaving the league after declining to post $1 million performance bonds as asked for by the Northern League. Both teams jumped to the California based Golden Baseball League.\n\nThe Vipers have been making headlines since moving to the GBL. They suggested that former National Hockey League star Theoren Fleury was considering playing for the Vipers. The former Calgary Flame took batting practice with the team, and threw out the first pitch at their home opener. He hit a single in his first at-bat. The next play he charged hard for second but was forced out.\n\nThen, the Vipers traded pitcher John Odom to the Laredo Broncos of the United Baseball League for ten bats. Odom was unable to enter Canada and was turned away at the Canadian border due to an unspecified criminal charge on his record. The Vipers intended to auction the bats off to raise funds for their \"Snakes and Batters\" charity fund, however they were instead sold to Ripley's Believe it or Not for $10,000.\n\nOn September 5, 2008, the Vipers won the GBL North Division Championship outright by sweeping the Cracker-Cats 3 games to 0. On September 14, they lost the best-of-five GBL Championship Series to the Orange County Flyers 3 games to 2.\n\nIn the 2009 season, the Vipers won both halves of the season, qualifying for the playoffs as the North Division regular season champions along with the second-place Edmonton Capitals. In the playoffs the Vipers won their first round series against the Capitals to win their second straight GBL North Division championship. The Vipers set a franchise attendance record in game four, with 4859 fans at the game.\n\nOn September 12, 2009, the Vipers finally won their first professional baseball championship by defeating the Tucson Toros 3 games to 1 to capture the GBL Championship in front of over 2,000 fans at Foothills Stadium. They eliminated the Edmonton Capitals by the same 3 games to 1 in the North Division Championship to get back to the finals. It was the second straight year Calgary defeated a rival team from Edmonton. It is the first pro baseball championship for the city of Calgary ever (the Calgary Cannons of the Triple-A Pacific Coast League lost the title twice in the early 1990s), the first time a Canadian team has captured the title and the first time ever for an original privately owned franchise to do so. (The Orange County Flyers, who won the title the previous year, were originally a league-owned team before they were sold to their current private ownership.)\n\nThe Vipers won the championship on their third straight try after losing the Northern League title in 2007 and the GBL title in 2008.\n\nIn October 2009, it was announced that the Vipers have launched a new instructional version of their team to begin play in the Arizona Winter League in 2010, replacing the departed Palm Springs Chill, who formed their own instructional league. They will play in the new Canadian division along with the Saskatchewan Silver Sox, Team Canada and Western Canada Miners. They will be managed in the AWL by former Montreal Expo legend Boots Day, who also serves as bench coach for the parent GBL team.\n\nThe Vipers defeated the San Luis Atleticos, 8-1, in the AWL Championship Game shortened to eight innings due to rain. They became the first team in history to capture both the GBL and AWL titles since the GBL's and AWL's respective inceptions. More impressive is that it was done within one calendar year. They would not return to the AWL in 2011.\n\nThe Vipers were one of six former GBL teams to join the newly formed North American League in 2010 and began play in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828266", "title": "Harvard Library", "text": "Harvard Library\n\nThe Harvard Library is the umbrella organization for the Harvard University libraries and their shared services, such as access, preservation, digital infrastructure, digital imaging, and discovery services. The Harvard Library is nearly 400 years old, making it the oldest library system in the United States. Additionally, the Harvard Library is the largest private library system and largest academic library in the world. Its collection holds nearly 20 million volumes, 400 million manuscripts, 10 million photographs, and one million maps.\n\nHarvard Library holds the third largest collection in the United States, after the Library of Congress and Boston Public Library. Based on the number of items held, it is the fifth largest library in the United States. Additionally, Harvard is part of the Research Collections and Preservation Consortium (ReCAP), and the Ivy Plus Libraries Confederation, making over 90 million books available to the Library’s users.   \n\nThe Library is open to current Harvard affiliates, and some events and spaces are open to the public. The most recognized building in the Harvard Library system is Widener Library, situated in Harvard Yard.\n\nHarvard's library system grew due to donations from prominent individuals, John Harvard being one of them. John Harvard was a Puritan minister who accumulated 400 books spreading word of his faith. These volumes were left to Harvard, initiating the library's collection. The works in this collection soon became obsolete, as Harvard Library quickly changed to an academic institute and found little need for the theological titles.\n\nThe location of the library changed over time. Originally it was in the Old College building. In 1676, the library was moved to Harvard Hall, which was where it remained until the building burnt down during the fire in 1764. The fire of 1764 destroyed the entire collection. Quickly after, a new Harvard Hall was built and 15,000 books were collected to create the new library. As time went on space became limited in Harvard Hall, and the library was moved to Gore Hall in 1841. Eventually, Gore Hall was no longer suitable and the books were moved elsewhere in 1912. Around this time, the library spread into more than one building. Some of the libraries were devoted to specialized topics.\n\nOver the next century the library grew to become the largest in America, but on January 24, 1764, a major fire destroyed almost all of Harvard's books and scientific instruments. All of the books in the library at the time of the fire were completely burned. The books that had been loaned out when the fire occurred were the only portion of the collection that remained. Books and donations were offered by friends of the college to replace its collections. An eccentric Englishman, Thomas Hollis V of Lincoln's Inn, London, (great-nephew of one of the University's early benefactors), began shipping thousands of specially chosen volumes to the University Library. Hollis continued to send books regularly until his death in 1774 and he also bequeathed £500 for a fund to continue buying books. This became Harvard's first endowed book fund, and is still actively increasing the collections every year. Harvard Library's online catalog, HOLLIS (a bacronym for \"Harvard On-Line Library Information System\"), is named after him.\n\nSome books were digitized within the Google Books Library Project, which began as a project developed with leadership and oversight by former Director Sidney Verba.\n\nOn August 1, 2012, a new Harvard Library organization began operations, designed to improve a fragmented system of 73 libraries across Harvard's Schools with one that promotes University-wide collaboration. Functions that occur within all libraries—Access Services, Technical Services and Preservation Services—were unified to enable greater focus on the needs of the user community. The new structure was developed from recommendations of the Task Force on University Libraries and the Library Implementation Working Group.\n\nIn addition to millions of volumes, the Harvard Library also houses a range of historical artifacts and primary documents from around the world, including one of only 23 complete Gutenberg Bibles. The largest collection of East Asian-language material outside of East Asia is held in the Harvard-Yenching Library.  \n\nThe largest collection of archives focused on business and economic history is housed in the Baker Library Special Collections at Harvard Business School. The Botany Libraries’ archives include Henry David Thoreau’s personal herbaria, letters from Charles Darwin to Asa Gray, and thousands of botanical illustrations. The Wolbach Library holds the oldest surviving images of the moon, and the Tozzer Library is one of the oldest anthropological libraries in the world.   \n\nHarvard Library also has a robust collection of digital content. More than 6 million digital objects are accessible online by anyone, regardless of whether or not they’re affiliated with Harvard, via the Harvard Digital Collections page.\n\nThe CURIOSity tool offers another way to explore Harvard’s digital collections, providing curated views, specialized search options and discovery of unique content. Curated collections include the Colonial North America archive, the Islamic Heritage Project, and over 3,5000 digitized daguerreotypes.   \n\nBy 1973, the Harvard Library had authored or published over 430 volumes in print, as well as nine periodicals and seven annual publications. Among these is a monthly newsletter, \"The Harvard Librarian\", as well as a quarterly journal, the \"Harvard Library Bulletin\". The latter was established in 1947, and was dormant from 1960 until being revived in 1967. The \"Bulletin\" is published three times a year in spring, summer, and fall. Anyone can subscribe to receive the \"Harvard Library Bulletin,\" and an archive of past issues is available on the Harvard Library website.\n\nThe Harvard Library is the formal name for an administrative entity within the central administration that oversees the development and implementation of strategies that facilitate access to research, collections, services, and space in ways that raise the value of the university’s investment in its libraries., Martha Whitehead is the current vice president for the Harvard Library and the Roy E. Larsen Librarian of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The Harvard Library consists of:\n\n\nVisiting Committee members are experts and Harvard alumni who are appointed by the Corporation. The Committee oversees the strategy and administration of the Harvard Library on behalf of the Overseers. Bi-annual visits and regular updates by the Office of the Provost provide an opportunity for Visiting Committee members to understand and advise on the Harvard Library's progress.\n\nThe Library Board is charged with reviewing the strategic plans of the Harvard Library and assessing its progress in meeting those plans, reviewing system-wide policies and standards and overseeing the progress of the central services. The provost chairs the Library Board (established in December 2010) and the Office of the Provost is responsible for overseeing the Harvard Library. The Harvard Library Board is composed of six permanent members and five rotating members who serve three years each, with their initial terms staggered. The permanent members are the provost, the Carl H. Pforzheimer University Professor and the deans or designees from the following Schools: the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard Business School, Harvard Law School and Harvard Medical School.\n\nThe rotating members consist of three at-large, tenured faculty members, as well as deans or designees from the Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard Graduate School of Design, Harvard Divinity School, Harvard Graduate School of Education, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Radcliffe Institute.\n\nThe establishment of the Harvard Library Faculty Advisory Council in 2011 brought together faculty from across the University. The Council advises the Library Board and the two groups meet together twice a year. Robert Darnton, Pforzheimer Professor, is the chair and James Engell, Gurney Professor of English Literature, is the vice-chair.\n\nEstablished in 2012, the Library Council on Student Experience is a joint council consisting of librarians and students from across the University who identify and work together on University-wide priorities identified by the Council for improving the student library experience. The Council is co-chaired by a librarian appointed by the vice president for the Harvard Library and by a student elected from the student council members. Students and librarians are nominated by the School library directors and selected by the Office of the Provost. Other members include representatives from the Tell Us project, the Berkman Institute and Harvard Library Shared Services. Terms are for two academic years. The Council makes recommendations to and is supported by the vice president for the Harvard Library.\n\nThe Harvard Library Leadership Team is responsible for planning, prioritizing and implementing joint Library initiatives. The team works with the vice president for the Harvard Library to develop and implement Library-wide strategy and policy approved by the Board in collaboration with other standing committees and working groups. Chaired by the vice president for the Harvard Library, the Team includes members of the Library's senior management team, library directors from the ten professional schools and the Radcliffe Institute, the managing director of Library Technology Services (HUIT), the Harvard Library shared services heads, the Harvard Library Director of Communications, and the Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for Harvard Library.\n\nAlong with shared services such as circulation, cataloging, and preservation, the libraries below make up the larger Harvard Library: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828268", "title": "Montfort Brothers of St. Gabriel", "text": "Montfort Brothers of St. Gabriel\n\nThe Montfort Brothers of St. Gabriel (SG), otherwise Gabrielite Brothers or Frères de Saint-Gabriel (FSG), is a religious institute. Its roots go back to Louis de Montfort, who opened a few schools for poor children in La Rochelle, France, in about 1711.\n\nAs Louis de Monfort traveled about giving missions, he was often accompanied by brothers, whom he called to assist in his work. During the eighteenth century the life of the Community of the Holy Spirit (the Company of Mary) was centered at Saint-Laurent, where there were about fifty priests and thirty-five brothers. Of 276 missions preached from 1749 to 1799, one or two Brothers participated in 250 of them with the missionaries.\n\nAfter the French Revolution, the congregation amalgamated under the guidance of Father Gabriel Deshayes into the Brothers they are today. Around 1824 the Brothers received official approbation under the name of Brothers of Christian Instruction of the Holy Spirit. A motherhouse, called \"Saint Gabriel\" was established for them separate from that of the priests. In 1853 the imperial decree of Napoleon III conferred on the Congregation the title of Brothers of Christian Instruction of Saint Gabriel. \n\nThe institute's main concern is Christian education, especially for the poor, orphans and the physically challenged. Other organizations inspired by Montfortian ideals are the Company of Mary and the Daughters of Wisdom. The 'Associates' are a lay association linked to the Gabrielites and similarly inspired by Montfortian spirituality.\n\nOne of the examples of institutions run by FSG is Assumption University (better known as ABAC from its former name of Assumption Business Administration College), which was the first university in Thailand to offer all classes in the English language. They have also established educational institutions in Canada, Singapore, Malaysia, India, Mauritius, Spain, Italy and of course in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828284", "title": "Ellison D. Smith", "text": "Ellison D. Smith\n\nEllison DuRant “Cotton Ed” Smith (August 1, 1864 – November 17, 1944) was a Democratic Party politician from the U.S. state of South Carolina widely known for his virulently racist and segregationist views and his advocacy of white supremacy. He represented South Carolina in the United States Senate from 1909 until 1944.\n\nSmith was born near Lynchburg, South Carolina, the youngest child of William Hankin Smith and Marry Isabella Smith, at his ancestral home, Tanglewood Plantation (formerly Smith's Grove). Throughout his life, he would reside in Tanglewood. Smith attended the University of South Carolina, where he was a member of the Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity, and graduated from Wofford College in 1889. He first married at the age of 28 to Martha Moorer of St. George, South Carolina. She died giving birth to their son Martius Ellison. At 19 Martius was accidentally shot by his own gun while drinking water at the barnyard well. He died five days later.\n\nIn 1906 Ellison married Annie Brunson Farley. Her uncle Henry Farley fired the first shot in the Confederate Army, serving under J.E.B. Stuart, and died fighting in the Civil War. Ellison and Annie had four children of their own, two boys and two girls. Their eldest daughter, Anna, was married to L.L. Smith, vice president of Kohler Plumbing Co. of Wisconsin. Isobel Smith Lawton moved to Florence, South Carolina, when she married. Ellison DuRant, Jr. married Vivian Manning, daughter of Governor John Lawrence Manning. Charles Saxon Farley, a past member of the South Carolina legislature from Lee County, married Laura Douglas. Laura was the daughter of Oscar Douglas (co-founder of the F.W. Woolworth empire.) All five of Smith’s children are now deceased.\n\nSmith served in the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1896 to 1900. He was unsuccessful in his bid to become a member of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1900. In 1901, Smith helped organize the Farmer’s Protective Association and eventually became one of the principal figures in the formation of the Southern Cotton Association in 1905. Between the years 1905 and 1908, he served as a field agent and general organizer in the cotton protective movement. Smith received the nickname “Cotton Ed” after he declared\n\nSmith was elected to the United States Senate in 1908. He was re-elected five times, although from 1920 until 1944, he had four close elections, with three of them leading to run-off elections because he failed to capture a majority. Smith never won more than 61 percent in Democratic Party primaries during that time. During his time in Congress, he had a goal to “keep the Niggers down and the price of cotton up.” Known for being a reputed showman, Smith would publicly promote this goal by riding to Washington on a wagon-load of cotton waving the banner of white supremacy. He also developed a reputation for having a violent temper while speaking in Congress and would at times stand on his feet and try to get the floor speaker’s attention by repeatedly hacking his armchair with a penknife whenever the speaker angered him. Smith was not fond of his fellow Senators and often described the Senate Chamber as \"the Cave of the Winds.\"\n\nBetween 1909 and 1933, Smith was regarded as a fairly effective senator, though admittedly not of the first rank. A tireless champion of agriculture, he opposed most of the economic legislation of the Progressive Era but supported most of its social efforts, having written a small part of them. He authored the Smith-Lever Act and sponsored the Muscle Shoals project, a forerunner to the Tennessee Valley Authority. Smith, however, would not favor legislation he felt would largely diversify the Southern economy, reduce the need for the vast presence of the plantation system in the South, or endanger the old Southern way of life. In the 1930s, Smith became Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and would imperiously summon the fellow Senators on the Committee by saying\n\nSmith opposed the women's suffrage movement, and specifically the 19th Amendment to the United States Constitution. Tying the amendment to black suffrage, he warned on the Senate floor,\n\n\"Time\" called Smith a “conscientious objector to the 20th Century.” One observer claimed he “taxed neither his brain nor the voters with a new issue.” He had at first welcomed US President Franklin Roosevelt but soon emerged as an opponent to the New Deal, which he dubbed as “the Jackass Age” when he noticed that Roosevelt’s programs were leading the Southern economy in a new direction. Although he voted for part of the draft of the Revenue Act of 1935 he voted against the final bill, due to the highly progressive rates. In 1935, a group of reformist officials in Agriculture Department proposed a directive that would ensure that Southern landlords actually paid their sharecroppers for their labor, which most of them did not. Smith stormed into the office of the author of the directive, Alger Hiss, and shouted: \"Young fella, you can't do this to my niggers, paying checks to them. They don't know what to do with the money. The money should come to me. I'll take care of them\".\n\nAt the 1936 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Smith walked out of the convention hall once he saw that a black minister, Marshall L. Shepard, was going to deliver the invocation. At the sight of Shepard, Smith shouted: \"By God, he's as black as melted midnight! Get outa my way. This mongrel meeting ain't no place for a white man! I don't want any blue-gummed, slew-footed Senegambian praying for me politically\". Smith recalled, \"He started praying and I started walking. And from his great plantation in the sky, John C. Calhoun bent down and whispered in my ear – 'You done good, Ed. \n\nSmith opposed a Federal minimum wage; he filibustered it in the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act, saying “South Carolinians are willing to work for less than 50 cents/hour.” In common with other Southern senators, Smith was vigorously opposed to the Fair Labour Standards Act, believing that a national minimum wage of 40 cents/per hour would undermine the Southern economy, which was based upon having lower wages than could be found anywhere else in the nation. Roosevelt's Attorney General, Homer Stille Cummings wrote in his diary: \"Southern Senators actually froth at the mouth when the subject [of a national minimum wage] is mentioned\". Smith's opposition to the New Deal led to Roosevelt’s decision to make an unsuccessful attempt to have him defeated in the 1938 primary by supporting the candidacy of Governor Olin D. Johnston. During a campaign speech, Roosevelt announced that \"no man can live on 50 cents on a day\" and appealed to people of South Carolina to replace Smith with Johnston. Smith called Roosevelt a \"Yankee carpetbagger\" and ran a campaign depicting himself as the defender of traditional Southern values.. Standing under a statue of the Confederate general Wade Hampton, Smith declared \"No man dares to come into South Carolina and try to dictate to the sons of those men who held high the hands of Lee and Hampton\". Smith billed himself as \"Roosevelt's worse enemy\" and vowed to stop the New Deal.\n\nSmith won re-election in a close race in that year, thanks mainly to the unpopularity of Roosevelt's interfering in the primary, Johnston’s inability to please either the state's powerful textile mill owners or staunch white supremacists and an endorsement from Smith's fellow South Carolina senator, James F. Byrnes, a highly popular outspoken New Dealer who had been re-elected in 1936 with over 87% of the vote. Byrnes, however, despised Smith and only endorsed him because he was opposed to Johnston's strong support for Roosevelt's new push for vast labor reform, which was evident in the Fair Labor Standards Act, and hoped that Smith would retire in 1944 and his friend Burnet R. Maybank, the mayor of Charleston who was running for governor of South Carolina that year, would then go on to win Smith’s Senate seat and build a powerful political machine with Byrnes that would control the South Carolina political scene.\n\nWhile the 1938 election would mark the first time since 1914 where “Cotton Ed” faced no runoff, it was also believed that the vast majority of the people in South Carolina at this point in time were fed up with Smith, who would probably have easily lost the primary if Roosevelt had not interfered. In 1940, a survey found that there was no great admiration for Smith among the people in South Carolina and that his 1938 victory was symbolic because it showed that an unpopular person was elected because “the president picked him out as the victim.”\n\nDuring World War II, Smith opposed the national war mobilization efforts, which consisted of programs that developed a vast number of factories across the states that manufactured and supplied the U.S. military with munitions, metal, fuel and other materials needed in order to win the war. During this time, the aged senator would violently criticize Americans for supporting both the war effort and the New Deal, and even supported Republican Thomas E. Dewey in the 1944 presidential election.\n\nSmith capitalised on this sentiment when he made his famous \"Shut the Door\" speech to Congress in 1924, inspiring an immigration act that would bar further emigres and effectively entrap Europe's Jews in the feverish atmosphere of emergent fascism. \n\nIn 1944, Olin D. Johnston again challenged Smith in the Democratic primary. During the campaign, Johnston, once again governor of South Carolina, was strongly supportive of Roosevelt’s foreign policy, but was now lukewarm towards the New Deal and was able to the snatch the “flag of white supremacy” from Smith by boasting how he countered the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent \"Smith v. Allwright\" decision, which ruled that racial segregation in state primaries was unconstitutional, by passing a series of laws making the South Carolina Democratic Party a private club which could keep blacks from voting in the state’s primary. During the campaign, Smith presented himself as an aged and tired old man and during at least one debate with Johnston, he spoke for only a few minutes and then played a recording of a speech he had made six years earlier. Johnston would go on to win the primary with over 55 percent of the vote, thus achieving the majority needed to avoid a run-off, and Smith would only receive just over 35 percent of the vote. After hearing word of his defeat on his 2,500-acre farm near Lynchburg, Smith stood up in frustration and said \"Well, I guess I better go out and look at the pigs.\"\n\nOn November 17, 1944, a month and a half before the end of his term, Smith died at Tanglewood Plantation in the same bed in which he was born. He is buried at St. Luke’s Cemetery near Wisacky in Lee County.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828299", "title": "Baker Lake (Nunavut)", "text": "Baker Lake (Nunavut)\n\nBaker Lake (Inuktitut: ; \"where the river widens\") is a lake in the Kivalliq Region, Nunavut, Canada. It is fed by the Thelon River from the west and the Kazan River from the south. Its outflows into Chesterfield Inlet. The lake is approximately in size. It has several named bays, and a few islands.\n\nIn 1762 William Christopher reached Baker Lake via Chesterfield Inlet. The Inuit hamlet of Baker Lake is situated at the west end of the lake near the mouth of the Thelon River. Although the Inuit had been in the area for some time, the first outside presence was the Royal Canadian Mounted Police post at the east end of the lake in 1915. This was followed in 1916 by the Hudson's Bay Company post set up at the Kazan River delta until 1930 when it moved to the present location.\n\nThe lake's area is home to Beverly and Qamanirjuaq Caribou herds, as well as other wildlife associated with northern Canada's Arctic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828301", "title": "Henry Deane (archbishop of Canterbury)", "text": "Henry Deane (archbishop of Canterbury)\n\nHenry Deane ( – 1503) was Archbishop of Canterbury from 1501 until his death.\n\nIn 1457, Deane is recorded as a Canon of Llanthony by Gloucester, his first appearance in the records. In 1473 and again in 1488 he is recorded as having rented rooms from Exeter College, Oxford, from which it has been assumed that he was a student at the University.\n\nDeane was admitted to the society of Lincoln's Inn in 1489, suggesting a knowledge of common law. On 13 September 1494, he was appointed Lord Chancellor of Ireland under Edward Poynings, in which capacity he made the opening address at the Drogheda Parliament of December 1494. When Poynings was recalled in January 1496, Deane was appointed his successor as Deputy Governor, but sour relations with the local clergy led to his removal in August of the same year.\n\nOn 13 April 1494, he was appointed Bishop of Bangor (confirmed by the Pope in July 1495), where he engaged in rebuilding the fortunes of the diocese after the rebellion led by Owain Glyndŵr. On 7 December 1499, Henry VII appointed him to the much more significant bishopric of Salisbury, confirmed by the Pope on 8 January 1500.\n\nOn 13 October 1500, after the death of the Chancellor, Archbishop John Morton, Deane was appointed Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, which held until 27 July 1502. Thomas Langton, Bishop of Winchester, was elected to succeed Morton at Canterbury, but following his death of 27 January 1501, Deane was in turn elected 26 April 1501. He was the first monastic to be elevated to Canterbury for 135 years, and the last.\n\nAs archbishop, his main contribution was the negotiation of the Treaty of Perpetual Peace (signed January 1502) between England and Scotland, which also arranged the marriage of Margaret Tudor, daughter of Henry VII, and James IV of Scotland. He also officiated at the wedding of Arthur, Prince of Wales and Catherine of Aragon, assisted by 19 bishops, on 14 November 1501.\n\nDeane died on 15 February 1503, and was buried at Canterbury on 24 February. Sir Reginald Bray was one of his executors. Elrington Ball described him as one of the greatest ecclesiastical statesmen of his age.\n"}
{"id": "1828313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828313", "title": "Douglass", "text": "Douglass\n\nDouglass may refer to:\n\nIn the United States:\n\nElsewhere:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828314", "title": "Girardin Minibus", "text": "Girardin Minibus\n\nGirardin Minibus Inc. is a Canadian bus manufacturer. Based in Drummondville, Quebec, Canada, Girardin forms part of the Micro Bird joint venture with Blue Bird Corporation. As part of Micro Bird, Girardin is a manufacturer of bus bodies for minibuses for cutaway van chassis.\n\nWhile many Micro Bird buses are produced as school buses and related student transport vehicles, Girardin also produces commercial-use buses using cutaway van chassis. In Canada, the company serves as the nationwide distributor of the Blue Bird school bus and commercial bus product line.\n\nFollowing the 2008 closure of Corbeil, Girardin was the lone Canadian-based manufacturer of school buses until the 2011 opening of Autobus Lion (now Compagnie Électrique Lion).\n\nGirardin traces its roots to 1935, when company founder Lionel Girardin opened a used-car dealership and repair shop in St-Félix-de-Kingsey, Quebec. He expanded into new-car sales in 1953 by opening a Chrysler dealership. In 1958, Girardin entered the school bus market by becoming a school bus dealership.\n\nIn 1965, Girardin opened a bus dealership in Drummondville, Quebec; along with bus sales, Girardin converted vans into minibuses (some of the first Type A school buses). In 1981, a dedicated factory was built to keep up with demand; the factory was expanded in 1991 and again in 2000.\n\nIn 1991, Girardin Minibus introduced the MB-II and MB-IV school buses; from 1992 to 1999, these were distributed throughout North America using the Blue Bird by Girardin name. In 2005, the MB-IV was replaced with the G5, a redesigned dual rear-wheel Type A school bus.\n\nIn 2009, Blue Bird Corporation entered into a joint venture with Girardin to produce Type A school buses. Under the terms of the joint venture, Blue Bird's Micro Bird (in production since 1975) was phased out and replaced by Girardin-designed products built in Drummondville.\n\nGirardin Minibus has twice entered into partnerships with a larger bus manufacturer; both have been with American manufacturer Blue Bird Corporation.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1999, Girardin and Blue Bird were in a partnership to sell the MB-II and MB-IV Type A school buses in North America. At the time, Girardin was little known outside of Quebec and Blue Bird's own Micro Bird was not available in the single rear-wheel configuration that the MB-II offered. After 1999, Girardin chose to market the MB school buses under its own brand name.\n\nIn October 2009, Girardin re-entered into a joint venture with Blue Bird. This partnership, named Micro Bird, Inc, resulted in the Micro Bird model being discontinued, as Type A school bus construction was transferred from Blue Bird's Georgia facility to Girardin's Drummondville facility. Type A school buses built by Girardin are now branded as Blue Bird Micro Bird by Girardin. \n\nThe first bus manufacturer in North America to develop a body for the Ford Transit cutaway cab chassis, Micro Bird introduced the T-Series model line in 2015, slotted between the MB-II and G5. While the Transit replaced the E-series as a passenger van, the T-Series marked the introduction of a third model line, produced with a choice of axle configurations on a single body for the first time. \n\n"}
{"id": "1828317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828317", "title": "Guayas River", "text": "Guayas River\n\nThe Guayas River is a major river in western Ecuador. It gives name to Guayas Province and is the most important river in South America that does not flow into the Atlantic Ocean or any of its marginal seas. Its total length, including the Daule River, is 389 km (241 mi). The Guayas River's drainage basin is 34,500 sq.km (13,320 sq.mi) and it has an average discharge of 70,000 cu ft/s (1,982 m3/s). It is the national river of Ecuador and is present on the Coat of Arms.\n\nThe Guayas River has one of its sources in the Andes and the Chimborazo (volcano), Ecuador's highest volcano. The coat of arms of Ecuador shows an image of the river descending from the mountain. \"Guayas\" is the name of the lower part of the river, which starts at the confluence of the Daule River from the west and the Babahoyo River from the east, between the cities of Guayaquil and Durán, in Guayas province. The Guayas River then flows around Santay Island, and becomes one current again. From the confluence to the delta 60 kilometers away, it borders Guayaquil (canton) and Durán cantons, and Guayaquil and Naranjal cantons, just before the delta.\n\nThe Guayas River forms a very complex delta. Its most important feature is the existence of a slough called Estero Salado, surrounded by swamps and affected by tides. The area between the Guayas River and the Estero Salado forms a maze of islands, some of which have been transformed into slums. The Cobina Slough connects the Estero Salado with the river.\n\nThe main course of the river is affected by tides, and forms a small group of islands; the most important of them is Mondragón. The river then meets the Gulf of Guayaquil, an inlet of the Pacific Ocean. Its influence is noticeable in the Puná Island, and in the Jambelí Strait, in the province of El Oro.\n\nThe Guayas River has the largest watershed in South America west of the Andes mountains. It has an area 34,500 km², in nine provinces: Los Ríos, Guayas, Bolívar, Manabí, Cañar, Pichincha, Azuay, Chimborazo and Cotopaxi. In collaboration with the Estero Salado, the river discharges 36 billion cubic meters of water into the Gulf of Guayaquil every year.\n\n\n\n\nNational symbols of Ecuador\n"}
{"id": "1828323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828323", "title": "Yutong", "text": "Yutong\n\nYutong (officially Zhengzhou Yutong Group Co., Ltd.) is a Chinese manufacturer of commercial vehicles, especially electric buses, headquartered in Zhengzhou, Henan. Yutong also covers areas of construction machinery, real estate, and other investment businesses. As of 2016 it was the largest bus manufacturer in the world by sales volume.\n\nYutong has four manufacturing bases for conventional buses, new energy buses, special vehicles and parts and components, and has the largest single plant of bus manufacturing in the world. As of 2018, Yutong has formed a complete 5m-18m product lineup consisting of over 140 series of buses and coaches. From 2005 to 2017, Yutong buses have been exported to many countries and regions, like France, UK, Australia, South Africa, Cuba, Venezuela, and Chile. In 2017, its sales volume of large and medium-sized buses reached 67,268 units, among them 24,865 units are new energy buses. Yutong has sold in over 30 countries and regions such as France, UK, Australia, Cuba, Venezuela, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Macau, Taiwan (Republic of China) and so on with a market share of over 30% in China (People's Republic of China) and over 15% in the world with more than 210 chartered service companies and over 330 authorized service outlets.\n\nThe company was established in 1963 as the \"Zhengzhou Bus Repair Factory\".\n\nZhengzhou Yutong Bus Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Yutong Bus”) is a large-scale modern manufacturing company specialized in the R&D, manufacturing and sales of bus products. Its main plant is located in the Yutong Industrial Park () in Guancheng Hui District, Zhengzhou, and covers an area of 1.12 million square meters. The new energy bus plant of Yutong Bus which was put into operation in 2012 covers an area of over 1.33 million square meters and has an annual production capacity of 30,000 units.\n\nIn 2016 with the collaboration of a Pakistani heavy vehicle manufacturing company Master Motors, Yutong started a manufacturing plant at Port Qasim in Karachi where buses are manufactured under the brand name Yutong-Master. In August 2017, the venture manufactured their 200th bus. Both of the companies are planning to export buses of European standard manufactured in Pakistan to Middle Eastern and South Asian markets.\n\n\nAnother core part of the Yutong Group is Yutong Heavy Industries, a manufacturer of construction equipment formed in 2003, and with about 3,500 employees and more than 120 products.\n\n\nYutong has already provided transportation services to a number of events at home and abroad like the Beijing Olympic Games, Shanghai World Expo, Belt and Road Forum, China-Africa Cooperation Forum, APEC conference, World Economic Forum, G20 Summit and other international events.\n\nIn total Yutong exported more than 57,000 buses and coaches. Here are some export milestones of Yutong:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828331", "title": "Hearts and Minds (film)", "text": "Hearts and Minds (film)\n\nHearts and Minds is a 1974 American documentary film about the Vietnam War directed by Peter Davis. The film's title is based on a quote from President Lyndon B. Johnson: \"the ultimate victory will depend on the hearts and minds of the people who actually live out there\". The movie was chosen as the winner of the Oscar for Best Documentary at the 47th Academy Awards presented in 1975.\n\nThe film premiered at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival. Commercial distribution was delayed in the United States due to legal issues, including a temporary restraining order obtained by one of the interviewees, former National Security Advisor Walt Rostow who had claimed through his attorney that the film was \"somewhat misleading\" and \"not representative\" and that he had not been given the opportunity to approve the results of his interview. Columbia Pictures refused to distribute the picture, which forced the producers to purchase back the rights and release it by other means. The film was shown in Los Angeles for the one week it needed to be eligible for consideration in the 1974 Academy Awards.\n\nIn 2018, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.\"\n\nA scene described as one of the film's \"most shocking and controversial sequences\" shows the funeral of a South Vietnamese soldier and his grieving family, as a sobbing woman is restrained from climbing into the grave after the coffin. The funeral scene is juxtaposed with an interview with General William Westmoreland—commander of American military operations in the Vietnam War at its peak from 1964 to 1968 and United States Army Chief of Staff from 1968 to 1972—telling a stunned Davis that \"The Oriental doesn't put the same high price on life as does a Westerner. Life is plentiful. Life is cheap in the Orient.\" After an initial take, Westmoreland indicated that he had expressed himself inaccurately. After a second take ran out of film, the section was reshot for a third time, and it was the third take that was included in the film. Davis later reflected on this interview stating, \"As horrified as I was when General Westmoreland said, 'The Oriental doesn’t put the same value on life,' instead of arguing with him, I just wanted to draw him out... I wanted the subjects to be the focus, not me as filmmaker.\"\n\nThe film also includes clips of George Thomas Coker, a United States Navy aviator held by the North Vietnamese as a prisoner of war for 6 years, including more than two years spent in solitary confinement. One of the film's earliest scenes details a homecoming parade in Coker's honor in his hometown of Linden, New Jersey, where he tells the assembled crowd on the steps of city hall that if the need arose, that they must be ready to send him back to war. Answering a student's question about Vietnam at a school assembly, Coker responds that \"If it wasn't [sic] for the people, it was very pretty. The people there are very backwards and primitive and they make mess out of everything.\" In a 2004 article on the film, Desson Thomson of \"The Washington Post\" comments on the inclusion of Coker in the film, noting that \"When he does use people from the pro-war side, Davis chooses carefully.\" \"Time\" magazine's Stefan Kanfer noted the lack of balance in Coker's portrayal, \"An ex-P.O.W.'s return to New Jersey is played against a background of red-white-and-blue-blooded patriots and wide-eyed schoolchildren. The camera, which amply records the agonies of South Vietnamese political prisoners, seems uninterested in the American lieutenant's experience of humiliation and torture.\"\n\nThe film also features Vietnam war veteran and anti-war activist Bobby Muller, who later founded the Vietnam Veterans of America.\n\nDaniel Ellsberg, who had released the \"Pentagon Papers\" in 1971, discusses his initial gung-ho attitude toward the war in Vietnam.\nThe concluding interview features US Vietnam veteran Randy Floyd, stating \"We've all tried very hard to escape what we have learned in Vietnam. I think Americans have worked extremely hard not to see the criminality that their officials and their policy makers exhibited.\"\n\nThe film includes images of Phan Thị Kim Phúc in sections of a film shot of the aftermath of a napalm attack which shows Phúc at about age nine running naked on the street after being severely burned on her back.\n\nThe following list excludes second appearances, and people who are uncredited: the latter include various presidents (Nixon, Kennedy, Johnson etc) and Bob Hope:\n\n\n\"Hearts and Minds\" has attracted widely polarized opinions from film critics since its release. Reviewers commonly consider it either a masterpiece of political/documentary filmmaking or a propagandistic hatchet job on the Vietnam War, with some viewing it as both. A mixture of mostly contemporary film critic reviews on the review tallying website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 93% of the 30 film critics reviews they tallied were positive with an average critics score of 8.2 out of 10.\n\nVietnam War films from the 1960s to the 1970s reflected deep divisions at home over the war. Some reflected pro-war sentiments and vilified anti-war protesters, while others stood at the opposite end and criticized government officials and policies. \"Hearts and Minds\" was one of the first of the latter to have been produced and released before the war's end in 1975.\n\nVincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" called it an \"epic documentary ... [that] recalls this nation's agonizing involvement in Vietnam, something you may think you know all about, including the ending. But you don't.\" Canby included the film among his ten best of 1975, calling it a \"fine, complex, admittedly biased meditation upon American power\" and a movie \"that will reveal itself as one of the most all-encompassing records of the American civilization ever put into one film.\" Desson Thomson of \"The Washington Post\" described it as \"one of the best documentaries ever made, a superb film about the thoughts and feelings of the era, the whole festering, spirited animus of it.\" Rex Reed called it that year's \"best film at the Cannes Film Festival\" and stated that \"[t]his is the only film I have ever seen that sweeps away the gauze surrounding Vietnam and tells the truth.\" World Movies, the Australian subscription TV channel, included \"Hearts and Minds\" in its 2007 series of \"25 Docs You Must See Before You Die\".\n\nOther reviewers have criticized the movie for its biased presentation. Roger Ebert for the \"Chicago Sun Times\" wrote: \"Here is a documentary about Vietnam that doesn't really level with us ... If we know something about how footage is obtained and how editing can make points, it sometimes looks like propaganda ... And yet, in scene after scene, the raw material itself is so devastating that it brushes the tricks aside.\"\nWalter Goodman of \"The New York Times\" in an article titled \"False Art of the Propaganda Film\", pointed out Davis' technique of showing only one side of the interview, pointing out that Walt Rostow's response may have been in response to \"some provocation, a gesture, a facial expression, a turn of phrase\" from his interrogator. To this criticism, actress Shirley MacLaine responded, \"[Mr. Goodman] displays the very deception and distortion that is usually associated with the pejorative meaning of propaganda. For example, Mr. Goodman starts out by claiming that in most countries, propaganda is a monopoly of the state, but that in the United States the most notable examples of propaganda 'come from the state's adversaries.' This is ridiculous. In America, the state spends millions of dollars every year on propaganda.\"\n\nDavid Dugas of United Press International, in a 1975 review printed in \"Pacific Stars and Stripes\", saw that \"Davis' approach clearly is one-sided and is not likely to impress Vietnam hawks. But his film is brilliantly assembled, biting and informative.\"\n\nColin Jacobson wrote in his review of the movie for the DVD Movie Guide: \"Probably the biggest criticism one can level at [Hearts and Minds] stems from its editorial bent. Without question, it takes the anti-war side of things, and one could argue it goes for a pro-Vietnamese bent as well...In the end, Hearts and Minds remains a flawed film that simply seems too one-sided for its own good.\" In his review, David Ng of the online \"Images: A Journal of Film and Popular Culture\" wrote: \"The documentary is clearly anti-war in both tone and content.\" M. Joseph Sobran, Jr. of the conservative magazine \"National Review\", wrote: \"... blatant piece of propaganda ... disingenuously one-sided ...\" and goes on to show the cinematic techniques used by the producers to achieve this effect. Stefan Kanfer of \"Time\" magazine notes that \"Throughout, Hearts and Minds displays more than enough heart. It is mind that is missing. Perhaps the deepest flaw lies in the method: the Viet Nam War is too convoluted, too devious to be examined in a style of compilation without comment.\"\n\nMichael Moore has cited \"Hearts and Minds\" as the one film that inspired him to become a filmmaker, calling it \"not only the best documentary I have ever seen...it may be the best movie ever\". Many of the cinematic techniques used in \"Hearts and Minds\" are similar to Moore's 2004 documentary \"Fahrenheit 9/11\".\n\nAfter Columbia Pictures refused to distribute the picture, producer Bert Schneider went to Henry Jaglom and Howard Zuker to purchase back the rights and released the film in March 1975 through Warner Bros. A planned December 18, 1974 opening in Los Angeles, California was canceled after the production company had been unable to pay the $1 million needed to buy the rights from Columbia Pictures. Thanks to Howard Zuker, the film was ultimately shown in Los Angeles for the one week it needed to be eligible for consideration in the 1974 Academy Awards.\n\nDuring his acceptance of the Academy Award ceremonies on April 8, 1975, co-producer Bert Schneider said, \"It's ironic that we're here at a time just before Vietnam is about to be liberated\" and then read a telegram containing \"Greetings of Friendship to all American People\" from Ambassador Dinh Ba Thi of the Provisional Revolutionary Government (Viet Cong) delegation to the Paris Peace Accords. The telegram thanked the anti-war movement \"for all they have done on behalf of peace\". Frank Sinatra responded later by reading a letter from Bob Hope, another presenter on the show, \"The academy is saying, 'We are not responsible for any political references made on the program, and we are sorry they had to take place this evening.'\"\n\nThe Academy Film Archive preserved \"Hearts and Minds\" in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828339", "title": "Indonesia at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Indonesia at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nIndonesia competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\nThe following is the list of number of competitors participating in the Games:\nIndonesia's archers had only one victory in the archery competition. Nurfitriyana Lantang advanced to the second round before being defeated.\n\nMen's singles\n\nWomen's singles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828341", "title": "Mongolia at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mongolia at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nMongolia competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\n\nIn the sixth time they competed in archery at the Olympics, Mongolia again entered only one woman. She lost in the first round of elimination.\n\nWomen's Individual Competition:\n\nMen's Discus Throw \n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\n"}
{"id": "1828343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828343", "title": "Blackford High School", "text": "Blackford High School\n\nBlackford High School may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828347", "title": "Hungary at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Hungary at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nHungary competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 212 competitors, 147 men and 65 women, took part in 145 events in 24 sports.\n\n\n\n\nHungary's two veterans in Atlanta were both defeated in the first round.\n\nWomen's Individual Competition:\n\nMen's 400 m Hurdles\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nMen's Triple Jump\n\nMen's Discus Throw \n\nMen's Hammer Throw \n\n\n\nMen's Decathlon \n\nWomen's Heptathlon \n\nWomen's Long Jump \n\n\nWomen's Triple Jump\n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nWomen's 10 km Walk\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's 3m Springboard\n\nWomen's 3m Springboard\n\nFifteen fencers, nine men and six women, represented Hungary in 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMen's Individual Competition:\n\nMen's Laser sailing\n\nMen's 100 m Freestyle\n\n\nMen's 200 m Freestyle\n\n\nMen's 400 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\n\nMen's 200 m Breaststroke\n\n\nMen's 100 m Butterfly\nMen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\n\nMen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n\nWomen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 800 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n\nMen's Singles Competition\n\nWomen's Singles Competition\n\n\n\n\nMen\n"}
{"id": "1828349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828349", "title": "National Railways of Zimbabwe", "text": "National Railways of Zimbabwe\n\nThe National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) is the parastatal railway of Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia). The Zimbabwean railway system was largely constructed during the time of British colonial rule and was called Rhodesia Railways (RR) until 1980. Segments of its systems were intended to be part of the Cape to Cairo Railway.\n\nIn the colonial era, Rhodesia Railways was the state railway operator in both Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) and Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). Although Zambia gained independence in 1964, it was not until 1967 that Rhodesia Railways surrendered the of route and 80–90 locomotives to Zambia Railways.\n\nRhodesia Railways was a heavy user of the Garratt locomotive. In June 1976, 100 of its 109 steam locomotives were Garratts. For operational purposes, Rhodesia Railways was divided into two areas: those lines north-east of Gwelo (now Gweru) fell into the Eastern Area, with all other lines in the Southern Area.\n\nNRZ operates about of railway lines, all of providing passenger and freight services. The gauge is standard for all of southern Africa. NRZ has an important transit function in the southern part of Africa and is well linked with neighboring countries: toward the north, at Victoria Falls the system links to the Zambia Railways, crossing the Victoria Falls Bridge. Toward the Indian ocean the system links to the Beira Railroad Corporation in Mozambique. A second line toward Mozambique reaches Maputo. To the west, a connecting line link ups to Botswana Railways to reach South Africa, eventually reaching Durban and Cape Town. A direct line to South Africa from Bulawayo was opened in 1999 by the Beitbridge Bulawayo Railway. The Gweru-Harare section is electrified at 25 kV AC. The section was extensively vandalised and the copper cables stolen. The line is no longer functional.\n\nSteam locomotives are still used in Zimbabwe; they have proven so popular with tourists that there are plans to refurbish several more steam locomotives. However, funding is constrained, and diesel-hauled freight transport is a higher priority.\n\nThe NRZ has also suffered from the general decline of the country's economy. Neglect of maintenance, lacking spare parts and overdue replacement of equipment have led to a situation were only part of the railway net is in good condition and equipment problems have led to reduced service. Steam locomotives have been reintroduced since 2004 as coal is in relatively good supply, while diesel must be imported and electricity shortages are common. Further, the company is seriously indebted, making it impossible to solve this situation without external help. Goods transport has declined, from 18 million tonnes in 1998 to 2 million tonnes in 2010.\n\nMore than 80 companies attended a compulsory pre-bid conference for the Framework to Recapitalise the National Railways of Zimbabwe held on 30 May 2017 in response to a Request for Proposals floated by the organisation in national, regional and international newspapers.\n\nFifty of the companies at the pre-bid conference held in Bulawayo were from Zimbabwe, 18 from South Africa and eight from China. The rest were from the United Kingdom, Malaysia, India, Belgium and Dubai.\n\nThe Government of Zimbabwe in April approved the Framework to Recapitalise the National Railways of Zimbabwe at a cost of more than US$400 million after the NRZ engaged chartered accountancy firm, Deloitte and Touche as its Transaction Advisor to assist in raising money to recapitalise its operations.\n\nAfter the pre-bid conference, a voluntary due diligence inspection of NRZ assets was organised for interested investors from 6 to 9 June. Over 10 companies took up the offer and spent four days visiting NRZ facilities.\n\nThe potential investors visited NRZ installations in Bulawayo, Sawmills, Dete and Gweru to understand more about the organisation's operations before submitting their tender documents. Senior NRZ officials answered questions and queries from the potential investors.\n\nThe due diligence inspection started with a visit to the hub of NRZ maintenance work, the Bulawayo Mechanical Workshops, which boasts the largest factory space in Zimbabwe. This is where locomotives and wagons are repaired and refurbished.\n\nThe potential investors were also taken on a tour of the Central Mechanical Workshops, Mpopoma Diesel Running Maintenance depots and Mpopoma Repair Siding. Also visited were the Central Maintenance Vehicles Workshop, the Bridge and Structural Workshop and the Materials Yard. These facilities are in Bulawayo, the headquarters of the NRZ.\n\nThe investors were taken on a special train to Dete, with stops at Sawmills to see areas which they may be interested in investing in, including a re-railing (laying of new rail) project on a section of the north corridor rail and the Centralised Train Control System at Sawmills. They also assessed assets at Dabuka Marshalling Yards near Gweru where they inspected the track condition and the electrified section.\n\nThe tendering process closed on 4 July at 10 am. Six companies successfully submitted their bids to the State Procurement Board (SPB). \nThe six companies are from China, Malaysia, South Africa, Switzerland and Zimbabwe. They are Sino Hydro, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, SMH Rail, Transnet Freight Rail, Diaspora Infrastructure Development Group (DGIG) which is a consortium between Transnet and Zimbabweans in South Africa, Crowe Horwath and Croyeaux Limited.\n\nThe next step is the adjudication process of the six bidders, where the best bidder as per the proposals will be selected and chosen for the project.\n\nThe recapitalisation of the NRZ was initiated to restore the organisation's operational capacity and return it to profitability. The NRZ system, at one time, had the capacity to carry over 18 million tonnes of freight annually but a general decline in the economy and the organisation's reduced operational capacity have seen freight volumes fall to 12.4 million tonnes in 1998 and 2.7 million tonnes in 2016.\n\nThe NRZ has a fleet of 168 locomotives, with 60 locos in service and more than 7,000 wagons of which 3,512 are in use.\n\nThe recapitalisation project will involve the rehabilitation and renewal of plant, equipment, rolling stock, track, signalling and telecommunication infrastructure and the supporting information technology systems.\n\n\nThe Zimbabwe National Railways Museum is in Bulawayo; it has a selection of locomotives, railway carriages and other interesting things. One of the exhibits is a Rhodesia Railways class DE2 diesel locomotive.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828359", "title": "Jorge Negrete", "text": "Jorge Negrete\n\nJorge Alberto Negrete Moreno (; 30 November 1911 – 5 December 1953) was a Mexican singer and actor.\n\nNegrete was born in the city of Guanajuato and had two brothers and three sisters; his father was a Mexican Army Colonel who fought with the Revolutionary faction called Northern Division (\"División del Norte\"); however, around 1920, he quit his military career and moved with his family to Mexico City. There he found a job as a math teacher in several institutions, such as the German College \"Alexander Von Humboldt\"; there his sons David and Jorge studied until middle school, and as a result, they became fluent in the German language. Jorge Negrete learned other languages at the \"Heroico Colegio Militar\" (military academy of Mexico): English, French, and Italian. From an early age, Negrete demonstrated great brilliance and rapidly became a prominent student in the eyes of his teachers.\n\nAt the age of thirteen, because of misbehavior, his father David decided to enroll him in the military. He graduated with the rank of sub-lieutenant from \"El Colegio Militar.\" This was the place where his fascination for music developed. Not only did he develop an interest for music but his military training forged him a gallant presence and character which would later benefit him in his acting career. Negrete met and studied under José Pierson, a prestigious singing professor, who became fascinated the moment he heard Negrete sing. Pierson helped Negrete develop his talent for opera and at the age of twenty Negrete began to sing for Radio XETR.\n\nJorge went to the United States and in 1932 recorded several operas using the stage-name Alberto Moreno. He collaborated with Xavier Cugat, earned bookings at Latin clubs, met his first wife (dancer Elisa Christy), and connected with cinematographer Ramón Peon, who cast Negrete in his first film, \"La Madrina del Diablo\" (1937) (English: \"The Devil's Godmother\"). He went on to make 37 other films.\n\nHandsome, with a very strong will and a trained, fascinating voice, he is still a top icon in Mexico, Spain, and Latin America, more than 50 years after his death. His rendition of \"México Lindo y Querido\" (\"Beautiful and Beloved México\"), his country's unofficial anthem, is the best-known recording of the song. His career is often compared to that of Pedro Infante, another of the most popular Mexican actors from that time. The public rivalry didn't carry over to their private lives, as they were close friends until Negrete's death.\n\nHe had two marriages, both to famous actresses with whom he shared credits: Elisa Christy and María Félix. He also lived with his frequent co-star, for more than ten years. Gloria Marín co-starred in 10 out of his 44 films.\n\nHe started his career singing on the radio in 1931 in Mexico City singing operatic parts. In 1936 he signed with NBC Television for a TV program with Cuban and Mexican musicians. He returned to Mexico in 1937 to act in the film \"La Madrina Del Diablo\" (\"The Devil's Godmother\") and because of the success of the film he was able to sign for several more the next three years. In 1938 he starred in \"La Valentina\" with Elisa Christy and then in \"Juntos Pero No Revueltos\".\n\nAfter working in Havana and Hollywood, Negrete was called to act in \"¡Ay Jalisco, No Te Rajes!\" (\"Hey Jalisco, Don’t Back Down!\") which made him an international Latin star and helped formulate the \"charro\" film genre. During filming he met Gloria Marín, starting their romance and the string of films they filmed together. He complemented his film career by singing rancheras with the trio Los Tres Calaveras and touring Latin America, singing at concerts and making personal appearances. He was offered the main role in \"El Peñón de las Ánimas\" (\"The Rock of Souls\") and wanted Marín to be his co-star. In spite of his protests, newcomer María Félix became his star and eventually his wife, although they at first despised each other while filming.\n\nNegrete was one of the founders, and the most important leaders, of the Mexican Actors Association, succeeding Cantinflas as its chairman. In 1952, actress Leticia Palma became involved in the struggle between Cantinflas and Negrete over leadership of the union, with Palma campaigning actively for Cantinflas.\n\nOn January 2, 1953, Palma was \"rescued\" by Major Manuel González, who helped her get a taxi to safety while she was being pursued by an angry mob. The mob was led by Negrete, who was after Palma for having stolen documents regarding her contract violations. Palma filed assault charges on Negrete.\n\nEight days later, ANDA held a special assembly to judge Palma. Cantinflas argued on her behalf, attempting to negotiate a settlement. Negrete would allow nothing less than her expulsion from the union, and Palma likewise refused to withdraw the charge of assault. Just before the vote, a number of actresses left the room in protest. The remaining members voted in favor of expulsion, thus ending Palma's film career.\n\nIn 1953, during a business trip to Los Angeles, Negrete died of complications of hepatic cirrhosis, a disease that he suffered since 1937. According to his wishes, his body was flown back to, and buried in, Mexico City. He was forty-two years old.\n\nHe was the first to die of the \"Tres Gallos Mexicanos\", or \"Three Mexican Roosters\" (as he, Pedro Infante and Javier Solís, a younger star, were called; the three died within a span of 13 years).\n\nThousands of fans attended his funeral and followed the hearse to the cemetery, El Panteón Jardín, where he was buried in the actors' corner. On December 5, the anniversary of his death, fans still pay tribute to \"El Charro Cantor\" (\"Singing Cowboy\") at his tomb, and television and radio stations stage marathons of his films and songs.\n\nThe centennial of his birth was commemorated in 2011. Several tribute concerts and presentations took place throughout Mexico and some European countries with Hispanic culture and heritage.\n\nNegrete's parents were Emilia Moreno Anaya and David Negrete Fernández. He descended from outstanding Mexican liberal military men, including Miguel Negrete, who participated in the Battle of Puebla. His siblings were named Consuelo, Emilia, Teresa, David and Rubén.\n\nElisa Christy gave birth to his daughter Diana (his only child), Jorge has five grandchildren, Déborah, Diana, Rafael, Liliana and Lorenzo. Rafael and Lorenzo are professional singers and use the Negrete last name for their artistic name.\n\nHis stepson was actor Enrique Álvarez Félix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828362", "title": "Georgia at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Georgia at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nGeorgia competed in the Summer Olympic Games as an independent nation for the first time at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. Previously, Georgian athletes competed for the Unified Team at the 1992 Summer Olympics. 34 competitors, 27 men and 7 women, took part in 39 events in 13 sports.\n\n\nIn its debut Olympic archery competition, Georgia sent only Unified Team-era veteran archer and quarterfinalist Khatouna Kurivichvili. In Atlanta, she was defeated in the first round.\n\nWomen's Individual Competition:\n\nWomen's Shot Put \n\nMen's Lightweight (60 kg)\n\nMen's Light Welterweight (63,5 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (67 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (75 kg)\n\nMen's Heavyweight (91 kg)\n\nWomen's 3m Springboard\n— 191.49 (→ did not advance, 28th place)\n\nOne male fencer represented Georgia in 1996.\n\n\nMen's extra-lightweight (60 kg)\n\nMen's half-lightweight (65 kg)\n\nMen's lightweight (71 kg)\n\nMen's half-middleweight (78 kg)\n\nMen's middleweight (86 kg)\n\nMen's half-heavyweight (95 kg)\n\nMen's heavyweight (+95 kg)\n\nMen's Individual Competition\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight\n"}
{"id": "1828363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828363", "title": "Adam Hamilton", "text": "Adam Hamilton\n\nAdam Hamilton (20 August 1880 – 29 April 1952) was a New Zealand politician. He was the first non-interim Leader of the National Party during its early years in Opposition.\n\nHamilton was born in Forest Hill, near Winton, Southland. He originally trained to become a Presbyterian minister, but later decided not to pursue this course. He married Mary Ann McDonald in 1913, and in 1914, he and his brother John Ronald Hamilton started a grain business in Winton. In World War I, he was rejected for service on medical grounds.\n\nIn the 1919 election, Hamilton was elected to Parliament in the Southland seat of Wallace, standing as a Reform Party candidate. His brother John Ronald Hamilton was also elected, winning the neighbouring seat of Awarua from Joseph Ward. The brothers then sold their business, although Adam Hamilton remained active in the Southland agricultural sector. In the 1922 election, the brothers were both defeated, but they regained their seats in the 1925 election. Adam Hamilton retained his seat until his retirement, although his brother was defeated again in 1928.\n\nWhen the Reform Party formed a coalition with the United Party, Hamilton was made Minister of Internal Affairs. He also served, at various times, as Minister of Telegraphs, Postmaster General, Minister of Labour, and Minister of Employment. He was not popular in these roles – Great Depression had resulted in high levels of unemployment, and Hamilton was often criticised for the government's failure to improve the situation. He was also criticised when the Post and Telegraph Department jammed a pro-Labour broadcast on a private radio station by Colin Scrimgeour just before the 1935 general election. Hamilton denied knowledge of the jamming, but his reputation was nevertheless damaged.\n\nIn 1935, Hamilton was awarded the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal. Having served as a member of the Executive Council for more than three years, Hamilton was granted the retention of the title of \"Honourable\" following the 1935 election.\n\nIn 1936, after losing power to the Labour Party, Reform and United agreed to merge, creating the National Party. Despite his somewhat tarnished public image, Hamilton was selected to lead the new party, taking over from interim leader George Forbes. Hamilton was essentially a compromise candidate – Forbes and his main opponent, Gordon Coates, refused to serve under each other, and the Coates faction backed Hamilton as an acceptable alternative. George Forbes himself is believed to have preferred Charles Wilkinson, but Coates (formerly the leader of Reform) was determined to have a fellow Reformist as leader. Hamilton was duly elected, although only by one vote.\n\nGiven the narrowness of his victory, many did not see Hamilton as the National Party's real leader. He was frequently accused by being a puppet of Coates, with suggestions even being made that Hamilton was merely holding the position until Coates built up the strength to take it himself. Hamilton was not particularly charismatic, and did not inspire great loyalty from his colleagues. He was also closely associated in the public mind with the Depression era.\n\nIn the 1938 election, Hamilton and the National Party were harshly critical of the Labour government, accusing it of promoting communism and of undermining the British Empire. The campaign was seen by many as alarmist and negative, and Hamilton's own performance was widely censured. On election day, National was heavily defeated.\n\nThe National Party's defeat weakened Hamilton's grasp on the leadership somewhat, but any debate as to his future was cut short by the onset of World War II. In 1940, Hamilton suggested that Labour and National should form a wartime coalition, but this was rejected by Labour leader Peter Fraser. Fraser did, however, agree to establish a six-person \"War Cabinet\". This cabinet would control New Zealand's military endeavours, while leaving domestic concerns to the regular cabinet. The War Cabinet would consist of four Labour MPs and two National MPs. Hamilton and Coates were National's two representatives. Participation in the War Cabinet was fatally damaging to Hamilton's leadership of the National Party, however, as many National MPs argued that he could not be party leader while serving on a Labour-led council. On 25 November, a vote of 13 to 8 replaced Hamilton with Sidney Holland.\n\nHamilton remained a part of the War Cabinet, and was eventually joined by Holland (despite the original claims that a National Party leader could not be in Cabinet). In 1942, however, National withdrew from all co-operation with the Labour Party. Hamilton, along with Gordon Coates, protested against this move, and ceased attending National caucus meetings. Both Hamilton and Coates then rejoined the war administration despite condemnation from their party colleagues.\n\nEventually, Hamilton managed to bring about a rapprochement with the National Party, unlike Coates who became an independent, and he contested the 1943 election as a National candidate. He did not seek re-election in the 1946 election, choosing to retire from politics.\n\nHamilton died in Invercargill on 29 April 1952.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828366", "title": "Hearts and Minds (Vietnam War)", "text": "Hearts and Minds (Vietnam War)\n\nHearts and Minds (Vietnam) or winning hearts and minds refers to the strategy and programs used by the governments of Vietnam and the United States during the Vietnam War to win the popular support of the Vietnamese people and to help defeat the Viet Cong insurgency. Pacification is the more formal term for winning hearts and minds. In this case, however, it was also defined as the process of countering the insurgency. Military, political, economic, and social means were used to attempt to establish or reestablish South Vietnamese government control over rural areas and people under the influence of the Viet Cong. Some progress was made in the 1967–1971 period by the joint military-civilian organization called CORDS, but the character of the war changed from an insurgency to a conventional war between the armies of South and North Vietnam. North Vietnam won in 1975.\n\nPacification or hearts and minds objectives were often in diametric opposition to the strategy of firepower, mobility, and attrition pursued by the U.S. from 1965 to 1968. Rather than the search and destroy strategy the U.S. followed during those years, hearts and minds had the priority of \"hold and protect\" the rural population and thereby gain its support for the government of South Vietnam.\n\nThe phrase \"hearts and minds\" was first used in the context of counter-insurgency warfare by British General Gerald Templer in February 1952. Speaking of the conflict known as the Malayan Emergency, Templer said that victory in the war \"lies not in pouring more soldiers into the jungle, but in the hearts and minds of the Malayan people.\" The British in Malaysia, in addition to military actions against the communist guerrillas undertook a number of social and economic programs to protect the populace, isolate the rural population to reduce their supply and support of the insurgents, gather intelligence about the insurgents' organization and plans, and ensure that government services were provided to rural dwellers.\n\nBritish action and policy in defeating the Malayan counter-insurgency became a paradigm for future struggles with insurgents, including the U.S. war in Vietnam. Critics have stated that the Malayan emergency was much simpler to combat than many insurgencies and that the impact of hearts and minds programs has often been over-stated.\n\nThe nationalist President of South Vietnam, Ngo Dinh Diem, instituted a number of programs designed to halt the growing influence of the Viet Cong in the countryside. In 1959, Diem created the Agroville program which had the objective of moving peasants into fortified villages. The program failed due to the coercive and disruptive aspects of moving peasants from their homes and requiring them to construct new ones under the supervision of government officials. The Viet Cong harassed the agrovilles with terrorism and assassinations\n\nIn 1961, the Diem government created the Strategic Hamlet Program, which differed from the Agrovilles in its emphasis on self-defense by the peasants in their fortified villages. The program in theory would prevent Viet Cong attacks by stationing South Vietnamese army (ARVN) units near the hamlets to respond quickly to threats. The strategic hamlet program was intended to gain support among the people for the government and to raise their standard of living. The program was implemented too rapidly and without popular support and many or most hamlets fell under Viet Cong control. The Strategic Hamlet Program effectively ended in November 1963 when the Diem government was overthrown by the army and Diem was killed. Most of the hamlets were subsequently abandoned and peasants moved back to their old homes.\n\nThe Strategic Hamlet Program highlighted the schism in U.S. policy that would continue throughout the Vietnam War. General Lionel C. McGarr, head of the Military Assistance Advisory Group (MAAG) in Vietnam objected to the program because it would create a static defense and tie down units of the ARVN. Conversely, the American Embassy believed that the mobile search and destroy missions by the ARVN as advocated by MAAG were only a preliminary measure to overcome the increasing Viet Cong control of the countryside.\n\nDiem's government created two other hearts and minds programs. The Chieu Hoi program encouraged defections from the Viet Cong. Diem also bolstered the South Vietnamese police and intelligence agencies to disrupt the Viet Cong infrastructure by capturing, killing, or arresting key Viet Cong operatives.\n\nThe U.S. provided assistance for the operation of all these programs, but they were primarily the creation of the South Vietnamese.\n\nKennedy was already imbued with the philosophy of counter-insurgency when he took office as President in January 1961.\nHe quickly expanded the Army's special forces, but army leadership was reluctant to endorse Kennedy's vision of combined military, economic, and social action to defeat the Viet Cong insurgency. General George Decker reportedly told Kennedy that \"any good soldier can handle guerrillas\" and the Army placed a priority on strengthening the ARVN rather than the police, militia, and para-military forces. Pacification or hearts and minds programs were only a minor factor contributing to the steady increase of U.S. advisers and other military personnel in Vietnam. The U.S. military command was optimistic that the assistance given to the South Vietnamese army was bearing fruit. The first commander of the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV) Paul D. Harkins, a proponent of conventional warfare, predicted that \"the military phase of the war can be virtually won in 1963.\"\n\nKennedy was assassinated in November 1963, three weeks after the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem. Kennedy adviser Roger Hilsman stated that \"The Kennedy administration had developed a concept for fighting guerrilla warfare, an idea for a political program into which military measures were meshed, but we had failed so far to convince the Diem regime or even the top levels of the Pentagon to give it a fair trial.\"\n\nNew governments in Washington and Saigon created new pacification programs in 1964 as it became clear that, contrary to the U.S.'s optimism of 1963, the Viet Cong were steadily taking control of more territory and more people. British counter-insurgency expert Robert Grainger Ker Thompson said that the government's survival was at stake. Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara said in May 1964 that he could not understand \"how the Viet Cong continually attacked and overran hamlets that the government and MACV listed as secure.\"\n\nThe next iteration of the pacification program came in 1964 with, for the first time, the direct participation in planning and execution by the American Embassy and MAC/V, now headed by General William Westmoreland. The \"Chien Thang\" (Struggle for Victory) pacification program was less ambitious than the Strategic Hamlet program, envisioning a gradual expansion, like an \"oil spot\" from government-controlled to communist controlled areas, by providing security and services to rural areas. Along with the Chien Thang program was the related \"Hop Tac\" (Victory) program, directly involving the U.S. military in pacification for the first time. Hop Tac envisioned a gradual expansion outward from Saigon of areas under South Vietnamese government control. These programs also failed as the South Vietnamese army was unable to provide adequate security to rural residents in disputed areas.\n\nIn 1965, with the government of South Vietnam failing, the U.S. became directly involved in the war with a large infusion of American combat troops. Pacification programs took a back seat to Westmoreland's strategy of attrition—attempting to kill Viet Cong and an increasing number of North Vietnamese Army troops with search and destroy missions that utilized U.S. advantages in mobility and firepower. To defeat the Viet Cong, Westmoreland expressed his strategy in one word: \"Firepower.\"\n\nDoubts about the wisdom of the attrition strategy were expressed by many U.S. officials and military officers. A 1966 internal army study led by General Creighton Abrams concluded that pacification should be the main priority of the U.S. in Vietnam and that the U.S. Ambassador should have \"unequivocal authority\" over all U.S. activities, including military, in Vietnam. Westmoreland succeeded in squashing any implementation of the recommendations in the study.\n\nThe growing American military presence in 1965 prevented an outright military victory by the Viet Cong and the increasingly present North Vietnamese army. General Nguyen Duc Thang led government pacification programs, creating the Revolutionary Development Cadre of young people recruited to serve in teams in the rural areas to improve both security and government services. The numbers of revolutionary cadre reached 21,000 in 1967 but desertions and those killed by the Viet Cong were high. The local defense forces, called the Regional Force and the Popular Force were expanded in numbers from about 200,000 to 300,000 members in 1966. The Ruff-Puffs, as they were called by Americans, were responsible for maintaining security in villages under government control. Their casualties during the war exceeded those of the ARVN.\n\nPresident Lyndon Johnson shared President Kennedy's conviction that pacification was important in the Vietnam war. In February 1966, Johnson at a meeting with South Vietnamese and American leaders in Hawaii attempted to \"get the gospel of pacification carved into the hearts and minds of all concerned.\" That signaled the beginning of a renewed effort by the U.S. to win hearts and minds in South Vietnam.\n\nReferring to Vietnam, President Johnson used some version of the phrase \"hearts and minds\" a total of 28 times. In ten of these instances, Johnson inverted the words and used the phrase \"minds and hearts.\" The first time he used the phrase in his presidency was on 16 January 1964, and the last time was 19 August 1968. In his usage he addressed very different audiences, including heads of state, congressmen, and the American people. Also, Johnson referred to the \"hearts and minds\" of disparate groups, including the above-mentioned audiences and even humanity as a whole. His use of the phrase is most commonly taken from the speech \"Remarks at a Dinner Meeting of the Texas Electric Cooperatives, Inc.\" on 4 May 1965. On that evening he said, \"So we must be ready to fight in Vietnam, but the ultimate victory will depend upon the hearts and the minds of the people who actually live out there. By helping to bring them hope and electricity you are also striking a very important blow for the cause of freedom throughout the world.\"\n\nJohnson’s use of the phrase is most likely based on a quote of John Adams, the American Revolutionary War patriot and second president of the United States, who wrote in a letter dated 13 February 1818: \"The Revolution was effected before the War commenced. The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people; a change in their religious sentiments of their duties and obligations... This radical change in the principles, opinions, sentiments, and affections of the people, was the real American Revolution\". There was however an earlier use of the phrase, albeit rarely acknowledged in this context. John Adams was an educated man who had gone to Harvard and graduated in 1755 with an A.B., and in 1758 with an A.M., what are today known as Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts respectively. It is therefore a reasonable assumption to believe that he was familiar with Shakespeare's use of the term as part of Mark Antony's speech to the crowd, just after Brutus's. Mark Antony says thus: \"O masters, if I were disposed to stir your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage...\"\n\nIn 1966, Johnson appointed CIA official and National Security Council member Robert W. Komer (\"Blowtorch Bob\") as his special assistant for supervising pacification in South Vietnam. Komer's challenge was to unite the U.S government agencies—the military, Department of State, CIA, and the Agency for International Development— involved in pacification projects. Komer recommended the responsibility for pacification be vested in MAC/V, headed by General Westmoreland, through a civilian deputy who would head the U.S. pacification effort commanding both U.S. military and civilian personnel. Although his proposal was unpopular in all the agencies, Komer, with the support of Johnson, pressed forward. As a halfway measure the Office of Civil Operations (OCO) was set up with civilian leadership in November 1966 to coordinate all civilian pacification programs. OCO failed but strengthened Komer and Johnson's view that MAC/V leadership of the pacification program was essential.\n\nKomer argued that the pacification success desired by President Johnson could only be achieved by integrating three tasks. The first and most basic requirement for pacification had to be security, because the rural population had to be kept isolated from the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese army. If this was to be achieved, the insurgents had to be weakened both by destroying their infrastructure among the rural population and by developing programs to win their hearts and minds and gain support or at least toleration of the South Vietnamese government and the U.S. military forces. The third point emphasized by Komer was that the new strategy had to be applied on a large scale in order to turn around what had been up until then a war in which the insurgents held the initiative.\n\nOrganizationally, in Komer's view, the pacification goals required that efforts be concentrated under a single command. He believed that only the U.S. military had the resources and personnel to implement a large-scale pacification plan. After initial reservations, Westmoreland agreed with the plan, but civilian agencies still balked. They feared being marginalized and overwhelmed by the U.S. military with its much larger number of personnel and greater resources. Johnson overruled them and on 9 May 1967, the Civil Operations and Revolutionary Development Support organization (CORDS) was created. Komer was appointed one of Westmoreland's three deputy commanders with the title of Ambassador and the equivalent rank of a three-star general. This was the first time in U.S. history that an ambassador had served under a military command and been given authority over military personnel and resources.\n\nKomer chose a military officer as his deputy and repeated the pattern of having either a civilian in charge of every component of CORDS with a military deputy or, alternatively, a military commander with a civilian deputy. He consolidated all the diverse pacification and civil affairs programs in Vietnam—military and civilian—under the authority of CORDS. Starting with a staff of 4,980, CORDS expanded to 8,327 personnel in the first six months of its operation. In 1968 CORDS was working in all 44 provinces and eventually was functioning in all 250 districts of Vietnam. About 85 percent of CORDS personnel were military, the remainder civilians. Each province was headed by a Vietnamese province chief, usually a colonel, who was supported by an American provincial senior adviser. The adviser’s staff was divided into a civilian part which supervised area and community development and a military part which handled security issues.\n\nOn January 24, 1968, Komer warned that \"something is in the wind.\" Seven days later the Tet Offensive was launched by the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese army. Tet weakened the Saigon government's presence in the countryside which had been aided by CORDS. The Regional and Popular Forces abandoned the countryside in some areas to defend cities and towns, suffering more than 6,500 casualties, including desertions. Tet was a psychological and strategic defeat for South Vietnam and its American ally, but by resulting in heavy Viet Cong casualties facilitated an early return to the countryside by South Vietnamese authorities and CORDS. Project Recovery distributed food and construction material to rural dwellers and involved CORDS in reconstruction efforts in the cities and towns. By May 1968, the rural population living in \"relatively secure\" hamlets had returned to pre-Tet levels of 67 percent.\n\nA new U.S. team in Vietnam promoted expanded hearts and minds programs. Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker supported pacification programs; General Creighton Abrams replaced Westmoreland as MACV commander; and William Colby replaced Komer as Abrams' deputy commander for pacification.\n\nAbrams called his strategy for prosecuting the war the \"one war concept.\" In Abrams' words, the U.S. would focus \"upon protecting the population so that the civil government can establish its authority as opposed to an earlier conception of the purpose of war – destruction of the enemy's forces.\" Abrams' one war concept encountered opposition from U.S. army generals in Vietnam and in Washington and he was unable to effect all the changes in U.S. military strategy he proposed. Abrams' push for the adoption of his plan was overtaken by events as the U.S. military began withdrawing in 1969, but the government of South Vietnam adopted many elements of his plan.\n\nWith Abrams' and Bunker's support, and aided by the casualties the Viet Cong suffered in 1968, CORDS commander Colby reported substantial progress in pacification from 1969 to 1972. U.S. resources devoted to pacification increased dramatically and by early 1970, CORDS reported that 93 percent of rural dwellers in Vietnam lived in \"relatively secure villages.\" North Vietnamese documents suggest that one reason for the 1972 North Vietnamese offensive was to reverse the progress made in pacification. CORDS, and U.S. participation in hearts and minds programs, effectively ended after the withdrawal from Vietnam of the last U.S. ground forces in August 1972.\n\nThe success of hearts and minds programs in Vietnam was ambiguous in the words of Richard A. Hunt in his book \"Pacification\". The high-level officials in the CORDS program claimed large successes. Some historians, however, maintain that pacification programs failed to dislodge the Viet Cong from their position of strength in the countryside.\n\nAfter a long history of failed pacification programs, the successes reported for CORDS in the 1968–1972 period were partially attributable to the heavy casualties the Viet Cong suffered during the Tet Offensive and subsequent actions in 1968. The number of Viet Cong guerrillas is estimated to have been reduced from 77,000 in 1968 before Tet to 25,000 in 1972 and the Viet Cong infrastructure from 84,000 to 56,000. However, although the number of battalion-size battles declined, the number of small unit actions by the Viet Cong nearly doubled during the same time period, illustrating the impact of hearts and minds (as believed by its advocates). In January 1972 Ambassador Bunker warned that the communists would have to \"mount a major military offensive...to prove his public claims that Vietnamization and pacification are failures.\" True to Bunker's prediction, on March 30, 1972, North Vietnam launched its Easter Offensive. Although South Vietnam, with American air support, withstood the offensive, the North Vietnamese army gained control over sizable areas of South Vietnamese territory and displaced more than one million people.\n\nKomer attributed the ultimate failure of hearts and minds programs in South Vietnam to the bureaucratic culture of the United States in addition to the administrative and military shortcomings of the South Vietnamese government. A counter-insurgency strategy for Vietnam was proposed from the earliest days of U.S. involvement in Vietnam, notably by Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, but there was an \"immense gap between policy and performance.\" Early efforts to implement hearts and minds programs in Vietnam were small scale compared to the resources and manpower devoted to fighting a conventional war. Even after the creation of CORDS in 1967, \"pacification remained a small tail to the very large conventional military dog. It was never tried on a large enough scale until too late.\"\n\nKomer also criticized U.S. institutions for relying on conventional tactics and strategy in an unconventional, political war. \"Instead of adapting to the Vietnamese situation, we fought the enemy our way at horrendous costs, and with some tragic side effects, because we lacked much capability to do otherwise... Institutional inertia\" prevailed.\" CIA officer and later CIA Director William Colby said \"The Pentagon had to fight the only war it knew how to fight, and there was no American organization that could fight any other.\"\n\nA negative view about pacification in Vietnam was expressed by Richard Neustadt. \"It was naive to claim that the United States could achieve victory with limited means in a civil war on the Asian mainland. It was equally naive, I think, to assume that we could change or win the hearts and minds of people, democratize a country not remotely under our own control, and thus aim at nationhood through Saigon's government. American military forces and civilian bureaucracies are not finely tuned enough for such assignments.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828368", "title": "Santiago Province, Chile", "text": "Santiago Province, Chile\n\nSantiago Province () is one of the six provinces of the Santiago Metropolitan Region (RM) of central Chile. It encompasses the majority of the population of that region, including 31 of the 36 communities of Greater Santiago. The province spans .\n\nAs a province, Santiago is a second-level administrative division of Chile. Unlike all other provinces of Chile, which are governed by a provincial governor appointed by the president, the duties of provincial governor are instead carried out by the intendant of the Santiago Metropolitan Region who is also appointed by the president. In January 2001, the Provincial Delegation of Santiago was created via a Provincial Delegate, who exercises the functions of a provincial governor on behalf of the intendant.\n\nThe province comprises 32 communes (Spanish: \"comunas\"), each governed by a municipality consisting of an alcalde and municipal council.\nThe climate of the Santiago Province, and generally of the Metropolitan Region is temperate Mediterranean cold, of the kind called \"continental\". Precipitation is concentrated in the winter months, generally as snow over 1000 m above sea level and, in colder years, over the city of Santiago. Winter tends to be cold with frequent frosts during which temperature drops below 0 °C. The summer months are usually dry and hot. The Cordillera de la Costa acts as a climate screen and reduces marine influence, which makes the climate more continental. This situation becomes apparent when comparing precipitation from a coastal location such as Valparaíso (460 mm) with that of Santiago de Chile (360 mm).\n\nThe annual median precipitation reaches 367 mm on average. The annual median temperature comes out to 13.5 °C, with a median high of 21 °C and a median low of 6 °C.\n\nMost of the province is made up of an extremely fertile, level prairie that the locals call \"la Depresión intermedia\" (Intermediate Depression). The terrain is known for its low elevation in relation to sea level and for being surrounded by hills, as well as emergent so-called \"island hills\", such as Santa Lucía (an ancient extinct volcano), Blanco, and Renca, present today in the city of Santiago.\n\nThere is some occurrence of the endangered Chilean Wine Palm, \"Jubaea chilensis\" within the Santiago Province; this iconic tree of central Chile had a much larger range prehistorically, before the decimation of much of its habitat by the expanding human population.\n\nBefore the Iberian conquest, the central zone of Chile was sparsely inhabited by an indigenous population of Picunches, the northern branch of the Mapuches. The European occupation had a considerable impact on the native population and culture, which suffered a rapid and profound disintegration. Chief among the reasons was the Spanish Crown's granting of gifts of land to its colonists. In addition, the institution of a system of \"encomiendas\", only abolished by the end of the 18th century, had irreversible consequences. It represented first the appropriation of indigenous ground, and second the practice of Spaniards receiving groups of natives who had to pay tribute. Over time, in the Province, as in the whole country, cultural identity became predominantly European in character, with minor hints of native character, thus setting in motion a process of homogenization of the population.\n\nAccording to the census of 2002, Santiago Province has 4,668,473 inhabitants, of whom 2,244,497 are male and 2,423,976 female, meaning that the number of males is 92.6% that of females. The population density is the highest in Chile, with 2,999.4 inhabitants/km; the most densely populated \"comuna\" is that of Lo Prado and the most populous is La Florida, a suburb of the capital. In 2002, there were 4,658,687 persons living in urban areas and 9,786 persons living in rural areas, classifying 99.79% of the population as urban. The annual population growth rate is calculated for 2005 as 0.9%. Life expectancy is exactly the Chilean national average, which is the highest national life expectancy in Latin America: 80 years on average, 78 for men and 82 for women. The area has an average household income of $29,062 in PPP US dollars (2000).\n\nThe population tends to be concentrated evenly between the heart of the city and the suburbs, due to government promotion of populating urban centers in high-rise buildings by offering state subsidies, thereby avoiding the progressive extension of Greater Santiago.\"\n\nSantiago Province's economic activity produces about 30% of the country's total income; a high number due to both having the capital of the country within its area and to its central location. The \"primary\" or agricultural sector represents less than 3.5% of the economic activity according to the census, a figure that has remained virtually unchanged during the first few years of the 21st century. The \"secondary\" or industrial sector contributes 21% of the region's GDP. Finally, the tertiary or service sector fluctuates around 76% of regional GDP. This province stands out for its industrial predominance, but most of all, for its service sector. Industry is widely diverse and along with Valparaíso and Biobío regions, it is one of the country's three industrial pillars. Machinery and electronic equipment, leather, food processing, chemical and metallurgical industry are Santiago Province's most important industries. The predominance of the service sector can be explained by the activity from the following industries, among others: electricity, gas, water, construction, commerce, transportation and communication, financial services, housing, education, health, and public administration.\n\nBecause Santiago Province includes the city of Santiago, the network of roads are important elements in the province's transportation system. The principal north-south routes are:\nThe basepoint for numbering the kilometers of the \"Central Highway\", the Chilean portion of the Panamerican Highway is in Santiago Province. This Kilometer Zero falls at the intersection with the Alameda del Libertador Bernardo O'Higgins. The highway, nicknamed \"Norte-Sur\" (\"North-South\"), consists of quality pavement and two- and three-lane roads.\n\nThis route links Santiago with Valparaíso, Viña del Mar, and the summer resorts and beaches in the fifth region of Valparaíso. In addition, it connects the towns of Casablanca and Curacaví. The toll highway, consisting of two- and three-lane sections of well-maintained pavement, extends for 115 kilometers.\n\nThe \"Highway of the Sun\" is a toll road that links Santiago with San Antonio, and from there connects to other coastal towns including Llolleo, Cartagena, El Quisco, and Algarrobo. It also connects to the more central Melipilla, Talagante, El Monte, Padre Hurtado and Peñaflor. Route 78 extends 110 kilometers.\n\nThis 40 kilometer route joins Santiago with the winter resort towns of Farellones and Valle Nevado.\n\nThis route connects Santiago and the province of Puente Alto with Cajón del Maipo. It extends roughly 70 km to its termination in the town of El Volcán.\n\nOther important highways in Santiago province are its network of \"Autopistas Urbanas\" (urban highways). Santiago's first toll roads began to operate near the end of 2004. The tolls for uctronic payment system called \"Televía\" or TAG. Vehicles must carry TAG devices to use the highways.\n\nThe main highways in Santiago province are:\n\nThe province's railroads are a vital form of daily mass transit. They are operated by the state agency EFE. It provides a continuous railroad between the cities of Valparaíso in Valparaíso and Puerto Montt in Los Lagos. The trains of Metrotrén connect the outlying suburbs with the capital. Another important mode of transportation in the city is the Santiago Metro, a subway system. The five train lines carry an average of one million people daily, making the metro one of the leading means of transportation in the entire country. In one year, the metro services over 360 million people. Both the metro and the railroad system are considered the most modern in Latin America. The Transantiago bus system is also important.\n"}
{"id": "1828369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828369", "title": "Puerto Rico at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Puerto Rico at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nPuerto Rico competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 69 competitors, 47 men and 22 women, took part in 60 events in 16 sports.\n\n\nIn the fifth time the nation competed in archery at the Olympics, Puerto Rico entered one woman. She finished in last place.\n\nWomen's Individual Competition:\n\nMen's 400m Hurdles\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's Flyweight (– 51 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Welterweight (– 63,5 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight (– 81 kg)\n\nMen's Points Race\n\nMen's 3m Springboard\n\nWomen's 3m Springboard\n\nOne female fencer represented Puerto Rico in 1996.\n\n\nMen's Extra-Lightweight\n\nMen's Half-Lightweight\n\nMen's Lightweight\n\nMen's Half-Middleweight\n\n\n\nMen's 50m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 100m Butterfly\n\nMen's 200m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 400m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle Relay\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n\nMen's Bantamweight\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1828372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828372", "title": "London Majors", "text": "London Majors\n\nThe London Majors are an independent, minor league baseball team of the Intercounty Baseball League. The team was founded in 1925, and is based in London, Ontario. They play their home games at the 5,200 seat Labatt Memorial Park.\n\nOver the years, the team has also been known at various times as the London Braves (1925), the London Winery (1934-1936), the London Silverwoods (1937, 1938), the London Army Team (1942-1943), the London Majors (1944–1959), London Diamonds (1960–1961), the London Majors (1962), London Pontiacs (1963–1969), the London Avcos (1970–1973) and the London El-Morocco Majors (1974), depending on the team sponsorship of the day. Since 1975, the team has stuck with the London Majors moniker.\n\nIn 1948 London Majors, considered one of the best teams in Intercounty history, not only won the Intercounty League championship, but the Canadian Baseball Congress Championship and the Can-Am North American championship of the National Baseball Congress beating the Fort Wayne, Indiana, General Electrics in a best-of-seven-game series played at Labatt Park, with such London stars as pitcher \"Tireless\" Tommy White, catcher Jack Fairs, short-stop/ fielder Russell (the Muscle) Evon, catcher Gil Robertson, infielder Don Cooper and rookie outfielder Joltin' Joe Bechard (the sole remaining member of the '48 Majors still alive is Jack Fairs). \n\nFort Wayne had gained renown by losing one game in 15 tournaments played during the previous two years.\n\nThe Majors won the opener on September 21, 1948, at Labatt Park when Joe Bechard's single in the 11th inning scored Johnny Lockington from second with the winning run in an 8–7 victory. Three times in the game Bechard had knocked in a run tying the game for London. It was \"the greatest display of clutch hitting ever seen in the local ball yard\", wrote Free Press sports editor Jack Park.\n\nFort Wayne went up 3–2 in the best-of-seven series but London pitcher Tommy White threw a five-hitter and Bechard hit a grand slam in a 13-1 London win in Game 6. White returned to the mound the next day and allowed five hits but blanked the Electrics 5-0 to give London the championship and post his third win of the series.\n\nThe 1948 London Majors team is considered to be one of the best amateur men's baseball teams of all time and were inducted into the London Sports Hall of Fame at Budweiser Gardens in 2002.\n\nAccording to the Intercounty League's 1959 record book, the Majors won the league (playoff) championship series in 1925, 1936, 1937 (as the London Silverwoods), 1943 (as the London Army Team), 1944, 1945, 1947, 1948, 1951, 1956, 1969 (as the London Pontiacs) and 1975 (12 in total). In 1943, 1944 and 1947, the London Majors also won the Ontario Baseball Association Sr. 'A' championships (see team photo below on an external link), the Canadian Baseball Congress Championships in 1943, 1944, 1947 and 1948 and the Can-Am North American Championship in 1948.\n\nAccording to the IBL record books, the Majors won the pennant race (atop the regular season standings) in 1946, 1947, 1956, 1964, 1965, 1968, 1969, 1970, 1975, 1988, 2008 and 2016 (12 in total).\n\nTraditionally, one of the high points in the season of the London Majors is a game with the Toronto Maple Leafs on July 1 (Canada Day), which is usually followed by fireworks over the adjacent forks of the Thames River. \n\nIn 1950, pitcher Ted Alexander joined the Majors. Previously, Alexander had been a star pitcher for a total of 14 seasons with the Homestead Grays and the Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro National League. Alexander left the Majors part way through the 1951 season, during which the Majors won the Intercounty title with star pitchers, Stan and Bill Slack. The Majors also won the Intercounty title in 1956 with former New York Yankee/ Pittsburgh Pirate outfielder Frank Colman as the owner-manager of the team.\n\nEddie, who has played at first base, second base and the outfield during his 34-year playing career in the Intercounty League, was a key member of the 1975 Majors when they won the Intercounty title, the last year that the team has won the league championship.\n\nOther players on the 1975 Majors ballclub were: former Major League Baseball, left-handed pitcher Mike Kilkenny, a league all-star and 1975 Intercounty MVP; shortstop Dave Byers; all-star second-and-third baseman Barry Boughner; 1975 batting champion Larry Haggitt (.412); manager Roy McKay; coach John Ambrose; long-time coach-trainer Norm Aldridge (Aldridge has a City-owned baseball diamond named after him in northeast London called Norm Aldridge Field); Larry Wilson; pitcher Phil Schmidt; pitcher Rick Lindquist; Barry Fuller; Mike Fess; catcher Wayne (Dog) Fenlon; Brian Bell; captain Dave (Whitey) Lapthorne; infielder Mike Mitchell; infielder Rob Watral; John Marks; Alex McKay Jr; Jamie Hodge; John Gourley Jr.; pitcher Neal Ambrose; trainers Ed Loney and Bob Gilan; General Manager George Hall and batboy Jim McKay.\n\nAffectionately known as \"Killer\", Kilkenny was 9–0, with 129 strikeouts, 46 walks, nine complete games and an earned run average of 1.31. Kilkenny previously played for the Detroit Tigers (1969–1972), Oakland Athletics (1972), San Diego Padres (1972), and Cleveland Indians (1972–1973) during a five-season stint (1969–1973) in the Major Leagues. In 1969, Kilkenny was named \"Rookie of the Year\" for the Detroit Tigers.\n\nIn 2004, the London Majors made it to the best-of-seven championship IBL series with the Guelph Royals, but were defeated four games to one. After the 2004 season, the Majors moved out of the Roy McKay Clubhouse, pending interior renovations to the historic structure, and into the dressing room under the third-baseline grandstand, a dressing room previously used by the London Tigers (1989–1993), the London Werewolves (1999–2001) and the London Monarchs (2003).\n\nAfter buying the London Majors prior to the 2004 season, in October, 2005, team owner Scott Dart brought his friend and former veteran London Majors' outfielder, Roop Chanderdat, in as team co-owner, with Chanderdat also assuming the duties of general manager.\n\nOn January 14, 2006, \"The London Free Press\" reported that the Majors had become an international organization with 11 scouts in Latin America, the U.S., Mexico, Italy and Japan.\n\nSince the 2006 season, Majors' Co-Owner/ General Manager Roop Chanderdat has also been the team's field manager. In late June 2017, Chanderdat became the London Majors' manager to register the most career wins, overtaking former manager Roy McKay's record of 257 wins.\n\nLondon Majors named to the Intercounty Baseball League's first-all-star team in 2006 were second-baseman Kyle Piwowarczyk and outfielder Brad McElroy (who also won the league's regular season batting title with a .403 batting average).\n\nThe Majors also led the league in batting during the regular season with an overall team average of .305.\n\nNamed to the second-all-star team in 2006 were outfielder Kevin Virtue, left-handed pitcher Erick Perez, designated hitter Chuck Roberts and manager Roop Chanderdat.\n\nRudy Vallejos, an outfielder with the 2006 London Majors, won the Intercounty Baseball League Rookie of the Year (Brian Kerr Memorial Trophy). Vallejos enjoyed a productive first season in the IBL, hitting .304 with two homers and 41 RBI. The Ottawa, Ontario, native also hit five doubles, scored 28 runs and was fourth in the league with 19 stolen bases in 30 games.\n\nThe 2006 London Majors fared well in the Intercounty playoffs, dispatching the Kitchener Panthers in four straight games and the defending IBL champions and pennant winners, the Barrie Baycats in five games.\n\nIn the final series, however, the Majors were defeated four games to one by the Brantford Red Sox, who won their first Intercounty title since 1981 on August 25, 2006, in Brantford.\n\nIn 1974, after Denny McLain had retired from the major leagues two years earlier, McLain played a season for the London Majors. Due to arm problems, however, McLain only pitched nine innings for the Majors, but did play in 14 games at either shortstop, first base and catcher and batted .380, including hitting two homers in one game in London.\n\nIn 1984–1985 after Fergie Jenkins retired from Major League Baseball in 1983, he pitched for the London Majors, commuting from one of his homes near Chatham, Ontario.\n\nAfter pitcher Dave Rozema retired from Major League Baseball (Detroit Tigers, 1977–84, and Texas Rangers, 1985–86) on April 30, 1986, he pitched for the London Majors in the early 1990s.\n\nThe 1937, tongue-and-groove clapboard Majors' clubhouse at Labatt Park, officially renamed \"The Roy McKay Clubhouse\" on August 1, 1996 (Roy McKay was born on August 1, 1933), by longtime Majors' owner-player Arden Eddie, was designated under Part IV of the \"Ontario Heritage Act\" in 1996—an initiative spearheaded by The Friends of Labatt Park—by amending the park's original (by-law) reasons for designation. The one-storey, cottage-style building is owned by the City of London and is one of the few remaining clubhouses of its kind remaining in North America still being used for the purpose for which it was built.\n\nOn May 31, 1998, a fundraising ballgame (\"The Rumble at the Riverforks\") between the members of London city council, the media and the London Majors old-timers was held to help defray the costs of a new cedar-shingle roof on the Roy McKay Clubhouse. The game was organized by Arden Eddie, The Friends of Labatt Park, SCENE magazine and the London Majors.\n\nThe late Roy McKay (1933–1995) was a longtime London Majors' pitcher, coach and manager who died on Christmas Day, 1995. At age 12, McKay was also the mascot-batboy for the 1945 London Majors — the Intercounty and Ontario champions (see photo of the 1945 London Majors at the external link below).\n\nTom (Tim) Burgess also played for the 1945 Majors as a pitcher-outfielder and was signed to a pro contract in 1946 by the St. Louis Cardinals' organization. After years in Major League Baseball as either a player or coach, Burgess was inducted into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame in 1991.\n\nThe London Majors Baseball Club was owned by player-coach Arden Eddie from 1976 until February 2004, when Eddie and his wife Shelley sold the team to London businessperson/ mortgage consultant Scott Dart.\n\nEddie, who holds three Intercounty League records—most games played (834); most stolen bases (179) and most bases on balls (668) -- first started playing for the London Majors in 1967 (as a junior call-up) after moving to London from his hometown of Wallaceburg, Ontario, where he has been inducted into the Wallaceburg Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Majors have retired 13 numbered uniforms: those of Jon Owen (1), Norm Aldridge (3), Russ Evon (4), Stan (Gabby) Anderson/ Richard Thompson (5), Wayne Fenlon (9), Bob Deakin (10), Roy McKay (16), Tommy White/ Mike Kilkenny (17), Dave Byers (18), Fergie Jenkins (31) and on Sunday, July 6, 2008, Arden Eddie's jersey (24) was officially retired.\n\nOwners of the team over the years have included Public Utilities Commission director Bill Farquharson, Clare Van Horne, ex-Major League Baseball player Frank Colman (1956–early 1960), jeweller Chester Pegg, sportswriter/ author Bob Ferguson (1963–64), Ted Earley, George Hall, Arden Eddie (1976-February, 2003) and the current co-owners of Scott Dart and Roop Chanderdat.\n\nFrank Colman first played for the Majors in the mid-1930s. In 1936, he was a top Intercounty League pitcher and hitter, winning the league batting title and MVP award, which soon led to a pro contract. In 1941 and 1942, Colman played for the Toronto Maple Leafs of the International League. In 1942, he signed as an outfielder with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He remained with the Pirates as a first baseman-outfielder until late in the 1946 season when he signed with the New York Yankees. In 1949 and 1950, Colman played for Seattle of the Pacific Coast League, before returning to play for the AAA Toronto Maple Leafs in 1951 as player-coach.\n\nIn 1954, Colman returned to his hometown of London, Ontario, signing on as player-manager with the London Majors, then owned by team general manager Clare Van Horne. In 1955, Colman purchased the Majors in 1956 from Van Horne and co-founded the Eager Beaver Baseball Association with London sportsman Gordon Berryhill and Al Marshall. Colman's Majors won the Intercounty title in 1956.\n\nIn 2019, Roop Chanderdat the Majors field and general manager reached 300 wins on July 7th, with a 6-1 win over the Hamilton Cardinals at home. He finished the season at 305 victories. \n\nOn Canada Day of that same season, long-tenured and fan-favourite Major Cleveland Brownlee, who had played in the league since 2009 reached the 100 homerun plateau, in front of a near sold out crowd. The Majors won that game 15-3 over the defending champion Barrie Baycats. \n\nIntercounty Baseball League (IBL)\nIBL Pennants\nSenior A Ontario Baseball Association\nGreat Lakes-Niagara District Baseball League\nCanadian Baseball Congress\nCan-Am Baseball Congress\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828380", "title": "Old Town (Prague)", "text": "Old Town (Prague)\n\nThe Old Town of Prague () is a medieval settlement of Prague, Czech Republic. It was separated from the outside by a semi-circular moat and wall, connected to the Vltava river at both of its ends. The moat is now covered up by the streets (from north to south-west) Revoluční, Na Příkopě, and Národní—which remain the official boundary of the cadastral community of Old Town. It is now part of Prague 1.\n\nNotable places in the Old Town include Old Town Square and Astronomical Clock. The Old Town is surrounded by the New Town of Prague. Across the river Vltava connected by the Charles Bridge is the Lesser Town of Prague (). The former Jewish Town (Josefov) is located in the northwest corner of Old Town heading towards the Vltava.\n\nFrom its early existence, around the 9th century, Staré Město was laid out of settlements which appeared from the spacious marketplace on the bank of Vltava. Records dating back to 1100 AD indicate that every Saturday a market was held on the marketplace, and large military gatherings also took place there. Thanks to trade the merchants of the area became rich, and when King Wenceslaus I of Bohemia gave them the privileges of township, the Town of Prague (\"Město pražské\") was formed. According to ancient records, the city had around 13 gates, and a huge moat, providing strong defenses.\n\nIn 1338, the councilors of the Old Town of Prague were granted a permission by John of Luxembourg, King of Bohemia, to buy a magnificent patrician house from the family Volfin od Kamene () and rebuild it into their town hall – the still existing Old Town Hall. In the mid-14th century the importance of the Old Town of Prague increased rapidly. The city was prospering thanks to the development of trade and craftsmanship and became one of the most important Central European metropoles. Its brilliance and fame still further increased when the Bohemian king Charles IV became the Roman Emperor in 1355. Quite suddenly the attention of all medieval Europe was turned towards Prague, the residence of the head of the Holy Roman Empire. The original town hall was extended by a mighty square stone tower, a symbol of the power and pride of the town council of the first city in the Kingdom and Empire. In 1364 when it was completed the tower was the highest in the city.\n\nAfter the city was expanded in the 14th century by Charles IV with the founding of the New Town of Prague, the moat and wall were dismantled.\nIn 1348, the University of Prague was founded by Charles IV. Since the late 14th century its main seat has been in Carolinum located in the Old Town of Prague. In 1357, Charles IV commenced building of a new bridge over the Vltava river connecting the Old Town with the Lesser Town of Prague. In 1391, the Bethlehem Chapel was built in the Old Town for sermons in the Czech language. The chapel played an important role in the Bohemian Reformation and Hussite movement. In 1402–1413 the church reformer Jan Hus preached there.\n\nIn 1689, a great fire (called \"French fire\") damaged a big part of the Old Town, including the Jewish Town. In 1784, the four towns of Prague were united into the \"Royal Capital City of Prague\" with a common administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828389", "title": "New Age (The Velvet Underground song)", "text": "New Age (The Velvet Underground song)\n\n\"New Age\" is the fifth song on the 1970 The Velvet Underground album \"Loaded\". It is one of the four songs that feature Doug Yule on vocals, encouraged by main singer and songwriter Lou Reed. The song also appears on \"\", with Reed on vocals, singing an earlier, significantly different version of the lyrics.\n\nIn its original form, it was about Reed's girlfriend at the time, Shelley Albin, and included a possible reference to Reed's bisexuality: \"It seems to be my fancy to make it with Frank and Nancy.\" The later, studio version is written from the point of view of a fan addressing a \"fat blonde actress.\"\n\nWhen the album was released, this song caused controversy. Reed, who had left the band a month before, stated that his original versions of \"Sweet Jane\", \"Rock and Roll\", and \"New Age\" were corrupted. Doug Yule, on the other hand, insists that Reed's mixes were respected.\n\nThe 1997 \"Fully Loaded\" issue of the \"Loaded\" album includes an alternate version of \"New Age\", along with the other previously \"corrupted\" songs, subtitled \"full-length version\". It is about a minute longer than the LP version.\n\nThe 2001 cover album \"Strange Little Girls\" by Tori Amos features a cover of the song (using the original lyrics).\n"}
{"id": "1828393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828393", "title": "Cordillera", "text": "Cordillera\n\nA cordillera is an extensive chain of mountains or mountain ranges. The term is borrowed from the Spanish word, with the same meaning. The Spanish word originates from \"cordilla\", a diminutive of \"\"cuerda\"\" or \"rope\". It is most commonly used in the field of physical geography.\n\nThe term is particularly applied to the various ranges of the Andes of South America, and less frequently to other mountain ranges in the \"ridge\" that rims the Pacific Ocean. In Colombia and Venezuela the cordilleras are named according to their position: Cordillera Occidental, Central, and Oriental. Various local names identify the cordilleras in Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and Argentina.\n\nMountain ranges of this type have a complex structure, usually the result of folding and faulting accompanied by volcanic activity. In South America the ranges include numerous volcanic peaks. The Andes cordillera has Ojos del Salado, the highest active volcano in the world and second highest point in the Western Hemisphere. (Though not itself a volcano, Argentina's Mt. Aconcagua, at 6,960 metres (22,834 feet) high, is the highest point in the Western Hemisphere.) A number of the volcanoes have been active in historical times. Aside from the volcanic peaks, the crests include many narrow ridges, some of which reach into the zone of permanent snow. Between the ranges there are numerous inhabited valleys, basins, and low plateaux with a wide range of elevations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828406", "title": "Blaster (Star Wars)", "text": "Blaster (Star Wars)\n\nA blaster is a fictional gun that appears in the \"Star Wars\" universe. Lucasfilm defines the blaster as \"ranged energized particle weaponry\". Many blasters mirror the appearance, functions, components, operation, and usage of real life firearms. They are also said to be able to be modified with certain add-ons and attachments, with Han Solo's blaster being said to be illegally modified to provide greater damage without increasing power consumption.\n\nThe design of the traditional stormtrooper blaster is based on the real-life Sterling sub-machine gun used by the armed forces of the United Kingdom over the second half of the 20th century, with changes made by the filmmakers such as alterations to the magazine.\n\nIn the films, the design of the E-11 blaster rifle was based on the Sterling submachine gun. The design of the modified DL-44 blaster pistol owned by the fictional character Han Solo was based on the 7.63-caliber Mauser C96, an early and successful automatic pistol that was used in World War I and World War II. Lucasfilm's prop department added a scope and an emitter nozzle to the pistol. The blaster made for the 1977 film \"\" was lost, and a second blaster was made with resin from the cast used for the first one. The blaster was subsequently used as a prop in \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"Return of the Jedi\".\n\nFunctional Sterlings firing blank cartridges were used in some scenes with the laser bolt added later in post-production. These blank cartridges are responsible for the muzzle flash seen on screen and, in some scenes, the cartridges themselves can be seen being ejected from the guns, or the actual sound of the blank cartridge is not dubbed over by a sound effect.\n\nBen Burtt, a sound designer who worked on the \"Star Wars\" films, came up with the sound of blaster fire during a family backpacking trip in the Pocono Mountains in 1976. Burtt hit the guy-wire of an AM radio transmitter tower with a hammer and recorded the sound with a microphone close to the impact.\n\nIn a chapter of the book \"Myth, Media, and Culture in Star Wars\", Michael Kaminski, writing about the influence of Japanese director Akira Kurosawa on the \"Star Wars\" films, said that Kurosawa's \"Ran\" influenced the exchange of blaster fire. Like in \"Ran\", color-coding and an \"onscreen sense of direction\" of blaster fire are used to depict opposing forces. In the \"Star Wars\" original trilogy, rebels employed red blaster fire and often attacked from the left, while the Empire employed red blaster fire, using green blaster fire only with Tie Fighters, and attacked from the right. In \"\", the second film of the prequel trilogy, the color and the direction were reversed. In that film, the Republic employed green and blue blaster fire and attacked from the right, while the Separatists employed red blaster fire and attacked from the left.\n\nThe inner workings of blasters essentially create particle beams to inflict damage. When the trigger is pulled, the blaster chambers a small volume of the fictional Tibanna gas into a \"gas conversion enabler\" (or XCiter). The XCiter excites the gas particles with energy from a power-pack, which attaches to the weapon much like a magazine does to real world weapons. Afterwards, the excited gas is compressed into a beam in the actuating blaster module before being focused by first a prismatic crystal and then the galven circuitry in the barrel of the weapon.\n\nOne prop of Han Solo's blaster was expected to sell at auction for US $200,000–300,000, and another for $500,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828407", "title": "Cordillera Province, Chile", "text": "Cordillera Province, Chile\n\nCordillera Province () is one of six provinces in the Santiago Metropolitan Region of central Chile. Its topography includes a small area of Chile's central valley, glaciers, rivers, volcanoes, and the Andes range, which forms the border with Mendoza Province in Argentina. The provincial capital of Puente Alto lies approximately south-southeast of Santiago.\n\nAs a province, Cordillera is a second-level administrative division of Chile, governed by a provincial governor who is appointed by the president. The current governor is Caterina Klein Plesnar.\n\nThe province comprises three communes, each governed by a municipality consisting of an alcalde and municipal council: Pirque, Puente Alto and San José de Maipo.\n\nThe provincial area is , making it the largest province in the region. According to the 2002 census, Cordillera was the second most populous province in the region with a total population of 522,856. At that time, there were 511,565 people living in urban areas, 11,291 living in rural areas, 256,193 men, and 266,663 women.\n"}
{"id": "1828412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828412", "title": "Charles Blount, 5th Baron Mountjoy", "text": "Charles Blount, 5th Baron Mountjoy\n\nCharles Blount, 5th Baron Mountjoy (28 June 151610 October 1544) was an English courtier and patron of learning.\n\nCharles Blount was born on 28 June 1516 in Tournai, where his father, William Blount, 4th Baron Mountjoy, was governor. Charles Blount's mother was William 's second wife, Alice, daughter of Henry Keble, Lord Mayor of London.\n\nIn 1522 Jan van der Cruyce, a graduate of the university at Leuven and a friend of Erasmus, travelled to England to become private tutor to Mountjoy's children. He remained in the household until 1527, when he returned to Leuven and was appointed a professor of Greek. Possibly on the recommendation of Erasmus, van der Cruyce was succeeded by Petrus Vulcanius of Bruges, also a graduate of Leuven, who remained in England until 1531. In 1531 Erasmus praised Blount for his fine written style, but after Vulcanius's departure realized that the credit should have gone to the preceptor rather than the student.\n\nJohn Palsgrave, who composed \"L'esclarcissement de la langue francoyse\" (printed in 1530 and dedicated to Henry VIII) and was tutor to Henry Fitzroy, also gave tuition to the sons of several court noblemen, Blount among them. One of his fellow schoolmates in this group was Lord Thomas Howard, son of the second Duke of Norfolk, whose own tutor at Lambeth had been John Leland. Leland in turn praised Charles's skill in Latin and presented a book along with commendatory verses to him.\n\nIn 1523 Juan Luis Vives wrote a short educational treatise dedicated to Charles, \"De ratione studii puerilis ad Carolum Montioium Guilielmi filium\". This served as a parallel to the tract on female education Vives had composed in the same year for the benefit of Mary Tudor. Erasmus added Charles's name to that of his father in the dedication to the 1528 edition of the \"Adagia\" and Charles was the dedicatee of the next two editions (1533, 1536) as well. Erasmus also dedicated his 1531 edition of Livy to him.\n\nAbout August 1530 Charles Blount married his stepsister Anne, daughter of Robert Willoughby, 2nd Baron Willoughby de Broke. Her mother was Dorothy, daughter of Thomas Grey, Marquess of Dorset, who had become the fourth wife of Charles's father.\n\nSucceeding to the title after his father's death in 1534, Mountjoy was regular in his attendance in the House of Lords. In May 1537 he was one of the peers summoned for the trial of lords Darcy and Hussey and he was also on the panel of 3 December 1538 for the trial of Henry Pole, 1st Baron Montagu, and Henry Courtenay, Marquess of Exeter, his own brother-in-law. His country house was at Apethorpe, Northamptonshire, and in London he lived in Silver Street.\n\nAfter the dissolution of Syon Abbey in 1539 Mountjoy granted asylum at his London house to the pious, learned, and outspokenly conservative priest Richard Whitford, who had been patronized by his father. Whitford remained in the household until his death in 1542 and may have acted as tutor to Mountjoy's children. Like his father, Mountjoy was deeply interested in the humanist educational programme and he tried to engage the learned scholar and educationist Roger Ascham, then teaching at Cambridge, as a tutor to his eldest son and secretary to himself. Although Ascham did not take the position—and he also refused a similar offer from Margaret Roper—he admired Mountjoy and referred in flattering terms to his learning, likening his household for its patronage of learning to that of the Medici.\n\nMountjoy was granted Yeaveley Preceptory in Derbyshire, by Henry VIII, following the dissolution.\n\nMountjoy drew up his will on 30 April 1544, just before embarking for France with the expeditionary force. In it he admonished his children to 'kepe themselfes worthye of so moche honour as to be called hereafter to dye for there maister and countrey' (PRO, PROB 11/30, fol. 343). He also composed his own epitaph in English verse. After being present with Henry VIII at the siege of Boulogne he died on 10 October 1544 at Hooke, Dorset (formerly the home of his mother), probably from illness contracted on campaign. In his will he reckoned his assets, in money, goods, and debts owed to him, at nearly £2,100. Among other bequests he left 40 marks to provide lectures for the children of Westbury-under-the-Plain, Wiltshire, for the succeeding two years. He was buried at St Mary Aldermary in the City of London. His widow remarried and lived until 1582.\n"}
{"id": "1828418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828418", "title": "Route 66 (TV series)", "text": "Route 66 (TV series)\n\nRoute 66 is an American adventure crime drama television that premiered on CBS on October 7, 1960, and ran until March 20, 1964, for a total of 116 episodes. The series was created by Herbert B. Leonard and Stirling Silliphant, who were also responsible for the ABC drama \"Naked City\", from which \"Route 66\" was indirectly spun off. Both series employed a format with elements of both traditional drama and anthology drama, but the difference was where the shows were set: \"Naked City\" was set in New York City, while \"Route 66\" had its setting change from week to week, with each episode being shot on location.\n\n\"Route 66\" followed two young men traversing the United States in a Chevrolet Corvette convertible, and the events and consequences surrounding their journeys. Martin Milner starred as Tod Stiles, a recent college graduate with no future prospects due to circumstances beyond his control. He was originally joined on his travels by Buz Murdock (played by George Maharis), a friend and former employee of his father, with the character leaving midway through the third season after contracting echovirus. Near the end of the third season, Tod met a recently discharged Vietnam veteran named Lincoln Case, played by Glenn Corbett, who decided to follow Tod on his travels and stayed with him until the final episode.\n\n\"Route 66\" was a hybrid between episodic television drama, which has continuing characters and situations, and the anthology format, in which each week's show has a completely different cast and story. In this narrative format, dubbed \"semi-anthology\" by the trade magazine \"Variety\", the drama usually centers on the guest stars rather than the regular cast. Series creator Stirling Silliphant's concurrently running drama, \"Naked City\" (1958–1963), also followed this semi-anthology format.\n\nIn the original concept under discussion between Silliphant and producer Herbert Leonard, the two series leads were to be ex-army men who had left the service and were looking to re-establish themselves in American life. George Maharis was signed to a contract by Leonard before the \"Route 66\" concept had been fully developed, and was set to be a cast member from the beginning. Actor Robert Morris was set to be the other lead.\n\nMorris was cast beside Maharis in a 1959 episode of \"Naked City\" that was written by Silliphant as a backdoor pilot to a potential spin-off series featuring two young travelers who were looking to find themselves. At that point, the \"Route 66\" title was not yet decided upon, and the potential spin-off was tentatively entitled \"The Searchers\". The \"Naked City\" episode that served as the \"Searchers\" pilot was called \"Four Sweet Corners\", and in it, Maharis played Johnny Gary, while Morris was Link Ridgeway. Both were ex-servicemen. After spending most of the episode rescuing Johnny's kid sister from a shoplifting ring, the two friends decided they were too restless to stay in New York City, and more of the world existed that they had to see. Johnny and Link ended the episode by leaving Johnny's family's apartment building, setting out for parts unknown.\n\nThe half-hour pilot and the chemistry between the leads was judged to be good by the producers, although Herbert B. Leonard could not interest a network or a sponsor in the spin-off show. Morris died in May 1960 at age 25 of a cerebral hemorrhage, before any series could go into production.\n\nThe concept was subsequently reworked. The title of the series became \"Route 66\", the leads became Tod and Buz, and neither had ties to the army. Maharis was given the role of Buz, while Martin Milner beat several actors (including Robert Redford) for the role of Tod. Leonard personally financed the shooting of a new hour-long pilot episode (\"Black November\", written by Silliphant) and CBS picked up the series in 1960.\n\nTod and Buz (and later, Linc) symbolized restless youth searching for meaning in the early 1960s. The two men take odd jobs along their journey, like toiling in a California vineyard or manning a Maine lobster boat, bringing them in contact with dysfunctional families or troubled individuals in need of help. The lead characters are not always the focus of any given episode, and their backstories are revealed only in occasional references across widely spaced episodes.\n\nTod Stiles, portrayed by clean-cut Milner, is the epitome of the decent, honest, all-American type. Tod came from a background of wealth and privilege; his father owned a shipping company, and Tod's early years were spent in New York and Connecticut. He attended Yale, but after the death of his father, Tod discovered that his father's business had essentially gone bankrupt. The only legacy left to Tod was a new Corvette.\n\nBuz Murdock, meanwhile, was an orphan who had worked with Tod's father as a laborer on one of his ships in New York City. After the death of the senior Mr. Stiles, and the subsequent collapse of his business, Tod and Buz decided to drive across America in search of work, adventure, and themselves. The working-class Buz (George Maharis) is looser, hipper, and more Beat Generation in attitude than Tod, though the two characters share a mutual respect. Subtle indications were given that the Buz character was intended to loosely embody Jack Kerouac in appearance and attitude. Kerouac, in fact, contemplated a lawsuit against Leonard, Silliphant, and Chevrolet for misappropriating the characters and theme from his iconic novel \"On the Road\".\n\nToward the end of the second season, Maharis was absent for several episodes, due to a bout of infectious hepatitis. He returned for the start of the third season, but was again absent for a number of episodes before leaving the show entirely midway through season three. Consequently, in numerous episodes in late season two and early season three, Tod travels solo, while Buz is said to be in the hospital with \"echovirus\". Tod is often seen writing to Buz in these episodes or having a one-sided phone conversation with him. Tod appears solo in 13 episodes.\n\nBuz made his final appearance in a January 1963 episode and was then written out of the show without a definitive explanation — the character simply stopped appearing, and was never referenced again. After five consecutive solo Tod stories, Tod gained a new traveling companion named Lincoln Case (Glenn Corbett) in March 1963. Case is a United States Army veteran of the Vietnam War, haunted by his past. Tod met Linc in \"Fifty Miles From Home\", where Linc fought with an aspiring basketball player outside a Houston bus station. Linc severely injured the young man, whom Tod was coaching and training, and the incensed Tod followed Linc to his hometown, where he challenged him to a fistfight. After some prolonged, bloody, sweaty, pugilistic choreography, the two came to an understanding of where Linc had been in life. There, Linc became Tod's new traveling companion. Linc was more introspective than the often extroverted Buz, but he had (like Buz) a sometimes explosive temper. Linc was nonetheless a reliable companion as the duo continued their travels.\n\nThe series concluded in Tampa, Florida, with the two-part episode \"Where There's a Will, There's a Way,\" in which Tod Stiles married a Houston, Texas, commodities trader (played by guest-star Barbara Eden), and Linc announced his intention to return home to his family in Texas after a long period of estrangement from his father. Tod was headed with his new wife back to Houston and offered to bring Linc, who had to remind Tod how small the car was. The scene ends with Linc walking up a hill after loading the couple's luggage into the Corvette. This episode made the series one of the earlier primetime television dramas to have a planned series finale resolving the fate of its main characters. The show was filmed and presented in black and white throughout its run.\n\n\"Route 66\" shot each episode on location around the country. Writer-producer Stirling Silliphant traveled with location manager Sam Manners to a wide range of locales, and wrote scripts to match the settings. The actors and film crew would arrive some time later. Locations included a logging camp, shrimp boats, an offshore oil rig, Riverside Raceway and Glen Canyon Dam, the latter while still under construction.\n\nThe show had little connection with the U.S. Highway providing its name. Most of the locations were far from \"The Mother Road\", which passed through only eight states while the series was filmed in 25 American states plus (one episode) Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Another episode featured a brief coda set in Mexico, but was filmed in California. U.S. Route 66 the highway was briefly referred to in just three early episodes of the series (\"Black November\", \"Play It Glissando\", and \"An Absence of Tears\"). The actual highway is even more rarely shown, as in the early first-season episode, \"The Strengthening Angels\".\n\"Route 66\" is one of few television series to be filmed entirely on the road. People, their accents, livelihoods, ethnic backgrounds, and attitudes varied widely from one location to the next.\n\nThe Chevrolet Corvette seen in the first episode (\"Black November\", October 7, 1960) is a 1960 model, for the rest of that season the show used a 1961 model. Chevrolet provided vehicles throughout the show's run, upgrading to new models with each season. Although a few publicity photos show a black or red model, for actual filming the entire black-and-white series used Corvettes in light colors like Horizon Blue, Cascade Green and Fawn Beige. The 1963 Corvette Sting Ray convertible (in Saddle Tan) finished the show out through 1964.\n\nThe roster of guest stars on \"Route 66\" includes numerous actors who later went on to fame, as well as major stars on the downward side of their careers. One of the most historically significant episodes of the series in this respect was \"Lizard's Leg and Owlet's Wing\" featuring Peter Lorre, Lon Chaney, Jr., and Boris Karloff as themselves, with the latter donning his famous Frankenstein monster make-up for the first time in decades and Chaney, Jr. made up to resemble his 1941 role as the Wolf Man. Joe E. Brown and Buster Keaton also appeared together as the leads in an episode mixing comedy and drama titled \"Journey to Ninevah.\"\n\nAn episode featuring Ethel Waters also guest-starred Juano Hernandez as well as the fictional five-piece Memphis Naturals band, made up of actors Bill Gunn and Frederick O'Neal and real-life musicians Coleman Hawkins, Roy Eldridge, and Jo Jones. \nOther guest stars included Elizabeth Ashley, Ed Asner, Lew Ayres, Ed Begley, Theodore Bikel, Whit Bissell, Beulah Bondi, Edgar Buchanan, James Caan, James Coburn, Joan Crawford, Keir Dullea, James Dunn, Robert Duvall, Barbara Eden, Betty Field, Nina Foch, Anne Francis, Peter Graves, Tammy Grimes, Signe Hasso, Sessue Hayakawa, Joey Heatherton, Steven Hill, Miriam Hopkins, David Janssen, Ben Johnson, Buster Keaton, George Kennedy, Cloris Leachman, Robert Loggia, Jack Lord, Tina Louise, Dorothy Malone, E.G. Marshall, Lee Marvin, Walter Matthau, Darren McGavin, Ralph Meeker, Vera Miles, Roger Mobley, Chester Morris, Lane Nakano, Lois Nettleton, Julie Newmar, Leslie Nielsen, Arthur O'Connell, Susan Oliver, Nehemiah Persoff, Slim Pickens, Suzanne Pleshette, Stefanie Powers, Robert Redford, Ruth Roman, Marion Ross, Janice Rule, Soupy Sales, Martha Scott, Martin Sheen, Sylvia Sidney, Lois Smith, Rod Steiger, Beatrice Straight, Rip Torn, Jo Van Fleet, Jessica Walter, Jack Warden, Tuesday Weld, Jack Weston, James Whitmore, and Dick York.\n\nWilliam Shatner and DeForest Kelley, both of whom would later go on to fame starring in the \"Star Trek\" TV series and films, also guest-starred, in separate episodes. Kelley was in \"1800 Days to Justice\", Shatner was in \"Build Your Houses with Their Backs to the Sea.\"\n\nTwo late third-season episodes, which aired one week apart, each featured a guest star in a bit part playing a character with a profession with which he would later become associated as the star of his own mega-hit television series. In \"Shadows of an Afternoon\", Michael Conrad was a uniformed policeman, years before he became famous as Police Sgt. Phil Esterhaus on \"Hill Street Blues\".\n\nIn \"Soda Pop and Paper Flags\", Alan Alda guest-starred as a surgeon, a precursor to his career-defining role as Dr. Benjamin Franklin \"Hawkeye\" Pierce on \"M*A*S*H\". Also in the first-season episode, \"The Strengthening Angels\", which aired November 4, 1960, Hal Smith, who played town drunk Otis Campbell in \"The Andy Griffith Show\", also played a drunk named Howard and was listed in the credits as \"Drunk\".\n\nA fourth-season episode, \"Is It True There Are Poxies at the Bottom of Landfair Lake?\", featured guest stars Geoffrey Horne and Collin Wilcox. In the episode's storyline, Wilcox's character pretended to marry Horne's, although it turned out to be a practical joke. A few years after appearing in this episode, Horne and Wilcox were briefly married to each other in real life.\n\nAn in-joke occurs during the fourth-season episode \"Where Are the Sounds of Celli Brahams?\" In this segment, Horace McMahon guest stars as a Minneapolis, Minnesota, festival promoter. His character confesses to Linc his failed ambition to be a policeman. Linc remarks that he resembles a policeman Linc once knew in New York City. McMahon had starred as Lt. Mike Parker from 1958 to 1963 on the New York-based police drama \"Naked City\", another TV series overseen by the creative team of Silliphant and Leonard.\n\n\n\"Route 66\" was officially created by producer Herbert B. Leonard and writer Stirling Silliphant; Silliphant wrote the majority of the episodes (including the pilot) while Leonard did not write at all. It was notable for its dark storylines and exceptional realism. Tod and Buz frequently became involved with individuals whose almost nihilistic worldview made for occasionally frightening TV. Some 50 years after its premiere, \"Route 66\" is still one of the few TV series to offer such a range of socially conscious stories, including mercy killing, the threat of nuclear annihilation, terrorism, runaways, and orphans. Other episodes dealt with the mentally ill, lupus, drug addiction, or gang violence.\n\nSome stories were lighthearted, such as a memorable episode featuring Richard Basehart as a folklorist trying to record the music of an isolated Appalachian community, and a Halloween episode called \"Lizard's Leg and Owlet's Wing\". One of the last episodes (113/116) was outright slapstick comedy (with even a pie fight), costarring Soupy Sales, and entitled \"This Is Going to Hurt Me More Than It Hurts You\" (Episode List, 4th Season, below).\n\nEven more unusual is the way it served up a kind of soaring dialog that has been referred to as \"Shakespearean\" and free-verse poetry. For instance, the boys encounter a Nazi hunter named Bartlett on the offshore oil drilling rig where they work. Bartlett describes the horrors of World War II and the Holocaust thus: \"Tod, I hope you live a long life and never know the blistering forces that sear and destroy, turn men into enemies and sweep past the last frontiers of compassion\" and \"Once you've seen that dark, unceasing tide of faces...of the victims...the last spark of dignity so obliterated that not one face is lifted to heaven, not one voice is raised in protest even as they died...\" (from episode four, \"The Man on the Monkey Board\").\n\nThe quirky, textured writing extended to episode titles, which included such oddities as \"How Much a Pound is Albatross?\" and \"Ever Ride the Waves in Oklahoma?\" Other episode titles were drawn from a wide range of literary sources, such as Shakespeare (\"A Lance of Straw\", \"Hell is Empty, All the Devils are Here\") or Alfred, Lord Tennyson (\"A Fury Slinging Flame\").\n\nMany of the stories were character studies, like the above-mentioned one featuring Richard Basehart as a man who uses people then tosses them away. The episode titled \"You Can't Pick Cotton in Tahiti\" refers to small-town America as both a far-away, exotic Tahiti and the \"real America\" compared to \"phony-baloney\" Hollywood. Many episodes offer moving soliloquies, into which future Academy Award-winning writer Silliphant (\"In the Heat of the Night\") poured his deepest thoughts.\n\nDespite all the adventure, travelogue, drama, and poetry, the real subject of the series was the human condition, with Tod and Buz often cast as a kind of roving Greek chorus, observers and mentors to broken-down prizefighters and rodeo clowns, sadists and iron-willed matrons, surfers and heiresses, runaway kids and orphans, and other people from all walks of life, forced by circumstances to confront their demons.\n\nOne hallmark of the show was the way it introduced viewers to new ways of life and new cultures, for instance, a view of a shrimper's life in episode two of season one, \"A Lance of Straw\", and a look at Cleveland, Ohio's Polish community in episode 35, \"First Class Mouliak\". Here, the young are pushed by their parents into careers and marriages they may not want, in an effort to hold community and family together, albeit at the expense of the happiness and well-being of the children.\n\nNelson Riddle was commissioned to write the instrumental theme when CBS decided to have a new song, rather than pay royalties for the Bobby Troup song \"(Get Your Kicks on) Route 66.\"\n\nRiddle's \"Route 66 Theme\" instrumental was one of the first television themes to make \"Billboard\" magazine's top 30, following Ray Anthony's \"Dragnet Theme\" (in 1953), Anthony's version of Henry Mancini's \"Peter Gunn Theme\" (in 1959) and Mancini's \n\"Mr. Lucky Theme\" (in 1960). The song earned two Grammy nominations in 1962.\n\nBilly Vaughn recorded a version of Riddle's theme (also instrumental, but with a wordless vocal chorus contributing to the melody) for his 1962 album \"Chapel by the Sea\". A vocal version, retitled \"Open Highway\" and featuring lyrics by Stanley Styne, was recorded by jazz singer Teri Thornton and reached number 150 in the \"Music Vendor\" survey of October 1963.\n\nIn 1962, Ethel Waters, playing Jenny Henderson in the \"Goodnight, Sweet Blues\" episode, was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Single Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role, making her the first African-American performer, male or female, to receive one for dramatic performance. (Harry Belafonte and Sammy Davis Jr. were both nominated in 1956 for Best Specialty.\nAlso in 1962, George Maharis was nominated for Outstanding Continued Performance by an Actor in a Series (Best Actor) for his role as Buz.\nIn 1963, the Writers Guild of America presented writer Larry Marcus the Best Episodic Drama award for his screenplay for the episode \"Man Out of Time\".\n\n\"Route 66\" aired Friday at 8:30–9:30 pm EST on CBS its entire run.\n\nRoxbury Entertainment released the first three seasons of \"Route 66\" on DVD in Region 1 between 2008–2010. As of November 2011, these releases are now out of print as Roxbury Entertainment no longer possesses the rights to the series. On November 7, 2011, Shout! Factory announced that it had acquired the exclusive rights to the series, including the home entertainment rights. It planned on releasing the series through multiple platforms, including DVD releases. It subsequently announced that it would release \"Route 66—The Complete Series\" on DVD in Region 1 on May 22, 2012. The 24-disc collectors box set would feature all 116 episodes of the series as well as special bonus features.\n\n\nA revival/sequel to the original \"Route 66\" aired on NBC in 1993. Premiering on June 8 of that year, the premise of the series was that an illegitimate son of Buz, Nick Lewis (James Wilder), had inherited a Corvette from his father (apparently ignoring the events following George Maharis' departure from the original series). Using it to travel the country, he picked up a hitchhiker named Arthur Clark (Dan Cortese) and he became his traveling partner. NBC aired only four episodes before cancelling the revival due to low ratings. A pilot featuring different casting was also produced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828419", "title": "Chernevog", "text": "Chernevog\n\nChernevog is a fantasy novel by American science fiction and fantasy author C. J. Cherryh. It was first published in September 1990 in the United States in a hardcover edition by Ballantine Books under its Del Rey Books imprint. \"Chernevog\" is book two of Cherryh's three-book \"Russian Stories\" trilogy set in medieval Russia in forests along the Dnieper river near Kiev in modern-day Ukraine. The novel draws on Slavic folklore, the title of the novel being a variant name of the \"black god\" Chernobog, and concerns the fate of a girl who has drowned and become a rusalka. It is also an exploration of magic and the development of a young wizard.\n\nCherryh self-published a revised edition of \"Chernevog\" in e-book format in March 2012 at Closed Circle Publications. Authorship of this edition is credited to C. J. Cherryh and Jane Fancher because of Fancher's contributions to the revisions.\n\n\"Chernevog\" begins three years after the conclusion of \"Rusalka\". Sasha, Pyetr and Eveshka are living in Uulamets' cottage; Sasha is 18 and a young wizard, and Pyetr and Eveshka are married. Chernevog is still asleep in the forest, guarded by the leshys, but Sasha and Eveshka have disturbing dreams about him waking up. One day Sasha and Pyetr find that Eveshka has disappeared, and they set off to find her. They suspect that she may have gone to confront Chernevog, who still controls their lives.\n\nSasha and Pyetr travel into the forest and find Chernevog still asleep. Pyetr tries to kill him once and for all, but an owl, a childhood friend of Chernevog's whom he gave his heart to, attacks Pyetr. Pyetr kills the owl and Chernevog regains his heart, which wakes him up. Chernevog had given away his heart to free his conscience, enabling him to practise magic freely. Sasha has learnt that Chernevog had rejected Uulamets' teachings of wizardry, which works within nature and considers the consequences of wishes, and turned to magic, which taps dark forces and is not concerned with laws of nature. Pyetr tries to kill Chernevog again, but Sasha stops him. With his heart, Chernevog's actions are limited and Sasha is able to control him. Sasha and Pyetr resume their search for Eveshka, taking Chernevog with them.\n\nEveshka's reason for fleeing the house is because she knows Chernevog will wake up and she fears for their safety. She is drawn to a house occupied by her mother, Draga, whom Chernevog and murdered after he had had Eveshka killed. Draga and Uulamets had met when they were both under the tutelage of a wizard named Malenkova, but Uulamets feared her and ran away. Draga killed the wizard, and later, pregnant, arrived at Uulamets' cottage to give birth to Eveshka. Uulamets took Eveshka away from Draga, and fearing for her life, she ran away, leaving Uulamets the task of bringing up and controlling a \"doubly gifted\" wizard. Draga then found Chernevog, an abandoned child who had been abused by another wizard, and took him in. Chernevog was wild and appeared possessed, but she controlled and manipulated him, then sent him to Uulamets to be his student. Chernevog hated Uulamets and had killed Eveshka to revenge him. Chernevog then, using his new-found skills, hunted down and killed Draga. Over the years Draga, as a ghost, slowly willed herself back to life, intent on revenging her murder.\n\nAfter days looking for Eveshka, Sasha drops his guard and Chernevog sends his heart to Pyetr, allowing him to freely practise magic again. In control of both Sasha and Pyetr, Chernevog directs the search for Eveshka, hoping to find her before she finds Draga, whom he knows is alive again. Draga needs Eveshka's help in overcoming Chernevog and tells her that she is pregnant with Pyetr's child. She also persuades Eveshka to start using magic. Draga had inherited magical wolves from Malenkova and she divides Eveshka's consciousness amongst them, increasing her power. When Chernevog, Sasha and Pyetr arrive at Draga's house, the wolves threaten to overwhelm Chernevog. Realizing that he cannot defeat Draga and Eveshka's magic, Chernevog retreats and the wolves and Draga follow. When they reach a nearby hill, Chernevog calls down a lightning strike that kills him, Draga and the wolves. This frees Pyetr of Chernevog's heart and Eveshka from the wolves and Draga's control.\n\nPyetr, Eveshka and Sasha return to their cottage where Eveshka gives birth to a daughter. But she is worried about bringing up a wizard child, knowing what it might do to them, and especially Pyetr, if it does not get its way.\n\nIn a review of \"Chernevog\" in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", science fiction and fantasy writer Roland J. Green complemented Cherryh on her \"deep historical scholarship, splendid folkloric skill, superb characterization, and ... mastery of mood-setting\". A reviewer in Kirkus Reviews said that while \"Chernevog\" is \"[o]bscure in places\" it is \"an original fantasy with fascinating characters, unique magic, and compelling plot\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828423", "title": "National Baseball Congress", "text": "National Baseball Congress\n\nThe National Baseball Congress of Wichita, Kansas is an organization of 17 amateur and semi-professional baseball leagues operating in the United States and Canada. Since its founding in 1935 by Hap Dumont, it has conducted an annual North American championship tournament among its members, The National Baseball Congress World Series has been held annually since 1935, at Wichita's Lawrence–Dumont Stadium through 2018; at Wichita State's Eck Stadium in 2019; and jointly at Eck Stadium and Wichita's Riverfront Stadium starting in 2020.\n\nDumont said he was inspired to start the league after seeing a huge crowd for the circus clown-firemen baseball game in Wichita (the clowns were not allowed to perform on Sundays because of blue laws).\n\nIn 1931, he started the \"National Semi-Pro Baseball Congress Kansas State Tournament\" on former Ackerman Island in Wichita (located a few blocks north of Lawrence Stadium). After a fire destroyed the old wood stadium, the city built the Lawrence Stadium on its present site.\n\nIn 1935, he offered Satchel Paige $1,000 to bring his touring Bismarck Churchills from Bismarck, North Dakota to Wichita. Paige struck out 60 batters and won four games.\n\nWith the rise of Minor League Baseball, the league now is for amateur athletes.\n\n, there are 17 member leagues.\n\nThe first National Baseball Congress World Series was held in 1935.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> In 1948, the London Majors defeated Fort Wayne in the best-of-seven-game Can-Am Congress Series, 4-3.\n\nMany players have gone to professional teams. Since 1975 the NBC has recognized a \"Graduate of the Year\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828425", "title": "Yvgenie", "text": "Yvgenie\n\nYvgenie is a fantasy novel by American science fiction and fantasy author C. J. Cherryh. It was first published in October 1991 in the United States in a hardcover edition by Ballantine Books under its Del Rey Books imprint. \"Yvgenie\" is book three of Cherryh's three-book \"Russian Stories\" trilogy set in medieval Russia in forests along the Dnieper river near Kiev in modern-day Ukraine. The novel draws on Slavic folklore and concerns the fate of a girl who has drowned and become a rusalka. It is also an exploration of magic and the development of a young wizard. \n\nCherryh self-published a revised edition of \"Yvgenie\" in e-book format in 2012 at Closed Circle Publications.\n\n\"Yvgenie\" begins 15 years after the conclusion of \"Chernevog\". Pyetr, Eveshka, Sasha and Ilyana, Eveshka and Pyetr's 15-year-old wizard daughter, live in Uulamets' cottage. One day they are alarmed to discover that Ilyana has befriended a ghost, whom they suspect may be Chernevog. They explain to Ilyana who Chernevog is and the dangers he and his vodyanoi partner, Hwiuur pose to them all.\n\nLater, during a storm, Ilyana rescues a half-drowned boy, Yvgenie from the swollen river. He has no memory of where he came from, but when she brings him home, he is locked up in case he is Chernevog. Ilyana, believing that Pyetr and Sasha are going to kill Yvgenie, uses wizardry to overpower them and frees Yvgenie. Having lost one friend she is determined not to lose another and runs off with him. Eveshka, Pyetr and Sasha pursue Ilyana and Yvgenie into the forest.\n\nFleeing with Yvgenie, Ilyana discovers that he \"is\" possessed by Chernevog's ghost, and that Chernevog had revived the drowned boy and occupied his body. Periodically Yvgenie's shy demeanor is replaced by Chernevog's commanding presence. Ilyana has sympathies for both the boy she rescued and her ghost friend, and lets Chernevog lead them through the forest.\n\nWhile tracking Ilyana and Yvgenie/Chernevog, leshys bring a girl, Nadya to Pyetr and Sasha. She is the daughter of Yurishev's young wife with whom Pyetr had an affair in Vojvoda in \"Rusalka\". Unbeknown to Pyetr, Nadya is his daughter. She was due to wed Yvgenie from Kiev in an arranged marriage, but when Yvgenie's father found out that Nadya was illegitimate, he threatened to kill her. Yvgenie took Nadya into the forest to escape his father and was overwhelmed by the flooded river. Yvgenie was rescued by Ilyana (after Chernevog had revived him) and Nadya was found by the leshys.\n\nChernevog leads Ilyana to the stone in the leshy's circle upon which he had slept. After Chernevog died near the end of \"Chernevog\", the leshys took his bones to the stone. Then when Ilyana was born, they used magic to revive him and sent him to bring her back to the stone. Ilyana was young, innocent and gifted, and the leshys believed she could defeat Hwiuur, who was spreading evil through the forest. But by the time Chernevog arrives at the stone with Ilyana, the leshys have succumbed to Hwiuur and died. Chernevog had delayed his return with Ilyana because he had fallen in love with her and knew the leshys would preserve her on the stone.\n\nHaving lost his control over Chernevog, Hwiuur harasses Pyetr and Sasha, and then attempts to bargain with Eveshka for Ilyana. Finally Hwiuur attacks Ilyana, but Sasha, Pyetr and Eveshka find her, and Sasha rams a pot of salt down the vodyanoi's throat, neutralizing him. Safe again, the family reunites, with the addition of Nadya and Chernevog/Yvgenie. Chernevog explains that when the leshys freed him, they changed him and that he is not the evil person he used to be. Nadya is welcomed by Eveshka and Ilyana as their step-daughter and -sister. Ilyana is happy with her new friend(s) Chernevog/Yvgenie, and Sasha and Nadya have become attracted to each other. Sasha later confesses to Eveshka that he had wished for companionship, but Eveshka believes that a wish 100 years ago had set all these events in motion.\n\nScience fiction and fantasy writer Roland J. Green wrote in a review of \"Yvgenie\" in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" that he was impressed with Cherryh's \"characterization and knowledge of folklore\", and described the whole Russian series as her \"most significant work of fantasy\". A reviewer in Kirkus Reviews was less enthusiastic about \"Yvgenie\", saying that the \"most bothersome aspect\" of this story is its \"sourceless, effortless magic\", and did not expect the book to attract too many devotees, except perhaps young readers who may be drawn to Ilyana's predicament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828426", "title": "Vic Howe", "text": "Vic Howe\n\nVictor Stanley Howe (November 2, 1929 – January 31, 2015) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right wing. He was NHL Hall of Famer Gordie Howe's brother, Colleen Howe's brother-in-law and uncle to Mark and Marty Howe.\n\nHowe was born to Ab and Katherine Howe as one of nine children. He was raised in Saskatoon and played most of his career in the minors in Canada and the United States, but played only 33 games in the National Hockey League over three seasons in the 1950s.\n\nHowe retired after the 1956-57 season in the British National League, but returned to hockey for the 1961-62 season with the Moncton Beavers of the Nova Scotia Senior Hockey League a senior league in New Brunswick.\n\nHowe retired from hockey in 1957 to work as a constable with the Canadian National Railway Police in Moncton, New Brunswick. He died on January 31, 2015.\n\nHowe retired from CN and lived in Moncton until his death. He was predeceased by wife Jaquie (2007) and daughter Vicki (2014), as well as two brothers and three sisters. He was survived by brother Gordie and sister Helen Cummine of Saskatoon.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "1828428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828428", "title": "Howard Putnam", "text": "Howard Putnam\n\nHoward D. Putnam (born August 21, 1937) is an American businessman. He was CEO of Southwest Airlines for three years, and later CEO of Braniff International Airways at the time of its bankruptcy.\n\nWhen Putnam was 23 years old, he was a sales representative for Capital Airlines. He joined United Airlines when Capital was acquired by United in 1961. 17 years on, he became Group Vice President, Marketing at United Airlines before leaving to head Southwest Airlines.\n\nFrom August 1978 to 1981, Putnam was President and CEO of Southwest Airlines. He left Southwest in September 1981 to head ailing Braniff.\n\nIn 1982, he had a conversation with American Airlines CEO Robert Crandall, in which he was told by Crandall that if Braniff raised their prices, American would too. Putnam declined, but the U.S. Federal Government later brought an antitrust action against Crandall and American based on a recording of the conversation. Putnam was president of Braniff when it ceased operation in bankruptcy on May 12, 1982.\n\nHe is currently a motivational speaker and author of \"The Winds of Turbulence: A Ceo's Reflections on Surviving and Thriving on the Cutting Edge of Corporate Crisis\". He also produced a DVD:\"Pass It On, Share The W.I.S.H.\", which was scheduled for release on April 1, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828435", "title": "Lee Phillip Bell", "text": "Lee Phillip Bell\n\nLoreley \"Lee\" June Phillip Bell (June 10, 1928 – February 25, 2020) was an American talk show host and soap opera creator. During her career on Chicago television, she hosted over 10,000 programs and, early in her tenure, worked five shows a day, seven days a week. She went on to co-create two of American television’s longest-running soap operas.\n\nBell was born Loreley June Phillip in Chicago, Illinois, to florists James A. and Helen (Novak) Phillip. Her parents named her after a Japanese Anemone flower. She has an older brother, J.R., and a younger brother, Russell.\n\nBell was one of the most notable graduates from what is now known as Riverside-Brookfield High School in Riverside, Illinois. She then received a degree in microbiology from Northwestern University.\n\nAfter graduating from Northwestern, Bell returned to work in her family's floral shop with her brothers. On occasion, she accompanied her brother Russell to the local television station where he worked on a local talk show demonstrating flower arrangement. Eventually, she took over this job from him, before quitting the floral shop altogether and pursuing other positions at the station. (In 1952 when Bell first started on television, the Chicago station was FCC licensed as WBKB-TV Channel 4. In 1953, the call letters and frequency of the station were changed to WBBM-TV Channel 2.) In December 1952, Bell began hosting a 15 minute show at 2:15 on weekday afternoons. She soon went to hosting a five-minute segment on “homemaker news” each weekday at 12:25 p.m. In 1953, Bell began hosting \"Meet Miss Lee\", \"Mornin’ Miss Lee\", \"Lee Phillip's Chicago\", \"Shopping with Miss Lee\" and, later, \"The Lee Phillip Show\", which became \"Noonbreak\". In the early days of hosting \"Mornin’ Miss Lee\", she also forecasted the weather, while wearing a hat that corresponded with her forecast. Bell would also read commercials on TV during football and basketball telecasts. By 1955, Bell was celebrating her 2,500th show on the station. Another special she hosted in 1975, \"Forgotten Children\", was on child abuse. She also hosted other programs, including a Saturday morning children's program on WBBM-TV titled \"The Friendship Show\" from 1955 to 1965 and a WBBM Radio weekday afternoon show with Paul Gibson titled \"The Lady & The Tiger\".\n\nFor more than 30 years in Chicago, \"The Lee Phillip Show\" tackled rarely considered social problems. She investigated the lives of prisoners, the struggles of runaways and the dangers of breast cancer (one of the first televised self-exams was demonstrated on her show). The show quickly became a fixture in Chicago daytime television, drawing many celebrity guests. She interviewed Presidents Richard Nixon and Jimmy Carter (and his entire extended family) as well as actors John Wayne, Lucille Ball, and Judy Garland. \"The Lee Phillip Show\" was also shown in other cities in the early 1960s by CBS network affiliates and received 16 local Emmy Awards. On December 20, 1966, the show had a Christmas special that included \"The Nutcracker\".\n\nDuring the early days of their marriage, William left advertising and began writing for soap operas like \"Guiding Light\", \"As the World Turns\" and \"Another World\" with Irna Phillips. Lee Bell would learn about important issues via her television show, and pass them along to her husband, who in turn would weave them into his storylines.\nAfter leaving her TV show, Bell joined her husband to co-create the popular CBS soap opera \"The Young and the Restless\" in 1973 and its sister show \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" in 1987. She also served as executive producer of \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" in the 1980s.\n\nBell won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series for \"The Young and the Restless\" in 1975. She received a lifetime achievement award from the Daytime Emmys in 2007. She received 16 regional (Chicago) Emmy awards and numerous Golden Mike awards throughout her career. She was also the recipient of the Alfred I. duPont–Columbia University Award for the May 1973 special \"The Rape of Paulette\", the first program in Chicago to explore the issue, and in 1977 she was the first woman to receive the Governors award from the Chicago chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. In 1980, she was named “Person of the Year” by the Broadcast Advertising Club of Chicago and the outstanding woman in communications by the Chicago YMCA. She also received the Salvation Army’s William Booth Award for her distinguished career in communications and social service.\n\nWhile working at the talk show, Lee Phillip met advertising agent William Joseph Bell, later marrying him in 1954. They relocated from the Chicago area to the Beverly Grove neighborhood of Beverly Hills, California in 1986. The marriage lasted until his death on April 29, 2005. \n\nBell was the mother of William James Bell, Lauralee Bell Martin, Bradley Phillip Bell, and mother-in-law of Maria Arena Bell and Colleen Bradley Bell; all of the Bell family members are involved in some way with the production of the company's soap operas. She also had eight grandchildren.\n\nOn February 25, 2020, she died at age 91; the announcement was made by her children. Bell died of natural causes at her home, according to Eva Basler, a spokeswoman for the family and their company Bell-Phillip Television Productions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828442", "title": "List of Erasmus's correspondents", "text": "List of Erasmus's correspondents\n\nOne of the best sources for the world of European Renaissance Humanism in the early sixteenth century is the correspondence of Erasmus. Among those with whom he exchanged letters are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828447", "title": "Jessica Jones", "text": "Jessica Jones\n\nJessica Campbell Jones Cage is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Michael Gaydos and first appeared in \"Alias\" #1 (November 2001), as part of Marvel's Max, an imprint for more mature content. Within the context of Marvel's shared universe, Jones is a former superhero who becomes the owner (and usually sole employee) of Alias Private Investigations. Bendis originally envisioned the series centered on Jessica Drew and only decided to create Jones once he noticed that the main character had a distinct voice and background that differentiated her from Drew.\n\nJones has since starred in three ongoing series: \"Alias\", \"The Pulse\" and \"Jessica Jones\". \"Alias\" ran for 28 issues before ending in 2004, while \"The Pulse\" ran for 14 issues from April 2004 to May 2006. \"Jessica Jones\" debuted in October 2016. She became a member of the New Avengers, alongside her husband, Luke Cage, during Marvel's 2010 Heroic Age campaign. She has used various aliases throughout her history, including Jewel, Knightress and Power Woman.\n\nThe character was portrayed by actress Krysten Ritter in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, starring in \"Marvel's Jessica Jones\" (2015–2019) and \"The Defenders\" (2017). She has also been featured in various video games, in which she has been voiced by several actresses including Michelle Phan, Mary Elizabeth McGlynn and Tara Strong.\n\nJessica Jones debuted in the Marvel MAX imprint series \"Alias\" in November 2001. The character and series were created by writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Michael Gaydos. \"Alias\" ran for 28 issues from 2001 to 2004, with most covers drawn by David W. Mack. After the end of the series, Jones and other characters from the series moved to Bendis' subsequent series, \"The Pulse\". In a 2005 interview, Bendis claimed:\n\nBy the time Bendis was actively developing the title, Jones was his central character, one with a distinct background and voice from Drew's.\n\nJessica Jones appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010–2013 \"New Avengers\" series, from issue #1 (August 2010) through its final issue #34 (January 2013). In a Marvel Comics podcast, Bendis expressed his desire to incorporate Jones into the parallel universe Ultimate Marvel imprint. In \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" #106, she appears as a senior at Peter Parker's school.\n\nMidtown High student Jessica Campbell goes to school with Peter Parker, on whom she has a crush and is present when he is bitten by the irradiated spider which gives him his spider powers. Jessica's father receives tickets for Disney World from his boss Tony Stark. On the way home, their car collides with a military convoy carrying radioactive chemicals. Her family is killed, and she spends several months in a coma. Upon waking, she is placed in an orphanage and adopted by the Jones family. Jessica later discovers that her radiation exposure granted her super strength, limited invulnerability, and flight. Jessica's adoptive parents re-enroll her at Midtown High, where she is ostracized by her classmates, especially Flash Thompson. Peter Parker (who has since become Spider-Man) senses in Jessica a kindred spirit—someone who has also lost her family due to a tragic circumstance. Jessica mistakes his kind attention for pity and lashes out at him. She later witnesses a fight between Spider-Man and the villain Sandman in her school. This inspires her to use her abilities for positive ends.\n\nAs Jewel, Jones has a fairly uneventful superhero career until she intervenes in a disturbance at a restaurant involving Zebediah Killgrave, the Purple Man. Killgrave uses his power of mind control to place Jones under his command, psychologically torturing her and forcing her to aid his criminal schemes. After Killgrave sends her to kill Daredevil at the Avengers Mansion, Jones is rescued by Carol Danvers, the only Avenger who actually knows her. Jones undergoes psychic therapy with Jean Grey of the X-Men, who places a special mental command in Jones's subconscious to protect her from further mind control. During this time, Jones develops a brief romantic relationship with S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Clay Quartermain. Due to the traumatic violation of her mind by Killgrave and the fact that she was barely noticed missing for eight months, a demoralized and depressed Jones gives up her costumed superhero life. She briefly adopts a darker identity as the Knightress and interrupts a crime meeting between the Owl and a mafioso, through which she meets up with fellow superhero Luke Cage. After defeating the Owl, she and Cage develop a lasting friendship. No longer a superhero, Jones opens a private detective agency. Longtime friend Carol Danvers sets Jones up with Scott Lang (the second Ant-Man), and the two date for several months. She also has an off-and-on affair with Cage. Killgrave, still obsessed with Jones, escapes from high-security incarceration, but with the mental defenses Grey gave her, Jones breaks his control and knocks him out. Later, Cage and Jones admit their feelings for each other, and after she becomes pregnant with their child, they begin a committed relationship.\n\nJones takes a leave from the detective business and joins the staff of the \"Daily Bugle\" as a superhero correspondent and consultant, becoming a main character of the comic book \"The Pulse\", and a contributor to the same-name fictional newspaper supplement within. A pregnant Jones is attacked by the Green Goblin after the \"Bugle\" reported that he was secretly industrialist Norman Osborn. In response, Cage retaliates and Osborn is irrevocably exposed as the Goblin upon his defeat and incarceration. Jones quits her job with the \"Bugle\" after publisher J. Jonah Jameson uses the paper to smear the New Avengers. Jones and Cage are living together when she gives birth to their child, whom they name Danielle after Luke's best friend, Danny Rand. Cage and Jones marry in \"New Avengers Annual\" #1. Jones appears as a supporting character in \"Young Avengers\" until the series ended. She returns in \"Avengers: The Children's Crusade\" #6 in which she, Beast and Hawkeye attempted to defuse the situation between the Avengers and X-Men who were fighting over who was to punish the Scarlet Witch. She helps fight Doctor Doom and is present when Stature and the Vision are killed. She is seen hugging Hulkling in the final panel when the team is declared full-fledged Avengers by Captain America.\n\nIn Marvel's 2006–2007 crossover storyline \"Civil War\", Jones and Cage reject Iron Man and Ms. Marvel's offer to join the Superhuman Registration Act. As part of the New Avengers, Jones moved into Doctor Strange's Sanctum Sanctorum, but after an attack involving the demonic villain the Hood, Jones, shaken by the experience and desperate to protect her child, left the New Avengers and registered for the Superhuman Registration Act, ending her relationship with Luke Cage for the time being. Jones is among the heroes who emerge from the crashed Skrull ship wearing her Jewel costume, although it is later revealed this Jones was a Skrull. The real Jessica Jones appears in \"Secret Invasion\" #7, in which she joins in the heroes' fight against the Skrulls and was able to be reunited with her husband. After the Skrull surrender, the Skrull impersonating Jarvis disappears with their daughter, leaving Jessica desperate.\n\nJessica is unaware that Luke has asked Norman Osborn for help in their search for Danielle. Osborn helped Luke recover Danielle, and Luke gave the baby back to Jessica. Spider-Man revealed himself as Peter Parker to the New Avengers, leaving Jones shocked to see that her former classmate is Spider-Man. She then tells Peter of her former crush on him, only to find out that he did not recognize her all this time, let alone remember her name, only remembering her as \"Coma Girl\", upsetting her. She later assists the Avengers in rescuing Clint after being captured by Norman Osborn. Jessica reveals that she was inspired to become a superheroine after witnessing an early battle between Spider-Man and the Sandman. Peter then tries to convince Jessica to return to the life of a superhero, suggesting that she could provide a better example for her daughter by going into action as a hero rather than simply telling her daughter about her old career.\n\nDuring the storylines of Marvel's 2010 \"Heroic Age\" branding campaign, Jessica returned to her costumed identity of Jewel and became a member of the New Avengers when the title relaunched in June 2010. She and Luke began searching for a nanny, interviewing characters featured from other comics set in the Marvel Universe. Ultimately, Squirrel Girl was chosen as Danielle's nanny. In \"New Avengers\" #8, Jessica took the name Power Woman to both honor her husband, Power Man (Luke Cage), and to be a role model for their daughter. However following several incidents revolving around Thule Society attacking Avengers Mansion, and Norman Osborn's threat, Jessica quit the team and went into hiding, realizing that it was too dangerous for Danielle to remain in Avengers Mansion due to the numerous potential threats.\n\nJessica later appeared as an ally to the Mighty Avengers team formed by Luke Cage. Jessica and Danielle lived in the apartment of the Gem Theater, which was serving as the Mighty Avenger's base of operations. She and Luke would later be confronted by the Superior Spider-Man and his Spider Robots, who offered her a place on a different type of Avengers team that was to be run by him. Jessica swiftly found a babysitter for her child and refused before delivering a powerful punch to Spider-Man's face for his threat. The group was later backed up by She-Hulk and she and Jessica decided to go out for coffee. Jessica and Luke would later switch apartments with an old friend of Luke's named David Griffiths. While moving in, Jessica spoke to the Blue Marvel about what it's like to raise a child of superheroes and expressed both her support and annoyance at her husband's choice to start another team of Avengers.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Empire\" storyline, Jessica Jones became a member of the Defenders alongside Daredevil, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage. They alongside Cloak and Dagger, Doctor Strange, and Spider-Woman fought the Army of Evil during Hydra's rise to power where they were defeated by Nitro. Jessica Jones and those with him were trapped in the Darkforce dome by Blackout when his powers were enhanced by Baron Helmut Zemo using the Darkhold.\n\nIn October 2016, a new ongoing series featuring the character, titled \"Jessica Jones\", began. In 2017, a new ongoing \"Defenders\" series was launched, featuring Jessica as one of the main characters.\n\nDuring the \"Hunt for Wolverine\" storyline, Jessica Jones and Luke Cage assist Iron Man and Spider-Man in searching for Wolverine when his body has gone missing from his unmarked grave where they attend an underworld auction and fight Mister Sinister. After the mission was over, Jessica and Luke learn from Tony Stark what he found on Mister Sinister's database as he informs them that one of the X-Men members is not a mutant and is a genetically-altered sleeper agent.\n\nAfter coming into contact with experimental chemicals and spending some time in a coma, Jessica emerged with superhuman abilities. She possesses superhuman strength, as well as flight, and can block mind control. She shows the capacity to lift a two-ton police car with little effort. Her strength allowed her to lift up a giant-sized Goliath by the nostrils and toss him a short distance, break Atlas' nose, and render her fellow superheroine Jessica Drew unconscious with a single punch to the face. She later withstood being punched by a human on Mutant-Growth Hormone and sustained only mild bruising and a bloody nose and was able to recover in moments after being shocked by Jessica Drew's venom blasts. Despite this resistance to harm, Jessica sustained severe injuries, including a damaged spine and neck, a detached retina, and a broken nose after being attacked by both the Vision and Iron Man.\n\nJessica is also able to fly, and while she was able to fly quite well during her early years as a heroine, she has admitted that her flying ability degenerated while she was no longer an active hero. She has since displayed improved flying ability after joining the New Avengers.\n\nAfter her ordeal at the hands of the Purple Man, Jessica was given a degree of psionic protection by Jean Grey of the X-Men. This psionic protection was sufficient to protect Jessica against a second attack by the Purple Man, though she had to \"trigger\" this resistance on her own.\n\nIn addition to her superhuman powers, Jessica is a skilled detective and investigative journalist.\n\nMultiple versions of Jessica Jones have appeared in Marvel's multiverse. In the 2005 \"House of M\" storyline, Jessica was apparently dating Scott Lang.\n\nIn \"What If\", Jones accepted Captain America's offer to work for The Avengers. Perceiving that something was amiss with Wanda Maximoff (the Scarlet Witch), she alerted the other Avengers, ensuring that the catastrophic events depicted in \"Avengers Disassembled\" and \"House of M\" would never occur. Jessica married Captain America.\n\nIn \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", Jones appeared as a senior student in the school Peter Parker attended. She was the executive producer of the school's television network. She later became jealous of Mary Jane Watson's superior film skills. She attempted to deduce Spider-Man's secret identity for the school newspaper and may have been suspicious about Peter Parker. Later on after the events of \"Ultimatum\", she claimed to have abandoned her attempts to figure out who Spider-Man was and instead wanted to focus on his heroics.\n\nIn \"Spider-Man Loves Mary Jane\", Jessica was a student at Mary Jane's high school and was a former friend of Mary Jane until she became a goth. Mary Jane spent more time with Jessica after her breakup with Ned Leeds and became more goth-like until Jessica told Mary Jane it didn't fit her.\n\nDuring the events of \"Infinity Wars,\" Gamora used the Infinity Stones to fold the universe in half, resulting in the creation of Warp World, where characters and histories were merged. Jessica Jones merged with Janice Lincoln and became this universe's version of the Beetle. She was also the fiancé of Scott Banner aka Little Monster (an amalgamation of Scott Lang and Bruce Banner).\n\nIn \"Spider-Man: Life Story\", Jessica briefly dated Peter Parker after his split with Mary Jane and helped him track down the elderly Norman Osborn. Much like her Earth-616 counterpart, Jessica Jones of this universe also began a private investigator and founder of Alias Investigations.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, different versions of Jessica Jones existed in each of the Battleworld domains:\n\nOn November 20, 2015, \"Jessica Jones\" was released on Netflix, with the title character portrayed by Krysten Ritter as an adult and by Elizabeth Cappuccino as a teenager. As a child, she was in a car accident that killed her parents and put her in a coma. After she regained consciousness, Jessica was legally adopted by talent agent Dorothy Walker, therefore becoming the adopted sister of Trish Walker. As an adult, Jessica crosses paths with Kilgrave and spends a year under his control, snapping out of it after she kills Luke Cage's wife Reva Connors on Kilgrave's orders. She experiences post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of what Kilgrave did to her, and drinks to excess to numb her pain and guilt. Her Jewel costume from the comics appears briefly in the fifth episode of season 1, \"AKA: The Sandwich Saved Me\", although she refuses to wear it and rejects Trish's suggestion of Jewel as an alias, saying \"Jewel is a stripper's name, a really slutty stripper. And if I wear that thing you're going to have to call me Camel Toe.\" In the eighth episode of \"Iron Fist\", Joy Meachum indirectly mentions to her brother Ward that she hired Jessica in the past to take compromising pictures of members on the Rand Enterprises board of directors. Ritter reprised her role in \"The Defenders\", a 2017 crossover miniseries. A second season of \"Jessica Jones\" was released on Netflix on March 8, 2018, on International Women's Day. The second season of \"Jessica Jones\", follows Jones as she takes on a new case after the events surrounding her encounter with Kilgrave. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and other television series of the franchise. The season was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios and Tall Girls Productions, with Melissa Rosenberg serving as showrunner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828450", "title": "Sharyn Clough", "text": "Sharyn Clough\n\nSharyn Clough (born 14 May 1965) is Professor of Philosophy at Oregon State University. Her specialties are philosophy of science, epistemology, contemporary pragmatism, and feminist theory. She is Director of the Phronesis Lab and is the Peace Literacy Curriculum Coordinator working with a team of curriculum developers.\n\nClough studied at the University of Calgary, where she received her BA Hons in Social Psychology in 1987 and her MA in Social Scientific Study of Religion in 1989. She earned her PhD from Simon Fraser University in History and Philosophy of Science in 1997. Before coming to Oregon State University in 2003, she taught at Hamilton College, Le Moyne College, Rowan University, and the University of Tennessee.\n\nClough was interviewed about the relationship between science and politics in an episode of \"Philosophy Talk\".\n\n\n\nwebsite\n\nhttp://peaceliteracy.org\n"}
{"id": "1828460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828460", "title": "Spread Eagle, Wisconsin", "text": "Spread Eagle, Wisconsin\n\nSpread Eagle is an unincorporated community in Florence County, in the town of Florence, in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is part of the Iron Mountain, MI–WI Micropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nThe community is located on U.S. Highway 141 and U.S. Highway 2, about six miles northwest of Iron Mountain, Michigan. It is near the south end of Railroad Lake of the Spread Eagle Chain of Lakes.\n\nThe lake chain was named \"Spread Eagle\" because when seen from the sky, the chain resembles an eagle with wings spread. Spread Eagle has frequently been noted on lists of unusual place names. The Spread Eagle Barrens State Natural Area is located nearby. The Badwater Ski-Ters Water Ski Show performs during the summer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828461", "title": "Black Box: The Complete Original Black Sabbath 1970–1978", "text": "Black Box: The Complete Original Black Sabbath 1970–1978\n\nBlack Box: The Complete Original Black Sabbath 1970–1978 is a collection of the first eight albums by the heavy metal band and a DVD of 4 videos. The set contains the albums recorded with original singer Ozzy Osbourne, who was fired in 1979 after completion of the band's \"Never Say Die!\" tour. This marked the end of the group's original line-up that featured Osbourne, guitarist Tony Iommi, bassist Geezer Butler and drummer Bill Ward. All eight albums are digitally remastered and repackaged in mock vinyl LP packaging, including an 80-page booklet with liner notes written by Henry Rollins, Chris Welch, and Brian Ives. The discs included in the set are as follows:\n\nThey are represented as they appeared when first released, with the exception of the debut album, which has a revised track order as it includes both the song \"Evil Woman\" from the original European LP—deleted from North American editions because of copyright problems—and \"Wicked World\", which was substituted for it. The discs are kept in digipak cases, with all original LP artwork intact. The CDs themselves are entirely black, but retain the lettering used for each individual release, as opposed to a uniform stylized font.\n\nTrue to its title, the nine discs are housed in a solid black case, complete with gothic imagery and lettering. Inside, there are two smaller boxes containing four CDs each. Also enclosed is a booklet, which contains the DVD in a sleeve attached to the inside back cover. The booklet traces the entire history of the band, with essays, interviews, timelines, and the lyrics to every song personally checked by Geezer Butler, the band's main lyricist.\n\nPreviously, a 1996 remastered box set had been issued by Castle Communications, which used unknown source tapes and did not involve any input from the band. For the Rhino set, all of the songs have been digitally remastered from the original Warner Bros. tape archives, as was the earlier Rhino compilation \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828474", "title": "Subclass (set theory)", "text": "Subclass (set theory)\n\nIn set theory and its applications throughout mathematics, a subclass is a class contained in some other class in the same way that a subset is a set contained in some other set.\n\nThat is, given classes \"A\" and \"B\", \"A\" is a subclass of \"B\" if and only if every member of \"A\" is also a member of \"B\".\nIf \"A\" and \"B\" are sets, then of course \"A\" is also a subset of \"B\".\nIn fact, when using a definition of classes that requires them to be first-order definable, it is enough that \"B\" be a set; the axiom of specification essentially says that \"A\" must then also be a set.\n\nAs with subsets, the empty set is a subclass of every class, and any class is a subclass of itself. But additionally, every class is a subclass of the class of all sets. Accordingly, the subclass relation makes the collection of all classes into a Boolean lattice, which the subset relation does not do for the collection of all sets. Instead, the collection of all sets is an ideal in the collection of all classes. (Of course, the collection of all classes is something larger than even a class!)\n"}
{"id": "1828484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828484", "title": "Rainbow Connection", "text": "Rainbow Connection\n\n\"Rainbow Connection\" is a song from the 1979 film \"The Muppet Movie\", with music and lyrics written by Paul Williams and Kenneth Ascher. The song was performed by Kermit the Frog (Jim Henson) in the film. \"Rainbow Connection\" reached No. 25 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in November 1979, with the song remaining in the Top 40 for seven weeks total. Williams and Ascher received an Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song at the 52nd Academy Awards.\n\nWilliams and Ascher, who had previously collaborated on several songs for the 1976 film \"A Star Is Born\", were tasked with writing the songs for \"The Muppet Movie\". For the song that became \"Rainbow Connection\", Jim Henson told them that the opening scene should feature Kermit the Frog by himself, singing and playing the banjo. Williams and Ascher wrote most of the song fairly quickly at Williams' house, but got stuck trying to think of appropriate words for the part in the chorus that eventually became the phrase \"the rainbow connection\"; they were looking for a way to tie in the chorus to the song's theme of rainbows. As they sat down for dinner with Williams' then-wife, Kate Clinton, they explained to her their predicament of looking for a phrase that would provide \"a rainbow connection\", then realized, in the course of explaining the problem to her, that the phrase \"the rainbow connection\" would itself be a good fit.\n\nWilliams has said that his favorite lyrics in the song are \"Who said that every wish/ Would be heard and answered/ When wished on the morning star?/ Somebody thought of that/ And someone believed it/ Look what it's done so far\", because they imply that \"there's power in your thoughts\". He also noted that the lyrical phrasing was written specifically with Kermit’s speech patterns in mind.\n\nAllmusic described \"Rainbow Connection\" as an \"unlikely radio hit ... which Kermit the Frog sings with all the dreamy wistfulness of a short, green Judy Garland\" and went on to add that \"'Rainbow Connection' serves the same purpose in \"The Muppet Movie\" that 'Over the Rainbow' served in \"The Wizard of Oz\", with nearly equal effectiveness: an opening establishment of the characters' driving urge for something more in life.\" Others have similarly referred to \"Rainbow Connection\" as the film's \"I Want\" song.\n\nAscher and Williams received Oscar nominations at the 52nd Academy Awards for both the score of \"The Muppet Movie\" and for \"Rainbow Connection\", which was nominated for Best Original Song. The song lost to \"It Goes Like It Goes\" from \"Norma Rae\", a win that some critics denounced.\n\nThe song's name has been used by a number of charitable organizations wishing to evoke its message, including a children's charity similar to the Make-A-Wish Foundation, a summer camp for seriously ill children, and a horseriding camp for people with disabilities. The name's influence can also be seen from business names to artificial Christmas tree products.\n\nThe American Film Institute named \"Rainbow Connection\" the 74th greatest movie song of all time in \"AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs\".\n\nIn 1996 in Whanganui, New Zealand, a 21-year-old man burst into the radio station Star FM and took the manager hostage, demanding that \"Rainbow Connection\" by Kermit the Frog be played.\n\nKermit the Frog reprised the song on \"The Muppet Show\" in 1980 as a duet with Debbie Harry when she was a guest star. Jeff Moss and Ralph Burns also quoted the song's intro as the intro to the instrumental, \"carriage ride\" rendition of \"Together Again\" that segued into the \"Muppet Babies\" song sequence, \"I'm Gonna Always Love You\" in \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\". The song is also reprised by a large group of Muppets as the closing number in the 1985 special \"\". Kermit also reprises the song in the 2011 film \"The Muppets\", this time as a duet with Miss Piggy that leads into the entire Muppet group singing together. A shorter version of the song performed by tribute band \"The Moopets\" is also used in the film. The iTunes release of \"The Muppets\" soundtrack includes a new version of the song as an exclusive bonus track, recorded by Steve Whitmire, the then-current performer of Kermit. The song was also reprised in the TV series \"The Muppets\", in the 2015 episode \"Pig's in a Blackout\".\n\nOn April 25, 2020, Kermit released a new performance of the song on social media to lift spirits during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nThe following artists have also covered the song:\n\nDan Stevens recorded a version of the song for the official soundtrack of the \"Legion\" TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828507", "title": "Owl butterfly", "text": "Owl butterfly\n\nThe owl butterflies are species of the genus Caligo and are known for their huge eyespots, which resemble owls' eyes. They are found in the rainforests and secondary forests of Mexico, Central and South America.\n\nOwl butterflies are very large, , and fly only a few meters at a time, so avian predators have little difficulty in following them to their settling place. However, the butterflies preferentially fly in dusk, when few avian predators are around.\nThe Latin name may possibly refer to their active periods; \"caligo\" means darkness.\n\nSome owl butterflies form leks in mating behavior.\n\nListed alphabetically within groups:\n\nThere are some twenty species in this genus, which can be divided into six groups that might constitute subgenera. Some species are of uncertain placement with regard to these groups, however:\n\nThe underwing pattern is highly cryptic. It is conceivable that the eye pattern is a generalized form of mimicry. It is known that many small animals hesitate to go near patterns resembling eyes with a light-colored iris and a large pupil, which matches the appearance of the eyes of many predators that hunt by sight.\n\nAccording to the Batesian mimicry theory the pattern on the wings of \"Caligo\" resemble the head of a predator like a lizard or an amphibian. It should deter predators while resting, feeding, mating, or emerging from the pupa.\n\nThe role of eyespots as antipredator mechanisms has been discussed since the 19th century. Several hypotheses are suggested to explain their occurrence. In some butterflies, particularly Satyrinae (such as the gatekeeper butterfly and the grayling), it has been shown that ocelli (eyespots) serve as a decoy, diverting bird attack away from the vulnerable body, and towards the outer part of the hindwings or the forewing tip.\n\nResearch of Stevens et al. (2008), however, suggests that eyespots are not a form of mimicry and do not deter predators because they look like eyes. Rather the conspicuous contrast in the patterns on the wings deter predators. In this study, however, the influence of surrounding forms, like the head region of a predator, was not tested. Also the question why animals evolved such complex imitations of other species is left unanswered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828512", "title": "Quadrille (patience)", "text": "Quadrille (patience)\n\nQuadrille, also called Captive Queens, La Française or Partner is a card game of the Patience or Solitaire type using a pack of 52 playing cards. The name Quadrille is derived from the layout of the four Queens around which the cards are built; an alternative name, Captive Queens, describes the way the Queens become \"enclosed\" as the foundations are built upon. Alluding to the name, Quadrille, Parlett describes it as \"a pleasant little pictorial which may be said to represent the dance of the cardboard court.\"\n\nThere are two variants:\n\n\nEither way, the role of the Queens is purely decorative and plays no functional role in the game. The aim is to build the Sixes upwards in the same suit as far as the Jacks, and the Fives downwards as far as the Kings (via the Aces). The following chart clarifies which cards are placed on the foundations:\n\nTo play, cards are turned from the stock and built if possible or discarded if not possible into a wastepile, face up. Once the stock runs out, the cards are gathered from the wastepile and become the new stock from which cards are to be dealt. Three redeals are permitted.\nThe game is won when all the cards are in the foundations with the court cards (Kings and Jacks) at the top of each foundation, as shown on the right.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828515", "title": "Struthiomimus", "text": "Struthiomimus\n\nStruthiomimus (meaning \"ostrich mimic\", from the Greek στρούθειος/\"stroutheios\" meaning \"of the ostrich\" and μῖμος/\"mimos\" meaning \"mimic\" or \"imitator\") is a genus of ornithomimid dinosaurs from the late Cretaceous of North America. Ornithomimids were long-legged, bipedal, ostrich-like dinosaurs with toothless beaks. The type species, \"Struthiomimus altus\", is one of the more common small dinosaurs found in Dinosaur Provincial Park; its abundance suggests that these animals were herbivores or omnivores rather than pure carnivores.\n\nThe size of \"S. altus\" is estimated as about long and tall at the hips, with a weight of around . S. sedens has been estimated at 5.8 meters (19 ft) long, 1.95 meters (6.4 ft) tall at the hips and 420 kg (926 lbs) making it the largest North American Ornithomimosaur.\n\n\"Struthiomimus\" had a build and skeletal structure typical of ornithomimids, differing from closely related genera like \"Ornithomimus\" and \"Gallimimus\" in proportions and anatomical details. As with other ornithomimids, they had small slender heads on long necks (which made up about 40% of the length of the body in front of the hips). Their eyes were large and their jaws were toothless. Their vertebral columns consisted of ten neck vertebrae, thirteen back vertebrae, six hip vertebrae, and about thirty-five tail vertebrae. Their tails were relatively stiff and probably used for balance. They had long slender arms and hands, with immobile forearm bones and limited opposability between the first finger and the other two. As in other ornithomimids but unusually among theropods, the three fingers were roughly the same length, and the claws were only slightly curved; Henry Fairfield Osborn, describing a skeleton of \"S. altus\" in 1917, compared the arm to that of a sloth. These might have been adaptations to support wing feathers.\n\n\"Struthiomimus\" differed from close relatives only in subtle aspects of anatomy. The edge of the upper beak was concave in \"Struthiomimus\", unlike \"Ornithomimus\", which had straight beak edges. \"Struthiomimus\" had longer hands relative to the humerus than other ornithomimids, with particularly long claws. Their forelimbs were more robust than in the similar \"Ornithomimus\".\n\nIn 1901, Lawrence Lambe found some incomplete remains, holotype CMN 930, and named them \"Ornithomimus altus\", placing them in the same genus as material earlier described by Othniel Charles Marsh in 1890. The specific name \"altus\" is from Latin, meaning \"lofty\" or \"noble\". However, in 1914, a nearly complete skeleton (AMNH 5339) was discovered by Barnum Brown at the Red Deer River site in Alberta, prompting \"O. altus\" to be described as the type genus of a new subgenus, \"Struthiomimus\", by Henry Fairfield Osborn in 1917. Dale Russell made \"Struthiomimus\" a full genus in 1972, at the same time referring several other specimens to it: AMNH 5375, AMNH 5385, AMNH 5421, CMN 8897, CMN 8902 and ROM 1790, all partial skeletons. The type species, \"S. altus\", is known from several skeletons and skulls, In 1916 Osborn also renamed \"Ornithomimus tenuis\" Marsh 1890 into \"Struthiomimus tenuis\". This is today considered a \"nomen dubium\". In 2016, ROM 1790 was made the holotype of a new genus and species, \"Rativates evadens\".\n\nIn subsequent years William Arthur Parks named four other species of \"Struthiomimus\": \"Struthiomimus brevetertius\" Parks 1926, \"Struthiomimus samueli\" Parks 1928, \"Struthiomimus currellii\" Parks 1933 and \"Struthiomimus ingens\" Parks 1933. These are today seen as either belonging to \"Dromiceiomimus\" or to \"Ornithomimus\".\n\nIn 1997 Donald Glut mentioned the name \"Struthiomimus lonzeensis\". This was probably a \"lapsus calami\", a mistake for \"Ornithomimus lonzeensis\" (Dollo 1903) Kuhn 1965.\n\n\"Struthiomimus altus\" comes from the Late Campanian (Judithian age) Oldman Formation.\n\nA possible second species of \"Struthiomimus\" is known from the early Maastrichtian (Edmontonian age) Horseshoe Canyon Formation. Because dinosaur fauna show rapid turnover, it is likely that these younger \"Struthiomimus\" specimens represent a species distinct from \"S. altus\", though no new name has been given to them.\nAdditional \"Struthiomimus\" specimens from the lower Lance Formation and equivalents are larger (similar to \"Gallimimus\" in size) and tend to have straighter and more elongate hand claws, similar to those seen in \"Ornithomimus\". One relatively complete Lance Formation specimen, BHI 1266, was originally referred to \"Ornithomimus sedens\" (named by Marsh in 1892) and later classified as \"Struthiomimus sedens\". One 2015 paper by van der Reest \"et al.\" listed BHI 1266 as \"Ornithomimus sp.\", while another paper the same year considered the specimen \"Struthiomimus sp.\" pending a re-evaluation of both genera.\n\n\"Struthiomimus\" is a member of the family Ornithomimidae, a group which also includes \"Anserimimus\", \"Archaeornithomimus\", \"Dromiceiomimus\", \"Gallimimus\", \"Ornithomimus\", and \"Sinornithomimus\".\n\nJust as the fossil remains of \"Struthiomimus\" were incorrectly assigned to \"Ornithomimus\", the larger group that \"Struthiomimus\" belongs to, the Ornithomimosauria, also underwent many changes over the years. For example, O.C. Marsh initially included \"Struthiomimus\" in the Ornithopoda, a large clade of dinosaurs not closely related to theropods. Five years later, Marsh classified \"Struthiomimus\" in the Ceratosauria. In 1891, Baur placed the genus within Iguanodontia. As late as 1993, \"Struthiomimus\" was referred to Oviraptorosauria. However, by the 1990s, there were numerous studies that placed \"Struthiomimus\" within Coelurosauria.\n\nRecognizing the difference between ornithomimids and other theropods, Rinchen Barsbold placed ornithomimids within their own infraorder, Ornithomimosauria, in 1976. The constituency of Ornithomimidae and Ornithomimosauria varied with different authors. Paul Sereno, for example, used Ornithomimidae to include all ornithomimosaurians in 1998, but subsequently changed to a more exclusive definition (advanced ornithomimosaurs) within Ornithomimosauria, a classification scheme that was adopted by other authors at the beginning of the current century.\nThe cladogram follows the 2011 analysis by Xu \"et al.\":\n\nIn a 2001 study conducted by Bruce Rothschild and other paleontologists, fifty foot bones referred to \"Struthiomimus\" were examined for signs of stress fracture, but none were found.\n\n\"Struthiomimus\" was one of the first theropods envisioned from the outset as having a horizontal posture. Osborn in 1916 let the animal intentionally be depicted with an elevated tail. This newer view created an image much more reminiscent of modern flightless birds, such as the ostrich to which this dinosaur's name refers, but would only much later be accepted for all theropods.\n\nThere has been much discussion about the feeding habits of \"Struthiomimus\". Because of its straight-edged beak, \"Struthiomimus\" may have been an omnivore. Some theories suggest that it may have been a shore-dweller and may have been a filter feeder. Some paleontologists noted that it was more likely to be a carnivore because it is classified within the otherwise carnivorous theropod group. This theory has never been discounted, but Osborn, who described and named the dinosaur, proposed that it probably ate buds and shoots from trees, shrubs and other plants, using its forelimbs to grasp branches and its long neck to enable it accurately to select particular items. This herbivorous diet is further supported by the unusual structure of its hands. The second and third fingers were of equal length, could not function independently, and were probably bound together by skin as a single unit. The structure of the shoulder girdle did not allow a high elevation of the arm nor was optimised for a low reach. The hand could not be fully flexed for a grasping motion or spread for raking. This indicates that the hand was used as a \"hook\" or \"clamp\", for bringing branches or fern fronds at shoulder height within reach. However, these adaptations might have been used for wing feather support instead.\n\nThe legs (hind limbs) of \"Struthiomimus\" were long, powerful and seemingly well-suited to rapid running, much like an ostrich. The supposed speed of \"Struthiomimus\" was, in fact, its main defense from predators (although it may also have been able to lash out with its hind claws when cornered), such as the dromaeosaurids (e.g. \"Saurornitholestes\" and \"Dromaeosaurus\") and tyrannosaurs (e.g. \"Daspletosaurus\" and \"Gorgosaurus\"), which lived at the same time. It is estimated to have been able to run at speeds between .\n\nFossil remains of \"S. altus\" are only known definitively from the Oldman Formation, dated to between 78 and 77 million years ago during the Campanian stage of the late Cretaceous period. A younger species (which has not yet been named), which apparently differed from \"S. altus\" in having longer, more slender hands, is known from several specimens found in the Horseshoe Canyon Formation and lower Lance Formation, between 69 and 67.5 million years ago (early Maastrichtian).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828525", "title": "Shrine of the Morning Mist", "text": "Shrine of the Morning Mist\n\nIt tells the story of Yuzu Hieda, a high school freshman and one of three sisters, all of whom are miko at the local Shinto shrine. When her childhood love returns, it is discovered that dark gods have a great interest in him, and Yuzu is recruited to gather fellow students into a \"Miko Council\" to fight off a full-scale mystic assault. The priestesses have talismans that focus their powers and are used when attacking the dark kami.\n\nIn the Media Blasters English adaptation, the Miko Council is referred to as the \"Priestess Club\".\n\n\n\nThe real-life city of Miyoshi, Hiroshima was used as the basis for the location of the anime. Miyoshi has an abundance of mist in the morning (hence the series' title), and the folktales recorded in Inō Mononoke scroll (which inspired much of the anime's story) took place on a mountain near Miyoshi City. The mountain appears prominently in \"Shrine of the Morning Mist\".\n\n\"Shrine of the Morning Mist\" is written and illustrated by Hiroki Ugawa. Shōnen Gahōsha released the manga's five \"tankōbon\" volumes between January 2001 and December 27, 2007. The manga is licensed in North America by Tokyopop, which released the manga's first four \"tankōbon\" volumes between May 9, 2006 and May 1, 2007 as of July 2009. The series is licensed in France as \"Asagiri - Les prêtresses de l'aube\" by Editions Ki-oon.\n\nThe episodes of \"Shrine of the Morning Mist\" anime series are based on the manga written by Hiroki Ugawa. The anime series was directed by Yuji Moriyama. There were 26 episodes broadcast by TV Tokyo and AT-X (company) between July 4, 2002 and December 26, 2002. Media Busters licensed and released the series for the English dub.\n\nIGN's A.E. Sparrow criticises the manga for making Tadahiro \"possibly the most boring character written in the history of manga. He looks and behaves with all the emotional range of a Ken doll, despite being the core character around which the action revolves.\"\n\nThem Anime Review's Jeremy A Beard comments that comedy of the anime \"employs a lot of silly school life misunderstandings and visual gags that reminded me of something like \"Azumanga Daioh\".\" Anime News Network's Sean Broestl commends the anime for its \"great character design, catchy opening [and the] comedy isn't overdone\" but he criticises the episodes for feeling \"rushed\" and the \"mediocre plot.\" Mania.com's Chris Beveridge comments on the anime's \"half-length episodes\" due to it being aired on TV Tokyo as the second half of \"Nekketsu Denpa Club\", saying, \"the show makes decent use of the format and the pacing is certainly much better than a lot of shows that were trying out this format a few years ago, but there's still something slightly off about how it plays out and roughly half of the episodes feel like they're either a bit rushed or they don't end in what you'd consider an appropriate place.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1828549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828549", "title": "Dan Carter", "text": "Dan Carter\n\nDaniel William Carter (born 5 March 1982) is a New Zealand rugby union player.\n\nCarter plays for Kobelco Steelers in Japan and played for New Zealand's national team, the All Blacks. He is the highest point scorer in test match rugby, and is considered by many experts as the greatest ever first five-eighth (fly-half) in the history of the game. He was named the International Rugby Board Player of the Year in 2005, 2012 and 2015 (equaling the record three awards of Richie McCaw) and has won three Super Rugby titles with the Crusaders, and nine Tri-Nations and Rugby Championships with the All Blacks.\n\nCarter injured his groin while doing kicking practice during the 2011 Rugby World Cup but was a key member of the 2015 Rugby World Cup-winning teams, becoming one of 20 players to have won multiple Rugby World Cups. In the 2015 Rugby World Cup Final against Australia, he kicked four penalties, two conversions and a drop goal, and was named the man of the match.\n\nCarter was born in a small town 10 minutes drive from the Carter family home in Southbridge in the South Island of New Zealand, to Neville and Bev Carter, and has one older sister, Sarah. From the age of 5, he played with Southbridge Rugby Club as a half back (scrum half) and would go on to make representative teams for Ellesmere & Canterbury Country. He attended Ellesmere College where he played mostly at first five-eighth, and then in his final year he transferred to Christchurch Boys' High School to further his chances of making it big in rugby. Some have said he was a shy and quiet young man who kept grand aspirations to himself. His great uncle was Canterbury and New Zealand half back Bill Dalley, a member of the 1924–25 \"Invincibles\" and later a Canterbury rugby administrator.\n\nCarter made his provincial debut for Canterbury in 2002, and in 2003 was signed by the Super Rugby side the Crusaders. Initially playing mainly at second five-eighth Carter reached the final of the Super 12 competition with the Crusaders in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. Although they lost the 2003 and 2004 finals, in 2005 Carter had moved to first five-eighth. He regularly played with first-five eighth Andrew Mehrtens before Mehrtens left the team following their 2004 season. In 2005 and 2006 the Crusaders won the competition, and in the 2006 season Carter scored the most individual points for a player in one season with 221.\n\nIn April 2008, Carter was linked with several European clubs, including Stade Toulousain who in April 2008 offered Carter \"the biggest rugby contract in world rugby\", at £750,000 per year. In June 2008, Carter made the decision to sign a six-month contract with French club side Perpignan, who then paid Carter the equivalent of £30,000 per game, during his sabbatical season.\nOn 31 January 2009 Carter ruptured his Achilles tendon playing for Perpignan against Stade Francais, but Perpignan still managed to win the Top 14 despite Carter being injured for the remainder of the season.\n\nHe recovered in time to play for his home provincial union, Canterbury, in the opening game of the 2009 Air New Zealand Cup. He then won selection to play for the All Blacks against Australia on 22 August 2009 after a few months of recovery. In May 2012, Carter was the top scorer in Super Rugby history, with 1301 points.\n\nIn December 2014 it was announced Carter would be joining Parisian club Racing Metro after the 2015 Rugby World Cup, on a three-year deal worth a reported €1,500,000 a season, making him the world's highest paid rugby player. In November 2015 Carter revealed that, while recovering from an Achilles tendon tear in 2013, he met with Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots of the National Football League about possibly joining the team as a kicker. On 24 June 2016, Carter helped Racing Metro win the 2016 Top 14 final with a 29-21 win against Toulon at Camp Nou, Barcelona scoring 15 points (5 penalties) and was named Man of the Match despite being down to 14 men 18 minutes into the game after teammate Maxime Machenaud got sent off for a dangerous tackle on Australian international Matt Giteau.\n\nOn 25 November 2017, Carter left Racing 92 in France at the end of the season.\n\nOn 16 July 2018, Carter joined Kobelco Steelers, a club in the Japanese Top League.\n\nOn 17 February 2019, it was announced that Dan Carter was returning to Racing 92 as injury cover after Patrick Lambie was forced to retire due to concussions.\n\nIn June 2003, Carter made his All Blacks debut at age 21 in Hamilton, New Zealand, scoring 20 points against Wales. He was then capped against France in Christchurch, which the All Blacks won 31–23. He was also a substitute in a match against Australia (the \"Wallabies\") in Sydney, which the All Blacks won 50–21. Carter was then included in New Zealand's 2003 Rugby World Cup squad, where he first gained serious international attention. Carter spent much of the latter stages of the tournament on the bench leaving New Zealand without a specialist goal-kicker. However, he did play in the games against Italy in Melbourne, which the All Blacks won 70–7, and the wins over Canada and Tonga. Although he has been an All Black since 2003 he only secured a permanent position as the first five-eighth in the team during the 2004 tour to the United Kingdom and France displacing Carlos Spencer. He had been playing as a second five-eighths up until the end of the 2004 Tri-Nations.\n\nIn 2005, Carter starred in the All Blacks 48–18 win over the British and Irish Lions. He scored two tries, five penalties, and four conversions. He ended the match with 33 points, passing the previous All Blacks record of 18 points in a Lions Test (Carter's second-half total of 22 points by itself was sufficient to top this). The performance was later described by The Guardian as \"the definitive fly-half display of the modern era\".\n\nOn 27 November 2010, after scoring a halfway penalty against Wales, Carter became the highest point scorer of all time, overtaking England's Jonny Wilkinson's previous record of 1,178 although Wilkinson took the record back on 26 February 2011 against France. Carter reclaimed the record on 30 July 2011 when he advanced to 1,204 points in the first tri-nations match of the 2011 series against South Africa. He has currently scored a total of 1,598 test points (29 tries, 293 conversions, 281 penalties, and 8 drop goals) in 112 tests, with an average of 14.27 points a game (the highest average for players who have scored more than 500 Test points). Along with Richie McCaw Carter earns 750,000 NZD a year being the joint highest paid player in New Zealand. This high paying contract by the New Zealand Rugby Union is not subject to form or fitness as both players are regarded as integral to the All Blacks 2011 Rugby World Cup plans. It was announced on 1 October that Carter would captain the All Blacks for the first time against Canada. However, it was later announced that Carter would miss the rest of the 2011 Rugby World Cup after tearing a groin tendon during the final training session before the match against Canada. Carter has signed a contract to re-sign with the NZRU until 2015.\n\nCarter was named IRB Player of the Year in 2012, but eyebrows were raised when he missed out being named in the shortlist for New Zealand Player of the Year.\nOn 16 November 2013, Carter became the fifth All Black to play 100 caps when New Zealand defeated England by 30–22 at Twickenham on their end of year tour.\n\nOn 17 July 2015, Carter and Richie McCaw played their final match in Christchurch together, after Carter took a deal to play for Racing Metro in France. On 15 August 2015 Carter played his final test in New Zealand in the Bledisloe Cup decider at Eden Park, a trophy he has never lost since his debut. He later appeared with McCaw in a \"Men In Black\" themed safety video for Air New Zealand.\n\nIn the 2015 Rugby World Cup Final against Australia, Carter scored four penalties, converted two tries (with the final one taken with his right boot), and kicked a drop goal that gave the All Blacks the winning moment. Due to the performance, he was named the Man of the Match. Following the All Blacks' victory, he received the IRB Player of the Year award for the third time.\n\nTest record overall:\nTest tries:\nCarter became engaged to his longtime girlfriend and former Black Sticks striker Honor Dillion in October 2010 when she was a marketing manager at DB Breweries. The couple married on 9 December 2011, and have gone on to have three children. Wedding guests included Richie McCaw and All Blacks former coach Graham Henry.\n\nCarter has modelled for Jockey underwear on billboards worldwide since 2003. In 2009, Carter's future wife joined him in one campaign. In 2004 and 2005, Carter was voted sexiest New Zealand male in a survey, receiving 35.7% of the vote in 2005. In 2008, American Cable Channel E! judged Carter to be 11th on its list of the world's sexiest men, and in 2010 E! voted him the world's 3rd sexiest male athlete.\n\nCarter has also been a spokesmodel for Daikin heat pumps, and from mid-2011, Philips electric shavers.\n\nIn November 2006, Carter released his book \"Dan Carter: Skills & Performance\". It included stories about his relatively brief international rugby career as well as section on skills for younger players.\n\nIn February 2017, Carter was caught driving in Paris with a blood alcohol level nearly twice the legal limit. He was subsequently dropped by his sponsor, Land Rover.\n\nIn May 2018, Dan Carter revealed that he declined the offer to switch to National Football League (NFL) as a kicker for New England Patriots after Rugby World Cup in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828552", "title": "The Caroline Rhea Show", "text": "The Caroline Rhea Show\n\nThe Caroline Rhea Show is a short-lived American syndicated variety/talk show hosted by actress and comedian Caroline Rhea. It premiered on September 2, 2002 and ran until May 21, 2003. The show was regarded as the successor to \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\", in that Rhea was hand-picked by Rosie O'Donnell as her replacement and had hosted the last few weeks of \"Rosie\" prior to her show launching.\n\nIn many ways, \"The Caroline Rhea Show\" was similar to its predecessor \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\" and the more successful \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\"; all three programs were daytime talk shows that were run like nighttime talk shows, with monologues and house bands and celebrity (and sometimes non-celebrity) guests.\n\nUnlike with O'Donnell's daytime show where an audience member opened the show, by announcing the day's guests, Chip Zien was the announcer of the show announcing \"Live from New York, it's \"The Caroline Rhea Show\"! On today's show: [names of guests]...Here's Caroline!\" The first five words, \"Live from New York, it's,\" mimicked the opening tagline to \"Saturday Night Live\", produced in the neighboring Studio 8-H. The show's intro song was Neil Diamond's \"Sweet Caroline\", which the audience often sang along to, particularly in vocalizing the three beats after the song's eponymous line and chanting \"so good, so good\" in response to \"good times never seemed so good\".\n\nLike its predecessor, \"The Caroline Rhea Show\" was taped in Studio 8-G at NBC's Rockefeller Center Studios in New York City. The show's house band was led by trumpeter Chris Botti. Former David Bowie guitarist and musical collaborator Carlos Alomar was the musical director for this program.\n\nSome stations that aired \"Rosie\" also aired \"Caroline Rhea\", but some (like WABC-TV in New York, which gave the former \"Rosie\" spot to \"The Wayne Brady Show\") aired the show at an undesirable late-night time slot.\n\nMost television markets which had aired the show replaced it with \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", which was offered by the syndicator of both Rhea's and O'Donnell's show, Warner Bros. Television's Telepictures division. (New York station WLNY-TV, which was a secondary carrier of both series, added \"Ellen\" while WABC did not; it was instead given to WNBC.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1828553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828553", "title": "Right bundle branch block", "text": "Right bundle branch block\n\nA right bundle branch block (RBBB) is a heart block in the right bundle branch of the electrical conduction system.\n\nDuring a right bundle branch block, the right ventricle is not directly activated by impulses travelling through the right bundle branch. The left ventricle however, is still normally activated by the left bundle branch. These impulses are then able to travel through the myocardium of the left ventricle to the right ventricle and depolarize the right ventricle this way. As conduction through the myocardium is slower than conduction through the Bundle of His-Purkinje fibres, the QRS complex is seen to be widened. The QRS complex often shows an extra deflection that reflects the rapid depolarisation of the left ventricle followed by the slower depolarisation of the right ventricle.\n\nCommon causes are Normal variant, Right ventricular hypertrophy or strain, Congenital heart disease such as atrial septal defect and Ischemic heart disease. In addition, a right bundle branch block may also result from Brugada syndrome, pulmonary embolism, rheumatic heart disease, myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, or hypertension.\n\nThe criteria to diagnose a right bundle branch block on the electrocardiogram:\n\nThe T wave should be deflected opposite the terminal deflection of the QRS complex. This is known as appropriate T wave discordance with bundle branch block. A concordant T wave may suggest ischemia or myocardial infarction.\n\nThe underlying condition may be treated by medications to control hypertension or diabetes, if they are the primary underlying cause. If coronary arteries are blocked, an invasive coronary angioplasty may relieve the impending RBBB.\nPrevalence of RBBB increases with age.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828559", "title": "Ornithomimus", "text": "Ornithomimus\n\nOrnithomimus (; \"bird mimic\") is a genus of ornithomimid dinosaurs from the Late Cretaceous Period of what is now North America. \"Ornithomimus\" was a swift bipedal theropod which fossil evidence indicates was covered in feathers, equipped with a small toothless beak that may indicate an omnivorous diet. It is usually classified into two species: the type species, Ornithomimus velox, and a referred species, Ornithomimus edmontonicus. \"O. velox\" was named in 1890 by Othniel Charles Marsh on the basis of a foot and partial hand from the late Maastrichtian-age Denver Formation of Colorado, United States. Another seventeen species have been named since, though most of them have subsequently been assigned to new genera or shown to be not directly related to \"Ornithomimus velox\". The best material of species still considered part of the genus has been found in Alberta, Canada, representing the species \"O. edmontonicus\", known from several skeletons from the early Maastrichtian Horseshoe Canyon Formation. Additional species and specimens from other formations are sometimes classified as \"Ornithomimus\", such as Ornithomimus samueli (alternately classified in the genera \"Dromiceiomimus\" or \"Struthiomimus\") from the earlier, Campanian-age Dinosaur Park Formation of Alberta.\n\nLike other ornithomimids, species of \"Ornithomimus\" are characterized by feet with three weight-bearing toes, long slender arms, and long necks with birdlike, elongated, toothless, beaked skulls. They were bipedal and superficially resembled an ostrich. They would have been swift runners. They had very long limbs, hollow bones, and large brains and eyes. The brains of ornithomimids in general were large for non-avialan dinosaurs, but this may not necessarily be a sign of greater intelligence; some paleontologists think that the enlarged portions of the brain were dedicated to kinesthetic coordination. The bones of the hands are remarkably sloth-like in appearance, which led Henry Fairfield Osborn to suggest that they were used to hook branches during feeding.\n\n\"Ornithomimus\" differ from other ornithomimids, such as \"Struthiomimus\", in having shorter torsos, long slender forearms, very slender, straight hand and foot claws and in having hand bones (metacarpals) and fingers of similar lengths.\nThe two \"Ornithomimus\" species today seen as possibly valid differ in size. In 2010 Gregory S. Paul estimated the length of \"O. edmontonicus\" at , its weight at . One of its specimens, CMN 12228, preserves a femur (thigh bone) long. \"O. velox\", the type species of \"Ornithomimus\", is based on material of a smaller animal. Whereas the holotype of \"O. edmontonicus\", CMN 8632, preserves a second metacarpal eighty-four millimetres long, the same element with \"O. velox\" measures only fifty-three millimetres.\n\n\"Ornithomimus\", like many dinosaurs, was long thought to have been scaly. However, beginning in 1995, several specimens of \"Ornithomimus\" have been found preserving evidence of feathers.\n\nIn 1995, 2008 and 2009, three \"Ornithomimus edmontonicus\" specimens with evidence of feathers were found; two adults with carbonized traces on the lower arm, indicating the former presence of pennaceous feather shafts, and a juvenile with impressions of feathers, of which were up to five centimetres in length, in the form of hair-like filaments covering the rump, legs and neck was also discovered. The fact that the feather imprints were found in sandstone, previously thought to not be able to support such impressions, raised the possibility of finding similar structures with more careful preparation of future specimens. A study describing the fossils in 2012 concluded that \"O. edmontonicus\" was covered in plumaceous feathers at all growth stages, and that only adults had pennaceous wing-like structures, suggesting that wings may have evolved for mating displays. In 2014, Christian Foth and others argued that the evidence was insufficient to conclude that the forelimb feathers of \"Ornithomimus\" were necessarily pennaceous, citing the fact that the monofilamentous wing feathers in cassowaries would likely leave similar traces.\nA fourth feathered specimen of \"Ornithomimus\", this time from the lower portion of the Dinosaur Park Formation, was described in October, 2015 by Aaron van der Reest, Alex Wolfe, and Phil Currie. It was the first \"Ornithomimus\" specimen to preserve the feathers along the tail. The feathers, though crushed and distorted, bore numerous similarities with those of the modern ostrich, both in their structure and distribution on the body. Skin impressions were also preserved in the 2015 specimen, which indicated that from mid-thigh to the feet, there was bare skin devoid of scales, and that a flap of skin connect the upper thigh to the torso. This latter structure is similar to that found in modern birds, including ostriches, but was positioned higher above the knee in \"Ornithomimus\" than in birds.\n\nThe history of \"Ornithomimus\" classification, and the classification of ornithomimids in general, has been complicated. The type species, \"Ornithomimus velox\", was first named by O.C. Marsh in 1890, based on syntypes YPM 542 and YPM 548, a partial hindlimb and forelimb found on 30 June 1889 by George Lyman Cannon in the Denver Formation of Colorado. The generic name means \"bird mimic\", derived from Greek ὄρνις, \"ornis\", \"bird\", and μῖμος, \"mimos\", \"mimic\", in reference to the bird-like foot. The specific name means \"swift\" in Latin. Simultaneously, Marsh named two other species: \"Ornithomimus tenuis\", based on specimen USNM 5814, and \"Ornithomimus grandis\". Both consist of fragmentary fossils found by John Bell Hatcher in Montana of which it is today understood they represent tyrannosauroid material. At first Marsh assumed \"Ornithomimus\" was an ornithopod but this changed when Hatcher found specimen USNM 4736, a partial ornithomimid skeleton, in Wyoming, which Marsh named \"Ornithomimus sedens\" in 1892. On that occasion also \"Ornithomimus minutus\" was created based on specimen YPM 1049, a metatarsus, since recognized as belonging to the Alvarezsauridae.\n\nA sixth species, \"Ornithomimus altus\", was named in 1902 by Lawrence Lambe, based on specimen CMN 930, hindlimbs found in 1901 in Alberta, but this was in 1916 renamed to a separate genus, \"Struthiomimus\", by Henry Fairfield Osborn. In 1920 Charles Whitney Gilmore named \"Ornithomimus affinis\" for \"Dryosaurus grandis\" Lull 1911, based on indeterminate material. In 1930 Loris Russell renamed \"Struthiomimus brevetertius\" Parks 1926 and \"Struthiomimus samueli\" Parks 1928 into \"Ornithomimus brevitertius\" and \"Ornithomimus samueli\". The same year Oliver Perry Hay renamed \"Aublysodon mirandus\" Leidy 1868 into \"Ornithomimus mirandus\", today seen as a \"nomen dubium\". In 1933 William Arthur Parks created a \"Ornithomimus elegans\", today seen as either belonging to \"Chirostenotes\" or \"Elmisaurus\". That same year, Gilmore named \"Ornithomimus asiaticus\" for material found in Inner Mongolia.\n\nAlso in 1933, Charles Mortram Sternberg named the species \"Ornithomimus edmontonicus\" for a nearly complete skeleton from the Horseshoe Canyon Formation of Alberta, specimen CMN 8632.\n\nAt first it had been common to name each newly discovered ornithomimid as a species of \"Ornithomimus\". In the sixties, this tendency was still strong as is shown by the fact that Oskar Kuhn renamed \"Megalosaurus lonzeensis\" Dollo 1903 from Belgium into \"Ornithomimus lonzeensis\" (today understood to be an abelisauroid claw), and Dale Russell in 1967 renamed \"Struthiomimus currellii\" Parks 1933 and \"Struthiomimus ingens\" Parks 1933 into \"Ornithomimus currellii\" and \"Ornithomimus ingens\". At the same time it was usual that workers referred to the entire ornithomimid material as simply \"Struthiomimus\". To solve this confusion by scientifically testing the separation between \"Ornithomimus\" and \"Struthiomimus\", in 1972 Dale Russell published a morphometric study showing that statistical differences in some proportions could be used to distinguish the two. He concluded that \"Struthiomimus\" and \"Ornithomimus\" were valid genera. In the latter Russell recognised two species: the type species \"Ornithomimus velox\" and \"Ornithomimus edmontonicus\" even though he had trouble reliably distinguishing it from \"O. velox\". \"Struthiomimus currellii\" he considered a younger synonym of \"Ornithomimus edmontonicus\". However, Russell also interpreted the data as indicating that many specimens could not be referred to either \"Ornithomimus\" or \"Struthiomimus\". Therefore, he created two new genera. The first was \"Archaeornithomimus\" to which \"Ornithomimus asiaticus\" and \"Ornithomimus affinis\" were assigned, becoming an \"Archaeornithomimus asiaticus\" and an \"Archaeornithomimus affinis\". The second genus was \"Dromiceiomimus\", meaning \"Emu mimic\" from the old generic name for the emu, \"Dromiceius\". Russell assigned several former \"Ornithomimus\" species named during the 20th century, including \"O. brevitertius\" and \"O. ingens\", to the new genus as \"Dromiceiomimus brevitertius\". He renamed \"Ornithomimus samueli\" into a second \"Dromiceiomimus\" species: \"Dromiceiomimus samueli\".\n\nTwo tibiae from the Navesink Formation of New Jersey were named \"Coelosaurus antiquus\" (\"antique hollow lizard\") by Joseph Leidy in 1865. The tibiae were first attributed to \"Ornithomimus\" in 1979 by Donald Baird and John R. Horner as \"Ornithomimus antiquus\". Normally, this would have made \"Ornithomimus\" a junior synonym of \"Coelosaurus\", but Baird and Horner discovered that the name \"Coelosaurus\" was preoccupied by a dubious taxon based on a single vertebra, named \"Coelosaurus\" by an anonymous author now known to be Richard Owen in 1854. Baird referred several other specimens from New Jersey and Maryland to \"O. antiquus\". Beginning in 1997, Robert M. Sullivan regarded \"O. velox\" and \"O. edmontonicus\" as junior synonyms of \"O. antiquus\". Like Russell, he considered the former two species indistinguishable from each other, and noted that they both shared distinctive features with \"O. antiquus\". However, David Weishampel (2004) considered \"C.\" \"antiquus\" to be indeterminate among ornithomimosaurs, and therefore a \"nomen dubium\". An SVP 2012 abstract agreed with Weishampel by noting that \"Coelosaurus\" differs from \"Gallimimus\" and \"Ornithomimus\" in the features of the tibiae.\n\nIn 1988 Gregory S. Paul classified the species in genera \"Archaeornithomimus\", \"Struthiomimus\", \"Dromiceiomimus\" and \"Gallimimus\" in genus \"Ornithomimus\". This has found no acceptance among other workers and presently the name is not used by Paul himself.\n\nEven after Russell's study, various researchers have found reasons to lump some or all of these species back into \"Ornithomimus\" in various combinations. In 2004, Peter Makovicky, Yoshitsugu Kobayashi and Phil Currie studied Russell's 1972 proportional statistics to re-analyze ornithomimid relationships in light of new specimens. They concluded that there was no justification to separate \"Dromiceiomimus\" from \"Ornithomimus\", sinking \"Dromiceiomimus\" as a synonym of \"O. edmontonicus\". However, they did not include the type species of \"Ornithomimus\", \"O. velox\", in this analysis. The same team further supported the synonymy between \"Dromiceiomimus\" and \"O. edmontonicus\" in a 2006 lecture at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology annual meeting, and their opinion has been followed by most later authors. Makovicky's team also considered \"Dromiceiomimus samueli\" to be a junior synonym of \"O. edmontonicus\", though Longrich later suggested it may belong to a distinct, unnamed species from the Dinosaur Park Formation which have yet to be described. Longrich called the species \"Ornithomimus samueli\" in a faunal list for the Dinosaur Park Formation.\n\nApart from \"O. edmontonicus\" dating to the early Maastrichtian, two other species are presently considered to be possibly valid, both from the late Maastrichtian. \"O. sedens\" was named by Marsh in 1892 from partial remains found in the Lance Formation of Wyoming, only one year after the description of \"O. velox\". Dale Russell, in his 1972 revision of ornithomimids, could not determine which genus it actually belonged to, though he speculated that it may be intermediate between \"Struthiomimus\" and \"Dromiceiomimus\". In 1985 he considered it a species of \"Ornithomimus\". Although it has since been referred to mainly as \"Struthiomimus sedens\", based on complete specimens from Montana (as well as some fragments from Alberta and Saskatchewan), these yet have to be described and compared to the \"O. sedens\" holotype.\n\nThe other is the original type species: \"O. velox\", at first known from very limited remains. Additional specimens referred to \"O. velox\" have been described from the Denver Formation and from the Ferris Formation of Wyoming. One specimen attributed to \"O. velox\" (MNA P1 1762A) from the Kaiparowits Formation of Utah, was described in 1985. Re-evaluation of this specimen by Lindsay Zanno and colleagues in 2010, however, cast doubt on its assignment to \"O. velox\", and possibly even to \"Ornithomimus\". This conclusion was supported by a 2015 re-description of \"O. velox\", which found that only the holotype specimen was confidently referable to that species. The authors of this study tentatively referred to the Kaiparowits specimen as \"Ornithomimus sp.\", along with all of the specimens from the Dinosaur Park Formation.\n\nIn 1890 Marsh assigned \"Ornithomimus\" to the Ornithomimosauria, a classification that is still common. Modern cladistic studies indicate a derived position in the ornithomimids; these however have only included \"O. edmontonicus\" in their analyses. The relationships between \"O. edmontonicus\", \"O. velox\" and \"O. sedens\" have not been published.\n\nThe following cladogram is based on Xu \"et al.\", 2011:\n\nThe diet of \"Ornithomimus\" is still debated. As theropods, ornithomimids might have been carnivorous but their body shape would also have been suited for a partly or largely herbivorous lifestyle. Suggested food includes insects, crustaceans, fruit, leaves, branches, eggs, and the meat of lizards and small mammals.\n\n\"Ornithomimus\" had legs that seem clearly suited for rapid locomotion, with the tibia about 20% longer than the femur. The large eye sockets suggest a keen visual sense, and also suggest the possibility that they were nocturnal.\n\nIn a 2001 study conducted by Bruce Rothschild and other paleontologists, 178 foot bones referred to \"Ornithomimus\" were examined for signs of stress fracture, but none were found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828574", "title": "USS Meredith", "text": "USS Meredith\n\nFour United States Navy ships have borne the name Meredith, in honor of Jonathan Meredith.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828578", "title": "P99", "text": "P99\n\nP99 can refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1828580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828580", "title": "Matt Jones (wide receiver)", "text": "Matt Jones (wide receiver)\n\nMatthew Jones (born April 22, 1983) is a former American football wide receiver and former sports radio personality. He was drafted by the Jacksonville Jaguars in the first round of the 2005 NFL Draft, and also played for the Cincinnati Bengals. He played college football at Arkansas.\n\nMatt Jones was born to Steve and Paula Jones on April 22, 1983, in Dermott, Arkansas. He spent most of his childhood in Van Buren, Arkansas, where his parents taught school and his father coached football and track. He attended Van Buren Public Schools from grade school through the end of his junior year. He burst onto the high school football scene as a sophomore wide receiver (WR), quickly making an impact for the Pointers football team, leading the team in TD receptions. He became a star statewide on the hardwood using his size and leaping athletic ability to stand out as someone special to watch. Fans from around the state came to see the 15-year-old sophomore showcase his speed and jumping ability on the hardwood. Jones was known for his ability to finish above the rim off of defensive steals, fast breaks and alley-oop dunks. He helped lead the Pointers to a 5A conference title and was named Super Sophomore by the \"Arkansas Democrat Gazette\". Jones went on to break Corliss Williamson's Arkansas high school basketball scoring record. Jones left Van Buren following his junior year for the opportunity to play quarterback at Northside High School in Fort Smith, Arkansas, as well as be a sprinter on the school track team.\n\nIn college, Jones was a star quarterback for the University of Arkansas, and was also a member of the basketball team for one season.\nDuring his football career at Arkansas, Jones was a part-time starter his freshman season in 2001, and was the full-time starter from 2002 to 2004.\n\nIn his freshman year, Jones helped Arkansas defeat an Eli Manning-led Ole Miss team in Oxford in an NCAA record-setting seven overtimes. The Razorbacks lost to the University of Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl, and finished with a record of 7–5.\n\nIn his sophomore season, Jones led Arkansas to a share of the SEC West Division championship, with a last-second touchdown pass to receiver Decori Birmingham, in a game against LSU in Little Rock. The game came to be known in the Arkansas–LSU football rivalry as the Miracle on Markham, making reference to War Memorial Stadium's being on Markham Street. Arkansas lost to the University of Minnesota in the Music City Bowl, and finished 9–5.\n\nHis junior year in 2003 was his most eventful, and saw Jones lead the Razorbacks to their second consecutive 9-win season. This included another seven-overtime victory, this time at the University of Kentucky. Jones also led Arkansas to an Independence Bowl victory over the Missouri Tigers, 27–14, and the Razorbacks finished the season with a 9–4 record. Jones was named Second Team All-Southeastern Conference at the end of the season.\n\nJones' senior year saw Arkansas fail to reach a bowl game, finishing 5–6.\n\nBy the time his playing days at Arkansas were over, Jones was the SEC's all-time leader in career rushing yards by a quarterback. His rushing totals have since been eclipsed by Tim Tebow and Mississippi State QB Nick Fitzgerald.\n\nAt the NFL Combine, Jones measured in at 6 feet 6 inches tall, weighed 242 pounds.\n\nJones, a college quarterback, was selected by the Jacksonville Jaguars as a wide receiver in the first round (21st overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. This was a move that surprised some draft experts who thought it was a risky selection as Jones had not been a full-time wide receiver at any prior point in his career.\n\nAs a rookie, Jones finished 2005 with 36 receptions for 432 yards and five touchdowns. He then finished 2006 with 41 receptions for 643 yards and four touchdowns. In 2007, he saw his production drop. At the beginning of the season, he pledged to not shave his beard until he scored a touchdown. His streak of end zone shutouts ended in Week 8 against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He finished the 2007 regular season with 24 receptions for 317 yards and was tied for second on the team with four touchdown catches. In 2008, he had 65 catches for 761 yards in 12 games before being suspended for three games by the NFL on October 20, 2008, for violation of the league's substance abuse policy. He has not played in a regular-season NFL game since.\n\nOn March 16, 2009, Jones was released from the Jacksonville Jaguars following substance abuse-related arrests.\n\nJones worked out with several teams during the 2009 season, but none resulted in contracts. After spending the 2009 NFL season out of football, Jones received contract offers from the Cincinnati Bengals and the Tennessee Titans, but on February 12, 2010, Jones decided to sign a one-year, $700,000 contract with the Bengals. Jones was waived on the last day of final cuts by the Bengals and did not make the 53-man roster.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, it was reported that Jones declined a tryout with the Washington Redskins, telling them that he intended to retire.\n\nReceiving statistics\nRushing statistics\nJones worked as a sports radio personality in Arkansas from 2012 to 2016.\n\nOn July 10, 2008, in Fayetteville, Arkansas, Jones was arrested at gunpoint and charged with felony possession of a controlled substance.\n\nJones and one other former Arkansas football player, Jared Hicks, were inside a vehicle that was searched by police. The police found a plastic bag filled with six grams of a white substance that tested positive as cocaine and a jar with possible marijuana residue. Officers questioned Jones and he acknowledged the white powder was in fact cocaine, the report said.\n\nJones' father, Steve Jones, disputed the allegations that his son was involved in any wrongdoing and released a statement which was posted on the web site of Fayetteville television station KNWA-TV: \"\"We want to make it clear that Matt was not in possession of any drugs, but that there were drugs in the vehicle and were located in the closest proximity to Matt.\"\"\n\nOn October 8, 2008, an agreement was reached between Jones and the Washington County Prosecutor's Office. Prosecutor John Threet agreed to send the case to drug court on October 13, 2008. Prosecutors said the felony charge would be dismissed if Jones completed the drug program. A hearing in drug court, rather than in the regular criminal system, allowed Jones to keep any conviction off his record.\n\nThe NFL suspended Jones for three weeks for violating the league's substance abuse policy. He was in the lineup for Week 8, pending an appeal.\nOn December 9, 2008, the NFL upheld Jones' three-game suspension, which caused him to miss the rest of the season.\n\nOn March 9, 2009, in Washington County, Jones was arrested again after failing a drug test which showed that he had alcohol in his system, which violated the condition of his probation. He was held in jail after he asked to be imprisoned rather than sent to a six-week residential treatment program that would have interfered with the beginning of training camp. He was released on March 14, 2009, after his latest arrest, but returned to court on April 13.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828581", "title": "Logie Hall of Fame", "text": "Logie Hall of Fame\n\nThe Logie Hall of Fame is a specialised industry-voted award presented annually at the Australian TV Week Logie Awards. It was first awarded at the 26th Annual TV Week Logie Awards held in 1984. The award is given to recognise the outstanding contribution and achievements of individuals to the Australian television industry such as actors, producers, directors and writers, as well as iconic television programs. Below is the list of all who have been inducted into the Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828582", "title": "Ibn Sirin", "text": "Ibn Sirin\n\nMuhammad Ibn Sirin () (born in Basra) was a Muslim mystic and interpreter of dreams who lived in the 8th century. He was a contemporary of Anas ibn Malik. Commonly regarded as the same person as Achmet son of Seirim.\n\nAccording to Yehia Gouda's reference book on Muslim oneiromancy \"Dreams and Their Meanings\" (, published in 1991), Abu Bakr Muhammad Ibn Sirin Al-Ansari (33-110 AH; 653–728), was born in Basra, as mentioned, in 653, i.e., the 33rd year after Muhammad's leaving from Makkah to the then Yathreb. His birth came two years before the end of the rule of Caliph Uthman ibn Affan.\n\nMuhammad's father (the name Abu Bakr was seldom used) was one of the many captives taken by Khalid ibn al-Walid after the Battle of Ayn al-Tamr. He was a coppersmith from a town called Jirjaya (Gerzhiya) (Arabic: جرجرايا, south east of Baghdad), settled and working there, where a decisive battle took place in year 12. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Islam\" (London; Leiden & E.J. Brill, 1971), vol. 3, p. 947, Ibn Sirin's mother, Safiyya – a slave of the caliph Abu Bakr – was held in such esteem within the community that when she died, her laying-out was performed by three of Muhammad's wives and eighteen \"Badris\" (veterans of the battle of Badr), led by Ubay ibn Ka'b, were present at her burial. 'Omar sent him as a present, either directly to Anas ibn Malik (one of the most authoritative sources on the life and opinions expressed by Muhammad) or first to a man called Talha Al-Bukhari (from Bukhara, Central Asia) who, in turn, gave him to Anas.\n\nThe most notable of the books attributed to him is \"Dreams and Interpretations\". Ibn Al-Nadim says that he was the author of \"Taabir Al-Ro'oya (What Dreams Express), which is different from or an abridged version of \"Muntakhabul Kalam Fi Tafsir El Ahlam\" (A Concise Guide for the Interpretation of Dreams) first printed in Bulaq, Egypt, in 1284 AH, in Lucknow in 1874 and in Bombay in 1296 AH. It was subsequently reprinted numerous times in various parts of the Arab World under different titles.\n\nBut that book, allegedly written by Ibn Sirin, who died in 110 AH, comprises many discrepancies (anachronic passages). For instance, it tells a story about Imam Shafe'i who died in 204 AH. It also quotes Is'haq Ibrahim ibn 'Abdullah Al-Kirmani, who died in 400 AH.\n\nNonetheless, some scholars are of the view that most if not all of the works related to Ibn Sirin might be apocryphal, or even misattributed to him completely. Another example lies in the authenticity of the book \"Muntakhabul Kalam ...\" which is definitely non-genuine, for the simple reason that it relates those stories that happened long after Sirin's death as already stated. Nevertheless, it is possible that these books were written by another expert or by Ibn Sirin's students and/or admirers. The major suspect is a Muslim preacher by the name of Abu Sa'id Al-Wa'ez, himself author of several books on Islamic oneiromancy.\n\nWhat lends credence and adds weight to the theory that Ibn Sirin never wrote anything is the established fact that he abhorred books. He always relied on his excellent memory and was of the view that it is books that led to the perdition and doom of past generations. Whenever he wanted to memorize a \"hadith\" (quotation of Muhammad), he wrote it down on a piece of paper which he destroyed as soon as he learned it by heart. One night, a friend begged him to keep in his house a book he was carrying, which he categorically refused by saying he had vowed that never \"shall a book\" spend a night at his home. Although he was known for correctly interpreting dreams, this book cannot be authentically traced back to him.\n\nThe rare second edition in Italian of his interpretation of Egyptian and Persian dreams was translated from Leo Toscano's Latin into Italian by the famous cheiromantist Patricio Tricasso, who, in his foreword to Alessandro Bicharia, explains that he has omitted many of the original interpretations owing to many dreams being inspired either by melancholy or evil spirits. The original Arabic, Greek and Toscano's Latin texts seem not to have survived and this is the second of three Italian editions of the sixteenth century, the others appearing in 1525 and 1551\n\n"}
{"id": "1828586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828586", "title": "MOA Museum of Art", "text": "MOA Museum of Art\n\nThe is a private museum in the city of Atami, Japan. \n\nThe museum was established in 1982 by the Mokichi Okada Association (MOA) to house the art collection of their founder, multimillionaire and religious leader Mokichi Okada (1882–1955).\n\nThe collection of the museum consists of approximately 3,500 works of art that include three National Treasures (\"Red and White Plum Blossoms\" screen by Ogata Kōrin, Nonomura Ninsei’s Tea-leaf Jar with design or wisteria, and a Calligraphy Album “Tekagami Kanboku-jo” which is an album of ancient calligraphy from the Nara to Muromachi periods), as well as 66 Important Cultural Properties of Japan. \n\nThe collection covers a wide span of classical Japanese paintings, hanging scrolls, Japanese sculpture, porcelain and lacquerwork from China and Japan. \n\nThe museum also has a reconstruction of the 16th century Golden Tea Room, which was made under the supervision of the architect Sutemi Horiguchi, an expert of \"sukiya\" architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828606", "title": "Alice Guszalewicz", "text": "Alice Guszalewicz\n\nAlice Guszalewicz (September 21, 1879 – October 26, 1940) was a Hungarian dramatic soprano.\n\nGuszalewicz was born in Budapest, and in 1896, at the age of seventeen, married opera singer Eugen Guszalewicz. She studied with her husband and made her debut in 1903 at the Theater of Bern, in Switzerland. In 1905, she sang at the Cologne Opera as the Queen of Sheba in \"La reine de Saba\" by Gounod, and as Isolde in Wagner's masterpiece. Shortly after her role in \"Tristan\", she was offered a six-year contract to sing in Cologne.\n\nGuszalewicz continued to sing in Cologne until 1916 and toured throughout Europe. She also sang in several operas and gave recitals in Karlsruhe (1906), Düsseldorf (1907), Bremen (1908) and Dresden (1908). In Dresden at the Semperoper, she performed the title role in \"Salome\" for the first time. Her interpretation of Salome caused a sensation.\n\nFor many years, however, a picture of her performance was thought to in fact show the play's author, Wilde in women's drag. The picture was even reproduced in Richard Ellmann's biography of him. It was not until Wilde's son Merlin Holland corrected scholars in 1994 that the picture in fact showed Guszalewicz. This correction undermined readings of Wilde as a cross-dresser.\n\nShe performed at the Leipzig Opera (1908), at the Vienna State Opera (1910 in the role of Salome), at the Berlin State Opera (1911 as Brünnhilde and as Isolde), as well as in Brussels, Paris and Madrid. In 1905, she sang the lead role in Isidore de Lara's opera \"Messaline\" in Cologne, which was a great success for her. The opera had 27 performances.\n\nGuszalewicz gave concerts at the opera in Frankfurt am Main (1907), at the Stadttheater of Bremen (1908) and at the National Theatre Munich (1910 as Salome). Her repertoire included the roles of Leonore in \"Fidelio\", Adriano in \"Rienzi\", Venus in \"Tannhäuser\", the title role of \"Ingwelde\" in Max von Schillings' opera, \"Elektra (opera)\" in the opera of Richard Strauss, Berthe in \"Le prophète\" by Meyerbeer, Santuzza in \"Cavalleria Rusticana\", the title role in Mascagni's \"Amica\", and Maria in \"A basso porto\" by Niccola Spinelli.\n\nAfter ending her career, she worked as a teacher in Munich. Her daughter Genia Guszalewicz (1902–71) became one of her students, and she followed her mother into a career as an opera singer.\n\nAlice Guszalewicz died at the age of 61 in Munich, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828608", "title": "Drochia", "text": "Drochia\n\nDrochia () is a city in the northern part of Moldova. It is the administrative center of the eponymous district. The city is located north of the national capital, Chişinău, and north-east of the Romanian city of Iaşi. The average elevation of Drochia is 226 meters. The population at the 2004 census was 16,606.\n\nThe name of the city comes from a local type of bird, called \"dropie\" (English: great bustard).\n\nDrochia is first mentioned by chroniclers in 1777. By 1830 it was a small settlement encompassing 25 families. A document dating from 1847 notes that a small grape-processing plant, the town's first industrial enterprise, had been built. Two mills situated on a local stream were built in 1875.\n\nMore intensive industrial development emerged after the railway first came through at the end of the 19th century. At the 1930 census, the locality (then a village) was known as \"Drochia-Gară\" (literally \"Drochia Station\"), and had a population of only 595. It was part of \"Plasa Bădiceni\" of the Soroca County.\n\nDrochia received the status of a city in 1973.\n\n\n\nDrochia is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828610", "title": "Criminal libel", "text": "Criminal libel\n\nCriminal libel is a legal term, of English origin, which may be used with one of two distinct meanings, in those common law jurisdictions where it is still used.\n\nIt is an alternative name for the common law offence which is also known (in order to distinguish it from other offences of libel) as \"defamatory libel\" or, occasionally, as \"criminal defamatory libel\".\n\nIt is also used as a collective term for all offences which consist of the publication of some prohibited matter in a libel (in permanent form), namely defamatory libel, seditious libel, blasphemous libel and obscene libel.\n\nThe common law offences of seditious libel, defamatory libel, and obscene libel were abolished in England and Wales and Northern Ireland on 12 January 2010 when section 73 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 came into force, blasphemous libel having already been abolished in England and Wales on 8 July 2008 by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008. The Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 created instead the offence of inciting hatred against a person on the grounds of their race or religion.\n\nSamoa's Crimes Act 2013 dropped reference to criminal libel, which had been on the statute books as part of the \"Crimes Act\" 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828621", "title": "Old Hall Manuscript", "text": "Old Hall Manuscript\n\nThe Old Hall Manuscript (British Library, Add MS 57950) is the largest, most complete, and most significant source of English sacred music of the late 14th and early 15th centuries, and as such represents the best source for late Medieval English music. The manuscript somehow survived the Reformation, and formerly belonged to St. Edmund's College, a Roman Catholic school located at Old Hall Green (hence its name) in Hertfordshire. It was sold to the British Library after an auction at Sotheby's in 1973.\n\nThe manuscript contains 148 compositions overall, 77 of which are written in score rather than in separate parts. Most of the pieces are settings of parts of the ordinary of the Mass, and are grouped by section, in other words: the settings of the Gloria are together, as are the settings of the \"Credo\", \"Sanctus\", and \"Agnus Dei\". Between these grouped settings are some motets and pieces related to the conductus.\n\nThe Old Hall Manuscript was compiled in the early 15th century, probably over a period of about 20 years. The hands of several copyists are identifiable, and some of them may be those of the composers themselves. Recent research has suggested that work on the manuscript ended with the death of Thomas, Duke of Clarence, in 1421, a somewhat later date than was previously suggested. This date allows the fitting into the chronology of the most recent piece in the manuscript, the wedding motet by Byttering which was almost certainly written for the marriage of Henry V and Catherine of Valois on 2 June 1420, as well as a group of motets by several composers, the titles of which closely match written accounts of the music played at the celebration of the victory of Agincourt in 1415.\n\nVarious musical styles and techniques are represented including English discant, treble-dominated works, isorhythmic compositions, and canons. A complex Credo (No. 75 in the manuscript) includes a three-voice mensuration canon among its five voices; it is notated in black, red and blue notes.\n\nThe Old Hall Manuscript is significant for confirming the existence and character of specifically English musical traits, the extent of the development of English music, as well as the influence of continental practices. In particular it shows a tendency in England to focus on musical complexities, such as canons, at a time when music on the continent was increasingly tending towards simplicity. Whether this trend generally continued in the 15th century in England is hard to determine because of the poor survival of manuscripts from that time, but it was well established by the middle of the 15th century, for example at the Burgundian court, that there was a style which was identifiably English\"la contenance angloise\", according to Martin le Franc in his poem of 1441–1442 \"Le Champion des Dames\". On the other hand, the Old Hall Manuscript is an impressive example of French influence in England. Manfred Bukofzer, writing in \"Studies in Medieval and Renaissance Music\" (1950) wrote: \"The greatest surprise of the Old Hall Repertory is unquestionably the prominent role of isorhythmic technique, which is irrefutable proof of a strong French influence.\" As English musicians were well known at the Burgundian court, French musicians may also have been known in England. It has been suggested that Pycard, composer of the canon No. 75, was actually French; but this is unlikely on stylistic grounds.\n\nThe influence of the Low Countries may be discerned in the music of Oliver.\n\nOne feature of the repertoire is the cultivation of dissonance, comparable perhaps to the music in the Cyprus Manuscript of a couple of decades later. Good examples can be heard in the music of John Cooke and Damett.\n\nA historically significant development was the occasional use of \"divisi\", the earliest certain evidence of polyphony being sung by a choir of two or more voices per part.\n\nComposers with works in the Old Hall Manuscript include Leonel Power, Pycard, William Typp, Thomas Byttering, Oliver, Chirbury, Excetre, John Cooke, Roy Henry (probably King Henry V, but possibly King Henry IV), Queldryk, John Tyes, Aleyn, Fonteyns, Gervays, Lambe, Nicholas Sturgeon, Thomas Damett, and others. The manuscript also contains some works by foreign musicians, including Antonio Zachara da Teramo and Mayshuet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828625", "title": "Apocryphon", "text": "Apocryphon\n\nApocryphon (\"secret writing\"), plural apocrypha, was a Greek term for a genre of Jewish and Early Christian writings that were meant to impart \"secret teachings\" or gnosis (knowledge) that could not be publicly taught. Such private instruction to the apostles figures in the canonical Gospels of the New Testament and furnishes the material of the \"sayings\" \"Gospel of Thomas\" and part of the material of the \"Gospel of Mary\". It is purportedly a secret teaching supposedly committed to a trusted disciple by Christ after his resurrection. The secret teaching in Gnostic literature refers to several things.\n\nExamples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828635", "title": "Marc Jordan", "text": "Marc Jordan\n\nMarc Wallace Jordan (born March 6, 1948), is an American-born Canadian singer-songwriter, record producer, session musician, and actor. Covering a wide variety of genres, he has written songs for a number of well-known artists, including Diana Ross, Rod Stewart, Cher, Bette Midler, Chicago, and Josh Groban. He was named best producer with Steven MacKinnon at the Juno Awards in 1994 for \"Waiting for a Miracle\" from \"Reckless Valentine\". In early 2014, Jordan was named Chair of Slaight Family Music Lab at Norman Jewison's Canadian Film Centre.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Canadian singer Charles Jordan, Marc Jordan grew up in a musical household in Toronto after his father returned to Canada. He studied film at Brock University but soon turned to music, coming to public attention as a guitarist for Bobby Vee.\n\nWith the Canadian division of CBS Records, Jordan released some singles in 1974, which included \"It's a Fine Line\", \"New York Kids\", \"Original Sin\"). They were not very successful themselves, but they impressed American music producer Gary Katz, and in 1977 Jordan reached a U.S. deal with Warner Bros. Records. This period with Warner spawned the Canadian hit songs \"Marina del Rey\" and \"Survival\" from the record \"Mannequin\"; a second record produced by Jay Graydon called \"Blue Desert\" was released 1980, and is regarded as a classic of the West Coast Sound of the period.\n\nIn the 1980s, Jordan was signed to RCA for two records. Paul De Villiers produced the first, \"Talking Through Pictures\", and Kim Bullard the second, called \"C.O.W.\". In 1988, Jordan sang and co-wrote the theme song to the hit Australian movie \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\" which was nominated for an AFI Award for Best Film.\n\nIn 1994, Jordan won a Juno Award for \"Producer of the Year\" (along with co-producer Steven MacKinnon) for \"Waiting for a Miracle\" from his \"Reckless Valentine\" album.\n\nAfter independently releasing the critically acclaimed recordings \"Reckless Valentine\" and \"Cool Jam Black Earth\", he was signed to Blue Note/EMI Canada in 1999, and followed up with two more jazz-oriented CDs, \"This Is How Men Cry\" and \"Make Believe Ballroom\".\n\nIn 2014 the Canadian Film Centre appointed Jordan as the Musical Director of its Slaight Family Music Lab.\n\nDuring the summer of 2016, Jordan was performing with singers Murray McLauchlan, Cindy Church and Ian Thomas in the group Lunch At Allen's, in a number of towns and small cities in Ontario, Canada. He is married to fellow singer-songwriter Amy Sky. They live in Toronto and have a cottage in Muskoka with their two children, Ezra and Zoe. Jordan and Sky are both national UNICEF Goodwill Ambassadors for Canada.\n\nJordan made his acting debut in Michael McGowan's 2010 sports musical \"\", where he plays Edgar Gordon, a pacifist father who along with his wife (Olivia Newton-John) have a 17-year-old son who has a talent for hockey.\n\nFirst released in Canada by Blue Note/EMI on October 25, 1999, \"This is How Men Cry\" contains six tracks written by Jordan: \"This Is How Men Cry,\" \"Charlie Parker Loves Me\" (covered by Rod Stewart on his album \"Human\", released February 6, 2001), \"Slow Bombing the World,\" \"I Must Have Left My Heart,\" \"Let's Get Lost,\" and \"London in the Rain\". There are an additional three covers: Willie Nelson's '\"Crazy,\" Elvis Costello's \"Almost Blue,\" and Mann Curtis's \"Let it be Me.\" The lead track, \"This is How Men Cry,\" is a poem about how men communicate, or more often how they don't.\n\nMarc Jordan is married to Amy Sky and they have two children together, a son, Ezra and a daughter, Zoe. Jordan is Jewish. His father was a cantor.\n\nJordan is a member of the Canadian charity Artists Against Racism.\n\n\n\n\nA list of artists who have performed songs written by Jordan include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828658", "title": "Flyer", "text": "Flyer\n\nFlyer or flier may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828664", "title": "Kaneaster Hodges Jr.", "text": "Kaneaster Hodges Jr.\n\nKaneaster Hodges Jr. (born August 20, 1938) served as a Democratic United States Senator from the U.S. State of Arkansas.\n\nHodges was born in Newport, Arkansas and graduated from Princeton University in 1960. Hodges graduated from the Perkins School of Theology at Southern Methodist University in 1963, and the University of Arkansas School of Law in 1967. In law school he was a classmate of Jim Guy Tucker, and also served as editor-in-chief of the Arkansas Law Review. He married the former Lindley Williams, also of Newport, and they are the parents of two children.\n\nDuring his career, in addition to practicing law Hodges was a farmer, Methodist lay minister, and hospital and prison chaplain. He served as city attorney for Newport and deputy prosecuting attorney for Jackson County, Arkansas from 1967 to 1974.\n\nHodges worked for incumbent Senator John Little McClellan’s campaign for senator in 1972. McClellan defeated David Pryor in the Democratic primary, and went on to win the general election. In 1974 Hodges coordinated Pryor's successful gubernatorial race in eastern Arkansas.\n\nIn 1975 Hodges was legislative secretary for Governor Pryor. From 1974 to 1976 he was chairman of the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission, and he was a member of the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission from 1976 to 1977.\n\nIn 1977 Senator John Little McClellan died in office. Pryor appointed Hodges to serve out the remainder of McClellan's term. His time in the Senate was most noted for his stands in favor of the Panama Canal treaties and against tuition tax credits for parents of private school students. Under Arkansas law, an appointed Senator was not allowed to run for a full term. Hodges stepped down at the end of his term in 1979, and was replaced by Governor Pryor, who won the 1978 election for a full term.\n\nHodges returned to Newport after his Senate term. He became involved in several business ventures, including real estate development in Arkansas and adjoining states. He was also active in several civic and charitable causes, including the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra, Arkansas Nature Conservation Foundation, Winrock International, and the Arkansas Justice Foundation.\n\nThe Lindley and Kaneaster Hodges Jr. Reading Room at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville is named for Hodges and his wife.\n\nHe is the uncle of Minneapolis Mayor Betsy Hodges.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828665", "title": "TR3", "text": "TR3\n\nTR3 is the Tim Reynolds Trio. Founded by Reynolds in 1984, there have been numerous members to come and go during its history.\n\nCurrent line-up:\n\n\nFormer Members:\n\nStudio Albums\n\nLive Albums\n"}
{"id": "1828666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828666", "title": "Paul McNamee", "text": "Paul McNamee\n\nPaul McNamee (born 12 November 1954) is an Australian retired tennis player and prominent sports administrator.\n\nIn his hometown, McNamee won the boys' singles tournament at the 1973 Australian Open.\n\nMcNamee is the only player to switch a grip as a professional, changing from a one-handed backhand to two-handed in 1979. He won two singles and twenty-three doubles titles during his professional career. A right-hander, he reached his highest singles ATP-ranking on 12 May 1986 when he became the world No. 24. McNamee reached his highest doubles ATP-ranking on 8 June 1981 when he became the world No. 1. McNamee won 24 men's doubles titles including four Grand Slam doubles titles in his career. He won the 1979 Australian Open and the 1980 and 1982 Wimbledon Championships with Peter McNamara and the 1983 Australian Open with Mark Edmondson. He won the mixed-doubles title in Wimbledon with Martina Navratilova in 1985.\n\nWhen John McEnroe won Wimbledon in 1984, McNamee was the only player to take a set off McEnroe throughout the entire championship when he won the third set of their first-round match.\n\nMcNamee was also a member of the Australian Davis Cup Team which won the Davis Cup in 1983 and 1986.\n\nIn 1987, McNamee became Melbourne's last officially crowned \"King of Moomba\", subsequently a \"Moomba Monarch\" was selected (male Monarchs were popularly, but unofficially, still called \"King of Moomba\").\n\nMcNamee played a key role in the founding of the Hopman Cup international tennis tournament in 1988. He served as tournament director of the Hopman Cup and CEO of the Australian Open until 2006.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2008 he was the tournament director for Golf Australia of the Australian Golf Open. He also served as the CEO of the Melbourne Football Club from March to July 2008.\n\nIn late 2008, it was revealed that McNamee has joined the push for Australia to field a cycling team at the Tour de France – with support from Cadel Evans as a consultant for Australian Road Cycling, a Melbourne-based consortium.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828667", "title": "The Ark (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Ark (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Ark is the fifth serial of the third season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 5 to 26 March 1966.\n\nThe serial is set at least ten million years in the far distant future. In the first two episodes the time traveller the First Doctor (William Hartnell) and his travelling companions Steven Taylor (Peter Purves) and Dodo Chaplet (Jackie Lane) arrive on a generation ship that Dodo names \"the Ark\". The Doctor searches for a cure for a fever that has spread across the human and Monoid races on board the ship, who have no immunity to it. The last two episodes are set 700 years later, and involve the Doctor, Steven and Dodo working with the Refusian race to stop the Monoids from wiping out the last of humanity with a bomb.\n\nThe story constitutes Dodo's first journey as a companion to the Doctor. It is also the earliest serial of the third season to exist in its entirety.\n\nAt least ten million years in the future the TARDIS materialises on a vast spacecraft with its own miniature zoo and arboretum. The First Doctor and Steven are explaining the basics of their time travel ability to their new companion Dodo Chaplet when she starts to show signs of a cold. The three are taken to the control chamber of the vessel by the mute single-eyed Monoids. The Monoids live in peace alongside the humans who command the spaceship, their own planet having been destroyed, but they often do much of the menial work. The humans explain that the Earth is about to be destroyed because of the expansion of the Sun, and that the ship is an \"Ark\" sent into space with the last remnants of humanity, civilisation, and various flora and fauna. The human Guardians in charge of the craft run a tight ship: failure to conform to their rules means either death or miniaturisation until they reach their destination, an Earth-like planet called Refusis II, which takes nearly 700 years to get to. As an amusement during the journey a vast statue is being carved by hand, depicting a human being.\n\nDodo's cold spreads among the Monoid and human populations, who have little natural immunity. When the Commander of the Ark collapses with the malady Zentos, the Deputy Commander, assumes that the travellers have deliberately infected the ship and places the whole ship on alert. After a trial, during which Steven collapses with the fever, Zentos orders the execution of the Doctor, Steven and Dodo, but the ailing Commander intervenes to protect them and permits them access to medical equipment to devise a cure. The Doctor is able to recreate the cold vaccine from the membranes of animals on the craft, and this is administered to the crew. The Commander, Steven and the others who have been infected are soon on the road to recovery. Their work done, the trio observe the end of Earth on the long-range scanner before the Doctor leads them back to the TARDIS.\n\nThe TARDIS rematerialises back on the Ark, but 700 years later. They learn that after a second wave of the cold virus introduced a genetic weakness into the humans the Monoids staged a coup and took control. They have completed the statue in the image of themselves, and now have voice communicators and use numerical emblems to distinguish each other. The surviving humans are now the Monoids' slaves, and the Doctor and his friends are sent to the kitchen to help to prepare meals for the Monoids. Two humans, Manissa and Dassuk, believe that the moment of their liberation is at hand. Steven tries to help them in a revolt, which is unsuccessful.\n\nThe arrival on Refusis is close at hand and a landing pod is prepared. Monoid 1 wants to make sure that the new world is inhabited only by Monoids, despite promises that the human population will be allowed to live there too. A landing party is assembled—the Doctor, Dodo, Monoid 2 and a subject Guardian named Yendom—and they soon reach Refusis II and start to investigate. A stately castle, which seems to be empty, is in fact occupied by the Refusians, giant beings rendered invisible by solar flares. Having anticipated the arrival of the Ark, they built the castle to accommodate the colonists. They welcome their guests, but want to share the planet only with other peaceful beings. Monoid 2 and Yendom flee the castle, and en route Yendom realises that the humans will not be allowed to reach Refusis with the Monoids. Monoid 2 kills him and shortly afterwards is killed himself when the Refusians destroy the lander.\n\nMonoid 1 decides to colonise Refusis without more checks on the planet, but once they land and discover the destroyed landing pod other, more cautious, Monoids revolt, sparking a civil war. The Doctor, Dodo and a Refusian use the confusion to steal one of the launchers and send the Refusian back to the Ark.\n\nThe Monoids have placed a bomb on board the ship and plan to evacuate soon to the planet, leaving the humans to die. Word of this threat spreads and spurs a human rebellion. They discover that the bomb has been placed in the head of the statue, which the Refusian helps to dispose of into space before the bomb explodes. The humans now begin to land on Refusis themselves, having been offered support by the Refusians on the condition that they live peacefully with the remaining Monoids.\n\nShortly after the TARDIS departs the Doctor becomes invisible in the TARDIS control room.\n\nAlthough Lesley Scott is credited as a co-writer, she does not appear to have done any actual work on the scripts. Her then-husband, Paul Erickson, requested that she be given a credit, but her name appears on no other related documents. A Lesley Scott was credited as a contributor to the \"Dr. Who Annuals\" published by World Distributors/World International, but it is not clear whether this is the same person.\n\nThe Monoids were played by actors, each holding a ping-pong ball in his mouth to represent the alien's single eye. The upper portion of the actor's face was hidden by a wig.\n\nRoy Spencer later played Frank Harris in \"Fury from the Deep\" (1968). Terence Bayler later played Major Barrington in \"The War Games\" (1969). Australian actor Bill Hunter played one of the Guardians; however, he remained uncredited.\n\nRichard Beale, who provided the disembodied voice of the invisible Refusian, later played Bat Masterson in \"The Gunfighters\" (1966). \n\nMichael Sheard made the first of six appearances in \"Doctor Who\"; he subsequently appeared in \"The Mind of Evil\" (1971) with Jon Pertwee, \"Pyramids of Mars\" (1975) and \"The Invisible Enemy\" (1977) with Tom Baker, \"Castrovalva\" (1982) with Peter Davison and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988) with Sylvester McCoy.\n\nReviewing the serial in 2009, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" stated, \"The concept is fine, especially with the time-lapse cliffhanger to episode two ... Otherwise the plot is lacking in dramatic incident and there are often tracts of extreme tedium.\" He felt that the Guardians did not have enough time to develop and called the Monoids \"somewhat ludicrous\", though he did praise the direction, music, and effects. DVD Talk's John Sinnott gave the serial three and a half out of four stars, writing that the first half was \"slow\" but became interesting when the TARDIS crew returned. Arnold T. Blumberg of IGN rated the serial an eight out of ten, highlighting the \"snappy and exciting\" pace and the \"surprisingly top-notch\" production values, aside from the Monoids. \"SFX\" reviewer Ian Berriman rated it three out of five stars, describing it as \"quaint\" with the Monoids being \"laughable\" villains. However, he did note the ambition of the story, that it was faster-paced than others at the time, and the \"positively epic\" sets. Brian J. Robb of \"Dreamwatch\" praised the direction but wrote that the \"ambitious story that fails miserably thanks to the less-than-stellar Monoids\". Charlie Jane Anders of io9 listed the cliffhanger of \"The Plague\"—in which the TARDIS crew leave and return in the future—as one of the greatest \"Doctor Who\" cliffhangers in a 2010 article.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Paul Erickson, was published by Target Books in October 1986.\n\nThis story was released on VHS, in 1998. It was later released on CD with linking narration by Peter Purves. The CD also includes an interview with Peter about this story and his time on \"Doctor Who\". This CD is available as an audio book on the iTunes Store.\n\n\"The Ark\" was released on DVD on 14 February 2011 in region 2, and on 8 March 2011 in region 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828669", "title": "Quezon Service Cross", "text": "Quezon Service Cross\n\nThe Quezon Service Cross () is the highest national recognition of the Republic of the Philippines. It has been awarded to only six Filipinos since its creation in 1946.\n\nThe award was created by \"Joint Resolution No. 4\" dated October 21, 1946 of the 1st Congress of the Philippines. A joint resolution of the Congress of the Philippines has the force of law. The Quezon Service Cross is a conferred by the President of the Philippines with the concurrence of the Congress of the Philippines on Filipino citizens for \"exemplary service to the nation in such a manner and such a degree as to add great prestige to the Republic of the Philippines, or as to contribute to the lasting benefit of its people\".\n\nNominations for the Quezon Service Cross need to state the services meriting the award and are made only in cases where the service performed or contribution made can be measured on the scale established by what the joint resolution terms \"the benefaction\" of the late President Manuel L. Quezon, after whom the decoration is named.\n\nThe Quezon Service Cross was proposed by President Manuel Roxas. It is also referred to as the \"Congressional Quezon Service Cross\", as conferment requires the approval of the Congress of the Philippines and is seldom awarded.\n\nOnly six Filipinos have been conferred this decoration:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828681", "title": "Colatitude", "text": "Colatitude\n\nIn a spherical coordinate system, a colatitude is the complementary angle of a given latitude, i.e. the difference between 90° and the latitude. Southern latitudes are given a negative value and are thus denoted with a minus sign.\n\nThe colatitude corresponds to the conventional polar angle in spherical coordinates, as opposed to the latitude as used in cartography.\n\nLatitude and colatitude sum up to 90°.\n\nThe colatitude is most \nuseful in astronomy because it refers to the zenith distance of the celestial poles. For example, at latitude 42°N, Polaris (approximately on the North celestial pole) has an altitude of 42°, so the distance from the zenith (overhead point) to Polaris is .\n\nAdding the declination of a star to the observer's colatitude gives the maximum latitude of that star (its angle from the horizon at culmination or upper transit). For example, if Alpha Centauri is seen with a latitude of 72° north (108° south) and its declination is known (60°S), then it can be determined that the observer's colatitude is (i.e. their latitude is ).\n\nStars whose declinations exceed the observer's colatitude are called circumpolar because they will never set as seen from that latitude. If an object's declination is further south on the celestial sphere than the value of the colatitude, then it will never be seen from that location. For example, Alpha Centauri will always be visible at night from Perth, Western Australia because the colatitude is , and 60° is greater than 58°; on the other hand, the star will never rise in Juneau because its declination of −60° is less than −32° (the negation of Juneau's colatitude). Additionally, colatitude is used as part of the Schwarzschild metric in general relativity.\n"}
{"id": "1828686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828686", "title": "Alfonso Ribeiro", "text": "Alfonso Ribeiro\n\nAlfonso Lincoln Ribeiro Sr. (born September 21, 1971) is an American actor, comedian, dancer, singer, director, game show host, and television personality. He played Alfonso Spears on the sitcom \"Silver Spoons\", Carlton Banks on the NBC sitcom \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\", and Maxwell Stanton on \"In the House\". \n\nHe is the current host of ABC's \"America's Funniest Home Videos\", replacing host Tom Bergeron, who left after 15 years. Ribeiro has hosted the GSN game show \"Catch 21\", the ABC Family show \"Spell-Mageddon\", and the television show \"Dance 360\". He also starred in the title role of the Broadway musical \"The Tap Dance Kid\" and took part in the 13th season of the British reality show \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\" Ribeiro won Season 19 of \"Dancing with the Stars\" with professional partner Witney Carson.\n\nRibeiro was born in New York City in the Riverdale neighborhood of The Bronx to Trinidadian and Tobagonian parents. His paternal grandfather was the Trinidadian calypsonian Albert Ribeiro, known as Lord Hummingbird.\n\nRibeiro began his career at age 8. He first gained recognition in 1983 when he played a leading role in the Broadway musical \"The Tap Dance Kid\". He received positive reviews for his performance and was nominated for an Outer Critics Circle Award. Ribeiro appeared as a dancer in a Pepsi commercial that featured Michael Jackson in 1984; a rumor spread that Ribeiro died from snapping his neck while dancing in the commercial. The same year, Ribeiro was cast as Rick Schroder's best friend on the TV series \"Silver Spoons\". In 1985, Ribeiro appeared as himself in a commercial on MTV, advertising a dance instruction book he authored called \"Alfonso's Breakin' & Poppin' Book\". In 1986, he released a 12-inch rap record called \"Timebomb\" on Prism Records.\n\nRibeiro's breakout role was as Carlton Banks on the NBC sitcom \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\" from September 1990 to May 1996, the cousin to Will Smith's lead character. Carlton, the character, was known for frequently dancing to Tom Jones's \"It's Not Unusual\", a dance routine that gained fame as \"The Carlton\".\n\nRibeiro competed as one of the celebrity singers on the reality television show \"Celebrity Duets\" in September 2006, winning over the runner-up Lucy Lawless. In July 2008, Ribeiro began hosting the game show \"Catch 21\" on GSN. He also directed some episodes of \"Meet the Browns\" and a majority of the Season 2 episodes of \"Are We There Yet?\" television series. In 2013, Ribeiro began hosting his second game show, \"Spell-Mageddon\", on ABC Family.\n\nOn May 24, 2013, Ribeiro made a cameo appearance on \"The Graham Norton Show\" to perform \"The Carlton Dance\", with show guests Will and Jaden Smith. In November of that year, Ribeiro took part as a contestant in the thirteenth series of the British reality show, \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here\". He was eliminated from the show on December 5, 2013, finishing in seventh place.\n\nOn September 4, 2014, Ribeiro was announced as one of the celebrities who would compete on Season 19 of \"Dancing with the Stars\". He partnered with professional dancer Witney Carson. He became the fourth celebrity dancer in the show's history to receive a 9 from each judge in week one. On November 25, 2014, Ribeiro and Carson won the competition. In September 2015, he returned as a guest judge in week three of Season 21, and he subbed for Tom Bergeron as host the following week.\n\nOn May 19, 2015, Ribeiro was named as Tom Bergeron's successor to host \"America's Funniest Home Videos\". In July 2015, Ribeiro made a cameo appearance in the music video for \"All Night\" by pop-rock band R5.\n\nIn October 2018, he was announced as the host of the UK game show \"Money Tree\". On October 12, 2018, Ribeiro was announced to sit in for Bruno Tonioli as guest judge on \"Strictly Come Dancing\" for week 5. He joined regular judges Craig Revel Horwood, Darcey Bussell, and Shirley Ballas. This also occurred for week 5 of the 2019 series. He also appeared as a contestant on a special Child TV Stars episode of The Weakest Link in 2001. He made it into the final round but lost to Keisha Knight-Pulliam.\n\nOn July 6, 2019, syndicated radio show \"The 90s with Alfonso Ribeiro\" launched on multiple radio stations across the country via Sun Broadcast Group. Radio veteran Daena Kramer (DK) joined him as co-host. The 3-hour weekly show celebrates 1990s music and culture while Alfonso and DK share their stories, pop culture facts and fun memories from the 1990s.\n\nRibeiro was previously married to Robin Stapler from January 2002 until August 2006. They have one child together, a daughter of whom they share joint custody.\n\nRibeiro married Angela Unkrich on October 13, 2012, following a three-month long engagement. The two live in Los Angeles and have two sons: Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro Jr. (b. 2013), also known as A. J., and Anders Reyn Ribeiro (b. 2015). They also have a daughter who was born in May 2019.\n\nIn December 2018, NBC and CBS reported that Ribeiro, along with Instagram star Russell Horning, aka Backpack Kid, and rapper Terrence Ferguson, aka 2 Milly, brought a lawsuit against Epic Games for their decision to feature respective choreographies in the popular game \"Fortnite\". In Ribeiro's case, his \"Carlton dance\", which he made popular in the 1990s as a cast member of \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\", is one of the many dances that \"Fortnite\" players can purchase for their avatars. Epic Games declined to comment on the lawsuits. The U.S. Copyright Office denied him a copyright for his dance on January 13, 2019. On March 7, 2019, Ribeiro dropped the lawsuit.\n\nRibeiro was partnered with Witney Carson for season 19. On November 25, 2014, Ribeiro and Carson were declared the season's champions.\n\nIn November 2017, Ribeiro returned to 25th season in Week eight, to participate in a trio Jive with Frankie Muniz and his professional partner Witney Carson.\n\nThe American public scored the dance in place of Goodman with the averaged score being counted alongside the three other judges.\n\nThis week only, for \"Partner Switch-Up\" week, Ribeiro performed with Cheryl Burke instead of Carson.\n\nScore given by guest judge Jessie J in place of Goodman.\n\nScore given by guest judge Pitbull in place of Goodman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828689", "title": "$100 hamburger", "text": "$100 hamburger\n\n$100 hamburger (\"hundred-dollar hamburger\") is aviation slang for the excuse a general aviation pilot might use to fly.\n\nA $100 hamburger trip typically involves flying a short distance (less than two hours), eating at an airport restaurant, and flying home. \"$100\" originally referred to the approximate cost of renting or operating a light general aviation aircraft, such as a Cessna 172, for the time it took to fly round-trip to a nearby airport. However, increasing fuel prices have since caused an increase in hourly operating costs for most airplanes, and a Cessna 172 now costs US$95–$180 per Hobbs hour to rent, including fuel.\n\nIn Perth, Western Australia, a similar mentality resulted in the 'Rotto Bun Run'. A group of pilots who had run out of hot cross buns on Good Friday decided to fly to the closest open bakery on Rottnest Island. The run is now an annual charity event.\n"}
{"id": "1828697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828697", "title": "Fernando José de França Dias Van-Dúnem", "text": "Fernando José de França Dias Van-Dúnem\n\nDr. Fernando José de França Dias Van-Dúnem (born 24 August 1934) is an Angolan political figure who was the First Vice-President of the African Union's Pan-African Parliament. He is a member of the ruling Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and served as Prime Minister of Angola twice during the 1990s.\n\nHe was Prime Minister from June 1991 until December 1992 and was the first Prime Minister appointed since the post was abolished in 1978. After four years out of office, Dias was reappointed as Prime Minister on June 3, 1996 and remained in office until a cabinet reshuffle in January 1999, when the post of Prime Minister was again eliminated.\n\nHe received a Master's Degree in Public Law, and a Ph.D. in Public Law, both in Aix-en-Provence, France.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1965 was a research assistant for Professor Maarten Bos regarding international law at the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands In that same year he conducted a study on Recognition of States and Government. Ambassador Van-Dúnem has been a member of the American Society of International Law since 1964. For three years starting in 1969 to 1971 he was a lecturer on Public International Law, Constitutional Law and Administrative Law in Bujumbura, Burundi.\n\nFor two years starting in 1970 he was Deputy Legal Advisor to the Organisation of African Unity. From 1972 to 1978 he was Chief Personnel Officer of the same organization. For one year starting in 1978 Ambassador Van-Dúnem was OAU Deputy Representative for Political and Legal Affairs near the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1982 he was Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the People's Republic of Angola to Belgium, the Netherlands and the European Economic Community. For four years starting in 1982 he was Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the People's Republic of Angola to Portugal and Spain.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1986, Van-Dúnem was Deputy Minister of External Relations, and from 1986 to 1990 he was Minister of Justice. He was Minister of Planning from 1990 to 1991, then Prime Minister from 1991 to 1992. After serving as President of the National Assembly of Angola from 1992 to 1996, he was Prime Minister for a second time from 1996 to 1999.\n\nVan-Dúnem was a member of the National Assembly of Angola in 1999. At the same time, he was a Professor of International Law, History of Political Thought, and a member of the Faculty of Law at Catholic University of Angola.\n\nVan-Dúnem was the 71st candidate on the MPLA's national list in the September 2008 parliamentary election. Van-Dúnem won a seat in this election, in which MPLA won an overwhelming majority.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828704", "title": "Fall of Berlin", "text": "Fall of Berlin\n\nFall of Berlin may refer to \n\n"}
{"id": "1828719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828719", "title": "MacPorts", "text": "MacPorts\n\nMacPorts, formerly called DarwinPorts, is a package management system that simplifies the installation of software on the macOS and Darwin operating systems. It is an open-source software project to simplify installation of other open source software. Similar in aim and function to Fink and the BSD ports collections, DarwinPorts was started in 2002 as part of the OpenDarwin project, with the involvement of a number of Apple Inc. employees including Landon Fuller, Kevin Van Vechten, and Jordan Hubbard.\n\nMacPorts allows the installation of a number of packages by entering the command sudo port install \"packagename\" in the Terminal, which will then download, compile if necessary, and install the requested software, while also installing any required dependencies automatically. Installed packages can be updated with the command sudo port upgrade outdated. An official GUI application called Pallet is also available.\n\nVersion 1.0 was released on April 28, 2005. In December 2005 the project reached a milestone, surpassing 3000 ports. At that time, package installation involved the source code being downloaded and compiled on the end user's machine. Version 2.0, released in 2011, introduced support for prebuilt binary archives; by default ports are installed using the prebuilt binary archive if available, and are built from source otherwise. , MacPorts has over 21,600 ports.\n\nMacPorts was hosted on Mac OS Forge, an open source hosting service created and maintained by Apple Inc. for third-party projects not supported by Apple. When Apple closed Mac OS Forge in 2016, the project moved to GitHub. Best-effort support can be sourced from the community.\n\nMacPorts supports universal binaries for both PowerPC and Intel-based versions of Mac OS X, but migrating from a PowerPC installation of MacPorts to a version on an Intel Mac requires reinstalling all installed ports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828721", "title": "Bolton Hill, Baltimore", "text": "Bolton Hill, Baltimore\n\nBolton Hill is a neighborhood in Baltimore, Maryland, with 20 blocks of mostly preserved buildings from the late 19th century. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, preserved as a Baltimore City Historic District, and included within the boundaries of Baltimore National Heritage Area. The neighborhood is bounded by North Avenue, Mount Royal Avenue, Cathedral Street, Dolphin Street, and Eutaw Place. Bolton Hill is a largely residential neighborhood with three-story row houses with red brick, white marble steps, and high ceilings. There are also larger more ornate originally single-family houses, many houses of worship, parks, monuments, and a few large apartment buildings. Many significant residents have lived in the neighborhood, including F. Scott Fitzgerald, Woodrow Wilson, the Cone sisters, and Florence Rena Sabin.\n\nBolton Hill is within easy walking distance of the State Center station on the Baltimore Metro Subway and the University of Baltimore/Mt. Royal and Cultural Center stations on the Baltimore Light Rail.\n\nAs of the 2010 Census, there were 4,974 people residing within the Bolton Hill neighborhood boundaries. The racial makeup of Bolton Hill, as found in the 2010 census, was 56.4% White, 31.8% African American, 7.3% Asian, 0.2% Native American, 1.1% Other Races, and 3.2% Two or more Races. 65.8% of housing units were renter-occupied, 24% were owner occupied, and 10.2% were vacant, as of 2010.\n\nBolton Hill is named after the estate of George Grundy, who named his estate house after Bolton le Moors, which was located at the site of the current Fifth Regiment Armory. Around 1850, the area began to transition from large estate to traditional Baltimore row houses, which were built along a diagonal street grid, unlike the traditional north-south grid of most Baltimore neighborhoods. This grid was constructed by Thomas Poppleton to follow now Pennsylvania Avenue and the Jones Falls. Early row houses featured plain brick facades with decorative cornices, door surrounds, and window lintels. Later row houses features more ornate designs. Construction of row houses continued until the end of the 19th century, but a few large apartments were constructed at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nUnlike other prominent neighborhoods in Baltimore at the end of the 19th century, which had restrictive covenants against African-Americans, Jews, and Asians, Bolton Hill was a relatively diverse neighborhood. Although socially segregated, many African-American servants for the mansions of wealthy Bolton Hill residents lived in the alley houses of Bolton Hill. At the end of the 19th century, Baltimore's German Jewish community moved to Bolton Hill. Jews had moved to the western edge of Bolton Hill, and many synagogues, such as Baltimore Hebrew, Chizuk Amuno, and Shearith Israel, moved to McCullough Street and Madison Avenue just west of Bolton Hill. Furthermore, two large temples were built within Bolton hill. Eutaw Place Temple was built by Temple Oheb Shalom on Eutaw Place in 1892, and the Har Sinai Congregation built a large temple on Bolton Street in 1894.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, white residents of Bolton Hill began to fear the expanding African-American community to the west of the neighborhood, eventually leading to white flight. The Mount Royal Improvement Association (MRIA) was established in 1928 and pushed for covenants against African-American residency in the neighborhood. The associated boasted that Bolton hill was a \"protected area\" and claimed that \"the greatest achievement of the Mount Royal Improvement Association has been the subjecting of the property in its area to a restriction for white occupancy only.\" By the mid-20th century, however, many Bolton Hill residents moved to the suburbs for modern homes with yards, and in the early 1960s most of the Jewish institutions had moved to the northwest suburbs.\n\nIn the early 1960s, federal urban renewal funds were used to demolish houses on the western edge of the neighborhood, which were considered \"slums\" and targeted for \"stabilization.\" Several large new developments were built in their place. In 1967, Bolton Hill became a Baltimore City historic district, and in 1971 it was placed on the National Register of Historic Places. As a result, the majority of the neighborhood was largely preserved.\n\nIn 2018, the community association changed its name from Mount Royal Improvement Association to the Bolton Hill Community Association; this was to abandon any connection with its origins in racial segregation and to be more representative of its location and diverse community.\n\nBeginning in 2012, popular Netflix series House of Cards filmed the Underwood's home based in Bolton Hill to represent their Washington home.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828723", "title": "Neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin", "text": "Neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin\n\nNeomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin, also known as triple antibiotic ointment, is a medication used to try to decrease the risk of infections following minor skin injuries and to treat superficial bacterial eye infections. It contains three antibiotics: neomycin, polymyxin B, and bacitracin. It is generally less preferred than bacitracin/polymyxin B. It is either applied to the skin or used as eye drops.\nCommon side effects include itchiness and skin rash. More severe side effects may include hearing loss. Use in pregnancy is generally not recommended. It is relatively broad spectrum, being effective against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria.\nThe combination was approved for medical use in the United States in 1971. It is available over the counter in the United States. In 2017, it was the 78th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than ten million prescriptions. It is sold under the brand name Neosporin among others.\n\nNeomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin ointment is reported to be a safe and effective topical agent for preventing infections in minor skin trauma. It, however, is generally less preferred than bacitracin/polymyxin B due to its greater side effects.\n\nIt is used for burns, scratches, cuts, and minor skin infections. The ointment is most effective when applied after cleaning the affected area.\n\nThe use of neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin, decreases infection rates in minor-contaminated wounds. However, if the wound is sterile, then there are no benefits compared to petrolatum (placebo).\n\nIt is for external use only and should not be applied near mucous membranes such as the eyes or mouth. It is not recommended for children under the age of two. Users should immediately seek medical attention if they experience hives, rashes, or itching. Any skin irritations such as pain, burning, or cracked skin that were not present prior to use of ointment must receive immediate care.\n\nConcern exists that its use contributes to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In the US, the only large market for the ointment may promote antibiotic resistance. For instance, it may increase the prevalence of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteria, specifically the highly lethal strain.\n\nIt has been shown to cause contact dermatitis in some cases.\n\nThe original ointment contains three different antibiotics: bacitracin, neomycin, and polymyxin B, in a relatively low-molecular-weight base of cocoa butter, cottonseed oil, sodium pyruvate, tocopheryl acetate, and petroleum jelly.\n\nThe generic name for these products, regardless of the base, is \"triple antibiotic ointment\".\nIn China, the product is named \"complex polymyxin B ointment\" and is manufactured there by Zhejiang Fondnow Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. The product was also marketed by the Upjohn Company under the name \"Mycitracin\", until 1997 when that name was acquired by Johnson & Johnson.\nSome people have allergic reactions to neomycin, so a \"double antibiotic ointment\" is sold without it, containing only\nbacitracin and polymyxin B: one such example is Polysporin branded product.\n\nA \"Plus\" variant of the ointment exists that adds the analgesic pramoxine, but uses the cheap, simple, long-lasting, but heavier petroleum jelly base, common to many over-the-counter topicals. The latest version of this analgesic formulation, a high-absorption cream, excludes bacitracin because it is unstable in such a base.\n\nThe three main active ingredients in Neosporin are neomycin sulfate, polymyxin B sulfate, and bacitracin zinc.\n\nOne of the main components is neomycin sulfate, which is a type of antibiotic discovered in 1949 by microbiologist Selman Waksman at Rutgers University. Neomycin belongs to the aminoglycoside class of antibiotics and fights against Gram positive and gram negative bacteria. The antibiotic is often used to prevent risk of bacterial infections. Aminoglycosides work by binding to bacterial RNA and changing the ability to produce proteins while exerting little to no effect on DNA. Thus, neomycin kills bacteria as a result of irregular protein production in the bacterial cell. When the cell can no longer produce the correct proteins, its membrane becomes damaged. As a result of damaged membrane, the affected bacterial cells die, and the infection is prevented or limited.\n\nLike neomycin, polymyxin B is an antibiotic. Polymyxin B forms holes in the bacterial cell wall causing the internal cellular components to leak out, resulting in cell death. This antibiotic also interferes with the production of tetrahydrofolic acid by altering an enzyme. Without the tetrahydrofolic acid, the bacteria can no longer produce proteins necessary for survival.\n\nPramoxine is used to temporarily reduce pain from burns, insect bites, and minor cuts. It works like an anesthetic by decreasing the permeability of neuron membranes. As a result, pain neurons in the area have difficulty sending signals (or signals are blocked entirely), resulting in numbness.\n\nIn some countries bacitracin is replaced with gramicidin.\n\nNeosporin is the brand name for a product produced by Johnson & Johnson that contains neomycin sulfate, polymyxin B, and bacitracin. There is no exact date to when the antibacterial ointment was invented, but it was used as early as the 1950s. This antibiotic ointment was patented in the United States on August 27, 1951.\n"}
{"id": "1828739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828739", "title": "Glazier", "text": "Glazier\n\nA glazier is a tradesman responsible for cutting, installing, and removing glass (and materials used as substitutes for glass, such as some plastics). They also refer to blueprints to figure out the size, shape, and location of the glass in the building. They may have to consider the type and size of scaffolding they need to stand on to fit and install the glass. Glaziers may work with glass in various surfaces and settings, such as cutting and installing windows, doors, shower doors, skylights, storefronts, display cases, mirrors, facades, interior walls, ceilings, and tabletops.\n\nThe \"Occupational Outlook Handbook\" of the U.S. Department of Labor lists the following as typical tasks for a glazier:\nThe National Occupational Analysis recognized by the Canadian Council of Directors of Apprenticeship separates the trade into 5 blocks of skills, each with a list of skills, and a list of tasks and subtasks a journeyman is expected to be able to accomplish:\n\n\n\n\nTools used by glaziers \"include cutting boards, glass-cutting blades, straightedges, glazing knives, saws, drills, grinders, putty,scrapers, sandpaper, sanding blocks, 5 in 1's respirator/dust mask and glazing compounds.\"\n\nSome glaziers work specifically with glass in motor vehicles; other work specifically with the safety glass used in aircraft. Others repair old antique windows and doors that need glass replaced.\n\nGlaziers are typically educated at the high school diploma or equivalent level and learn the skills of the trade through an apprenticeship program, which in the U.S. is typically four years.\n\nIn the U.S., apprenticeship programs are offered through the National Glass Association as well as trade associations and local contractors' associations. Construction-industry A large portion of the glaziers in the Unites States are frequently members of the IUPAT International Union of Painters and Allied Trades which offers its own apprenticeship program which is 8000 hours of on the job training and 4 years of classroom education, because of this IUPAT Glaziers tend to be well rounded in all aspects of the trade therefore carry a higher production rate, and less health & safety risks and command a higher pay rate.\n\nIn Canada, glaziers usually go through a formal apprenticeship which includes about four years of on-the-job experience combined with classroom study in order to get certified. Unions and many employers offer these apprenticeships. To become an apprentice, one must be at least 18 years old and have a graduated high school. Once a person is certified, they will be eligible to apply for the Red Seal allowing the person to work anywhere in Canada without re-certifying.\nIn Ontario, Canada, apprenticeships are offered at the provincial level and certified through the Ontario College of Trades. \n\nOccupational hazards encountered by glaziers include the risks of being cut by glass or tools and falling from scaffolds or ladders or lead exposure from old lead paint on antique windows. The use of heavy equipment may also cause injury: the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) reported in 1990 that a journeyman glazier died in an industrial accident in Indiana after attempting to use a manlift to carry a thousand-pound case of glass which the manlift did not have capacity to carry.\n\nAccording to the \"Occupational Outlook Handbook\", there are some 45,300 glaziers in the United States, with median pay of $38,410 per year in 2014. Two-thirds of Glaziers work in the foundation, structure, and building exterior contractors industry, with smaller numbers working in building material and supplies dealing, building finishing contracting, automotive repair and maintenance, and glass and glass product manufacturing.\n\nAmong the 50 states, only Connecticut and Florida require glaziers to hold a license.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828766", "title": "A Rape in Cyberspace", "text": "A Rape in Cyberspace\n\n\"A Rape in Cyberspace, or How an Evil Clown, a Haitian Trickster Spirit, Two Wizards, and a Cast of Dozens Turned a Database into a Society\" is an article written by freelance journalist Julian Dibbell and first published in \"The Village Voice\" in 1993. The article was later included in Dibbell's book \"My Tiny Life\" on his LambdaMOO experiences.\n\nLawrence Lessig has said that his chance reading of Dibbell's article was a key influence on his interest in the field. Sociologist David Trend called it \"one of the most frequently cited essays about cloaked identity in cyberspace\".\n\nBefore Dibbell wrote his article in 1993, he started his journalism career by becoming a music journalist. Through his journalism career, he became interested in the phenomenon of the Internet. This interest that Dibbell had of the Internet became the main focus of his writings. His writings included a variety of sub cultures when it came to the world of the Internet and during his exploration, he stumbled on to the online world of LambdaMOO. Dibbell saw LambdaMOO as its own little sub culture that has sub cultures within them, which he thought to be interesting and inspired him to writing about his experience within the game.\n\nDibbell mentions that his girlfriend at the time played a part in him coming across the story. He came across it by accident when he was trying to get in contact with her over the phone and would not get an answer from her. When he could not get in to contact with her over the phone, he assumed that she would be online so he searched for her in LambdaMOO. When he found her, she had been in a meeting to figure out what to do about Mr. Bungle and that is where the story came to be.\n\n\"A Rape in Cyberspace\" describes a \"cyberrape\" in a multi-player computer game or MUD called LambdaMOO that took place on a Monday night in March of 1993 and discusses the repercussions of this act on the virtual community and subsequent changes to the design of the MUD program.\n\nLambdaMOO, which is a virtual community still in existence, allows players to interact using avatars. The avatars are user-programmable and may interact automatically with each other and with objects and locations in the community. Users interacted through script, as there were no graphics or images on the MUD at the time. The \"cyberrape\" itself was performed by a player named Mr. Bungle, who leveraged a \"voodoo doll\" subprogram that allowed him to make actions that were falsely attributed to other characters in the virtual community. The \"voodoo doll\" subprogram was eventually rendered useless by a character named Zippy. These actions, which included describing sexual acts that characters performed on each other and forcing the characters to perform acts upon themselves, went far beyond the community norms to that point and continued for several hours. They were interpreted as sexual violation of the avatars who were made to act sexually, and incited outrage among the LambdaMOO users, raising questions about the boundaries between real-life and virtual reality, and how LambdaMOO should be governed.\n\nFollowing Mr. Bungle's actions, several users posted on the in-MOO mailing list, codice_1, about the emotional trauma caused by his actions. One user whose avatar was a victim, called his voodoo doll activities \"a breach of civility\" while, in real life, \"post-traumatic tears were streaming down her face\". However, despite the passionate emotions including anger voiced by many users on LambdaMOO, none were willing to punish the user behind Mr. Bungle through real-life means.\n\nThree days after the event the users of LambdaMOO arranged an online meeting, which Dibbell attended under his screenname (Dr. Bombay), to discuss what should be done about Mr. Bungle. The meeting lasted approximately two hours and forty-five minutes, but no conclusive decisions were made. After attending the meeting, one of the master-programmers of LambdaMOO (with screenname JoeFeedback), decided on his own to terminate the Mr. Bungle user's account. Additionally, upon his return from his business trip, LambdaMOO's main creator, Pavel Curtis (screenname Archwizard Haakon), set up a system of petitions and ballots where anyone could put to popular vote anything requiring administrative powers for its implementation. Through this system, LambdaMOO users put into place a codice_2 command, which temporarily disconnects disruptive guest users from the server, as well as a number of other new features.\n\nIt was later discovered that behind Mr. Bungle was not only a young man that attended NYU, but was also a group of NYU students on a dorm floor who encouraged his actions by calling out suggestions during the evening of the rape.\n\nDibbell's \"A Rape in Cyberspace\" brought issues of online abuse to light that had not been heard much of during its time. It led to some debate about ethical and legal issues, how to continue to build the Internet, how to regulate it, and how to potentially prosecute crimes that had never existed before. There are still problems when it comes to online abuse such as the incident mentioned in Dibbell's article because the actions are happening online and not in the real world. This sparked the debate of whether these events are legal or not. The act itself is not considered illegal but the psychological damage the users feel is real. A conclusion on how to deal with these types of incidents has not yet been reached, but Mr. Bungle's actions were part of what started the conversation in the first place. \n\nIn the aftermath of the event, members of the LambdaMOO community came together to discuss how to handle what happened. The community attained a political self-consciousness about itself when deciding how to punish Mr. Bungle for his actions. Prior to the event, LambdaMOO's creator Pavel Curtis released a document known as the \"New Direction\" which stated that the \"wizards\" were to serve the purpose of technicians and were not to make decisions which affect the social life of the MOO and to only implement decisions made by the community as a whole. This forced the LambdaMOO community to invent their own self-governance from scratch; in the case of Mr. Bungle, it was decided that his character would be deleted.\n\nAn argument over free speech also became an issue because of the rape that occurred in LambdaMOO, with questions regarding whether or not there are consequences when it came to speech within the digital world. People would now have to face this issue since media has become a huge part in people's lives. People interact with media all the time even when they are not trying to so it has become harder to avoid the negative things that people say or do. Information is more instant unlike before where information got around a lot slower and solutions are constantly being thought of to counter the \"trolls\".\n\n\"A Rape in Cyberspace\" demonstrates how the virtual world and the real world tend to mix together since the virtual world could not exist without reality, and how Dibbell's experiences in the online community affected his real world thought process.\n\nThe article also demonstrates the emotional effect which the events that happened within LambdaMoo had on the victims of this virtual rape. Even though it happened in virtual reality, it had a symbolic meaning in both realities. It is not to say that it compares to a rape happening in real life but the meaning of rape symbolizes some form of violation physically in real life and mentally in both realities.\n\nDibbell's \"A Rape in Cyberspace\" and other publications that he has made about the Bungle incident have been seen by many scholars and professionals as a key foundation in the topic of virtual rape. The article has been used to take a look at the moral nature of actions within the virtual world.\n\nSince the Mr. Bungle case, LambdaMoo set up an arbitration system so that people can file suit against one another and this system has been put into use with the matter of a virtual death.\n\nOver a decade later, these events remain one of the primary advertisements for LambdaMOO. Research students still regularly visit the MOO (often sent there by their professors) and start asking users about these events.\n\nThis article draws attention to a more modern version of the platonic binary, otherwise known as the mind-body split. The event described in the article illustrates the intellectual self from the physical self through the typing of words on a screen. \n\nDibbell continued to participate in LambdaMOO, up to 30 hours a week, and eventually wrote \"My Tiny Life\" about his experiences, incorporating the article. He remains somewhat astonished at the impact it has had, saying in 1998, \"No piece I had done before had managed to convey as vividly to readers the fact that there was something wild and different going on online, something that might profoundly alter the way they related to words and communication and culture in general.\"\n\nThe article made many people interested in the legal implications of online activity, including Lawrence Lessig, and Dibbell himself would go on to teach cyberlaw as a Fellow at Stanford Law School Center for the Internet and Society.\nThe article is also considered one of the earliest examples of New Games Journalism where review of computer games are meshed with social observation and consideration of surrounding issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828769", "title": "A Single Girl", "text": "A Single Girl\n\nA Single Girl () is a 1995 French drama film directed by Benoît Jacquot. It follows a day in the life of a young Parisian woman named Valérie (played by Virginie Ledoyen) who begins a new job at a four star hotel the same day she reveals to her boyfriend that she is pregnant. The 90 minute film is shot in real time, with a very mobile camera style, recalling the French New Wave.\n\nThis was the breakthrough role for the 19-year-old Ledoyen (who later became known in America for the 2000 film \"The Beach\"), and earned her a César Award nomination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828774", "title": "Mikael Pernfors", "text": "Mikael Pernfors\n\nMikael Pernfors (born 16 July 1963) is a former professional tennis player from Sweden. He reached the men's singles final at the French Open in 1986, and won the 1993 Canada Masters in Montreal.\n\nPernfors was born in Malmö.\n\nPernfors played a topspin-heavy baseline game with a double-handed backhand, like his countrymen Björn Borg and Mats Wilander, but he lacked their consistency and relied on a crowd-pleasing game full of variety, liberally employing the drop shot and the topspin lob.\n\nBefore turning professional, Pernfors played tennis for two years at Seminole Community College, then the University of Georgia in the United States and became the first player since Dennis Ralston two decades earlier to win back-to-back NCAA singles titles in 1984 and 1985.\n\nIn 1986 Pernfors reached his first (and only) Grand Slam singles final at the French Open. He defeated Olivier Delaître, Stefan Edberg, Robert Seguso, Martín Jaite, Boris Becker in the quarter-finals and Henri Leconte in the semi-finals. In the final he lost in straight sets to then World No.1 Ivan Lendl 6–3, 6–2, 6–4.\n\nPernfors played for Sweden in the final of the Davis Cup in 1986. He won one singles rubber against Paul McNamee in straight sets and lost the other to Pat Cash in five sets – after winning the first two – as Australia beat Sweden 3–2. The following year at Wimbledon he again lost a two-set lead, falling to Jimmy Connors 1–6, 1–6, 7–5, 6–4, 6–2 after having led 6–1, 6–1, 4–1, and afterwards 3–0 in the fourth set. \n\nIn 1988, Pernfors won his first top-level singles title at Los Angeles, defeating Andre Agassi in the final. His second came just a month later in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nIn the fourth round of the Australian Open in 1990, Pernfors faced John McEnroe during a match in which McEnroe became the first player to be disqualified under a new Code of Conduct that had recently been introduced in tennis. McEnroe was apparently unaware that under the new rules three code violations would result in disqualification (instead of the previous four), and Pernfors won the match by default after McEnroe attempted to intimidate a lineswoman, smashed a racket, and then verbally abused the umpire.\n\nInjuries limited Pernfors' performances on the tour in the first few years of the 1990s. He came back strongly in 1993 to win the most significant title of his career at the Canadian Open (part of the Tennis Masters Series), where he defeated Todd Martin in the final 2–6, 6–2, 7–5. A few weeks later he pushed Wilander to five sets in the second round of the U.S. Open, falling 7–6, 3–6, 1–6, 7–6, 6–4.\n\nPernfors was the recipient of the ATP Tour's Most Improved Player award in 1986, and its Comeback Player of the Year award in 1993.\n\nPernfors retired from the professional tour in 1996 after a career in which he won three top-level singles and one doubles title. His career-high singles ranking was World No. 10 in 1986. His career prize-money earnings totalled $1,363,793. In addition to Becker, Agassi, McEnroe and Martin, Pernfors holds victories over Wilander, Pete Sampras, Stefan Edberg, Jim Courier, Thomas Muster, Sergi Bruguera and Michael Stich.\n\nSince retiring from the tour, Pernfors has been a regular competitor in seniors events.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828781", "title": "Elk Range", "text": "Elk Range\n\nElk Range may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1828783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828783", "title": "Liberdade (district of São Paulo)", "text": "Liberdade (district of São Paulo)\n\nLiberdade (, \"liberty\"; ) is the name of a district in the subprefecture of Sé, in São Paulo, Brazil. By various estimates, it is home to the world's largest ethnic Japanese community outside Japan.\n\nLiberdade was known as Campo da Forca (\"Field of the Gallows\") until the late 19th century, and was an area reserved for the execution of slaves and convicts. Death was considered the only path to liberty (\"liberdade\") for slaves. The condemned were led to the Igreja Nossa Senhora da Boa Morte (\"Church of Our Lady of Good Death\") to perform a final prayer for a rapid and painless death. The church remains on Rua do Carmo at the corner of Rua Tabatinguera. Slaves and other convicts were executed in the Largo da Forca (\"Gallows Square\"), the public square now known as Praça da Liberdade. Cemitério dos Aflitos (\"Cemetery of the Afflicted\") was created in 1774 to bury executed slaves, those who had committed suicide, and others who could not be interred elsewhere. The cemetery was replaced by housing development in the 20th century, and the simple Capela dos Aflitos on Rua dos Estudantes is a remnant of the era. Igreja da Santa Cruz das Almas dos Enforcados (\"Church of Santa Cruz of the Souls of the Hanged\"), prominently located to the south of the public square, commemorates the dead of Campo da Forca. Executions were carried out in Campo da Forca until 1891, and the square was renamed Liberdade.\n\nThe Japanese presence in the neighborhood begun in 1912. One of the reasons for this was that almost every property had a basement, and the rents were incredibly cheap. In these rooms lived only groups of people. Being a central neighborhood, from there they could easily get around to work places. By this time, commercial activities began to emerge: a hostel, a market, a house that made tofu, another that made manjū (a Japanese confection), and also job-creating firms, thus resulting in the label of \"the Japanese street\". In 1915, the \"Taisho Shogakko\" (Taisho Primary School) was founded, which helped educate the children of Japanese immigrants, then approximately 300 people. In 1932, there were about 2,000 Japanese people in the city of São Paulo. They came directly from Japan and also from the interior of São Paulo, after concluding their work contracts on plantations, in search of an opportunity in the city. They worked in more than 60 activities, but almost all the establishments worked to serve the Japanese Brazilian collective. 1946 saw the founding of the São Paulo \"Shimbun\" newspaper, the first postwar periodical among Nikkei (Japanese immigrants), as well as the inauguration of the still operating Sol Bookstore (Taiyodo), where Japanese books imported through the United States can be found. The Tunibra travel agency began holding events in the same year. In March 1947, an orchestra formed by Professor Masahiko Maruyama performed the first post-war concert, in the Auditorium of the Paulista Teacher's Center on Avenida Liberdade. In 1953, Yoshikazu Tanaka inaugurated a 5-story building on Galvão Bueno Street, with a hall, restaurant, hotel and a large projection room on the ground floor with room for an audience of 1,500 named Cine Niterói, which grew to rival other Japanese-operated theaters in the region. In April 1964, the Japanese Cultural Association of São Paulo (Bunkyô) building was inaugurated. In the decade of 1970 the subway station of Liberdade was constructed, altering the urban composition of the region. On January 28, 1974, the Association of Shopkeepers Association officially became the Association of Shopkeepers of Liberdade. Its first president, Tsuyoshi Mizumoto, sought the characterization of the eastern district.\n\nSignificant populations of Chinese and Koreans also live in the district of Liberdade.\n\nSince 1974 the entrance to Liberdade has been marked by a nine-meter tall red \"torii\" (a characteristic arch marking the entrance to Shinto temples). This towering structure, situated on Rua Galvão Bueno, is a distinctive representation of the neighborhood. Liberdade was successfully connected to the São Paulo subway network in the 1970s, opening the area up to commerce. Today, thousands of \"Paulistanos\" (citizens of São Paulo) flock to the public square in Liberdade every Sunday to purchase craft goods at the weekly fair. In January 2008, in order to celebrate 100 years of Japanese immigration to Brazil, a project to revitalize the quarter was approved by the mayor Gilberto Kassab. 40% of the restoration was for the visit of Crown Prince Naruhito to São Paulo in June 2008.\n\nThe Japanese presence in the neighborhood began in 1912. At this time, Japanese immigrants began to take up residence on the street of Count Sarzedas. This street had a steep slope that gave way to a running stream and swamp area. Basement apartments were numerous and inexpensive, and groups of people or families often lived together in the small rooms. However, the central location of the neighborhood meant immigrants could also be closer to work. As the number of immigrants in the neighborhood grew, so did commercial activity. Soon Japanese-owned inns, emporiums, restaurants, shops, and markets were popping up. These new commercial endeavors also become workplaces, which brought more immigrants to the area, and thus the \"street of the Japanese\" was formed.\n\nLiberdade is a meeting spot for many groups, especially among young people who are interested in Japanese culture. Manga (Japanese comics) fans, sometimes participating in cosplay, can be seen in the district almost any day of the week, especially on weekends. The district is also a popular tourist destination. People from all over the world, as well as from Brazil itself, are often seen mixing with Japanese housewives doing their grocery shopping on Galvão Bueno Street and businessmen looking for low priced Asian food for lunch. Also famous in the district is the Liberdade street market that occurs each Saturday and Sunday, which offers tastes of traditional Japanese food and various household goods and souvenirs. This well-known event attracts so many people from outside the district that the event is predominantly non-Asian.\n\nThe Japanese newspaper \"São Paulo Shimbun\" is published in Liberdade.\n\nThe Japanese newspaper \"Nikkey Shimbun\" and its sister Portuguese paper the \"Jornal Nippak\" are published in Liberdade.\n\nThe \"Museu Histórico da Imigração Japonesa no Brasil\" (ブラジル日本移民史料館) is located in Liberdade.\n\nLiberdade is served by the São Paulo Metro (Japão-Liberdade Station), a station on Line 1 (Blue). The station opened in 1975 and receives 21,000 passengers per day. Access to the station is via Praça da Liberdade.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828810", "title": "E. B. Farnum", "text": "E. B. Farnum\n\nEthan Bennett Farnum (November 10, 1826 – after 1900) was one of the first residents of Deadwood (then in the Dakota Territory) who was not a miner or prospector; he was the owner of a general store. He was the first mayor of the town of Deadwood.\n\nFarnum was born in Cheshire, Massachusetts, the eldest of seven children of John Farnum (or Farnham), and his wife, Chloe Bennett. On May 11, 1868, he was appointed Postmaster in Springfield, Walworth County, Wisconsin.\n\nFarnum came to Deadwood from Wisconsin and opened his store in 1876, acquired other Main Street properties, and invested in some of the mining operations such as the Laura Mine and the Prince Oscar Lode; he also partnered with other camp entrepreneurs to have the Deadwood to Centennial Toll Road constructed to ease the flow of supplies to their businesses.\n\nOn August 18, 1876, Farnum was elected mayor, winning 672 votes out of 1,139; in this position, he was active in convincing the Dakota Territory to officially recognize the town and establish a nearby Army post, as well as instituting a pest house to quarantine those with communicable diseases (a smallpox epidemic having struck the town in 1876), and a system of street cleaning, all to be funded out of licensing fees for town businesses. In December 1876, Farnum established the town's fire department and sent the town's first telegram, to the mayor of Cheyenne, Wyoming. His position also included duties as head of the school board, Justice of the Peace, and judge; Farnum established the town's first school, in November 1876, presided over the town's first marriage, Fannie Garrettson to Daniel Brown, and presided over numerous trials.\n\nFurther records are scarce, due to the great fire of September 26, 1879; when these duties became separate positions from the mayoralty, Farnum ran for Justice of the Peace, but lost. \n\nAfterwards, he left for Chicago, Illinois; Farnum is not listed as a town resident in the 1880 census. Who succeeded him directly as mayor is unknown, although Sol Star would eventually be elected to the position, in 1884.\n\nIn the 1900 Census, Farnum was living in Maury County, Tennessee.\n\nFarnum was married to Mary Farnum. They had three children in 1867 when he arrived in Deadwood: Sylvia, age 16, Edward, age 12, and Lyde, age 2.\n\nActor William Sanderson portrayed a highly fictionalized E. B. Farnum in the HBO television series \"Deadwood\" (2004–06) and the 2019 television sequel, \"\".\n"}
{"id": "1828812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828812", "title": "David Healy (footballer)", "text": "David Healy (footballer)\n\nDavid Jonathan Healy, MBE (born 5 August 1979) is a Northern Irish former footballer and now football manager who is in charge at NIFL Premiership club Linfield.\n\nA striker, he is the all-time leading scorer for Northern Ireland with 36 goals, and also shares the record for the highest scoring tally during a UEFA European Championship qualifying campaign of 13 goals, shared with Robert Lewandowski. He began his career as a youth player at Manchester United in 1995, turning professional in 1999, but signed for Preston North End two years later after a short loan spell. He spent three years with Preston, maintaining a healthy goals to games ratio, before transferring to Leeds United in 2004. After three years to Leeds he moved on to Fulham for a season, before settling at Sunderland in 2008. He moved north to Scotland to play for Rangers in January 2011. He helped the club to the SPL title in 2010–11 and also played in the 2011 League Cup final victory, before departing at the end of the 2011–12 season, when his contract expired. He joined Bury for a one-season spell in August 2012. In addition to these clubs he has also played for Port Vale, Norwich City, Ipswich Town, and Doncaster Rovers on loan. He was released by Bury in May 2013, and chose to retire in November 2013 after failing to find a club. Before representing his country at a senior level, he also played for both the under-21 team and the B team.\n\nHe began his management career with Linfield in October 2015, and led the club to a NIFL Premiership, Irish Cup and County Antrim Shield treble in 2016–17. The following season proved a disappointment, before they secured the league title and the Northern Ireland Football League Cup in 2018–19.\n\nHealy was born and raised in Killyleagh, Northern Ireland, and played for Crossgar, Lisburn Youth and Down Academy High School in Downpatrick. He signed for Manchester United in August 1999, just four days before his 20th birthday. He made his debut for United in a 3–0 defeat to Aston Villa in the League Cup at Villa Park on 13 October 1999. In February 2000 he was loaned to Port Vale, but could only manage three goals in sixteen games for Brian Horton's side who were relegated to Division Two. In the following season he made a second appearance in the League Cup (as a 90th-minute substitute for Luke Chadwick in a game that went into extra time, United eventually losing to Sunderland). On 23 December 2000, he made his Premier League debut in the 2–0 victory against Ipswich Town at Old Trafford; he came on as substitute in the 60th minute and with ten minutes remaining he hit the post denying him a goal. This was his final appearance for United as he signed for First Division club Preston North End six days later, initially on loan, but then a permanent deal was agreed for a £1.5 million fee.\n\nHealy made his debut for Preston against Sheffield United on 30 December 2000; he scored after just four minutes in the 3−2 loss at Bramall Lane. In the remainder of the 2000–01 season, Healy made 26 appearances for Preston and scored 10 goals. He was a virtual ever-present in the 2001–02 season, appearing in 44 league games and scoring 10 goals. In the 2002–03 season he was less successful after Craig Brown replaced the departed David Moyes. By the end of January 2003 he had made only 23 league appearances but scored five goals. Healy joined Nigel Worthington's Norwich City on a month's loan at the end of January. In the end he stayed for the remainder of the season, but in thirteen appearances for the \"Canaries\" he scored only scored past Sheffield Wednesday and Wimbledon. Having attempted to sign him from Man United two years previously, Norwich attempted to sign Healy permanently from Preston but were denied by Brown. He found his scoring form again in 2003–04, and netted 15 times in 42 matches for Preston. For this feat he was given the club's Player of the Year award.\n\nAiming for a move away from Deepdale, Healy got his wish in October 2004, as he was signed by Leeds United for a £650,000 fee. In his first season at Leeds he was the club's joint top scorer alongside Brian Deane with seven goals, despite only joining Leeds halfway through the season. During his time at Elland Road he was linked with dozens of moves to other clubs, the most notable rumour reported in the press being a potential £3 million move to Manchester City. He again finished as joint top scorer in the 2005–06 season, both he and Rob Hulse on fourteen goals. Leeds reached the play-off finals this season but lost in the final 3–0 to Watford. During the management of Kevin Blackwell Healy found himself regularly being played out of position at Leeds, mainly as a right winger, with Leeds rotating Hulse, Cresswell and Blake up front. Healy then finished the following 2006–07 season as Leeds' top scorer with ten goals. With Leeds relegated into League One, he left the club at the end of the campaign.\n\nHealy reunited with former Northern Ireland boss Lawrie Sanchez at Fulham in July 2007 for a reported fee of around £1.5 million. He scored his first goal for Fulham in a pre-season friendly against South China in the Asia Trophy, with a low diving header. He scored fifty seconds into his league debut for the club following a mistake from Arsenal keeper Jens Lehmann. He also found the net in his second game against Bolton Wanderers, in a 2–1 win at Craven Cottage. However, he only scored two further top-flight goals in the season (past Reading and Sunderland), as well as two cup goals past Bolton and Bristol Rovers. Following the sacking of Sanchez, new manager Roy Hodgson preferred a strike partnership of the American pairing of Brian McBride and Eddie Johnson, leaving Healy on the bench.\n\nIn July 2008, Healy caused controversy when he adopted the posture of a flute player, similar to a previous incident involving Paul Gascoigne), in response to a question posed by Celtic fans chanting \"Where were you on the Twelfth?\" during a pre-season friendly match against Celtic at Craven Cottage. Healy subsequently apologised profusely for any offence he may have caused and signed many autographs for Celtic fans after the game. He remained out of favour with Roy Hodgson, who regarded his signings Andy Johnson and Bobby Zamora ahead of Healy in the pecking order.\n\nIn August 2008, Healy joined Sunderland on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee, believed to be worth £1.2 million. Despite this sum he would never start a league game for the \"Black Cats\". Healy made his debut for Sunderland four days later in the League Cup and marked by scoring the winning goal in extra time against Nottingham Forest. Healy also scored in the FA Cup against Blackburn Rovers. Healy scored his first Premier League goal for the club in a 2–0 home win against Stoke City on 7 February 2009. He managed to score in every competition that Sunderland were entered into in his first season with the club. He was sent out on loan to Ipswich Town during the winter 2010 transfer window along with teammate Daryl Murphy. He made his debut against Middlesbrough on 6 February 2010, helping Ipswich to earn a point by setting up Murphy to score with a cross. He scored his first goal for Ipswich on 24 February 2010, in a 1–1 draw with Scunthorpe United, salvaging a point and ending his goal drought by scoring for the first time in over a year. Healy joined Doncaster Rovers on loan in November 2010, to fill the void left by the injured Billy Sharp. He marked his Doncaster debut with a goal, finding the net in a 2–1 win over Millwall on 6 November. Doncaster extended Healy's loan spell into a second month.\n\nIn January 2011, Healy signed for Rangers on a six-month deal, with a view to signing a longer contract. Having scored in his Leeds, Fulham, Sunderland, Doncaster and Northern Ireland debuts, he also marked his first Rangers appearance with a goal, coming off the bench to add the final goal of a 6–0 win over Motherwell on 12 February. Upon the expiry of his contract he signed a new one-year deal with the club, tying him to the Ibrox club until the end of the 2011–12 season. On 2 January 2012, Healy scored his second goal for the club, again against Motherwell, with the opener of a 3–0 win. His third goal for the club came the following week, when he scored the first of a 4–0 victory over Arbroath in the Scottish Cup. He netted his third league goal of the season for the \"Gers\" in a 4–0 win over Hibernian on 28 January, and got his fourth goal in a 4–1 victory over Dunfermline Athletic on 11 February. He left Ibrox at the end of the 2011–12 season following the expiration of his contract.\n\nHe signed a one-year deal with League One side Bury in August 2012. He had previously been linked with a return to Preston North End, but manager Graham Westley rejected the chance to re-sign the striker after finding that Preston fans still resented Healy for the manner of his departure eight years ago. He made a scoring debut for the \"Shakers\" on 25 August, converting a penalty in a 2–2 draw with Coventry City at the Ricoh Arena. He was limited to one goal in his 19 games in the 2012–13 campaign as Bury were relegated into League Two. He was one of 16 players released at the end of the season. Unable to find a club after his release and struggling with persistent ankle injuries, Healy announced his retirement from football on 3 December 2013.\n\nOn 31 July 2014, Healy played for Glenavon in a 5–0 loss in a pre-season friendly against his former club Leeds United. The match was part of Glenavon's 125th anniversary celebrations.\n\nHe made his début for Northern Ireland on 23 February 2000, putting a brace past Luxembourg. He was still only 20 years old; having made his début for Manchester United the previous October, he had just joined Port Vale on loan. His competitive international début came in September 2000, in a World Cup qualifying game against Malta, and he scored his first competitive goal for his country a month later against Denmark.\n\nOn 6 June 2004, in a friendly game away to Trinidad and Tobago (his 35th international), he scored his 13th and 14th goals for Northern Ireland, thus equalling and overtaking Colin Clarke's record for the country. In September that year, Healy was controversially sent off in Northern Ireland's 2–2 draw with Wales. After celebrating the goal he scored to put Northern Ireland 2–0 up, he made a hand gesture towards the fans. The referee sent him off but Healy later explained that he was celebrating towards his family and that was how he always celebrated when scoring for his then-club, Preston North End.\nOn 7 September 2005, at Windsor Park, Healy secured a famous victory for his country against England in a World Cup qualifier when he scored the only goal of the game. This was his nation's first win over the English since 1972.\n\nHe achieved his 50th cap and 20th international goal against Finland in August 2006, also playing as captain. A month later, on 6 September 2006, Healy became the first man since Colin Clarke to score a hat-trick for Northern Ireland and the first since George Best to do so in Belfast. His three goals gave Northern Ireland a historic 3–2 victory over Spain. Healy followed this feat with the winner against Latvia on 11 October 2006. In the following international game, against Liechtenstein, he scored a second hat-trick, thus becoming the first player ever to score two hat-tricks for Northern Ireland.\n\nHe scored both of Northern Ireland's goals in a 2–1 win against Sweden on 28 March 2007, and two more against Liechtenstein on 22 August, followed by a penalty away to Iceland on 12 September. On 17 November 2007, when he scored against Denmark, it was his 13th goal in the UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying Group F tournament (in eleven games). This made him the highest-ever goalscorer in a UEFA European Championship qualifying campaign. The previous record, of twelve goals in ten games, had been set by Davor Šuker of Croatia in 1996. As a result, Healy was presented with the award by Michel Platini, who quoted: \"\"David Healy's record goes down in history and he beat a world-class striker in Davor Suker to do so. The outstanding performance of David in the qualifying competition of the European Championship and his goal tally of 13 goals is a new record and deserves to be recognised. I am sure that this record will last for some time to come and will be hard to beat. This is why I will be presenting him with a special award to celebrate his fantastic achievement.\"\"\n\nIn October 2008, Healy received several death threats after he welcomed an international goal he had scored by saying 'the famine is over'. The goal had come after an uncharacteristic drought at the time. Healy's comments were interpreted as a reference to Rangers fans' chant – \"'the famine is over, why don't you go home?\"\nHealy claimed to be oblivious to the fact that he had offended anyone saying, \"I'm so disappointed and upset that anyone could even try and make this link. And when told about this I was totally bemused.\" Despite finding a new club, Healy was left out of the Northern Ireland squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers in 2012 by new manager Michael O'Neill. On 14 November 2012, he marked his return to international duty with an equalising goal from the bench against Azerbaijan – it was his first international goal in four years.\n\nHe won a total of 95 senior caps, making him Northern Ireland's third most capped outfield player and fourth overall in the nation's all-time appearances chart behind goalkeeper Pat Jennings (119), Aaron Hughes (112) and Steve Davis (108). His 36 international goals make him the nation's all-time leading goalscorer by a considerable distance.\n\nHealy was appointed manager of NIFL Premiership side Linfield in October 2015, the club he had supported all his life. He steered the \"Blues\" to a second-place finish in 2015–16, eight points behind Crusaders. On 7 February 2017, he won his first managerial honour as Linfield beat Crusaders 3–1 in the County Antrim Shield. On 25 February, he was given a six-game general ban after being dismissed from the touchline for the third time of the season. Despite this setback, the \"Blues\" went on to win the league title in 2016–17, and ended the campaign with a treble after beating Coleraine 3–0 in the final of the Irish Cup. He went on to add the Charity Shield to Linfield's honours with a 3–1 victory over Coleraine at The Oval. They went on to lose to Celtic in the second round of qualification for the UEFA Champions League in the 2017–18 season, and had a disappointing campaign domestically as they finished fourth in the league and exited both cup competitions at the quarter-finals. On 16 February 2018, Healy won his fifth domestic honour with Linfield as they won the Northern Irish League Cup final with a 1–0 over Ballymena United.\n\nHealy won his second league title as a manager during the 2018–19 campaign, with Linfield finishing seven points ahead of second-placed Ballymena United and Healy also being named as Manager of the Year. He also added the League Cup to his collection, as Linfield defeated Ballymena United 1–0 in the final. Linfield also reached the 2019 County Antrim Shield final, losing out 4–3 to Crusaders. He stated that he was looking t strengthen the first-team in the summer, saying that \"we're not just going to be bringing in players for the sake of making up the numbers, we're going to be bringing in players who will be challenging for a starting berth\".\n\nHealy is married to Emma and they have three children: daughters Taylor and Taluulah, and son Jude. He was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2008 Birthday Honours for services to football.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828824", "title": "Akbar Al Baker", "text": "Akbar Al Baker\n\nAkbar Al Baker () (born 1962) is the Group CEO of Qatar Airways and Secretary-General of Qatar National Tourism Council Al-Baker also served as one of the lead developers for Hamad International Airport which opened in 2014.\n\nAl-Baker was born in Doha, Qatar. As a child, he studied at St. Peter's School, Panchgani, a boarding school, in the Panchgani hills in Maharashtra, India. He later moved to Mumbai and graduated from Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics. He holds a private pilot license.\n\nAl-Baker became Chief Executive Officer of Qatar Airways in 1997. Prior to this appointment, he worked at the Civil Aviation Directorate of Qatar. He is also the former Chairman of the Qatar Tourism Authority. He is CEO of several divisions of Qatar's national airline, including Qatar Executive, Qatar Airways Holidays, Qatar Aviation Services, Qatar Duty Free Company, Doha International Airport, Internal Media Services, Qatar Distribution Company and Qatar Aircraft Catering Company.\n\nAl-Baker led the development of Hamad International Airport, which opened its first phase in May 2014 and is now home to Qatar Airways. As of 2017 the airport services all inbound and outbound flights out of Doha.\n\nIn June 2019, Al Baker announced that Qatar Airways would be buying a stake in a sixth overseas airline before the end of the year. The company has not yet been named, but would join the airlines interests on the International Airlines Group, LATAM Airlines Group, Cathay Pacific, and China Southern Airlines Co.\n\nAl-Baker is a member of the Executive Committee of the Arab Air Carriers Organization, a member of the Board of Governors of the International Air Transport Association, and a non-executive director of Heathrow Airport Holdings.\n\nAl-Baker is an ethnic Baloch from his mother side.\n\nIn May 2016, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that Al Baker said backpackers were not welcome in Qatar because they “just lie on the beach and don’t spend money” and the country wanted to “attract people of higher standard”. He went on to explain that, unlike neighboring Dubai, Qatar did not want backpackers as it would give the country a bad look.\n\nIn July 2017, in a speech at a dinner in Ireland, Al Baker said US airlines were \"crap\" and their passengers were \"always being served by grandmothers\". He also boasted that \"the average age of my cabin crew is only 26\". He later said that his remarks were \"careless\" and did not reflect his \"true sentiments about cabin crew\".\n\nOn June 5, 2018, speaking at a press conference following his election to chairman of the International Air Transport Association at the association's annual meeting in Sydney, Australia, he told reporters that, regarding Qatar Airways' management, “Of course it has to be led by a man because it is a very challenging position.” Although Al-Baker later apologized, he stopped short of recanting his belief that being CEO of an international airline is too challenging a job for a woman. He claimed he was attempting to make a joke at the time.\n\nIn 2019, Al-Baker alleged that Changi Airport's Jewel was a copy of previously-announced expansion plans for Hamad International Airport. Al-Baker was quoted as saying: \"When I show you the images later (of the planned enhancements), you will realize that somebody copied our design, which was already on the table nearly six years ago... We had individuals from that country, I will not name it, that took our design and did it.\" Changi Airport Group's chief executive, Lee Seow Hiang, however, has rebutted the allegation, telling \"The Straits Times\": \"We value the originality and creativity of ideas as we innovate to elevate the Changi experience for all our visitors. We respect intellectual property rights and expect the same of all our partners.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1828829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828829", "title": "Elk Range (Canada)", "text": "Elk Range (Canada)\n\nThe Elk Range is a mountain range of the Canadian Rockies, located on the southern edge of Kananaskis on the Alberta-British Columbia border.\n\nThis range includes the following mountains and peaks:\n"}
{"id": "1828832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828832", "title": "The Valley of Horses", "text": "The Valley of Horses\n\nThe Valley of Horses is a historical fiction novel by Jean M. Auel. It is the sequel to \"The Clan of the Cave Bear\" and second in the Earth's Children series.\n\nThe book starts off from the events at the end of \"The Clan of the Cave Bear\" detailing the life of a young Cro-Magnon woman named Ayla who has just been exiled from the Clan, the band of Neanderthals who had raised her from early childhood. Ayla now searches for her own people, whom the Clan refer to as \"the Others\".\n\nIn a parallel narrative, Jondalar, a young Cro-Magnon man of \"the Ninth Cave of the Zelandonii\", accompanies his impetuous younger half-brother Thonolan on a traditional rite of passage called the Great Journey. In these episodes, we learn of the Cro-Magnon's paleolithic nature religion, centered on the worship of the \"Great Mother of All\", and follow their adventures and sexual exploits. It is also through these episodes that the animosity, verging on hatred, between the Others and the Clan (whom they refer to derogatorily as \"flatheads\") is introduced. The Others have repeatedly persecuted the Clan, taking land and resources, but justify it by classing them as animals. However, over the course of his adventures, Jondalar starts to question this prejudice, noting that no other animals have fire, tools or communicate intelligently, nor are they actively hated or attacked-as-sport by his people.\n\nAyla, alone and ritually ostracized from the only people she has ever known, travels steadily from the Beran Sea peninsular home of her former tribe north for around half a year until finding the book's titular valley sunk deep into the windy landscape of the periglacial loess steppes in Ukraine. Worried that she might never find the Others, she begins to prepare for winter. Finding a suitable cave and many conveniences in the valley, she establishes a comfortable but lonely life there.\n\nHer desire for companionship leads her to tame a filly whose mother she had killed, naming her Whinney. She also takes in and treats an injured cave lion cub, which she names Baby.\n\nIn the course of their journey, Jondalar and Thonolan have met women and hope to settle with them, but Thonolan's mate dies in childbirth and Jondalar feels he is not really in love with his woman friend. They continue on their journey and meet up with the \"Mamutoi\" people, planning to join them later in the year.\n\nJondalar and Ayla meet when Thonolan is killed by a cave lion—Baby, now fully grown and with a mate of his own. Ayla heals Jondalar's injuries and they begin to learn to communicate and get to know each other. Jondalar overcomes his inbred prejudice against the Clan and Ayla learns that all her peculiarities which confused and angered the Clan are actually fully accepted and encouraged by the Others.\n\nThe two fall in love as the book nears its end, and decide to leave the Valley of Horses and explore regions around the valley Ayla has not yet investigated.\n"}
{"id": "1828838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828838", "title": "John Quick (politician)", "text": "John Quick (politician)\n\nSir John Quick (22 April 1852 – 17 June 1932) was an English-born Australian politician and author, who was the federal Member of Parliament for Bendigo from 1901 to 1913 and a leading delegate to the Constitutional Conventions in the 1890s.\n\nHe was born at St Ives in Cornwall, England, the son of John Sr and Mary Quick. His life changed when he was 2 when his family migrated to Australia in 1854, where his father, a farmer, began prospecting at the Bendigo goldfields but died a few months later of a fever.\n\nQuick was educated at a state school in Bendigo and at the age of 10, he went to work in an iron foundry at Long Gully. Quick later worked as an assistant at the Bendigo \"Evening News\" and then as a junior reporter at the Bendigo \"Independent\". There, he gained skills in shorthand writing and improved his general education.\n\nIn 1873, Quick moved to Melbourne, passing the University of Melbourne in 1877 with a Bachelor of Laws (LLB). Quick was called to the bar in June 1878, but instead continued as a journalist. Soon, he became the Parliament reporter at \"The Age\".\n\nIn 1880 Quick was elected the Member for Sandhurst (Bendigo) in the Victorian Legislative Assembly. He was a supporter of the radical liberal leader Sir Graham Berry. He resigned from \"The Age\" and returned to live in Bendigo, where he practised as a solicitor.\n\nIn 1882, Quick received a Doctor of Laws degree (LL.D) after an examination. In 1883, he married Catherine Harris. The couple did not have any children together.\n\nQuick was successful in parliament, and in 1886 was offered a ministerial portfolio by the then Premier of Victoria Duncan Gillies. However, after an electoral redistribution, Quick lost his seat at the 1889 election.\nHe had become interested in the Australian Federation movement while in the Victorian Parliament, and in the early 1890s, he successfully persuaded the Australian Natives' Association to advocate Federation.\n\nIn August 1893, Quick attended the first informal Constitutional Convention at Corowa and proposed that a formal national convention should be established, with each of the six Australian colonies to be represented by ten elected delegates. The proposal was agreed, and in November 1893 Quick drafted a bill, which formed the basis of the deliberation at formal convention held in 1897. Quick was elected to the Adelaide convention as second on the list of ten Victorian representatives.\n\nWhen Federation was inaugurated on 1 January 1901, he was knighted in recognition of his services to the federation movement. On the same day, Quick and Robert Garran published \"The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth\", which is widely regarded as one of the most authoritative works on the Australian Constitution. \n\nAt the federal election of 1901, Quick was elected to the Australian House of Representatives as Member for the Division of Bendigo. He was considered a member of the Protectionist Party. He was chairman of the first federal tariff commission, and was Postmaster-General in the third cabinet under Alfred Deakin in 1909 to 1910.\n\nQuick was defeated in the 1913 election by the Australian Labor Party candidate, John Arthur. That year, Quick became the founding President of the first Bendigo Cornish Association.\n\nIn 1922, he was appointed deputy president of the Arbitration Court, which he held until his retirement on 25 March 1930.\n\nQuick continued to be a prolific author. In 1904, along with Littleton Groom, Quick published \"The Judicial Power of the Commonwealth\", and in 1919 published \"The Legislative Powers of the Commonwealth and the States of Australia\". After retiring in 1930, he worked on a book, which he intended to call \"The Book of Australian Authors\", a bibliographical survey of various Australian authors, poets and playwrights. However, he died before he could complete the work.\n\nProfessor E Morris Miller continued the work, which was published in 1940 as \"Australian Literature from its beginnings to 1935\".\n\nLa Trobe University Bendigo established the annual Sir John Quick Bendigo Lecture in 1994 in recognition of Quick's contribution to Federation and his election as Bendigo's first Federal Member of Parliament. He also helped start the Australian federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828840", "title": "Vernon Benjamin Mountcastle", "text": "Vernon Benjamin Mountcastle\n\nVernon Benjamin Mountcastle (July 15, 1918 – January 11, 2015) was Professor Emeritus of Neuroscience at Johns Hopkins University. He discovered and characterized the columnar organization of the cerebral cortex in the 1950s. This discovery was a turning point in investigations of the cerebral cortex, as nearly all cortical studies of sensory function after Mountcastle's 1957 paper, on the somatosensory cortex, used columnar organization as their basis.\n\nMountcastle was born in Shelbyville, Kentucky. He was a graduate of Roanoke College in Virginia, where he was a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity.\n\nMountcastle's interest in cognition, specifically perception, led him to guide his laboratory to studies that linked perception and neural responses in the 1960s. Although there were several notable works from his laboratory, the highest profile early paper appeared in 1968, a study explaining the neural basis of Flutter and vibration by the action of peripheral mechanoreceptors.\n\nIn 1978 Mountcastle proposed that all parts of the neocortex operate through a common principle, with the cortical column being the unit of computation.\n\nMountcastle's devotion to studies of single unit neural coding evolved through his leadership in the Bard Laboratories of Neurophysiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, which for many years, was the only institute in the world devoted to this sub-field. Its work is continued today in the Zanvyl Krieger Mind/Brain Institute. Mountcastle died in Baltimore at the age of 96 in January 2015.\n\nMountcastle was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1966. In 1978, he was awarded the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize from Columbia University together with David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel, both of whom received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1981. In 1980, he was awarded the Ralph W. Gerard Prize in Neuroscience. In 1981, Mountcastle became a founding member of the World Cultural Council. In 1983, he was awarded the Albert Lasker Award for Basic Medical Research. In 1984, Mountcastle received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement. He also received the United States National Medal of Science in 1986. In 1998, Mountcastle was awarded the NAS Award in the Neurosciences from the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nDavid Hubel in his Nobel Prize acceptance speech said Mountcastle's \"discovery of columns in the somatosensory cortex was surely the single most important contribution to the understanding of cerebral cortex since Ramón y Cajal\".\n\nJeff Hawkins in his book \"On Intelligence\" describes Mountcastle's 1978 article, \"An organizing principle...\", as \"the rosetta stone of neuroscience\".\n"}
{"id": "1828841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828841", "title": "A. W. Merrick", "text": "A. W. Merrick\n\nAlbert Walter Merrick (December 24, 1840 – February 26, 1902) was an American journalist who published the first newspaper in Deadwood, South Dakota, the \"Black Hills Weekly Pioneer\", along with W. A. Laughlin. The newspaper continues to be published today, but has moved its offices to Spearfish, South Dakota.\n\nMerrick was born in New York in 1839 and served in the Civil War, rising to the rank of sergeant. Census records indicate that Merrick was living in Deadwood in 1880, when his occupation was listed as editor. \n\nMerrick was married to Rachel Margaret Davis (1845–1924), known as \"Ray\" Merrick, who was born in Tredegar, Monmouthshire, Wales. She immigrated to the United States in 1864. \n\nThe Merricks had at least five children. In 1880, they had two children; Walter M. Merrick (1872–1880), who died in Deadwood after the census was taken, and Marie Blanche Merrick (b. 1876 Colorado). Albert and Rachel also had a daughter, Louise May Merrick, born in Butte, Montana around 1881; another son, Albert Wilbur Merrick, born in Deadwood in 1882; and another daughter, Zeta Marguerite Merrick, born in Deadwood in 1888. Albert Wilbur Merrick also entered the newspaper industry and became a printer.\n\nIn 1899, Merrick was listed as an invalid in veteran pension records. He died in 1902 and was buried at Mount Moriah Cemetery in Deadwood.\n\nMerrick created the \"Black Hills Weekly Pioneer\" in Deadwood in May 1876. The first paper was published on June 8, 1876, and is still printed today as the \"Black Hills Pioneer.\"\n\nMerrick is portrayed by actor Jeffrey Jones in the television series \"Deadwood\" (2004–2006) and the film continuation \"\" (2019).\n"}
{"id": "1828843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828843", "title": "The Legend of Bhagat Singh", "text": "The Legend of Bhagat Singh\n\nThe Legend of Bhagat Singh is a 2002 Indian Hindi-language biographical period film directed by Rajkumar Santoshi. The film is about Bhagat Singh, a socialist revolutionary who fought for Indian independence along with fellow members of the Hindustan Republic Association. It features Ajay Devgn as the titular character along with Sushant Singh, D. Santosh and Akhilendra Mishra as the other lead characters. Raj Babbar, Farida Jalal and Amrita Rao play supporting roles. The film chronicles Bhagat's life from his childhood where he witnesses the Jallianwala Bagh massacre until the day he was hanged to death—23 March 1931.\n\nThe film was produced by Kumar and Ramesh Taurani's Tips Industries on a budget of 200–250 million (about US$4.2–5.2 million in 2002). The story and dialogue were written by Santoshi and Piyush Mishra respectively, while Anjum Rajabali drafted the screenplay. K. V. Anand, V. N. Mayekar and Nitin Chandrakant Desai were in charge of the cinematography, editing and production design respectively. Principal photography took place in Agra, Manali, Mumbai and Pune from January to May 2002. The soundtrack, composed by A. R. Rahman, was released on 4 May 2002 to positive reception, with \"Mera Rang De Basanti\" and \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\" being well-received in particular.\n\n\"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" was released on 7 June 2002 to generally positive reviews, with the direction, story, screenplay, technical aspects and the performances of Devgn and Sushant receiving the most attention. However, the film underperformed at the box office, grossing only 129 million (US$2.7 million in 2002). It went on to win two National Film Awards – Best Feature Film in Hindi and Best Actor for Devgn – and three Filmfare Awards from eight nominations.\n\nBhagat Singh was born in British India in 1907. From childhood, he witnesses numerous atrocities committed on fellow Indians by the British, who came to trade under the guise of the East India Company and ended up controlling most of the nation. Bhagat takes a solemn vow to free India from British rule after witnessing the aftermath of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Soon after the massacre, he learns of Mahatma Gandhi's satyagraha policies and supports the non-cooperation movement, which saw thousands of people burning British-made clothing and giving up school, college studies, and government jobs. In 1922, Gandhi calls off the movement after the Chauri Chaura incident. Undaunted, Bhagat decides to be a revolutionary, and, as an adult, joins the Hindustan Republic Association in its struggle for India's independence, ending up in prison for it. Bhagat's father, Kishen, bails him out so that he can get him to run a dairy farm and marry a girl named Mannewali. Bhagat runs away from home, leaving a note saying that his love for the country comes first.\n\nWhen Lala Lajpat Rai is beaten to death by the police while protesting against the Simon Commission, Bhagat, along with Shivaram Rajguru, Sukhdev Thapar and Chandra Shekhar Azad, assassinate a police officer named Saunders. Later on in the year 1929, when the British propose the Trade Disputes and Public Safety Bills, Bhagat, along with Batukeshwar Dutt, initiate a bombing at Parliament House. He and Dutt throw the bombs on empty benches thereby not killing anyone. They are subsequently arrested and tried publicly. Bhagat then launches his much-publicised ideas of revolution, stating that he wanted to tell the world about the revolutionaries himself rather than let the British brand them as violent people, citing this as the reason for bombing the assembly. Bhagat soon becomes as popular as Gandhi among the masses, especially the younger generation, labourers and farmers.\n\nIn Central Jail Lahore, Bhagat and all of the other fellow prisoners, including Thapar and Rajguru, undertake a 63-day hunger strike to improve the conditions of Indian political prisoners. Meanwhile, Azad, whom the British had repeatedly failed to capture, is ambushed at the Alfred Park in Allahabad on 27 February 1931. The police surround the entire park leading to a shootout; refusing to be captured by the British, Azad commits suicide with the last remaining bullet in his Colt pistol.\n\nFearing the growing popularity of the hunger strike amongst the people nationwide, Lord Irwin orders the re-opening of the Saunders' murder case, which leads to death sentences being imposed on Bhagat, Thapar and Rajguru. The Indians hope that Gandhi will use his pact with Irwin as a bargaining chip to save Bhagat, Thapar and Rajguru's lives. Irwin refuses Gandhi's request for their release. Gandhi reluctantly agrees to sign a pact which includes the clause: \"Release of political prisoners except for the ones involved in violence\". Bhagat, Thapar and Rajguru are hanged in secrecy on 23 March 1931.\n\nIn 1998, the film director Rajkumar Santoshi read several books on the socialist revolutionary, Bhagat Singh, and felt that a biopic would help revive interest in him. Although Manoj Kumar made a film about Bhagat in 1965, titled \"Shaheed\", Santoshi felt that despite being \"a great source of inspiration on the lyrics and music front\", it did not \"dwell on Bhagat Singh's ideology and vision\". In August 2000, the screenwriter Anjum Rajabali mentioned to Santoshi about his work on Har Dayal, whose revolutionary activities inspired Udham Singh. Santoshi then persuaded Rajabali to draft a script based on Bhagat's life as he was inspired by Udham Singh.\n\nSantoshi gave Rajabali a copy of \"Shaheed Bhagat Singh\", K. K. Khullar's biography of the revolutionary. Rajabali said that reading the book \"created an intense curiosity in me about the mind of this man. I definitely wanted to know more about him.\" His interest in Bhagat intensified after he read \"The Martyr: Bhagat Singh Experiments in Revolution\" (2000) by journalist Kuldip Nayar. The following month, Rajabali formally began his research on Bhagat while admitting to Santoshi that it was \"a difficult task\". Gurpal Singh, a Film and Television Institute of India graduate, and internet blogger Sagar Pandya assisted him. Santoshi received input from Kultar Singh, Bhagat's younger brother, who told the director he would have his full co-operation if the film accurately depicted Bhagat's ideologies.\n\nRajabali wanted to \"recreate the world that Bhagat Singh lived in\", and his research required him to \"not only understand the man, but also the influences on him, the politics of that era\". In a 2000 interview with Sharmila Taliculam of Rediff.com, Rajabali said that the film would \"deal with Bhagat Singh, the man, rather than the freedom fighter\". Many aspects of Bhagat's life, including his relationship with fiancée Mannewali, were derived from Piyush Mishra's 1994 play \"Gagan Damama Bajyo\"; Mishra was subsequently credited with writing the film's dialogues.\n\nA. G. Noorani's 1996 book, \"The Trial of Bhagat Singh: Politics of Justice\", provided the basis for the trial sequences. Gurpal obtained additional information from 750 newspaper clippings of \"The Tribune\" dated from 1928 to 1931, and from Bhagat's prison notebooks. These gave Rajabali \"an idea of what had appealed to the man, the literary and intellectual influences that impacted him in that period\". By the end of 2000, Santoshi and Rajabali completed work on the script and showed it to Kumar and Ramesh Taurani of Tips Industries; both were impressed by it. The Taurani brothers agreed to produce the film under their banner and commence filming after Santoshi had finished his work on \"Lajja\" (2001).\n\nSunny Deol was initially cast as Bhagat, but he left the project owing to schedule conflicts and differences with Santoshi over his remuneration. Santoshi then preferred to cast new faces instead of established actors but was not pleased with the performers who auditioned. Ajay Devgn (then known as Ajay Devgan) was finally chosen for the lead character because Santoshi felt he had \"the eyes of a revolutionary. His introvert nature conveys loud and clear signals that there is a volcano inside him ready to burst.\" After Devgn performed a screen test dressed as Bhagat, Santoshi was \"pleasantly surprised\" to see Devgn's face closely resemble Singh's and cast him in the part. \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" marked Devgn's second collaboration with Santoshi after \"Lajja\". Devgn called the film \"the most challenging assignment\" in his career. He had not watched \"Shaheed\" before signing up for the project. To prepare for the role, Devgn studied all the references Santoshi and Rajabali had procured to develop the film's script. He also lost weight to more closely resemble Bhagat.\n\nSantoshi chose Akhilendra Mishra to play Azad as he also resembled his character. In addition to reading Shiv Verma's \"Sansmritiyan\", Mishra read Bhagwan Das Mahore's and Sadashiv Rao Malkapurkar's accounts of the revolutionary. Because of his astrological beliefs, he even obtained Azad's horoscope to determine his personality. In an interview with Rediff.com's Lata Khubchandani, Mishra mentioned that while informing his father about his role of Azad, he revealed to him that they originally hailed from Kanpur, the same place where Azad's ancestors were from. This piece of information encouraged Mishra to play Azad.\n\nSushant Singh and D. Santosh (in his cinematic debut) were cast as Bhagat's friends and fellow members of the Hindustan Republican Association, Sukhdev Thapar and Shivaram Rajguru. Santoshi believed their faces resembled those of the two revolutionaries. To learn about their characters, Sushant, like Mishra, read \"Sansmritiyan\" while Santosh visited Rajguru's family members. The actors were also chosen according to their characters' backgrounds. This was true in the case of Santosh and also Amitabh Bhattacharjee, who played Jatin Das, the man who devised the bomb for Bhagat and Batukeshwar Dutt. Santosh and Bhattacharjee were from Maharashtra and West Bengal like Rajguru and Das. Raj Babbar and Farida Jalal were cast as Bhagat's parents, Kishen Singh and Vidyawati Singh, while Amrita Rao played Mannewali, Bhagat's fiancée.\n\nPrincipal photography began in January 2002 and was completed in May. The first schedule of filming took place in Agra and Manali following which the unit moved to the Film City studio in Mumbai. According to the film's cinematographer, K. V. Anand, around 85 sets were constructed at Film City by Nitin Chandrakant Desai who was in charge of the production design, and \"99 percent of the background\" featured in the film was sets. Desai used sepia tint throughout the film to create a period feel.\n\nAdditional scenes depicting the massacre of 1919 were filmed at Jallianwala Bagh; some of them were shot between 9 pm and 6 am. The scenes at Jallianwala Bagh and other surrounding locations in Amritsar at the beginning of the film feature Nakshdeep Singh as the younger Bhagat. Santoshi selected Nakshdeep after receiving photographs of the boy from his father, Komal Singh, who played Mannewali's father.\n\nKultar stayed with the production unit for seven days during the outdoor location shooting in Pune. Both Santoshi and Devgn appreciated the interactions they had with Kultar, noting that he provided \"deep insights into his brother's life\". Kultar was pleased with the sincerity of the cast and crew and shared private letters written by Bhagat with them. The song \"Pagdi Sambhal Jatta\" was the last part to be filmed. A sequence in the song featuring Devgn appearing between two factions of backup Bhangra dancers took three takes to be completed. \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" was made on a budget of 200 – 250 million (about US$4.15 – 5.18 million in 2002).\n\nA. R. Rahman composed the soundtrack and score for \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\", marking his first collaboration with Santoshi. Sameer wrote the lyrics for the songs. In an interview with Arthur J. Pais of Rediff.com, Rahman said that Santoshi wanted him to compose songs that would stand apart from his other projects like \"Lagaan\" (2001) and \"Zubeidaa\" (2001). Rahman took care to compose the tunes for \"Mera Rang De Basanti\" in a slow-paced manner to avoid comparisons with the songs in \"Shaheed\", which he and Santoshi found to be fast-paced. Rahman followed the same procedure for \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\". He created a softer tune, saying that the \"song is pictured on men who have fasted for over a month. How can I compose a high-sounding tune for that song?\" Despite this, Rahman admitted that \"Des Mere Des\" had \"some strains\" from \"Lagaan\"s music. Rahman took \"Santoshi's commitment to the film\" as a source of inspiration to make an album that was \" and different.\" Rahman experimented with Punjabi music more than he had done before on his previous soundtracks, receiving assistance from Sukhwinder Singh and Sonu Nigam. The soundtrack was completed within two months, with \"Des Mere Des\" recorded in an hour.\n\nThe soundtrack, marketed by Tips, was released on 4 May 2002 in New Delhi. The songs, especially \"Mera Rang De Basanti\" and \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\", received favourable reviews. A review carried by \"The Hindu\" said that while \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\" had a \"forceful\" impact, \"Mera Rang De Basanti\" and \"Pagdi Sambhal Jatta\" were \"not the boom-boom types but subtly tuned\". The review praised Rahman's ability \"to impart the sombre and poignant mood\" in all the album's songs \"so well that despite being subdued, it retains the patriotic fervour\". Seema Pant of Rediff.com said that \"Mera Rang De Basanti\", \"Mahive Mahive\" and \"Jogiya Jogiya\" were \"well rendered\" by their respective singers and called \"Shora So Pahchaniye\" an \"intense track, both lyrically as well as composition wise\". Pant praised Sukhwinder Singh's \"exquisite rendition\" of \"Pagdi Sambhal Jatta\" and described the duet version of \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\" as having \"been beautifully composed\". She appreciated how the \"\"tabla\", \"santoor\" and flute gives this slow and soft number a classical touch.\" A critic from Sify said the music is \"good\". While Pant and the Sify reviewer concurred with Rahman that \"Des Mere Des\" was similar to \"Lagaan\"s music, the review in \"The Hindu\" compared the song to \"Bharat Hum Ko Jaan Se Pyaara Hain\" (\"Thamizha Thamizha\") from \"Roja\" (1992).\n\n\"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" was released on 7 June 2002 coinciding with the release of Sanjay Gadhvi's romance, \"Mere Yaar Ki Shaadi Hai\", and another film based on Bhagat, \"\", which featured Bobby Deol as the revolutionary.\n\nA week before the film's release, Article 51 A Forum, a non-governmental organisation in Delhi, believed \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" to be historically inaccurate, criticising the inclusion of Mannewali as Bhagat's widow, and stating the films were made \"without any research or devotion\" and the filmmakers were just looking at the box-office prospects to \"make spicy films based on imaginary episodes\". Kumar Taurani defended his film saying that he did not add Rao \"for ornamental value\", noting he would have opted for an established actress instead if that were the case. A press statement issued by Tips Industries said: \"This girl from Manawale village loved Bhagat Singh so totally that she remained unmarried till death and was known as Bhagat Singh's widow.\" The chief operating officer of Tips Industries, Raju Hingorani, pointed out that Kultar had authenticated the film, stating: \"With his backing, why must we be afraid of other allegations?\"\n\nOn 29 May 2002, a 14-page petition was filed by Paramjit Kaur, the daughter of Bhagat's youngest brother, Rajinder Singh, at the Punjab and Haryana High Court to stay the release of both \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" and \"23rd March 1931: Shaheed\", alleging that they \"contained distorted versions\" of the freedom fighter's life. Kaur's lawyer, Sandeep Bhansal, argued that Bhagat singing a duet with Mannewali and wearing garlands were \"untrue and amounted to distortion of historical facts\". Two days later, the petition came up for hearing before the judges J. L. Gupta and N. K. Sud; both refused to stay the films' release, observing that the petition was moved \"too late and it would not be proper to stop the screening of the films\".\n\n\"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" received generally positive critical feedback, with praise for its direction, story, screenplay, cinematography, production design and the performances of Devgn and Sushant. Chitra Mahesh praised Santoshi's direction, noting in her review for \"The Hindu\" that he \"shows some restraint in handling the narrative\". She appreciated the film's technical aspects and Devgn's rendition, calling his interpretation of Bhagat \"powerful, without being strident\". Writing for \"The Times of India\", Dominic Ferrao commended Devgn, Sushant, Babbar and Mishra, saying that they all come \"off with flying colours\". A review carried by Sify labelled the film \"slick and commendable\"; it also termed Devgn's portrayal of Bhagat as \"fabulous\" but felt he \"overrides\" the character and that \"the supporting characters make more impact than him.\"\n\nIn a comparative analysis of \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" with \"23rd March 1931: Shaheed\", Ziya Us Salam of \"The Hindu\" found the former to be a better film because of the \"clearly etched out\" supporting characters, while opining Devgn was more \"restrained and credible\" than Bobby Deol. Salam admired Sushant's performance, opining that he has \"a fine screen presence, good timing and an ability to hold his own in front of more celebrated actors\". In a more mixed comparison, Rediff.com's Amberish K. Diwanji, despite finding \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" and Devgn to be the better film and actor like Salam, criticised the \"constant shouting and mouthing of dialogues\". He responded negatively to the inclusion of Bhagat's fiancée, pointing out the film took liberties in using this \"slim\" piece of information \"just to have a girl sing.\" Diwanji, however, commended the narrative structure of \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\", saying that the film captured the revolutionary's life and journey well, thereby making it \"worth watching and give[ing] it relevant historical background.\"\n\nAmong overseas reviewers, Dave Kehr of \"The New York Times\" complimented the placement of the film's song sequences, especially that of \"Sarfaroshi Ki Tamanna\" and \"Mere Rang De Basanti\". Kehr called Devgn's interpretation of Bhagat \"glowering\" while praising Sushant's \"urbane and unpredictable\" rendition of Sukhdev. Although \"Variety\"s Derek Elley found \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" to be \"drawn with more warmth\" and approved of Devgn's and Sushant's performances, he was not pleased with the \"choppy\" screenplay in the film's first half. He concluded his review by saying that the film \"has a stronger lead [thespian] and richer gallery of characters that triumph over often unsubtle direction\".\n\nSome of the criticism was also directed towards the treatment of Gandhi. Mahesh notes that he \"appears in rather poor light\" and was depicted as making \"little effort\" to secure a pardon for Bhagat, Sukhdev and Rajguru. Diwanji concurs with Mahesh while also saying that the Gandhi–Irwin Pact as seen in the film would make the audience think that Gandhi \"condemned the trio to be hanged by inking the agreement\" while pointing out the agreement itself \"had a different history and context.\" Kehr believed the film's depiction of Gandhi was its \"most interesting aspect\". He described Surendra Rajan's version of Gandhi as \"a faintly ridiculous poseur, whose policies play directly into the hands of the British\" and in that aspect, he was very different from \"the serene sage\" portrayed by Ben Kingsley in Richard Attenborough's \"Gandhi\" (1982). Like Diwanji, Elley also notes how the film denounces Gandhi by blaming him \"for not trying very hard\" to prevent Bhagat's execution.\n\n\"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" had an average opening in its first week, grossing 57.1 million (US$1.18 million in 2002) worldwide, with 33 million (US$684,221 in 2002) in India alone. The film failed to cover its budget thus underperforming at the box office, collecting only 129.35 million (US$2.68 million in 2002) by the end of its theatrical run. Shubhra Gupta of \"Business Line\" attributed the film's commercial failure to its release on the same day as \"23rd March 1931: Shaheed\", opining that \"the two Bhagats ate into each other's business\".\n\nAt the 50th National Film Awards, \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" won the Best Feature Film in Hindi and Devgn received the Best Actor award. The film received eight nominations at the 48th Filmfare Awards and won three—Best Background Score (Rahman), Best Film (Critics) (Kumar Taurani, Ramesh Taurani) and Best Actor (Critics) (Devgn).\n\nSince its release, \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" has been considered as one of Santoshi's best works. Devgan said in December 2014 that \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" along with \"Zakhm\" (1998) were the best films he ever worked on in his career. He also revealed he had not seen such a good script since. In 2016, the film was included in \"Hindustan Times\"s list of \"Bollywood's Top 5 Biopics\". \"The Legend of Bhagat Singh\" was added in both the \"SpotBoyE\" and \"The Free Press Journal\" lists of Bollywood films that can be watched to celebrate India's Independence Day in 2018. The following year, \"Daily News and Analysis\" and Zee News also listed it among the films to watch on Republic Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828854", "title": "Fisher Scientific", "text": "Fisher Scientific\n\nFisher Scientific International, Inc. (NYSE: FSH) (colloquially known as Fisher) was a laboratory supply and biotechnology company that provided products and services to the global scientific research and clinical laboratory markets until its merger with Thermo Electron in 2006. The company offered products and services to over 350,000 customers located in approximately 150 countries including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, secondary and higher education institutions, hospitals and medical research institutions, and quality control, process control and research and development laboratories.\n\nThe company was founded in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1902 by Chester Garfield Fisher (1881-1965), originally called the \"Scientific Materials Co.\". After obtaining his degree in engineering at Western University of Pennsylvania (now University of Pittsburgh), C.G. Fisher purchased the stockroom of the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory. Fisher became a supplier of lab equipment and reagents for the area's industrial research. Early products included microscopes, burets, pipettes, litmus, balances, colorimeters, dissecting kits, and anatomical models. The first catalog, the 400 page \"Scientific Materials Co. Catalog of Laboratory Apparatus & Supplies\", was published in 1904.\n\nFisher established an R&D lab at his company in 1915. Edwin Fisher, Chester's brother, developed the 'Meker-Fisher burner in 1921, an advancement on the design of the Bunsen burner. The company manufactured an electric-combustion furnace and combustion train for analyzing carbon levels in steel, and an electrically heated and thermostatically controlled bacteriological incubator. \n\nIn 1925, the company purchased Montreal-based Scientific Supplies, Ltd. The same year, the company was renamed \"Fisher Scientific\". In 1940, Fisher Sci acquired the New York supply company Eimer & Amend, which was founded in 1851 by Bernard G. Amend.\n\nAiken Fisher, Chester's oldest son, became president of the company in 1949. In 1955, Fisher established a chemical manufacturing facility in Fair Lawn, New Jersey. In 1957, the company purchased the New York-based medical apparatus supply company E. Machlett & Sons. In 1959 the company opened an instrument and supplies facility in Indiana, Pennsylvania. \n\nChester Fisher died in 1965 at age 84. His sons maintained leadership of the company, with Aiken becoming Chairman and Benjamin becoming president. The youngest son, James Fisher, had the title Senior Vice President.\n\nFisher Scientific Company issued its first public stock in 1965, and that year the company had $58 million in sales and close to a million customer transactions. In 1968 Fisher shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 1965 the company introduced the Differential Thermalyzer, a Differential thermal analysis instrument. It acquired Pfeiffer Glass, Inc. in 1966, a manufacturer of high accuracy volumetric pipettes. The company released the Photometric Titralyzer that year, and a Hem-alyzer in 1968. In 1968, it purchased Massachusetts-based Jarrell-Ash Company, a producer of optical instrumentation, particularly for emission and atomic absorption spectroscopy. It acquired Chicago-based Stansi Scientific Company in 1967, expanding into educational science supplies. In 1976, Fisher Scientific established an Instrument Service Division.\n\nFisher was acquired by Morristown, New Jersey-based Allied Corporation in 1981 for $330 million. At this time Benjamin R. Fisher was Chairman of the company, having gained the position in 1975 upon Aiken's retirement. Operating as a subsidiary of Allied Corporation (and later AlliedSignal Inc., and The Henley Group), Fisher established a Biotechnology Division in 1985.\n\nIn 1991, The Henley Group sold a majority interest in Fisher through a public stock offering. The public entity was called Fisher Scientific International Inc., and based in Hampton, New Hampshire. Fisher Scientific Company remained in Pittsburgh as an operating subsidiary. In 1992, Fisher facilities were ISO-9000 certified.\n\nIn the 1990s, Fisher, with partner Intertech Corporation of Atkinson, New Hampshire, set up a pharmaceutical testing and certification lab in Moscow, Russia, to serve with the Russian Federation's Ministry of Health and Medical Industry needs. Fisher acquired Eastman Kodak Company's organic-chemicals business and Janssen Chimica, forming Acros Organics.\n\nIn August 2004, the company merged with Apogent Technologies Inc., a company engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale of laboratory products in the United States and other countries.\n\nIn May 2006, Fisher Scientific and Thermo Electron announced that they would merge in a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange. The merger closed on November 9, 2006 and the merged company is now called Thermo Fisher Scientific. The merger was valued at $12.8 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828864", "title": "The Coffee Bean &amp; Tea Leaf", "text": "The Coffee Bean &amp; Tea Leaf\n\nThe Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf (sometimes shortened to simply \"Coffee Bean\" or \"The Coffee Bean\", often abbreviated as CBTL) is an American coffee chain founded in 1963. It is owned and operated by Jolibee Food Corp. which has its corporate headquarters in Pasig, Philippines. As of 2017, the chain has over 1,000 self-owned and franchised stores in the United States and 31 other countries.\n\nOn 24 July 2019, Jollibee Foods Corporation announced its $550 million acquisition, alongside a $100 million investment within the company.\n\nThe company was founded by Herbert Hyman in September 1963, as a coffee service for offices. He and his wife Mona, whom he married in 1966, honeymooned in Sweden, where they discovered quality coffee. This sparked the decision to import, roast and sell gourmet coffee in Los Angeles, opening the first Coffee Bean store in 1968 in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Brentwood. Innovations included selling whole beans and touting their country of origin, and allowing customers to observe the beans being roasted and sample varieties before making a purchase. Hyman is considered to be instrumental in the creation of the gourmet coffee industry in the US. He died on April 28, 2014, at the age of 82. \n\nBy the 1970s, Coffee Bean had expanded to 10 stores in Southern California, and added exotic teas to the menu. In the summer of 1987, an employee brought a blender to a Westwood store, mixing together ice, coffee extract and chocolate powder, paving the way for the company's signature Ice Blended drinks. With the invention of the Ice Blended, the Coffee Bean saw a surge in popularity. The drink was a predecessor to the Starbucks Frappuccino. In 1991, when it was first planning to expand into Los Angeles, Starbucks tried to purchase Coffee Bean, but Hyman turned them down. The opening of Starbucks stores in Los Angeles unexpectedly helped Coffee Bean's business, by driving curious customers to the area.\n\nIn 1996, the Hymans sold the Asian franchise rights to Singaporean brothers Victor Sassoon and Sunny Sassoon. The Sassoons quickly expanded the company in the US and internationally, opening the first outlet in Singapore in 1996, and in Malaysia the following year. Within two years, they had opened 29 stores in Singapore and Malaysia, almost as many stores as the Hymans had opened in their 35 years of ownership. In 1998, the Sassoons, along with longtime friend Severin Wunderman, purchased the parent company, International Coffee & Tea LLC, from the Hymans, and took it global. Victor Sassoon works out of Singapore, Sunny Sassoon works in Los Angeles, and Wunderman is a silent partner with no role in management. International Coffee & Tea, LLC remains the name of the holding company.\n\nSunny Sassoon served as President and CEO from 1998 until 2009, when he moved to the executive chairman position until 2015. In 2009, Mel Elias (Sassoon's brother-in-law) assumed the role of president and CEO of the company, after spending seven years as chief operating officer. In September 2013, a significant equity position in Coffee Bean was acquired from International Coffee & Tea by US-based Advent International, in partnership with South Korea-based Mirae Asset Private Equity and Taiwan-based CDIB Capital. The Sassoon family remains a large shareholder. On September 3, 2015, John Fuller assumed the position of president and CEO.\n\nOn July 24, 2019, Jollibee Foods Corporation purchased The Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf for $550 million.\n\nThe company is known for its Original Ice Blended coffee and tea drinks, hot coffee drinks, and hot and iced tea drinks. It also sells a variety of whole bean coffees, whole leaf teas, flavored powders, and baked goods.\n\nThe company's coffees fall into seven categories: Light & Subtle, Light & Distinctive, Medium & Smooth, Dark & Distinctive, Decaffeinated, Flavored, and Reserve. It roasts approximately seven million pounds of coffee annually. All of the beans are hand-roasted at its roasting facility in Camarillo, California. The beans come from farms in various countries, including Costa Rica, Colombia, Kenya, Indonesia, Jamaica, Thailand, and Sri Lanka. Coffee Bean offers several seasonal holiday drinks, in flavors including candy cane, gingerbread, red velvet cake, eggnog, and peppermint. For the company's 50th anniversary in 2013, it introduced a Birthday Cake Ice Blended.\n\nJay Isais, Coffee Bean's senior director of coffee, oversees the quality of the blending and roasting of all the company's beans. A founding member of the Roasters' Guild, he joined Coffee Bean in 2000. He is one of approximately 400 licensed Q graders worldwide, passing an exam of sensory tests administered by the Specialty Coffee Association of America's CQI division.\n\nThe company's teas fall into seven categories: Green, Black, Oolong, Herbal Infusion, Decaffeinated, Flavored, and Tea Master's. All of the teas are hand-blended at its facility in Camarillo, California. The Chai Tea Latte, one of the chain's most popular drinks, was first served in 1998. In March 2014, the company introduced its Tea Granita beverage in two flavors, Pear Berry and Passion Fruit.\n\nDavid DeCandia, the company's master tea blender, is responsible for sourcing, development and internal education on tea.\n\nCBTL, a single-serve system for home use, was launched in the United States, Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, and the Philippines in 2010. Several types of single-serve capsules are available for the machines: espresso, coffee, tea, and hot chocolate.\n\nAll CBTL coffees, teas, and the powders used to make other beverages, are certified kosher. All company-owned CBTL locations in Southern California are certified kosher. Most in California and Nevada have signed and dated certificates indicating that the entirety of their items are kosher in conformance to the standards of the certifying agency. However, privately owned franchise stores can opt-out of kosher certification.\n\nAll the company's locations in Singapore and Malaysia\nare halal.\n\n, Coffee Bean is present in 32 countries, with new stores opened in Japan on May 26, 2015, and in Panama on June 17, 2015.\n\nOn 5 September 2012, Nokia announced a deal with Coffee Bean to offer wireless charging facilities in its cafés for customers who want to recharge their phones whilst on the go.\n\nOn May 28, 2013, Hilton Worldwide announced they had signed an exclusive agreement for Coffee Bean to provide in-room coffee and tea for all Hilton hotels in North America, South America, and Central America.\nGreen Mountain Coffee Roasters announced on May 29, 2013, that they had partnered with Coffee Bean to create a K-Cup for Keurig single-cup brewing systems, available in the US as of 2014.\n\nOn August 24, 2015, Coffee Bean announced they had signed an exclusive area development agreement with South Korean retail conglomerate E-LAND to enter into the Chinese market.\n\nCoffee Bean was regularly seen on the HBO television series \"Entourage\". Most notably, in season 2, after being forced out of Terrance McQuewick's agency, Ari Gold sets up an interim agency at a West Hollywood Coffee Bean. The franchise has also been seen on the MTV reality series \"The Hills\".\n\nThe first Coffee Bean location in Brentwood was frequented by celebrities, including Johnny Carson, Ronald Reagan, Jacques Cousteau, and Lee Marvin. The franchise's Los Angeles outlets continue to be known for being patronized by celebrities.\n\nOn January 18, 2017, John Fuller, CBTL's new president and CEO went undercover for CBS' Undercover Boss.\n"}
{"id": "1828865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828865", "title": "21st Century Cyber Charter School", "text": "21st Century Cyber Charter School\n\nThe 21st Century Cyber Charter School (21CCCS) is a cyber charter school located in West Chester, Pennsylvania. It is a diploma granting school serving students in Pennsylvania from grades 6 through 12. As per U.S. News, 21CCCS is ranked #171 in Philadelphia, PA Metro Area Rankings and #11,198 in the National Rankings. \n\n21CCCS was established in 2001 by the Intermediate Units of Bucks, Chester, Delaware, and Montgomery and their 64 member school districts, with an aim to provide a student-focused cyber education in an engaging environment. The school board is governed by public educators and parents. It is a private non-profit tuition-free school. \n\nAccording to the recent School Performance Profile (SPP), 21CCCS has achieved the top score among all cyber charter schools and also has been recognized as the highest performing cyber charter school in Pennsylvania through a combination of PSSA scores, Keystone Exam scores, PSAT participation and SAT scores. \n\nThe curriculum at 21CCCS integrates Advanced Placement® coursework and exams. It uses educational technology methods to provide a flexible curriculum to accommodate each student’s learning style. Every student is assigned to an Academic Advisor to help students and parents adjust to cyber learning. The school also provides AP and honors courses. \n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "1828868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828868", "title": "Olivia (singer)", "text": "Olivia (singer)\n\nOlivia Theresa Longott (born February 15, 1981) is an American singer. She is known for being the first lady of G-Unit. She is also known as a cast member on the VH1 reality television series \"\".\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, NY and raised in New York City, Longott is of Indian, Cuban, and Jamaican descent. She studied music at Bayside High School, in Queens and at Five Towns College in Dix Hills, New York. Olivia began her performing career in her teenage years.\n\nIn 2000, she became the first artist signed to Clive Davis' J Records. Her self-titled debut album \"Olivia\" was released in 2001 and featured the singles \"Bizounce\" which made #15 on the charts, and \"Are U Capable\". The album debuted at #55 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nIn 2007, it was announced Olivia and G-Unit Records had parted ways. Her second studio album \"Behind Closed Doors\" was shelved, but leaked a year later on several mixtape websites. In 2009, Olivia did a feature for Congolese singer Fally Ipupa on his song \"Chaise Électrique\" which was on the top of the Congolese and African Hits. On April 12, 2011, she released her first music video for \"December\" the first single from her then-upcoming album, \"Show The World\". The song peaked at #76 on the Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs Chart, higher than her G-Unit debut single, \"Twist It\". In December 2011, she released her second single \"Walk Away\". During this time, she became a cast member on VH1's \"Love & Hip Hop\", which chronicled her career struggles as an independent artist. Olivia declined a record deal from label EMI and in April 2012, signed a deal with Jerry Wonda's Wonda Music. She has since released two promotional songs: \"Soldier Girl\" (featuring Mavado) and \"Sun Don't Shine\" (featuring Sean Kingston). In 2013, Olivia's song \"Where Do I Go From Here?\" hit iTunes at the No. 10 spot on the R&B/Soul charts.\n\nAfter a seven year hiatus, Olivia returned to \"\" for its tenth anniversary season.\n\nStudio albums\n\n"}
{"id": "1828869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828869", "title": "Dhoom", "text": "Dhoom\n\nDhoom () is a 2004 Indian Hindi-language action-thriller film written by Vijay Krishna Acharya and directed by Sanjay Gadhvi. The film stars Abhishek Bachchan, Uday Chopra, John Abraham, Esha Deol and Rimi Sen in lead roles. It is the first instalment to the \"Dhoom\" franchise.The film's story is penned by Aditya Chopra, who was produced the film also, under the banner Yash Raj Films.The cinematography was handled by Nirav Shah and original soundtrack is composed by Pritam while Salim-Sulaiman provided the background score for the film.\n\n\"Dhoom\" was the first action film produced by Yash Raj Films in 16 years, ever since Yash Chopra directed \"Vijay\" (1988). It tells the story of a motorbike gang committing robberies throughout Mumbai and the police officer who teams up with a motorbike dealer to stop them.\n\nEarning over Nett Gross in India, the film became one of the top-grossing Hindi films of 2004. It spawned a film series, with its sequel \"Dhoom 2\", released on 24 November 2006, and \"Dhoom 3\" released on 20 December 2013.\n\nThe story starts in the city of Mumbai, where a motorbike gang starts breaking into banks and other public places and vanishes onto the Western Express Highway.\n\nAssistant Commissioner of Police Jai Dixit (Abhishek Bachchan), a no-nonsense cop, is called onto the case. Dixit seeks the help of a local bike dealer/racer named Ali Akbar Fateh Khan (Uday Chopra) and devises a trap to catch the gang, but it fails. Kabir (John Abraham), the leader of the gang, eventually taunts Dixit, claiming that Dixit can't catch him even if he is right in front of him. He is proven correct and Dixit's failure apparently causes him to part ways with Ali.\n\nKabir then lures Ali into his gang as a substitute for Rohit, the gang member who was killed by Dixit. Ali falls in love with Sheena (Esha Deol), another gang member. The gang later goes to Goa to perform one last big heist before disbanding forever. Kabir sets his eyes on the largest casino in all of India. Kabir and his gang swiftly loot the casino on New Year's Eve, but they soon realize that Dixit has led them right into a trap. It is revealed that Ali was working for Dixit the whole time, and a fight ensues.\n\nKabir manages to escape from Dixit and goes back to the gang's truck where Ali has kept Sheena bound and gagged. Kabir then viciously beats up Ali for his betrayal, but Ali is saved by Dixit's timely arrival at the scene. The gang flees, except for Sheena, while Dixit and Ali give chase to Kabir. They kill all the other gang members except Kabir, who tries to escape on his bike. He is cornered by Dixit and Ali with nowhere to go. Kabir decides to take his own life rather than let Dixit arrest him, and he rides his bike over the edge of a cliff into the water to his death. The film ends with Dixit and Ali arguing with each other, albeit in a friendly way.\n\n\nThe film became a commercial success but received mixed reviews from critics. Dhoom ended up netting about Rs. 4.5 crores from Bombay circuit in 2004. Its gross net amount in India was , and its lifetime worldwide adjusted gross is . Overseas gross of Dhoom stands at US$2 million with its US gross at $330,400.\n\nPritam composed the songs for Dhoom while Salim-Sulaiman composed the original score. The title track \"Dhoom Dhoom\" was released in a remixed version song by the Thai-American singer Tata Young. The song and its music video featuring Tata Young proved to be a major hit in India during 2004 and 2005. The original song was sung by Sunidhi Chauhan. Other tracks on the soundtrack included \"Dilbara\", \"Dilbar Shikdum\", and \"Salaame Salaame\", sung by singers like KK, Abhijeet Bhattacharya, Shaan and Kunal Ganjawala. The lyrics were penned by Sameer. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 22,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's third highest-selling.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828873", "title": "Battle of Ruff's Station", "text": "Battle of Ruff's Station\n\nThe Battle of Ruff's Station was a battle fought on July 4, 1864, during the Atlanta Campaign of the American Civil War. It occurred at Ruff's Station, which is now Smyrna, Georgia.\n"}
{"id": "1828879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828879", "title": "White-winged swallow", "text": "White-winged swallow\n\nThe white-winged swallow (\"Tachycineta albiventer\") is a resident breeding swallow in tropical South America from Colombia, Venezuela, and Trinidad south to northern Argentina. It is not found west of the Andes. This swallow is largely non-migratory.\n\nThe white-winged swallow was described by the French polymath Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon in 1780 in his \"Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux\" from a specimen collected in Cayenne, French Guiana. The bird was also illustrated in a hand-coloured plate engraved by François-Nicolas Martinet in the \"Planches Enluminées D'Histoire Naturelle\" which was produced under the supervision of Edme-Louis Daubenton to accompany Buffon's text. Neither the plate caption nor Buffon's description included a scientific name but in 1783 the Dutch naturalist Pieter Boddaert coined the binomial name \"Hirundo albiventer\" in his catalogue of the \"Planches Enluminées\". The white-winged swallow is now one of nine species placed in the genus \"Tachycineta\" that was introduced in 1850 by the German ornithologists Jean Cabanis. The species is monotypic and no subspecies are currently recognized. The genus name is from the Ancient Greek \"takhukinētos\" meaning \"moving quickly\". The specific epithet \"albiventer\" combines the Latin \"albus\" meaning \"white\" and \"venter\" meaning \"belly\". \n\nThe adult white-winged swallow is long and weighs . It has iridescent blue-green upperparts, white underparts and rump, and white edgings to the secondary flight feathers. The wings are otherwise black, along with the tail. It has dark brown eyes and a black bill and legs. The sexes are similar, although it is noted that the females have slightly less white on the wing. Juveniles have grayer underparts and are duller in general when compared to the adults. The juvenile also has less white on the wing.\n\nWhite-winged swallows can be distinguished from the similar mangrove swallow by the lack of a white line above its lores and a greater amount of white on its wings.\n\nThe call is a harsh \"chirrup\" or a repeated, rising, buzz-like \"zweeed\". The alarm call is short and harsh.\n\nThe white-winged swallow is native to Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. Occasional vagrants reach Panama. They are usually not found on the Pacific coast, especially in the southern portion of South America.\n\nThe species is usually found in or near lowland areas along bodies of water such as rivers or lakes, at elevations of about .\n\nIt is resident in most of its range, although in the most southerly part it is migratory. In Brazil and Argentina, it is only present from approximately mid September to mid April. Where this population winters is not well known, but it is most likely in the Guianas, Venezuela, and Colombia.\n\nThe white-winged swallow builds a cup nest lined with other birds' feathers and some seed inside a tree hole, between boulders or in man-made structures. Nests are usually built a few metres above water; pairs nest separately. The clutch is three to six white eggs, measuring in size and weighing .\n\nThe white-winged swallow feeds primarily in flight at a low altitude, catching flying insects. It usually forages over water but may also feeds over land. In between foraging attempts, it usually perches on branches near bodies of water. Flight paths are direct and they fly with a flapping flight.\n\nThe white-winged swallow is classified as Least Concern by the IUCN, based on its very large range, apparently stable population, and large population size.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828884", "title": "Jon Astley", "text": "Jon Astley\n\nJon Astley is a British record producer who has also recorded and released two albums as a singer-songwriter in the late 1980s. His most commercially successful song was \"Jane's Getting Serious\", later popularized by a Heinz ketchup television commercial starring a pre-\"Friends\" Matt LeBlanc.\n\nAs a producer, he is best known for his co-production work with Glyn Johns on the Who's 1978 \"Who Are You\" album, and later remastering supervision for all of the group's back catalog reissues.\n\nHe also has produced albums for Eric Clapton, Barclay James Harvest, Corey Hart, and Deborah Harry and has mastered records for the Who, ABBA, George Harrison, Tori Amos, Eric Clapton, the Rolling Stones, the Pretty Things, Jools Holland, Tom Jones, Judas Priest, Cloven Hoof, Emmylou Harris, Ella Guru, Damien Dempsey, Tears for Fears, Led Zeppelin, Hothouse Flowers, Level 42, The Boomtown Rats, John Mayall, Marilyn Martin, Toto, Norah Jones, Stereophonics, KT Tunstall, Van Morrison, Paul McCartney, Peter Gabriel, Slade, Sting, Bono, Starlite Campbell Band and Anathema.\n\nJon Astley is not related to singer Rick Astley; he is, by way of sister Karen, the ex-brother-in-law of Who guitarist Pete Townshend, as well as the brother of recording artist Virginia Astley and son of noted composer Edwin \"Ted\" Astley. He is married to novelist Judy Astley.\n\nStudio albums\n\nSingles\n\n"}
{"id": "1828894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828894", "title": "Roger Fanning", "text": "Roger Fanning\n\nRoger Fanning (born 1962 in Millington, Tennessee) is an American poet.\n\nHe teaches in the low-residency Warren Wilson MFA program out of Goddard College. He lives in Seattle with his wife and son.\n\nHis work is noted for its ironic sincerity and exaltation of the mundane.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828906", "title": "James Reeb", "text": "James Reeb\n\nJames Reeb (January 1, 1927 – March 11, 1965) was an American Unitarian Universalist minister, pastor, and activist during the Civil rights movement in Washington, D.C. and Boston, Massachusetts. While participating in the Selma to Montgomery marches actions in Selma, Alabama, in 1965, he was murdered by white segregationists, dying of head injuries in the hospital two days after being severely beaten.\n\nThree men were tried for Reeb's murder, but no one was ever convicted. His murder remains officially unsolved. A female witness has recently come forward to the killing. Had she been able to come forward during the trial, the men who had been tried would have been convicted. (as heard recently on NPR.)\nReeb was born on January 1, 1927, in Wichita, Kansas, to Mae (Fox) and Harry Reeb. He was raised in Kansas and Casper, Wyoming. He attended Natrona County High School and graduated in 1945, after which he joined the Army despite the fact that his commitment to the ministry made him exempt from service. After basic training, he was sent to Anchorage, Alaska as a clerk typist for the headquarters of Special Troops. He was honorably discharged eighteen months later in December 1946 as Technical Sergeant, Third Class. After his time in the Army, Reeb continued his schooling. Initially, he attended classes in his home town at Casper Junior College, before moving on to St. Olaf College, in 1947, where he received his A.B. cum laude in 1950. He then entered Princeton Theological Seminary in Princeton, New Jersey, where he earned his B.D. in 1953. Three days later, Reeb was ordained a Presbyterian minister at the First Presbyterian Church of Casper. After this he accepted a position at the Philadelphia General Hospital as Chaplain to Hospitals for the Philadelphia Presbyter. To become a more effective counselor, he went back to school, enrolling at Conwell School of Theology, where he earned an S.T.M. in Pastoral Counseling in 1955.\n\nAs a scholar of theology, Reeb grew away from traditionalist Presbyterian teachings and was drawn to the Unitarian Universalist church. In March 1957, he resigned his Presbyterian Chaplaincy and contacted the American Unitarian Association about transferring his fellowship from Presbyterian to Unitarian. Reeb appreciated the church's emphasis on social action, and he became active in the civil rights movement during the 1960s.\n\nBeginning in his new ministry, Reeb encouraged parishioners to participate in the movement as well. With his wife and four children, he lived in poor black neighborhoods where he felt he could do the most good. He took a job that would allow him to work closely with Philadelphia's poor community as a youth director for the West Branch Y.M.C.A. between 1957 and 1959. While at the Y.M.C.A. he abolished the racial quota system and started an integrated busing program to transport youth to and from the location. When he was granted preliminary fellowship by the Unitarians, he accepted an offer to be assistant minister of All Souls Church in Washington D.C. After three years of active service at All Souls Church, Reeb was fully ordained as a Unitarian Universalist minister in 1962. In 1964, he began as community relations director for the American Friends Service Committee's Boston Metropolitan Housing Program, focusing on desegregation. At the AFSC, Reeb and his staff advocated for the poor and pressed the city to enforce its housing code, protecting the rights of tenants of all races and backgrounds, particularly poor African and Hispanic Americans. The Reebs were one of the few white families living in Roxbury. James Reeb's daughter Anne recollected that her father \"was adamant that you could not make a difference for African-Americans while living comfortable in a white community.\"\n\nReeb married Marie Deason on August 20, 1950; they had four children.\n\nAs a member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Reeb went to Selma to join the Selma to Montgomery marches, a series of protests for African American voting rights, following the attack by state troopers and sheriff's deputies on nonviolent demonstrators on March 7, 1965. After eating dinner at an integrated restaurant on March 9, Reeb and two other Unitarian ministers, Rev. Clark Olsen and Rev. Orloff Miller, were beaten by white men with clubs for their support of African American rights. The black hospital in Selma did not have the facilities to treat him, and the white hospital refused. Two hours elapsed, and his condition deteriorated, before Reeb arrived at a Birmingham hospital — treatment was not available for him in much closer Montgomery — where doctors performed brain surgery. While Reeb was on his way to the hospital in Birmingham, civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. addressed a press conference lamenting the \"cowardly\" attack and asking all to pray for his protection. Reeb went into a coma and died two days later from his injuries. His death resulted in a national outcry against the activities of white racists in the Deep South.\n\nReeb's death provoked mourning throughout the country, and tens of thousands held vigils in his honor. President Lyndon B. Johnson called Reeb's widow and father to express his condolences, and on March 15 invoked Reeb's memory when he delivered a draft of the Voting Rights Act to Congress. The same day, King eulogized Reeb at a ceremony at Brown's Chapel in Selma: \"James Reeb symbolizes the forces of good will in our nation. He demonstrated the conscience of the nation. He was an attorney for the defense of the innocent in the court of world opinion. He was a witness to the truth that men of different races and classes might live, eat, and work together as brothers.\" And part of King eulogy for James Reeb he said \" James Reeb says something to each of us, black and white alike—says that we must substitute courage for caution, says to us that we must be concerned not merely about who murdered him but about the system, the way of life.\"\n\nIn April 1965, four men - Elmer Cook, William Stanley Hoggle, Namon O'Neal Hoggle, and R.B. Kelley - were indicted in Dallas County, Alabama for Reeb's murder; three were acquitted by an all-white jury that December. The fourth man fled to Mississippi and was not returned by the state authorities for trial. The Voting Rights Act was passed on August 6, 1965.\nIn July 2007, \"The Boston Globe\" reported that the FBI's Cold Case Initiative had reopened the investigation into the 46-year-old case. The renewed investigation was also reported by \"The Anniston Star\" and \"The Clarion-Ledger\" of Jackson, Mississippi. However, in 2011 the case was closed again, and no charges were pursued. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, the decision to close the case was made upon discovery that three of the four men believed to be responsible for the killing were deceased and that Namon Hoggle, the only surviving individual, was tried and acquitted of the crime in state court, which barred him from further prosecution. Namon Hoggle died five years later on August 31, 2016, at age 81.\n\nInvestigative journalists from NPR, Andrew Beck Grace and Chip Brantley, conducted a multi-year investigation and published their findings in a podcast, “White Lies,” in May and June 2019. During their investigation Grace and Brantley found an eyewitness, Frances Bowden, and a fourth man, William Portwood, who was involved in the crime. Portwood had not previously been identified.\n\nGrace and Brantley interviewed William Portwood in 2017. At that time, Portwood had suffered from strokes and was experiencing memory lapses. However, he was able to remember having been there. \"All I did was kick one of them\" Portwood said.\n\nFrances Bowden is the proprietor of Selma Bail Bonds, which was located adjacent to the crime scene. After the death of Namon (Duck) Hoggle, and learning that William Portwood had admitted to being involved, Bowden gave an account of what she saw that night from the window of her business. In summary, she stated that Elmer Cook, William Stanley Hoggle, Duck Hoggle, and William Portwood assaulted Reverends Reeb, Olsen and Miller. It was Elmer Cook who swung the club and struck Reverend Reeb.\n\nWilliam Portwood died shortly after his last interview with NPR on September 30, 2017.\n\nReeb is portrayed by Jeremy Strong in the film \"Selma\" (2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "1828915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828915", "title": "7th Armoured Brigade (United Kingdom)", "text": "7th Armoured Brigade (United Kingdom)\n\nThe 7th Armoured Brigade was an armoured brigade formation of the British Army. The brigade is also known as the \"Desert Rats\", a nickname formerly held by the 7th Armoured Division, of which the brigade formed a part of during the Second World War until late 1941.\n\nThe brigade was raised from garrison troops stationed in North Africa in 1938. It was initially known as the Light Armoured Brigade which was part of the Mobile Division in Egypt.\n\nWhen the Mobile Division became 7th Armoured Division, the Light Armoured Brigade became the 7th Armoured Brigade in February 1940. The 7th Armoured Division had a red jerboa (a nocturnal rodent indigenous to North Africa) as its emblem and became known as \"The Desert Rats\". The 7th Armoured Brigade, meanwhile, had a green jerboa as its emblem. The 7th Brigade became known as the \"Green Rats\" or the \"Jungle Rats\" after it moved to Burma in 1942.\n\nThe Second World War broke out in September 1939, with both Britain and France declaring war on Germany after the German Army invaded Poland. Italy launched an invasion of Egypt, then a British Protectorate, shortly after entering the war on Germany's side in June 1940. The brigade fought in many of the major battles in North Africa, including Operation \"Crusader\" in November, fighting at Sidi Rezegh to try to relieve the Commonwealth forces in the port of Tobruk, besieged by Axis forces.\n\nIt moved to fight in the Burma Campaign in early 1942 just as the Imperial Japanese Army were pushing the Allies back. The brigade took part in the fighting retreat to India, successfully completed in May just before the monsoons would have cut them off. The 7th Armoured Brigade returned to the Middle East in 1943, based in Iraq and later Egypt. With Axis forces defeated in North Africa, the brigade's time was a quiet one until it moved to the Italian Front in April 1944 where it remained for the duration of the Second World War; fighting as part of I Canadian Corps, itself part of the British Eighth Army. The brigade, now composed of the 2nd, 6th and 8th Royal Tank Regiments, fought in the final stages of the Battle of Monte Cassino and later the Gothic Line and in Operation Grapeshot, the final offensive in Italy.\n\nShortly after the end of the Second World War, the 7th Armoured Brigade was disbanded and the 22nd Armoured Brigade was re-designated as the 7th Armoured Brigade, based in Germany as part of the British Army of the Rhine (BAOR).\n\nAfter the 7th Armoured Division was disbanded in 1958 the 7th Armoured Brigade adopted its insignia and nickname, perpetuating the history of the famed division. It was one of two \"square brigades\" assigned to 1st (UK) Armoured Division when this was formed in 1976. After being briefly converted to \"Task Force Alpha\" in the late 1970s, the brigade was reinstated in 1981, assigned to 1st Armoured Division again and was based at Bournemouth Barracks in Soltau.\n\nThe 7th Armoured Brigade returned to the desert when it arrived in Saudi Arabia in October 1990 as part of Operation \"Granby\", intended to protect Saudi Arabia from invasion by Saddam Hussein's Iraq. The brigade, commanded by Brigadier Patrick Cordingley, later took part in the Coalition of the Gulf War ground campaign to liberate Iraqi-occupied Kuwait on 24 February 1991 that began after a sustained air campaign. The Desert Rats, along with the rest of 1st Armoured Division, carried out a left-hook manoeuvre that swung round the Iraqi Republican Guard. The brigade advanced deep into Iraqi territory, encountering some armour of the Republican Guard. The ground campaign formally ended on 28 February with the liberation of Kuwait achieved.\n\nThe brigade moved to Campbell Barracks at Hohne in 1993. From there the brigade deployed to Bosnia in May 1994 as part of the NATO IFOR peacekeeping organisation. The brigade returned for another tour-of-duty in April 1997, joining IFOR's NATO replacement known as SFOR. After the Kosovo War in 1999, the 7th Armoured Brigade returned to the Balkans for a tour-of-duty in Kosovo in 2000, based in the capital Pristina.\n\nJust before Operation \"Telic\" began (Britain's contribution to the 2003 invasion of Iraq), the brigade, commanded by Brigadier Graham Binns, moved to Kuwait where it undertook extensive training and was \"desertised\" for service in the Middle East. The brigade, consisting of 112 Challenger 2 tanks, 140 Warriors and 32 AS-90 155 mm self-propelled howitzers, entered Iraq on 21 March. The main objective of the Desert Rats was to advance towards Iraq's second largest city, Basra, and help encircle and isolate it. The brigade, led by the 1st Fusiliers Battlegroup, made a rapid advance towards the city and soon reached its outskirts, securing Basra Airport and the critical bridges across the Shatt al-Arab. The advance by the brigade met sporadic though fierce resistance, with The Queen's Royal Irish Hussars, including an engagement between 14 Challenger 2s of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards and 14 Iraqi tanks, all of the Iraqi tanks being destroyed; it was the largest tank engagement by the British Army since World War II. Initially the brigade was faced by very spirited but un-coordinated attacks from Basra and in the town of Az Zubayr. These attacks were initially orchestrated by members of the Iraqi secret police, who used violence and threats against family members to coerce men to attack the Desert Rats and other elements of 1st Armoured Division. As their influence waned, so did the frequency and ferocity of the Iraqi attacks.\n\nThe 1st Armoured Division, including 7th Brigade, then undertook a number of raids into the city against specific targets, but in a plan that was very patient bided their time on the outskirts of Basra. On 6 April the Desert Rats, led by Challenger 2s of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards, Queen's Royal Lancers and 2nd Royal Tank Regiment with Warriors of the 1st Fusiliers, Irish Guards and Black Watch pushed into the city on 6 April and stayed. They met sporadic resistance from Iraqi soldiers and irregulars known as Fedayeen. Basra was, for the most part, now controlled by 1st Division though further engagements did take place. The war was officially declared over on 1 May. The Desert Rats remained in Iraq after the war, acting as peacekeepers and helping to rebuild the country while based in the British sector in the south of Iraq. The brigade began to leave in late June 2003, being replaced by 19th Mechanised Brigade.\n\nBetween October 2005 and May 2006 the brigade deployed to Iraq again for Operation Telic 7 under the command of Brigadier Patrick Marriott.\n\nIn 2011, some elements of the brigade deployed to Afghanistan. In October 2013, 7th Armored Brigade deployed to Afghanistan's Helmand Province, Kandahar, and Kabul.\n\nOn 5 March 2013, the British Secretary of State for Defence, Philip Hammond, announced that the 7th Armoured Brigade would have its Challenger 2 tanks and heavy armoured battalions removed over the next decade. Although the brigade itself was re-designated as an infantry brigade, it retains its famed \"Desert Rats\" insignia. It forms part of the Adaptable Force under Army 2020. The decision was met with regret by former 7th Armoured Brigade commander Patrick Cordingley, who said that the \"changes would still dismay veterans and the general public\". On 14 November 2014, the brigade formally stepped out of its armour role into that of an infantry brigade as 7th Infantry Brigade.\n\nThe composition was as follows:\n\nCommanders have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828920", "title": "7th Armoured Brigade", "text": "7th Armoured Brigade\n\nThe 7th Armoured Brigade or 7th Armored Brigade may refer to any of a number of military units:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828922", "title": "Prismatic surface", "text": "Prismatic surface\n\nA prismatic surface is a surface generated by all the lines that are parallel to a given line and intersect a broken line that is not in the same plane as the given line. The broken line is the \"directrix\" of the surface; the parallel lines are its \"generators\" (or \"elements\"). If the broken line is closed (i.e., a closed polygon), then the surface is a \"closed prismatic surface\".\n\nWith regards to crystallography, a prismatic surface is a single face of a prismatic form, which is an open form consisting of three, four, or six identical faces related by a symmetry operator.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828926", "title": "United States Commerce Court", "text": "United States Commerce Court\n\nThe Commerce Court of the United States was a short-lived federal trial court. It was created by the Mann-Elkins Act in 1910 and abolished three years later. The Commerce Court was a specialized court, given jurisdiction over cases arising from orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and empowered with judicial review of those orders. The United States Supreme Court was given appellate jurisdiction over the Commerce Court.\n\nThe modern United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, created in 1982, has a purpose similar to the Commerce Court, although the Federal Circuit has broader jurisdiction.\n\nThe Commerce Court also had one of the more unusual structures in United States judicial history. There were five judges serving staggered five-year terms on the Commerce Court. These judges were, nonetheless, Article III judges, and were to be reassigned to an appellate court when their term on the Commerce Court expired. Moreover, even while they served on the Commerce Court, they also served as an at-large appellate judge and could be assigned by the Chief Justice of the United States to any appellate court to help relieve the workload.\n\nOnce the court was abolished, the four remaining judges of the court served out their lifetime appointment as at-large appellate judges. (The fifth judge of the court, Robert Archbald, had been impeached and removed from office.)\n\nAll of the judges who served on the Commerce Court were appointed by President William Howard Taft. The court had no chief judge, and no judge on the court achieved senior status. All of the judges ended their service with the court upon its abolition, except for Robert Wodrow Archbald, who was impeached and convicted for corrupt practices, specifically soliciting and receiving gifts from persons doing business before the court.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> This column refers only to the judges' terms in the Commerce Court.\n\n\n94 cases were docketed in the Commerce Court. 43 decision were delivered, 22 appeals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828927", "title": "Thomas Dewing", "text": "Thomas Dewing\n\nThomas Wilmer Dewing (May 4, 1851 – November 5, 1938) was an American painter working at the turn of the 20th century. Schooled in Paris, Dewing was noted for his figure paintings of aristocratic women. He was a founding member of the Ten American Painters and taught at the Art Students League of New York. The Freer Gallery of Art at the Smithsonian Institution has a collection of his works. He was the husband of fellow artist Maria Oakey Dewing.\n\nThomas was born in Boston, Massachusetts to parents Sophronia Durant and Paul Dewing, and served as a lithographic apprentice until at least 1870 when he was 19 years old. He later studied at the Académie Julian in Paris with Gustave Boulanger and Jules Lefebvre beginning in 1876. \"There he learned an academic technique; the careful delineation of volumetric form and meticulous but subtle evocation of texture were to be constant features of his work.\"\n\nIn 1880 he moved to New York where he met and married Maria Oakey Dewing, an accomplished painter with extensive formal art training and familial links with the art world. They had a son who died while an infant. In 1885 their daughter Elizabeth was born. The Dewings spent their summers at the Cornish Art Colony in New Hampshire from 1885 to 1905. These years may not have been as peaceful as they seemed, however. Thomas lost both of his surviving siblings, Paul F. and Louise within a month of each other in 1903. \n\nUpon his return to the United States from France in 1878, Dewing returned to Boston. The following year he painted \"Morning\", a composition of two women dressed in Renaissance gowns, which is said by biographer Ross C. Anderson to have the quality of Pre-Raphaelite paintings and emotion of a James McNeill Whistler work. He began teaching at the Art Students League of New York in 1881, the same year he married Maria Oakley.\n\nHe is best known for his tonalist paintings, a genre of American art that was rooted in English Aestheticism. Dewing's preferred vehicle of artistic expression is the refined, aristocratic female figure situated in a moody and dreamlike surrounding. Often seated playing instruments, writing letters, or simply communicating with one another, Dewing's sensitively portrayed figures have a detachment from the viewer that keeps the spectator a remote witness to the scene rather than a participant.\n\nHe was elected into the National Academy of Design in 1888. Dewing was a founding member of the Ten American Painters in 1898, a group of artists who seceded from the Society of American Artists in 1897. He joined the Society of Landscape Painters, founded in 1899, where he was more aligned with other Tonalist artists.\n\nKey collectors of his works were John Gellatly and Charles Lang Freer.\n\nHe did not paint much after 1920 and lived out his later years in his Cornish, New Hampshire, home. His wife died in 1927 in New York City and Dewing died in New York in 1938.\n\nA noted Dewing scholar and curator is Susan A. Hobbs, who co-authored \"The Art of Thomas Wilmer Dewing: Beauty Reconfigured\" and co-curated a 1996 exhibition of his works of the same name with Dr. Barbara Dayer Gallati. Until that time it was the largest retrospective of his works; 70 paintings—oils, watercolors, silverpoints and pastels— were shown at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, National Museum of American Art in Washington, D.C., and the Detroit Institute of Arts. The shows ran from March 1996 through January 1997.\nThe exhibition was made possible from funding from The Overbrook Foundation, the David Schwartz Foundation, and the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\nHis works are in private collections and museums in the United States. At the Freer Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, a room is devoted to Dewing's paintings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828929", "title": "Tiger Eyes", "text": "Tiger Eyes\n\nTiger Eyes is a young adult novel written by Judy Blume in 1981 about a 15-year-old girl attempting to cope with the unexpected death of her father. In 2012, the novel was adapted into a film of the same name, directed by Judy's son, Lawrence Blume, and starring Willa Holland as Davey Wexler. Davey is often sad, depressed and defensive on everything. She has a short breakdown at her brother, Jason. Her mom becomes incapable of doing things about the house, making Davey more depressed.\n\nDavey Wexler, along with her mother, Gwen, and her little brother, Jason, have just attended the funeral of her father, Adam, who was shot to death in a holdup at their 7-Eleven convenience store in Atlantic City. After lying in bed for days on end and not eating, Davey starts her tenth year of school, but faints \non her first day from anxiety. She goes for a checkup, and the doctor explains Davey is having panic attacks. \n\nDavey's mother, Gwen, decides they need to get away for awhile and takes up an offer from Adam's older sister, Bitsy, and his brother-in-law Walter to come stay with them in Los Alamos, New Mexico. A few days before they are scheduled to return to Atlantic City, Gwen receives news their store has been further vandalized, and she decides they're going to stay in Los Alamos through the end of the school year.\n\nBitsy and Walter, who were unable to have children, start treating Davey and Jason like their own kids, which causes tension between them and Davey. They're overprotective, and Davey becomes more upset when her mother just sits back and allows them to parent her. During this time, Gwen gets a job at the Los Alamos National Laboratory as a temp. She begins seeing a therapist named Miriam and convinces Davey to see her as well.\n\nMeanwhile, Davey explores the town on her aunt's bicycle. One day, she goes to a canyon and climbs down. There, she runs into an older boy who calls himself Wolf. Davey calls herself Tiger when they introduce each other. She also becomes a candy striper at the hospital with her new friend, Jane, and meets a cancer patient who turns out to be Wolf's father. The inspiration from Wolf and his father changes Davey for the better. Sadly, he eventually dies from cancer, and Wolf leaves.\n\nAnother story is Jane's alcoholism and Davey's desire to help her get sober. Also, in three different parts Davey describes the evening her father was shot and killed, which causes her in the beginning of the book to completely freak out when Jason experiences a nosebleed from the altitude. She carries a paper bag with her, which is revealed to contain the clothing she was wearing when she found her father and held him until he died; the clothing was soaked with his blood. After a session with Miriam, she finally breaks down and is able to mourn her father. She eventually buries the clothing and a bread knife she carried for self-defense in a cave in the canyon where she met Wolf. \n\nEventually, against Bitsy's wishes, Gwen decides to return the family to Atlantic City to begin a new life. Walter helps them buy a car for the trip home. Gwen gets a job in one of the hotels, thanks to the credentials she gained while working at the lab, and with the aid of her friend, Audrey. Once they're back home, Davey often wonders if anyone will know how much she had changed, but realizes some changes happen deep down and only you know about them.\n\nJudy Blume states in her book \"Places I Never Meant to Be\" this was the only book she has written she has voluntarily censored. In the original draft submitted to her editor, the character Davey masturbates while thinking about Wolf. Her editor pointed out the book was likely to be read by many more young readers if the scene was left out. After agonizing over the decision, Blume agreed and removed the passage.\n\nThis book is on the American Library Association list of the 100 Most Frequently Challenged Books of 1990-2000 at number 89.\n\nA film version of the novel, directed by the author's son Lawrence Blume, started production in October 2010 and was released at the 15th Annual Sonoma International Film Festival on April 12, 2012. It won the Jury Award for Best Feature in the Palm Beach International Film Festival. Willa Holland is cast as Davey, Tatanka Means as Wolf and Amy Jo Johnson as Gwen Wexler.\nIt was released on June 7, 2013 both in art house cinemas and video-on-demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828934", "title": "Paul Cuisset", "text": "Paul Cuisset\n\nPaul Cuisset (born 1964) is a French programmer and designer of several video games.\n\nPaul Cuisset was the lead designer of Delphine Software International and the creator of \"Flashback\", which was listed in the \"Guinness World Records\" as the best-selling French game of all time.\n\nCuisset was also the Managing Director of the video game developer Vector Cell, which he co-owned with the game developer Lexis Numerique. Cuisset designed two games under the Vector Cell banner, one of which being a remake of \"Flashback\", but the company's titles were unsuccessful and they went bankrupt in late 2013.\n\nTitles released involving Paul Cuisset are listed below in chronological order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828936", "title": "C/1652 Y1", "text": "C/1652 Y1\n\nC/1652 Y1 was a naked-eye comet observed, among others by Jan van Riebeeck. First spotted on December 16, 1652, by Dutch observers at Pernambuco (Brazil).\n"}
{"id": "1828947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828947", "title": "Louis Eilshemius", "text": "Louis Eilshemius\n\nLouis Michel Eilshemius (February 4, 1864 – December 29, 1941) was an American painter, primarily of landscapes and nudes. Although he was academically trained, much of his work has the unselfconscious character of naive art.\n\nBorn into a wealthy family near Newark, New Jersey, Eilshemius was educated in Europe, after which he spent two years at Cornell University before beginning his art studies at the Art Students League of New York. He also studied privately with the American landscape painter Robert Crannell Minor (1839-1904). He subsequently studied under Bouguereau at the Académie Julian in Paris and traveled widely in Europe, Africa and the South Seas, returning to the family brownstone in New York City where he was to live for the rest of his life.\n\nHis early landscapes, which show the influence of the Barbizon School and of Corot, George Inness and Albert Pinkham Ryder gained him little recognition from critics or the public. Around 1910, the element of fantasy in his work became more pronounced and his technique became coarser; henceforth, he often painted on cardboard instead of canvas. As his works became more idiosyncratic, so did his behavior, and he developed an unsettling habit of visiting galleries and loudly condemning the works on display.\n\nHis later, visionary works depicting moonlit landscapes populated with voluptuous nymphs caused his contemporaries particular consternation, due to their crudely rendered and often extravagantly smiling nudes. These are shown frolicking in forests or waterfalls, either alone or in groups, sometimes defying gravity by floating through the air. His paintings of New York rooftops are as lyrical as his pastoral scenes, and like them are often bounded by sinuous \"frames\" he painted onto his pictures.\n\nEilshemius also wrote verse and prose, composed music, painted, philosophized and became notorious for his numerous, often vitriolic, letters-to-the-editor of various New York City publications. His lack of public acclaim led him to desperate measures: suspecting that the length of his name was responsible for his neglect, in about 1890 he began signing his paintings \"Elshemus\" (he reverted to the original spelling in 1913). On letterheads and in hyperbolic, self-published flyers he would proclaim his accomplishments: \"Educator, Ex-actor, Amateur All-around Doctor, Mesmerist-Prophet and Mystic, Reader of Hands and Faces, Linguist of 5 languages\", as well as world-class athlete and marksman, \"Spirit-Painter Supreme\", and musician whose improvisations rivaled the compositions of Chopin. All of this only reinforced the impression, already suggested by the peculiar imagery in many of his paintings, that he was either mad or a charlatan.\n\nHe was not without supporters, however. Eilshemius was championed by Marcel Duchamp, who \"discovered\" Eilshemius in 1917 and invited him to exhibit with him in Paris that year. Joseph Stella was an admirer and drew a particularly fine silverpoint portrait of him. His work was generally well received by French viewers and critics; his admirers included Matisse. Duchamp subsequently helped to arrange Eilshemius's first solo exhibition in 1920, at the Société Anonyme in New York City. The hostile critical reception to this exhibition, however, finally drove him to give up painting entirely in 1921, although there is a single known painting dated 1937. The remainder of his life was dedicated to self-promotion, and in 1931 he took to referring to himself as \"Mahatma.\" Victor Ganz started collecting art in his teenage years with the purchases of watercolors by Louis Eilshemius and Jules Pascin and an oil painting by Raphael Soyer.\n\nInjured in an automobile accident in 1932, he became increasingly reclusive. His health in decline and his family fortune spent, he died in 1941.\n\nSince his death, Eilshemius's work has found a wider audience. One of the artist's few consistent patrons, Roy Neuberger, donated a large body of Eilshemius' work to the Neuberger Museum of Art located at SUNY Purchase College in New York State.\n\nAccording to Stefan Banz, there is no evidence that Eilshemius was a grandson of Swiss painter Louis Léopold Robert as some sources report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828957", "title": "Albert Hallam", "text": "Albert Hallam\n\nAlbert William Hallam (12 November 1869 – 24 July 1940) was an English off spin bowler who is primarily remembered, along with Thomas Wass, for giving Nottinghamshire an astonishing win in the County Championship of 1907. They did not lose a single match and managed to win fifteen out of nineteen games in which a ball was actually bowled. This is the highest proportion of wins by an undefeated side and the third highest proportion of wins in County Championship history – and the two higher figures were in very dry summers with almost no rain interruptions.\n\nHallam was, at Nottinghamshire, the successor to the more famous Alfred Shaw and William Attewell. He was a slow bowler with extreme accuracy of pitch who could flight the ball with great skill and turn the ball both ways. He had few pretensions as a batsman, but his innings of 46 at The Oval against Surrey was critical to Nottinghamshire remaining unbeaten for the season.\n\nLike so many Nottinghamshire-born men, Albert Hallam took to cricket at an early age. However, as he developed, he was not seen as good enough for a regular place in the Nottinghamshire eleven and, already residing in Leicestershire, played for them for a number of years in the late 1880s and early 1890s. Though these matches were \"not\" first-class, Hallam acquired a good enough reputation for Lancashire, desperate for support for the seemingly irrepressible Mold and Briggs, to encourage Hallam to qualify. He steadily improved, and by 1896 Hallam's slow bowling was already providing Lancashire with a third force in attack. He actually beat Briggs in the averages and was only a fraction behind Mold, though he did less than half as much bowling as the two established bowlers. The following year, these three bowlers, together with the newly imported Willis Cuttell, gave Lancashire a deadly attack on any helpful wicket and they won the County Championship. Hallam bowled consistently well and in all matches just reached 100 wickets. Nevertheless \"Wisden\" and many batsmen thought he was not nearly so good as the other three bowlers because he was too regular on dry pitches and helped batsmen to play themselves in.\n\nThe triumphs of 1896 and 1897 were followed by disaster for Hallam, however. Always a sensitive figure of slight build, his health broke down so badly that he could not play in a single match for Lancashire in 1898, and broke down again soon after resuming playing in 1899. Such setbacks would have certainly finished most cricketing careers, but Hallam worked hard to improve his health during 1900. Nevertheless, Lancashire’s bowling had become so strong that he was able to play only four games for the first eleven, with the result that Nottinghamshire, wanting a bowler to support Wass and John Gunn, turned to Hallam (qualified for them by birth). Hallam established himself quickly as a steady stock bowler during the following three years, though he was seldom \"deadly\" even when the pitches suited slow bowling as they usually did in 1902 and 1903. In 1904, Hallam was so disappointing when the weather turned fine that he was left out of four matches and did not once take five wickets in an innings, but he rebounded in 1905 with some excellent performances, notably 6 for 46 on a worn wicket at Lord's and a career-best 8 for 63 for North Of England in a festival game in September.\n\n1906 saw Hallam develop his skill considerably, showing an ability to spin the ball past the bat of even a watchful batsman when the pitch helped him. However, his greatest feat that season was the amazing endurance he showed in bowling, on a perfect Lord's wicket, \"58 overs with a damaged hand\" and winning the match with Middlesex for the second successive year.\n\nNobody, though, could have been prepared for the following year's cricket. Striking their form at the start, Hallam and Wass were so deadly on the treacherous pitches that they won match after match with almost no bowling changes – they took all but fifty of the 348 wickets falling to Nottinghamshire in nineteen County Championship matches, only one of which was played \"throughout\" on a pitch \"un\"affected by rain. In almost all Nottinghamshire's matches, the soft turf took all the spin Hallam and Wass could get on the ball, and even the best wet-wicket batsmen could never make a stand against them. It was thought Hallam should have played in the Test matches against South Africa, but he was chosen only for the third and declined due to a damaged hand which had prevented him participating in Nottinghamshire's game with the tourists. However, he did displace Schofield Haigh from his perennial position at the top of the bowling averages and was nominated as a \"Wisden Cricketer of the Year\".\n\nBecause it was clear that their bowling would be ineffective on rock-hard Australian pitches (and their bodies would not withstand the hard work under such conditions), Hallam and Wass were never considered for the winter's Ashes tour.\n\nHowever, it was still a surprise how Hallam declined the following year. Affected by rheumatism in the right shoulder, his haul of wickets in county cricket fell from 153 to 72 and his average more than doubled. 1909, a summer equally as wet as 1907, was little better even if Hallam was twice unplayable against weak opponents on dreadful pitches. Already forty years of age, it was clear Hallam was not going to recover his form as he had done at least twice before, and after bowling with very moderate success in the early games of 1910 he was left out of the Nottinghamshire eleven for James Iremonger to develop as a bowler. He played in Lancashire League cricket until World War I and returned to Leicestershire after that, dying there in 1940 at the age of seventy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1828959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828959", "title": "PDFCreator", "text": "PDFCreator\n\nPDFCreator is an application for converting documents into Portable Document Format (PDF) format on Microsoft Windows operating systems. It works by creating a virtual printer that prints to PDF files, and thereby allows practically any application to create PDF files by choosing to print from within the application and then printing to the PDFCreator printer.\n\nSince 2009, PDFCreator has included closed source adware, toolbars and other controversial software that is installed by default.\n\nThe application is written in Microsoft C# and released to the public at no charge. It works with 64-bit and 32-bit Windows versions including Windows 10. The actual PDF generation is handled by Ghostscript, which is included in the setup packages.\n\nBesides being installed as a virtual printer, PDFCreator can be associated with .ps files to manually convert PostScript to PDF format.\n\nPDFCreator can convert to the following file formats: PDF (including PDF/A (1b and 2b) and PDF/X (X-3:2002, X-3:2003 and X-4)), PNG, JPEG, TIFF, TXT. It also allows to digitally sign PDF documents.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2013 the installation package included a closed-source browser toolbar that was considered by many users to be malicious software. Although technically an optional component, the opt-out procedure used to be a two-step process (prior to version 1.2.3), which was considered by many to be intentionally confusing. In addition to the spyware activity described below, the toolbar allowed one-click creation of PDFs from the current webpage and included a search tool. As of version 1.2.3, the opt-out procedure only required unchecking one checkbox during the installation process.\n\nSince version 0.8.1 RC9 (2005) PDFCreator supports access to its functionality via an ActiveX interface, allowing any COM enabled application to make use of its functionality.\n\nPDFCreator allows the user to disable printing, copying of text or images and modifying the original document. The user can also choose between two types of passwords, user and owner, to restrict PDF files in several ways. The former is required to open the PDF file, while the latter is necessary in order to change permissions and password. Encryption can be either 40-bit, compatible with Adobe Acrobat 3.0 or 4.0, or 128 bits for Acrobat 5.0 or higher.\n\nStarting with version 0.9.6, there is full support for Windows Vista and version 0.9.7 provides support for Windows 7.\nStarting with version 3.0.0, PDFCreator ended support for Windows XP.\n\nStarting with version 0.9.7 (February 2009), PDFCreator included an adware toolbar. The end-user-license agreement for PDFForge Toolbar by Spigot, Inc. (versions prior to 0.9.7 have a different, optional toolbar called \"PDFCreator Toolbar\"), states that the software will:\n\nPdfforge, which created PDFCreator, wrote an FAQ entry regarding the toolbar that stated:\n\nSince that time various versions of PDFCreator have included adware toolbars and other software with the installer, which many virus scanners identify as problematic or undesired software.\n\nIn March 2012 the company announced that the toolbar had been discontinued with version 1.3.0. The company stated:\n\nAs of 23 March 2012, PDFCreator included the MyStart toolbar by Incredibar. On 13 June 2012, PDFCreator once again included another controversial bundled software package, which tests as spyware, called SweetIM. In July 2012 the project disabled reviews and ratings on its sourceforge repository.\n\nOn 30 August 2012, PDFCreator version 1.5.0 was released which included an installer for the \"AVG Security Toolbar.\" There was an option to disable installation of the \"AVG Security Toolbar, but it was not clearly identified. Furthermore, installation of PDFCreator required acceptance of the AVG EULA even when installation of the \"AVG Security Toolbar\" was disabled.\n\nOn 23 October 2012, PDFCreator version 1.5.1 was released which includes an installer for iClaro Search. Compared to previous adware choices, once installed, iClaro cannot be removed using the \"Add/Remove Programs\" option.\n\nOn 14 January 2013, PDFCreator version 1.6.2 was released which includes an installer for Install Entrusted Toolbar. The setup screen for Install Entrusted Toolbar has a single option in black font. The description for \"Express (recommended)\" reads:\nIn October 2013, PDFCreator was stealthily installing more software, including Amazon's Internet Explorer toolbar, without notifying the user.\n\nThe now defunct OpenCD project chose PDFCreator as the best free software package for creating PDF files in Windows.\n\nIn August 2008, \"InfoWorld\" magazine recognized PDFCreator with an Open Source Software Award from the field of more than 50 available open source or free PDF creation applications.\nBoth of these awards predate the inclusion of the contested spyware.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828963", "title": "Cuesta College", "text": "Cuesta College\n\nCuesta College is a public community college in San Luis Obispo County, in the Central Coast region of California.\n\nThe first community college in the San Luis Obispo area was founded in 1916 as a division of San Luis Obispo High School, it lasted until 1919 with the United States involved in World War I. Cal Poly had a junior college division from 1927 to 1932. Miramonte College of Atascadero filled the void as a private institution from 1933 to 1936. The county's second public junior college was formed in 1936 as a part of San Luis Obispo High School District, but ceased operation in June 1959. On April 16, 1963, voters in SLO County agreed to form a community college district, forming the San Luis Obispo County Junior College District. In 1964, a limited evening division began at Camp San Luis Obispo, a California National Guard facility located between San Luis Obispo and Morro Bay. On October 4, 1965, the college was officially named Cuesta College. In 1970, Cuesta broke ground on its current campus west of Camp San Luis Obispo.\n\nLocated on State Route 1, the Cuesta campus is from the beaches of the Pacific Ocean and from San Luis Obispo (SLO). Cuesta College also has a satellite campus, known as 'North County Campus', located in Paso Robles, which is to the northeast of the main campus near San Luis Obispo. Limited course offerings are also available at two other sites within the county operated by Cuesta College, one located at Arroyo Grande High School in Arroyo Grande, and the other located at Nipomo High School in Nipomo.\n\nCuesta College is the only college in the San Luis Obispo County Community College District (or SLOCCCD, part of the California Community College system) and is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges. The district is governed by an elected five-member Board of Trustees.\n\nDr. Jill Stearns, the current president, began her presidency in July 2018 after Dr. Gilbert H. Stork retired. The gymnasium was renamed Gilbert H. Stork Gymansium in his honor in August 2018.\n\nThe college offers 76 Associate's degree programs and 96 certificate programs. A number of Cuesta students transfer to the public California State University and University of California systems, including the nearby Cal Poly SLO campus, as well as private colleges and universities.\n\nIn 2012, Cuesta College's regional accreditor Western Association of Schools and Colleges placed the college on \"show cause\" status, warning the college that its accreditation might not be renewed.\n\nA year later, the college's accreditation was renewed and its status upgraded to \"on warning.\" The Tribune, the local newspaper of San Luis Obispo, described this as the result of a \"years-long struggle to fix several deficiencies identified by the commission <nowiki>[that]</nowiki> came at a cost: lower enrollment, difficulty recruiting applicants and damaged morale.\"\n\nIn February 2014, it was announced that Cuesta's \"on warning\" status was removed, and that the school meets all standards for accreditation.\n\nThe college's athletic teams are known as the Cougars and the school colors are green and white.. The college currently fields seven men’s and nine women’s varsity teams. It competes as a member of the California Community College Athletic Association (CCCAA) in the Western State Conference (WSC) for all sports except wrestling, which competes in the Southern California Wrestling Association (SCWA).\n\n"}
{"id": "1828972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828972", "title": "Novo Brdo", "text": "Novo Brdo\n\nNovo Brdo (Serbian Cyrillic: Ново Брдо), or Novobërda or Artana ( or \"Artanë\"), is a town and municipality located in the Pristina district of Kosovo. As of 2015, it had an estimated population of 9,670 inhabitants.\n\nAfter the 2013 Brussels Agreement, the municipality became part of the Community of Serb Municipalities.\n\nIn Serbian (and also English) \"Novo Brdo\" is used, literally meaning \"New Hill\". The name was derived from the medieval Serbian mining town of Novo Brdo. In Albanian, \"Novobërdë\" is used.\n\nNovo Brdo is an archaeological site. Novo Brdo was mentioned with its present name in historical documents as early as 1326. Previously it was known as \"Novus Mons\" or \"Novamonte\" in Latin and as \"Nyeuberghe\" in Saxon texts. The famous Bulgarian scribe Vladislav the Grammarian was born here.\n\nNovo Brdo was a metropolis at the time, with a huge medieval fortress built on the top of an extinct volcano cone, the remains of which can be visited today, and residential sections sprawling all around. In the outer wall of the fortress a large cross is visible, built into the stones. The castle, or fortress, was thought at one point to have dated back to the time of the Serbian Empire. The population at its height was estimated to exceed 6,720 people. At the first half of 15th century, Serbian Orthodox bishops of Lipljan resided in Novo Brdo. There were mines and smelting furnaces for iron, lead, gold and silver ores. Novo Brdo silver is known by its glam silver (argentum de glama, an alloy of silver with 1/6-1/3 gold). In 1450 the mines of Novo Brdo were producing about 6,000 kg of silver per year.\n\nNovo Brdo was the last Serbian city to remain standing during the first invasion. In 1439 the capital of Smederevo fell and Serbia resisted until finally Novo Brdo fell in 1441. Novo Brdo was by treaty restored to the Serbs in 1443. The fortress (named in Turkish \"Nobırda\") came under siege for forty days by the Ottomans, before capitulating and becoming occupied by the Ottomans on 1 June 1455. This event is described by Konstantin Mihailović from Ostrovica near Novo Brdo, who was taken by the Ottomans along with some 300 other boys to be trained as Janissaries. All of the higher ranking Serbian officials were executed after the castle fell, with the younger men and boys being taken captive to serve in the Ottoman Army, and some 700 young Serbian women and girls being taken to be wives to Ottoman commanders.\n\nBy the early 20th century, Novo Brdo's population dwindled, with most inhabitants moving to the more easily accessible area of Gnjilane. In 1999, with the entry into Kosovo of KFOR and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), the area had a small military outpost occupied by US soldiers, as well as a station of International Police and Kosovo Police.\n\nThere are two lead and zinc mines operating on the territory of Novo Brdo: Kišnica and Novo Brdo.\n\nAccording to the last official census done in 2011, the city of Novo Brdo has a population of 6,729 inhabitants. However, in 2015 report by OSCE, the population of Novo Brdo municipality stands at 9,670 inhabitants, including internally displaced persons. Municipality of Novo Brdo includes town and 31 villages.\n\nThe municipality of Novo Brdo is ethnically mixed, mostly consisting of Kosovo Serbs (60%), Albanians (39%) and other minorities.\n\nThe ethnic composition of the municipality of Novo Brdo, including IDPs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828976", "title": "Arthur Greenslade", "text": "Arthur Greenslade\n\nArthur Greenslade (4 May 1923  – 27 November 2003) was a British conductor and arranger for films and television, as well as for a number of performers. He was most musically active in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nGreenslade was born in Northfleet, Kent. In the 1950s, he was pianist and arranger with the Oscar Rabin Band. He arranged for Jack Jones, Chris Farlowe, Serge Gainsbourg, Genesis, Cat Stevens, Diana Ross, Dusty Springfield, The Bachelors and Kinderjazz. For Shirley Bassey, he arranged \"Goldfinger\" and \"Send in the Clowns\". He has conducted orchestras in the Hollywood Bowl and Carnegie Hall, and was Bassey's musical director. He is also said to have played the piano on The Kinks' first hit, \"You Really Got Me\".\n\nWith Andrew Oldham he wrote \"Headlines\", the B-side of \"Ride On Baby\" (IM 038), by Chris Farlowe, which was released in 1966.\n\nGreenslade also conducted some easy listening recordings. He conducted the orchestra for Rod McKuen's first television special, which aired on NBC in May 1969. He also arranged Ireland's 1973 Eurovision Song Contest entry, \"Do I Dream\", sung by Maxi. He arranged the 1969 hit single \"Je T'Aime ... Moi Non Plus\" by Serge Gainsbourg and Jane Birkin.\n\nGreenslade died in 2003 at the age of 80, in Sydney, Australia.\n"}
{"id": "1828982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828982", "title": "Long-billed starthroat", "text": "Long-billed starthroat\n\nThe long-billed starthroat (\"Heliomaster longirostris\") is a hummingbird that breeds from southern Mexico to Panama, from Colombia south and east to Bolivia and Brazil, and on Trinidad. It is present throughout South and Central America and is an uncommon but widespread species, which appears to be a local or seasonal migrant, although its movements are not well understood.\n\nThis hummingbird inhabits forest, and is usually seen in woodland clearings, but will sometimes visit gardens. The female long-billed starthroat lays two eggs in a small cup nest in a tree.\n\nThe long-billed starthroat is 10.2 cm long and weighs 6.8 g. The black bill is straight and very long, at about 3.5 cm. The male has bronze-green upperparts, a blue crown, white moustachial stripe and reddish throat. The underparts are grey shading to white on the flanks and mid-belly, and the tail is mainly black. The female is similar, but has a green crown and a purple-edged black throat.\n\nLong-billed starthroats feed on nectar, taken from a variety of flowers, and some insects. The song of this species while feeding is a light \"weet\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1828990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828990", "title": "Rand &amp; Holland", "text": "Rand &amp; Holland\n\nRand & Holland is the project for Sydney musician Brett Thompson.\n\nIn 2003 the group released its debut album, \"Tomorrow Will Be Like Today\", on the Sydney-based label Preservation, and it has since been released in Germany on Staubgold.\n\nIn 2007, the band followed up this album with the release \"Caravans\".\n\nhttp://www.discogs.com/artist/Rand+And+Holland\nhttp://www.staubgold.com/en/album/75/tomorrow-will-be-like-today/?PHPSESSID=3bad029de966c43b1facfc08af9fe6e7\n"}
{"id": "1828995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828995", "title": "List of Dischord Records bands", "text": "List of Dischord Records bands\n\nThe following is a list of bands, past and present, who have had recordings released on the Dischord Records label:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828997", "title": "West 47th Street", "text": "West 47th Street\n\nWest 47th Street is a documentary film produced by Lichtenstein Creative Media.\n\n\"West 47th Street\" is an intimate cinéma vérité portrait of four people with serious mental illness as their lives naturally unfold over a three-year period beginning in spring 2001. The characters are all members of Fountain House, a psychiatric rehabilitation programme located on West 47th Street in a part of New York City once known as Hell's Kitchen.\n\nAt times hilarious and at other times tragic, West 47th Street provided an unprecedented window on the lives of people who are often feared and ignored, seldom understood. The film features Fitzroy Fredericks; Zeinab Wali; Nathanial \"Tex\" Gordon; and Frances Olivero. The film highlights the faith and courage with which these four people fight to regain control of their lives. Viewers see them on and off the streets, in and out of the hospital, on and off medication, at home and at work.\n\nThe film was the “Editors’ Choice – Pick of the Night,\" by \"TV Guide\". The Cleveland Film Festival hailed the film as: “The most wrenching moments in the Cleveland International Film Festival belonged not to any scripted plot, but to a special preview of this vérité documentary masterpiece.\" Dennis King at Tulsa World wrote, \"A life-altering cinema experience. Watch it and you'll no longer be able to pass those troubled souls on the street without noticing, without caring, without understanding that attention must be paid.\"\n\n\"West 47th Street\" was winner of \"Best Documentary\" at the Atlanta Film Festival, the \"Audience Award\" at the DC Independent Film Festival, an \"Honorable Mention\" at the Woodstock Film Festival, sold out theatres across the U.S., and internationally from Vancouver to Dublin to South Korea, and aired on the PBS series \"P.O.V.\" \"Newsweek\" called the documentary “must see” and the \"Washington Post\" termed it “remarkable.\"\n\nThe production team included producers Bill Lichtenstein and June Peoples; editor Spiro \"Spike\" Lampros, winner of a 2009 Emmy Award as editor of \"Project Runway\"; Director of Photography Mark Petersson, who shot Barbara Kopple's Academy Award-winning \"American Dreams\"; and Eddie Marritz, who shot the Academy Award-winning \"Maya Lin: A Strong Clear Vision\".\n\n\"West 47th Street\" was the last project of cinema verite pioneer, and Maysles brothers collaborator, Charlotte Zwerin, who served as story editor. Then-New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani appears in the documentary.\n\n\"West 47th Street\" was accompanied by a major 12-month educational outreach campaign, which involved over 100 screenings across the country. The film’s rigorous national outreach campaign included the distribution of $40,000 in mini-grants made available by LCM to local organizations to utilize screenings of the film to focus on issues of concern in their communities. These included screenings at Grand Rounds at Yale Medical School, on Native American reservations in New Mexico, and use of the film as a training tool for outreach staff at homelessness programs in California. There are over 300 clubhouses based on the clubhouse model around the world coordinated by the International Center for Clubhouse Development.\n\nLichtenstein Creative Media also produced the national weekly public radio program \"The Infinite Mind\".\n"}
{"id": "1829006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829006", "title": "National Military Park", "text": "National Military Park\n\nNational Military Park, National Battlefield, National Battlefield Park, and National Battlefield Site are four designations for 25 battle sites preserved by the United States federal government because of their national importance. The designation applies to \"sites where historic battles were fought on American soil during the armed conflicts that shaped the growth and development of the United States...\"\n\nThere are 11 National Battlefields, nine National Military Parks, four National Battlefield Parks, and one National Battlefield Site. The National Park Service does not distinguish among the four designations in terms of their preservation or management policies.\n\nIn 1890, Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park was the first such site created by Congress. Originally these sites were maintained by the War Department, but were transferred to the National Park Service on August 10, 1933. The different designations appear to represent Congressional attitudes at the time of authorization of each individual site, although \"park\" appears to be reserved for the larger sites. Only Brices Cross Roads National Battlefield Site, which is small, still bears that designation; others have since been redesignated. Some battlefields are designated as National Monuments, such as Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument and Fort Pulaski National Monument; National Historical Parks, such as Harpers Ferry National Historical Park and Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park; or National Historic Sites, such as Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site.\n\nAs with all historic areas in the National Park System, these battle sites are automatically listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829007", "title": "HMS Opportune (S20)", "text": "HMS Opportune (S20)\n\nHMS \"Opportune\" (S20) was an \"Oberon\"-class submarine of the Royal Navy. \n\nThe \"Oberon\" class was a direct follow on of the \"Porpoise\"-class, with the same dimensions and external design, but updates to equipment and internal fittings, and a higher grade of steel used for fabrication of the pressure hull.\n\nAs designed for British service, the \"Oberon\"-class submarines were in length between perpendiculars and in length overall, with a beam of , and a draught of . Displacement was 1,610 tons standard, 2,030 tons full load when surfaced, and 2,410 tons full load when submerged. Propulsion machinery consisted of 2 Admiralty Standard Range 16 VMS diesel generators, and two electric motors, each driving a 3-bladed propeller at up to 400 rpm. Top speed was when submerged, and on the surface. Eight diameter torpedo tubes were fitted (six facing forward, two aft), with a total payload of 24 torpedoes. The boats were fitted with Type 186 and Type 187 sonars, and an I-band surface search radar. The standard complement was 68: 6 officers, 62 sailors.\n\n\"Opportune\" was laid down by Scotts Shipbuilding and Engineering Company on 26 October 1962, and launched on 14 February 1964. The boat was commissioned into the Royal Navy on 29 December 1964.\n\n\"Opportune\" attended the 1977 Silver Jubilee Fleet Review off Spithead when she was part of the Submarine Flotilla.\n\n\"Opportune\" was paid off on 2 June 1993. For several years the vessel resided at Pounds scrapyard in Portsmouth.\n"}
{"id": "1829021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829021", "title": "Intelligence Services Amendment Act 2004", "text": "Intelligence Services Amendment Act 2004\n\nThe Intelligence Services Amendment Act 2004 was passed by the Parliament of Australia on 1 April 2004 as an amendment to the Intelligence Services Act 2001 (ISA) to grant controversial new powers to the Australian Secret Intelligence Service. The bill reverses ISA prohibitions on ASIS operatives carrying firearms and allows ASIS to work with foreign intelligence agencies to carry out paramilitary and violent activities provided ASIS is not involved in the execution of the operations.\n\nThe \"Intelligence Services Amendment Bill 2003\" was introduced into Parliament on 15 October 2003 by Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, as an amendment to ISA. The Bill sought to amend ISA to allow ASIS to be involved in the planning and undertaking of paramilitary or violent activities \"by others\", and provide, train with, and use weapons and self-defence techniques \"in certain circumstances\" (that is, where the responsible minister deems the circumstances suitable). The Bill proposed to allow ASIS to work with other organisations (such as the CIA or MI6) in paramilitary operations, provided ASIS staff and agents were not personally involved in carrying them out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829027", "title": "David Wheaton", "text": "David Wheaton\n\nDavid Wheaton (born June 2, 1969) is an author, radio host, and contributing columnist for the Minneapolis Star Tribune. Formerly he was a professional tennis player representing the United States.\n\nBorn in Minneapolis as the youngest of four children, Wheaton married in 2009 and has one son.\n\nWheaton started tennis at age four, played in his first tournament at eight, won the Minnesota State High School tennis title in 1984 as a freshman, trained at the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy for his last two-and-a-half years of high school, played one year at Stanford, and then competed for 13 years on the professional tour.\n\nIn 1987, Wheaton won the US Open junior title and was the No. 1 ranked junior player in the US. In 1988, he helped Stanford University's tennis team win the NCAA team title and received the Block S Award as the most outstanding freshman athlete at Stanford.\n\nWheaton turned professional on July 4, 1988 and won his first top-level singles title in 1990 at the U.S. Clay Court Championships in Kiawah Island, South Carolina. He was also runner-up in the 1990 US Open men's doubles (with Paul Annacone).\n\nThe most significant highlights of his career came in 1991. He won the Grand Slam Cup in Munich, beating Michael Chang in straight sets in the final 7–5, 6–2, 6–4. He also reached the semifinals of singles at Wimbledon (beating Petr Korda, Cédric Pioline, Ivan Lendl, Jan Gunnarsson and Andre Agassi in the quarterfinals before being knocked-out by Boris Becker), and was a men's doubles runner-up at the Australian Open (partnering with his former Stanford teammate Patrick McEnroe). Wheaton reached his career-high singles ranking of world No. 12 in July 1991.\n\nDuring his career, Wheaton won three top-level singles and three doubles titles, representing the US in Davis Cup (v. Australia, 1993) reached the semifinals or better in either singles or doubles of every Grand Slam tournament, and defeated highly ranked players such as Andre Agassi, Jimmy Connors, Ivan Lendl, Stefan Edberg, Jim Courier, and Michael Chang.\n\nHe retired from the professional tour in 2001, following a series of injuries. Since then he has played in some senior tour events, winning the \"Wimbledon Over 35 Doubles\" championship in 2004 (with T.J. Middleton).\n\nIn 2002, Wheaton embarked a new career in radio, writing, and speaking. He is the producer and host of The Christian Worldview, a live talk radio program that airs on 250 stations in the US. He is a tennis columnist for the \"Minneapolis Star-Tribune\" and the author of two books, \"University of Destruction: Your Game Plan for Spiritual Victory on Campus\" (Bethany House, 2005) and \"My Boy, Ben—A Story of Love, Loss and Grace\" (Tristan Publishing, 2014).\n\nWheaton serves on the board of The Overcomer Foundation, a non-profit organization that directs his radio ministry. He also served on the board of directors of the United States Tennis Association (USTA) from 2003-2006. He is a member of the Intercollegiate Tennis Hall of Fame (class of 2012) and the USTA Northern Section Hall of Fame (class of 2005). Wheaton received the Eugene L. Scott Renaissance Award in 2011—an award presented to a national/international tennis champion who demonstrates excellence in promoting and developing the sport of tennis in public parks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829034", "title": "Biwako Broadcasting", "text": "Biwako Broadcasting\n\nIt is a member of the Japanese Association of Independent Television Stations (JAITS).\nPopular name Independent UHF Station (UHF).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829061", "title": "Lucie Silvas", "text": "Lucie Silvas\n\nLucie Silvas (born Lucie Joanne Silverman, 4 September 1977) is a British singer-songwriter.\n\nBorn in Kingston upon Thames, England, her father is from New Zealand and is of Jewish descent; and her mother is Scottish and is Christian. Silvas has two sisters, Mia (who has performed backing vocals for her), and Nikki. Her parents were also big music lovers and Silvas has stated this inspired her career, besides the fact that her mother was an opera singer and wanted to pursue a career in music herself.\n\nSilvas learned to play piano at the age of 5, and had written her first song by age 10. She relocated many times between her parents' native countries as well as England. Her family moved to Thames Ditton, Surrey, England, when she was 13. She entered a Jewish Care Young Performer competition and came third when she was 14. She attended Surbiton High School for Girls and left at 16 before going to Brooklands College, in Weybridge, Surrey.\n\nAfter leaving college at the age of 18, Silvas became a backing singer for Judie Tzuke, who helped her write much of her first album, entitled \"Breathe In\".\n\nIn 2000, Silvas signed to EMI Records. In June 2000, she released her debut single, \"It's Too Late\", which peaked at No. 62 in the UK Singles Chart. An album, entitled \"Forget Me Not\", was also planned for release but EMI terminated her contract after the poor reception of the single.\n\nIn 2001, Chrysalis Records (an EMI subsidiary) contacted her, this time for songwriting. She signed a publishing contract and, despite being without a record label to release her music, she continued writing and had songs recorded and released by British artists including Sarah Whatmore, Will Young, Gareth Gates, Rachel Stevens and Liberty X. Several of Silvas' songs for other artists have become chart hits.\n\nIn 2003, Silvas recorded a duet with the Spanish singer Natalia called \"This Time\", and in 2004 she also wrote the first single off Natalia's third album, entitled \"Sombras\" (Shadows). The same year, Silvas also wrote \"I'm Not Your Girlfriend\" for the Spanish singer Cristie.\n\nIn 2003, Silvas signed a recording contract of her own with Mercury Records. She recorded her second album, \"Breathe In\", which was to become her official debut album in October 2004. Produced by Mike Peden, much of \"Breathe In\" was co-written with Judie Tzuke, for whom Silvas sang backing vocals for many years. BBC Radio 2 commissioned a radio show to track Silvas' development in the music industry, supporting her career, and adding her tracks to their playlist. The first single from the album, \"What You're Made of\", entered the official UK charts at number 7, and the following week the album debuted and peaked at number 11 (returning to this position in early 2005). Following TV appearances on the Ivor Novello Elton John tribute show, and \"All Time Greatest Love Songs\" with Ronan Keating, Silvas released her second single from the album, \"Breathe In\", which debuted at number 6, her highest UK chart peak to date. Silvas then released further singles; \"The Game Is Won\" and \"Don't Look Back\" which peaked at numbers 38 and 34 respectively.\n\nFollowing the release of the \"Breathe In\" single in Britain, Silvas took her music to Europe, including Germany and the Netherlands, where she released a special Europe-only single, \"Nothing Else Matters\", a cover of the Metallica song. The \"Breathe In\" album was also re-released in the Netherlands as a special 2-disc edition, featuring a full live concert recorded there. She also re-recorded \"What You're Made Of\" for the Spanish and French markets, working with Antonio Orozco and Grégory Lemarchal respectively. A special re-recorded version of the song, featuring the Metropole Orchestra, was released as the fourth and final single from the album in the Netherlands.\n\nWith \"Breathe In\" certified Platinum in the UK, Silvas embarked on her second UK tour starting in Brighton on 2 November 2005.\n\nSilvas's second album, \"The Same Side\", was recorded in 2006. Produced by Danton Supple (who had produced Coldplay's \"X&Y\" album), it was released first in the Netherlands in October 2006. A duet with Marco Borsato, \"Everytime I Think of You\", was released as the first single in the Netherlands, charting at No. 35 on downloads only, and topping the Dutch Top 40 in the next 3 weeks, becoming her first Number 1 single. A DVD of \"The Same Side\" has also been released in the Netherlands.\n\n\"Last Year\" was the first single from the album in the UK and Ireland, premiering on BBC Radio 2 in late August 2006, though it failed to chart. Following this setback, Mercury Records decided to postpone the UK release of the album, which had been scheduled for October 2006. A second single, \"Sinking In\", was released as a download only single on 5 March 2007 in the United Kingdom and Ireland, though this too failed to chart. The album was finally released in the UK on 12 March 2007, charting at No. 62 on the UK Albums Chart in its first week before falling out of the Top 100 the following week.\n\nAfter \"The Same Side\" failed to impact on the charts, Silvas was subsequently dropped by her label. She has spent time working on new music in Nashville, Tennessee and New York City, as well as in studios in the UK. Several demos have been recorded and posted to various sites on the internet such as Silvas' official Myspace page. In August 2009, Silvas revealed that she was writing with Australian singer Delta Goodrem, and has also co-written tracks for Katharine McPhee's album \"Unbroken\". In September 2009, Silvas also told fans on Twitter she was working on getting new material out in 2010 and was also planning a European tour. In February 2010, Silvas spent some time in the studio with Nadine Coyle of Girls Aloud.\n\nIn February 2011, Silvas revealed content from her then-forthcoming album, \"Letters to Ghosts\". Tracks including \"Happy\", \"Reset\", \"Smoke (Somebody Stop Me)\" and \"Roots\" – the last of which was offered as a free download prior to the album's release through SoundCloud in April 2011. She has also supported Jamiroquai on their 2011 tour. On 8 June 2011, Silvas then posted that she had finished recording her album.\n\nIn July 2011, Silvas worked on some new songs with Una Healy of The Saturdays on a song called \"Last Call\", written by Silvas, Healy and Chris Holmes that featured on The Saturdays' album \"On Your Radar\".\n\nIn early 2013 Silvas wrote songs for NBC's musical drama, \"Smash\". Her songs, including \"Heart Shaped Wreckage\", \"Pretender\", \"Don't Let Me Know\" and \"Calling Out My Name\", appear in \"Hit List\", a staged concert based on the fictional musical created for that show's second season.\n\nIn 2014 Silvas sang \"Little Civil Wars\", a duet with Dave Barnes, on his Golden Days project.\n\nOn 3 February 2015, Lucie released her self-titled EP in the US and Canada, just before its release in Europe. Produced by Silvas, John Osborne and Ian Fitchuk, the new album is released on Silvas' own label, \"Furthestpoint\", via Caroline records.\n\n\"Letters to Ghosts\" was officially released on 18 September 2015. Silvas co-wrote the song \"Smoking Jacket\" and provides backing vocals for Miranda Lambert on her 2016 album, \"The Weight of These Wings\".\n\nSilvas performed at the O2 Arena in March 2017 as part of the festival and debuted two new songs, \"Just for the Record\" and \"My Old Habits\", before revealing that new music would be released in 2018.\n\nOn 31 May 2018, Silvas announced her fourth studio album, \"E.G.O.\", and released the lead single, \"Kite\", the same day. The album was released on 24 August 2018.\n\nIn 2015, Silvas married John Osborne, of the country duo Brothers Osborne.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829066", "title": "Robert Burnham", "text": "Robert Burnham\n\nRobert Burnham may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1829073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829073", "title": "Beaconsfield (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Beaconsfield (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBeaconsfield is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Joy Morrissey of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1974, mostly from the former seat of South Buckinghamshire, since which date the area has formed the southernmost part of Buckinghamshire — before 1974 the notable settlements of Slough and Eton, and less well-known Langley, Wraysbury, Sunnymeads and Datchet were in the county. This leads to the unusual shape of the constituency, further accentuated in irregularity by the Thames meander containing Cookham, Berkshire to the west and southwest.\n\nBeaconsfield is estimated to have voted 51% remain in the 2016 referendum on the UK's membership of the EU. Although estimates of the constituency results have not been confirmed, the official UK Electoral Commission EU referendum results detail the area of South Buckinghamshire, which contains the Beaconsfield constituency, as voting to leave the EU with a percentage of 50.7%.\n\nThe incumbent's win in 2010, Dominic Grieve, with 61.1% of the vote, was the second highest share of the vote in the general election for a Conservative candidate after William Hague in Richmond, North Yorkshire.\n\nIn the 1982 Beaconsfield by-election caused by the death of Sir Ronald Bell, the third-placed candidate was Tony Blair for the Labour Party. Tim Smith was the first and only person ever to have beaten Blair in an election and won; Paul Tyler was in second place. Tyler later became an MP for North Cornwall, meaning that, most unusually, the three main-party candidates subsequently served in the House of Commons at the same time.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of Beaconsfield, the Rural District of Eton, and the parishes of Hedsor and Wooburn in the Rural District of Wycombe.\n\nThe constituency was formed largely from southern parts of the abolished County Constituency of South Buckinghamshire (Beaconsfield and the Rural District of Eton).  The parishes of Hedsor and Wooburn were transferred from the County Constituency of Wycombe.\n\n1983–1997: The District of South Bucks, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bourne End-cum-Hedsor, Flackwell Heath, Loudwater, The Wooburns, and Tylers Green.\n\nGained areas to the east of High Wycombe (former parish of Chepping Wycombe) from Wycombe.  The parts of the former Rural District of Eton, including Datchet, which had been transferred from Buckinghamshire to Berkshire by the Local Government Act 1972 were included in the new County Constituency of East Berkshire.\n\n1997–2010: The District of South Bucks, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bourne End-cum-Hedsor, Flackwell Heath, Little Marlow, Loudwater, The Wooburns, and Tylers Green.\n\nMinor change (transfer of Little Marlow from Wycombe).\n\n2010–present: The District of South Bucks, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bourne End-cum-Hedsor, Flackwell Heath and Little Marlow, Marlow North and West, Marlow South East, and The Wooburns.\n\nMarlow transferred from Wycombe.\n\nThe seat consists of Beaconsfield, most of Burnham (including Burnham Beeches forest), Denham, Dorney, Farnham Common, Farnham Royal, Fulmer, Gerrards Cross, Hedgerley, Iver, Stoke Poges, Taplow and Wexham (excluding Wexham Court); Hedsor, Little Marlow, Marlow, Wooburn and Bourne End and the Flackwell Heath settlement of Chepping Wycombe.\n\n<section begin=\"By-election 1982\"/>\n\n<section end=\"By-election 1982\"/>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829074", "title": "Lancelot-Grail", "text": "Lancelot-Grail\n\nThe Lancelot–Grail, also known as the Vulgate Cycle or Pseudo-Map Cycle, is an early 13th-century literary cycle consisting of interconnected prose episodes of chivalric romance in Old French. A lengthy source of Arthurian legend, the cycle focuses on the love affair between Lancelot and Guinevere as well as the quest for the Holy Grail, expanding on the works of Robert de Boron and Chrétien de Troyes. After its completion around 1230–1235, the Lancelot–Grail was soon followed by its major rewrite known as the Post-Vulgate Cycle.\n\nThe Lancelot-Grail cycle emphasizes Christian themes in the King Arthur tradition, in particular through its expansion of the quest for the Holy Grail. Like Robert de Boron's original poem \"Merlin\" (c. 1195-1210), it claims that it is derived from a book titled the \"Livre dou Graal which\" was supposedly dictated by Merlin to his scribe .\n\nThe cycle's actual authorship is unknown, but most scholars today believe it was written by multiple authors. There might have been either a single master-mind planner, the so-called \"architect\", who may have written the main section (\"Lancelot Proper\"), and then oversaw the work of multiple other anonymous scribes. One theory identified the \"architect\" as French queen Eleanor of Aquitaine who would had set up the project already in 1194. Alternately, each part may have been composed separately, arranged gradually, and rewritten for consistency and cohesiveness.\n\nWelsh writer Gautier (Walter) Map (c. 1140-1209) is attributed to be the author, as can be seen in the notes and illustrations in some manuscripts describing his supposed discovery of an archive at Salisbury and his translation of these documents from Latin to Old French as ordered by Henry II of England. This claim has been discounted, however, as Map died too early to be the author and the work is distinctly continental. Today it is believed by some (such as editors of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\") that a group of anonymous Catholic monks wrote the cycle or at least the \"Queste\" part, as evident by its very Cistercian spirit (with Augustinian intrusions). Others doubt this, however, and a compromise theory postulates a more secular writer who had spent some time in a Cistercian monastery.\n\nThe Lancelot-Grail can be divided into three main units (some categorizations have either the \"Mort\" or both the \"Queste\" and the \"Mort\" regarded as separate sections independent of the \"Lancelot\" for the total of five branches). The last one (or the last three in the other system) was actually the first to be written (beginning c. 1210-1215). The first two, serving as prequels, joined them later (before c. 1235).\n\n\n\"Lancelot Proper\" is regarded to be the first part ever written, c. 1215–1220, perhaps originally as a non-cyclic, independent romance that was to begin with Lancelot's birth and finish with a happy end of him discovering his identity and receiving his first kiss of Guinevere when he confesses his love for her. Elspeth Kennedy identified it in an early manuscript BNF fr. 768 which is about three times shorter than other editions and corresponds with the first part before the \"Charrette\"; the Grail Quest is actually mentioned in it as having been already completed by Percival.\n\nAs the stories of the cycle were immensely popular in the medieval France and neighboring countries between the beginning of the 13th and the beginning of the 16th century, they survived in some two hundred complete manuscripts in various forms. The Lancelot-Graal Project website lists (and links to the scans of many of them) close to 150 manuscripts in French, some fragmentary, others, such as British Library Additional MS 10292–4, containing the entire cycle. Besides the British Library, scans of various manuscripts can be seen online through digital library websites of the Bibliothèque Nationale de France's Gallica (including these from the Bibliothèque de l'Arsenal) and the University of Oxford's Digital Bodleian; many illustrations can be also found at the IRHT's Initiale project. The earliest copies are of French origin and date from 1220–1230.\n\nNumerous copies were produced in French throughout the remainder of the 13th, 14th and well into the 15th centuries in France, England and Italy, as well as translations into other European languages. Some of the manuscripts are richly illuminated: British Library Royal MS 14 E III, produced in Northern France in the early 14th century and once owned by King Charles V of France, contains over 100 miniatures with gilding throughout and decorated borders at the beginning of each section. Other manuscripts were made for less wealthy owners and contain very little or no decoration, for example British Library MS Royal 19 B VII, produced in England, also in the early 14th century, with initials in red and blue marking sections in the text and larger decorated initials at chapter-breaks.\n\nHowever, very few copies of the entire Lancelot-Grail Cycle survive. Perhaps because it was so vast, copies were made of parts of the legend which may have suited the tastes of certain patrons, with popular combinations containing either only the tales of Merlin or Lancelot. For instance, British Library Royal 14 E III contains the sections which deal with the Grail and religious themes, omitting the middle section, which relates Lancelot's chivalric exploits.\n\nThe Vulgate Cycle was soon afterwards subject to a major revision, done by probably the Cistercian scribes during the 1230s, in which much was left out and much added. In the resulting, far shorter Post-Vulgate Cycle, also known as the \"Roman du Graal\", Lancelot no longer is the main character. The Post-Vulgate omits almost all of the \"Lancelot Proper\" section, and consequently most of Lancelot and Guinevere's content, instead focusing on the Grail Quest. It also includes characters and scenes from the Prose \"Tristan\" (which itself had partially incorporated the Lancelot-Grail by copying parts of it). This version of the Arthurian legend was one of the most important sources of Thomas Malory's for his seminal compilation \"Le Morte d'Arthur\".\n\nH. Oskar Sommer published the entire original French text of the Vulgate Cycle in seven volumes in the years 1908–1916. The base text used was the British Library Additional mss. 10292–10294. It is however not a critical edition, but a composite text, where variant readings from alternate manuscripts are unreliably demarcated using square brackets.\n\nSommer's has been the only complete cycle published, but a new Pleiadés series edition is planned (as of 2013).\n\nPenguin Classics published a translation into English by Pauline Matarasso of the \"Queste\" in 1969, followed in 1971 with a translation by James Cable of the \"Mort Artu\".\n\nThe first full English translations of the Vulgate and Post-Vulgate cycles were overseen by Norris J. Lacy. Volumes 1–4 contain the Vulgate Cycle proper.\n\nA modern French translation of the Vulgate Cycle in three volumes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829086", "title": "Bracknell (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bracknell (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBracknell is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. It was created for the 1997 general election, replacing the abolished county constituency of East Berkshire.\n\nFrom creation in 1997 until 2010, Bracknell's MP was Andrew MacKay of the Conservative Party, who represented the old seat of East Berkshire from 1983. On 14 May 2009, he resigned from his position as parliamentary aide to David Cameron in the wake of a major scandal over his Parliamentary expenses. MacKay and his wife, fellow Tory MP Julie Kirkbride, had wrongfully claimed over £250,000 from the taxpayer for mortgage payments for second homes, in a case of so-called 'double-dipping'. They also wrongfully claimed for each other's travel costs. At a hastily called meeting with his constituents in Bracknell to explain the \"unacceptable\" expenses claims, Mr MacKay was jeered and called a \"thieving toad\". A video of the angry meeting was leaked to the press and, after an urgent phone call from David Cameron the next day, MacKay agreed to stand down at the 2010 general election. The Conservative Party chose Phillip Lee, a general practitioner, as its new candidate in an American-style open primary, involving seven candidates including Rory Stewart and Iain Dale in a contest open to all registered Bracknell voters.\nLee went on to become the next MP in an election which saw the share of the vote for the Labour Party fall by 11.1%. The Liberal Democrats saw the biggest rise in support of all the parties (+4.5%), overtaking Labour to gain second place behind the Conservative Party. UKIP saw a slight rise in support to 4.4% of the vote. The 2010 election also saw for the first time the Green Party and British National Party vying for the seat.\n\nLee held his seat at the 2017 general election. He gained 3.1% of votes, but Labour increased its share by 13.3%. Lee received 32,882 votes, Paul Bidwell (Labour) in second place had 16,866 votes.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Bracknell Forest wards of Binfield, Bullbrook, Central Sandhurst, College Town, Crowthorne, Garth, Great Hollands North, Great Hollands South, Hanworth, Harmanswater, Little Sandhurst, Old Bracknell, Owlsmoor, Priestwood, Warfield, and Wildridings, and the District of Wokingham wards of Finchampstead North, Finchampstead South, and Wokingham Without.\n\nThe Borough of Bracknell wards had formed the majority of the abolished County Constituency of East Berkshire. The two Finchampstead wards were transferred from Reading East, and the ward of Wokingham Without was transferred from Wokingham.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Bracknell Forest wards of Bullbrook, Central Sandhurst, College Town, Crown Wood, Crowthorne, Great Hollands North, Great Hollands South, Hanworth, Harmanswater, Little Sandhurst and Wellington, Old Bracknell, Owlsmoor, Priestwood and Garth, and Wildridings and Central, and the District of Wokingham wards of Finchampstead North, Finchampstead South, and Wokingham Without.\n\nNorthern parts, including Binfield, were transferred to Windsor.\n\nBracknell is based around the town of Bracknell and the Bracknell Forest authority. It is bordered by the constituencies of Wokingham, Maidenhead, Windsor, Surrey Heath, Aldershot, and North East Hampshire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829091", "title": "Buckingham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Buckingham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBuckingham () is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Greg Smith, a Conservative.\n\nThe Parliamentary Borough of Buckingham sent two MPs to the House of Commons after its creation in 1542. That was reduced to one MP by the Representation of the People Act 1867. The Borough was abolished altogether by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, and it was transformed into a large county division, formally named the North or Buckingham Division of Buckinghamshire. It was one of three divisions formed from the undivided three-member Parliamentary County of Buckinghamshire, the other two being the Mid or Aylesbury Division and the Southern or Wycombe Division.\n\nIn the twentieth century, the constituency was held by the Conservative Party for most of the time. However, Aidan Crawley, a Labour Party MP, served Buckingham from 1945 until 1951, and from 1964 until 1970, its Labour MP was the controversial publisher Robert Maxwell.\n\nBefore the periodic review effected in 1983, the new town of Milton Keynes, including its older parts such as Bletchley and Fenny Stratford, was in the constituency. The 1983 review followed the previous national review in 1974 and recognised the large increase in voters in the constituency. The sitting Buckingham MP, William Benyon, stood for the newly-created Milton Keynes constituency, where he was elected. The residual seat was won in 1983 by Conservative George Walden. Walden retired in 1997, and John Bercow won the following general elections in 2001, 2005, 2010, 2015 and 2017. At the 2005 general election, this constituency had the Conservatives' highest numerical majority, although a higher share of the vote was achieved in Kensington and Chelsea in London, the constituency of Malcolm Rifkind, and Richmond in North Yorkshire, the constituency of William Hague.\n\nIn 2009, Bercow was elected as Speaker of the House of Commons following the resignation of Michael Martin. There is an inconsistently followed convention, which is mostly kept by the major parties, not to oppose a Speaker at election. Nonetheless, UKIP's leader, Nigel Farage, stood against Bercow in the 2010 election but finished third behind the Buckinghamshire Campaign for Democracy founder, who previously founded the Pro-Euro Conservative Party.\n\nIn both the 2015 and 2017 general elections, Bercow was challenged by only UKIP and the Green Party, with the addition of the independent candidate Scott Raven in the latter election. In September 2019 the Conservative Party announced their intention to stand a candidate against Bercow in the next election, breaking the convention of major parties not opposing a Speaker, seemingly in response to Bercow's opposition to Prime Minister Boris Johnson's handling of Brexit. However, Bercow announced in September 2019 that he would stand down as Speaker on either October 31st or at the next election, whichever occurred first.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Buckingham, the Sessional Divisions of Ashendon, Buckingham, Newport, and Stony Stratford, and part of the Sessional Division of Winslow.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Borough of Buckingham, the Urban Districts of Bletchley, Linslade, and Newport Pagnell, the Rural Districts of Buckingham, Newport Pagnell, Stratford and Wolverton, Wing, and Winslow, and parts of the Rural Districts of Aylesbury and Long Crendon.\n\nGained Linslade and the Rural District of Wing from Aylesbury.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Buckingham, the Urban Districts of Bletchley, Linslade, Newport Pagnell, and Wolverton, and the Rural Districts of Buckingham, Newport Pagnell, Wing, and Winslow.\n\nThe parts of the Rural District of Aylesbury and the (former) Rural District of Long Crendon were transferred to the County Constituency of Aylesbury.  Other minor changes.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of Buckingham, the Urban Districts of Bletchley, Newport Pagnell, and Wolverton, and the Rural Districts of Buckingham, Newport Pagnell, Wing, and Winslow.\n\nLost Linslade to the County Constituency of South Bedfordshire.  This Urban District of Linslade had been merged with that of Leighton Buzzard to form the Urban District of Leighton-Linslade, which was included in the Administrative County of Bedfordshire.\n\n1983–1992: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Bierton, Brill, Buckingham North, Buckingham South, Cheddington, Eddlesborough, Great Brickhill, Great Horwood, Grendon Underwood, Haddenham, Hogshaw, Long Crendon, Luffield Abbey, Marsh Gibbon, Newton Longville, Oakley, Pitstone, Quainton, Steeple Claydon, Stewkley, Stone, Tingewick, Waddesdon, Wing, Wingrave, and Winslow, and the Borough of Milton Keynes wards of Stony Stratford, Wolverton, and Wolverton Stacey Bushes.\n\nRural areas to the north and west of the town of Aylesbury transferred from the County Constituency thereof.  The area comprising the new District of Milton Keynes, except for Stony Stratford and Wolverton, formed the new County Constituency of Milton Keynes.\n\n1992–1997: For the 1992 general election, outside the normal cycle of periodic reviews by the Boundaries Commission, the Milton Keynes constituency was split in two, with Stony Stratford and Wolverton being included in the new Borough Constituency of Milton Keynes South West. No further changes.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Aston Clinton, Bierton, Brill, Buckingham North, Buckingham South, Cheddington, Eddlesborough, Great Brickhill, Great Horwood, Grendon Underwood, Haddenham, Hogshaw, Long Crendon, Luffield Abbey, Marsh Gibbon, Newton Longville, Oakley, Pitstone, Quainton, Steeple Claydon, Stewkley, Stone, Tingewick, Waddesdon, Wing, Wingrave, and Winslow.\n\nThe Aston Clinton ward was transferred from Aylesbury.\n\n2010–present: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Buckingham North, Buckingham South, Eddlesborough, Gatehouse, Great Brickhill & Newton Longville, Great Horwood, Grendon Underwood & Brill, Haddenham & Stone, Long Crendon, Luffield Abbey, Marsh Gibbon, Oakfield & Bierton, Oakley, Pitstone & Cheddington, Quainton, Steeple Claydon, Stewkley, Tingewick, Waddesdon, Watermead, Weedon, Wing, Wingrave, and Winslow, and the District of Wycombe wards of Icknield and The Risboroughs.\n\nPrinces Risborough transferred from Aylesbury, offset by the return of Aston Clinton.\n\nThe constituency takes up a large part of central Buckinghamshire, covering much of the Aylesbury Vale district including the town of Buckingham, and south of it,\nparts of Wycombe, which includes Chequers, the official country residence of the Prime Minister since 1921. To the north, the remaining part of ceremonial Buckinghamshire forms two Borough of Milton Keynes constituencies (Milton Keynes South and Milton Keynes North).\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829095", "title": "Peter Chin", "text": "Peter Chin\n\nPeter Wing Ho Chin, CNZM () (born 1941) is a lawyer and was the 56th Mayor of Dunedin, New Zealand. He served two terms as Mayor from 2004 to 2010.\n\nChin is a descendant of the earliest Chinese immigrants to New Zealand, and his family owned a take-away establishment in Stuart Street.\n\nIn the 1950s Chin was a student at Otago Boys' High School and then the University of Otago, graduating LLB. He has worked in Dunedin as a lawyer since 1968, and is currently a consultant for the Otago law firm Webb Farry. First elected in 1995 to the Dunedin City Council, representing the Hills Ward, he served three terms before becoming mayor in 2004, replacing Sukhi Turner who was retiring as mayor. He was re-elected in October 2007 with an absolute majority.\n\nChin serves as the head of the Gambling Commission, the government-appointed panel that regulates casinos. In the 2003 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to local-body and community affairs.\n\nHe is the chair of the national Chinese Poll Tax Heritage Trust, which was set up with government funding in 2004. The trust aims to raise awareness of the early Chinese community in New Zealand and its history, language and culture.\n\nChin played a minor part in the 1987 film \"Illustrious Energy\", a historic drama based on the experiences of Chinese gold miners in Central Otago.\n\nChin is a strong supporter of the controversial Forsyth Barr Stadium, over which questions have been raised over the cost and source of funding. This support almost certainly cost him the election. In the course of examining funding options he sent a confidential letter to the Government asking for money without full Council approval, and was on a committee of three that later censured Councillor Teresa Stevenson for leaking the letter to the \"Otago Daily Times\". Chin chaired the Chinese Gardens Trust which built the Dunedin Chinese Garden, using $3.75 million of New Zealand taxpayers' and $1 million of Dunedin ratepayers' money. The Gardens were constructed in an authentic manner, using almost a thousand tonnes of rocks imported from Lake Tai, China. son,\n\nDuring the 2010 Dunedin mayoral election, Peter Chin was defeated by Greater Dunedin candidate and Dunedin City Council councillor Dave Cull. He was one of the twelve members of the Constitutional Advisory Panel, which sought public input on a written constitution for New Zealand, since 2011.\n\nChin has been married to Noleen since 1964 with whom he had 4 children. he lives in Roslyn and is a prominent operatic singer. Chin suffered a heart attack on New Year's eve, 2014 whilst on a plane from Dunedin to Wellington to visit his son. He had a triple bypass and later recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829097", "title": "Chesham and Amersham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Chesham and Amersham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nChesham and Amersham () is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1992 by Cheryl Gillan, a Conservative.\n\nFormed as a new county constituency for the February 1974 general election, comprising the southern part of the Rural District of Amersham, including Amersham and the Chalfonts, previously part of the abolished constituency of South Buckinghamshire, and Chesham and the northern part of the Rural District of Amersham, transferred from Aylesbury.\n\nGeneral elections have seen a Conservative winning margin of between 10,416 and 22,220 votes since the seat's creation.\n\nIn every election except two, Liberals, or subsequently Liberal Democrats, have come second with results as high as 31.15% of the votes cast.\n\nLabour have only come second twice, never achieving higher than 20.6%.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 55% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum in the constituency voted to remain in the European Union. The estimated turnout of 83.6% was highest turnout of any constituency in the UK, the only higher turnout in the referendum being Gibraltar. In the 2019 EU Parliament elections, over 50% voted for parties supporting continued UK membership of the EU on a turnout of 42.8%. The pro-EU Liberal Democrats were the most popular party with 31.9%, with the pro-Leave Brexit Party in second place with 30%. Despite the seat's Remain-stance, its pro-Brexit MP, Dame Cheryl Gillan, has been re-elected with over half the vote in both the General Elections since the Referendum, albeit with a reduced majority.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of Chesham, and the Rural District of Amersham.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Chiltern wards of Amersham Common, Amersham-on-the-Hill, Amersham Town, Asheridge Vale, Ashley Green and Latimer, Austenwood, Chalfont Common, Chalfont St Giles, Chalfont St Peter Central, Chartridge, Chenies, Chesham Bois and Weedon Hill, Cholesbury and The Lee, Coleshill and Penn Street, Gold Hill, Hilltop, Holmer Green, Little Chalfont, Little Missenden, Lowndes, Newtown, Penn, Pond Park, St Mary's, Seer Green and Jordans, Townsend, and Waterside, and the District of Wycombe wards of Hazlemere North and Hazlemere South.\n\nHazlemere transferred from Wycombe.  Great Missenden transferred to Aylesbury.\n\n1997–2010: All the wards of the District of Chiltern except the wards of Ballinger and South Heath, Great Missenden, and Prestwood and Heath End, and the District of Wycombe wards of Hazlemere Central, Hazlemere East and Hazlemere West.\n\nMinor changes.\n\n2010–present: The District of Chiltern wards of Amersham Common, Amersham-on-the-Hill, Amersham Town, Asheridge Vale and Lowndes, Ashley Green, Latimer and Chenies, Austenwood, Ballinger, South Heath and Chartridge, Central, Chalfont Common, Chalfont St Giles, Chesham Bois and Weedon Hill, Cholesbury, The Lee and Bellingdon, Gold Hill, Great Missenden, Hilltop and Townsend, Holmer Green, Little Chalfont, Little Missenden, Newtown, Penn and Coleshill, Prestwood and Heath End, Ridgeway, St Mary's and Waterside, Seer Green, and Vale.\n\nGreat Missenden transferred back from Aylesbury and Hazlemere returned to Wycombe.\n\nThe constituency is in Buckinghamshire and coincides with the Chiltern Local Government District. It includes the towns of Chesham and Amersham and outlying rural village settlements within the Metropolitan Green Belt and partly also within the Chilterns AONB. The area is connected with central London by the Metropolitan line of London Underground and the London to Aylesbury Line operated by Chiltern Railways. The constituency is also close to the M40 motorway and is one the Conservatives' safest seats, home to many affluent professionals and commuters to London.\n\nThe current Member of Parliament for Chesham and Amersham is the Conservative Cheryl Gillan. She has been in this position since 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829098", "title": "Sydney Twelve", "text": "Sydney Twelve\n\nThe Sydney Twelve were members of the Industrial Workers of the World arrested on 23 September 1916 in Sydney, Australia, and charged with treason under the \"Crimes Act 1900\" (NSW) which incorporated the \"Treason Felony Act\" 1848 (Imp). They were John Hamilton, Peter Larkin, Joseph Fagin, William Teen, Donald Grant, Benjamin King, Thomas Glynn, Donald McPherson, Thomas Moore, Charles Reeve, William Beattie, and Bob Besant. The treason charges were dropped prior to trial and replaced with three conspiracy charges: (1) conspiracy to commit arson (2) conspiracy to procure the release of Tom Barker from gaol by unlawful means and (3) conspiracy to excite sedition.\n\nSome within the Australian labour movement claimed the men were framed for their strong anti-war views and their opposition to conscription during the First World War. Former Labor Prime Minister (and later Nationalist) Billy Hughes forced through the Unlawful Associations Act (1916) through Federal Parliament in five days during December 1916, then had the IWW declared an unlawful association.\n\nThe case against the Twelve was assisted by the Government hysteria against the IWW. This was typified in the Tottenham murder case involving three members of the IWW and the murder of a policeman at Tottenham, New South Wales, on 26 September 1916. The prosecution made every effort to connect the murder with the charges against the Sydney IWW men. Frank Franz Roland Nicholas Kennedy were found guilty and executed on 20 December 1916 at Bathurst Gaol, the first executions in New South Wales after a decade. Herbert Kennedy was acquitted.\n\nThe case was tried in the Central Criminal Court before Justice Robert Pring and a jury. The jury found Glynn, McPherson, Teen, Beattie, Fagin, Grant and Hamilton guilty of all three charges while Reeve, Larkin, Besant and Moore guilty of the arson and sedition conspiracies and King was guilty of the sedition conspiracy. Justice Pring handed down sentences of fifteen years to Hilton, Beatty, Fagin, Grant, Teen, Glynn and McPherson; ten years to Moore, Besant, Larkin and Reeve; and five years to King. Grant remarked after his sentence was passed: \"Fifteen years for fifteen words\". The actual words which were quoted in his trial were: \"For every day that Tom Barker is in gaol it will cost the capitalist class £10,000.\" The twelve lodged appeals against their convictions, however these met with limited success - the Court of Criminal Appeal quashed the convictions of Glynn and McPherson for the Barker conspiracy and reduced their sentences to ten years - however the majority of the convictions and sentences were confirmed.\n\nThere was an active campaign for the release of the Sydney Twelve and other IWW members held in prison. The Defence and Release Committee was established at the behest of Henry Boote, Editor of the Australian Workers' Union weekly paper, \"The Worker\", and of Ernie Judd, delegate from the Municipal Workers Union on Labor Council of New South Wales. Supporters included Percy Brookfield, the member for Sturt (Broken Hill) in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, and the poet Lesbia Harford. Unions such as the Ship Painters and Dockers Union were active in the campaign.\n\nThe Labor Council of New South Wales commissioned a report into the case in 1918, and an enquiry into the case was also conducted by Justice Philip Street. Both the trade union report and the judicial report found problems with the case, for example the chief witness, Scully, had concocted evidence which he gave at the trial.\n\nAfter the Storey Labor Government was elected in New South Wales on 20 March 1920, Justice Norman Ewing was appointed to inquire into the trial and sentencing. The judge found that Grant, Beattie, Larkin and Glynn may have been involved in conspiracy of a seditious nature, but recommended that they be released. Six of the men, the judge found, were not \"justly or rightly\" convicted of sedition: Teen, Hamilton, McPherson, Moore, Besant and Fagin. King was considered rightly convicted of sedition, but recommended for immediate release. Reeve was found to have been rightly convicted of arson. However the judge also rejected any suggestion that the men had been framed. Ten of the men were released in August 1920, and King and Reeve slightly later.\n\nThe folksinger Andy Irvine composed a song memorialising the Sydney Twelve, called \"Gladiators\", released on a record in March 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829099", "title": "Chichester (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Chichester (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nChichester is a constituency in West Sussex, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Gillian Keegan, a Conservative.\n\nChichester centres on the small medieval cathedral city by the South Downs National Park. It is one of the oldest constituencies in the UK, having been created when commoners were first called to the Model Parliament in 1295 as one of the original Parliamentary boroughs returning two members. The seat has sent one member since 1868, after the Reform Act 1867.\nIn its various forms, Chichester has been a Conservative stronghold since 1924.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Chichester, the Sessional Divisions of Arundel and Chichester, and part of the Sessional Division of Steyning.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Arundel and Chichester, the Urban Districts of Bognor and Littlehampton, and the Rural Districts of East Preston, Midhurst, Petworth, Westbourne, and Westhampnett.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Chichester, the Urban District of Bognor Regis, and the Rural District of Chichester.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of Chichester, the Rural Districts of Midhurst and Petworth, and part of the Rural District of Chichester.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Chichester. The constituency boundaries remained unchanged.\n\n1997–2010: All the wards of the District of Chichester except the Bury, Plaistow and Wisborough Green wards.\n\n2010–present: The District of Chichester wards of Bosham, Boxgrove, Chichester East, Chichester North, Chichester South, Chichester West, Donnington, Easebourne, East Wittering, Fernhurst, Fishbourne, Funtington, Harting, Lavant, Midhurst, North Mundham, Plaistow, Rogate, Selsey North, Selsey South, Sidlesham, Southbourne, Stedham, Tangmere, West Wittering, and Westbourne.\n\nThe seat forms a far western strip of West Sussex and covers most of the Chichester district.\n\nBefore the 1974 redistribution Chichester was a more compact seat, taking in the eastern towns of Arundel and Bognor Regis in latter years. Emergence of newer urban centres and modern cities meant that the area was expanded to the north to avoid malapportionment.\n\nThe constituency runs from the county's border with Surrey, through a partly wooded broad swathe of the South Downs, to the town of Selsey and paired villages The Witterings on the English Channel. The small cathedral city Chichester and Selsey account for 6 of 24 wards but comprise a higher proportion of councillors as these are larger three-member wards. Another larger Ward comprises the Georgian market town of Midhurst towards the north. The highest density of villages is near the Hampshire border, in the west.\n\nThe city has relatively little social housing and few homes which are cheap to buy or rent, as epitomised in the National Park status of much of the land north of Chichester. In Chichester itself the percentage of social housing in 2011 was 20.5%, including 3% directly in local authority homes. The area is linked to London by train and the A3. Modestly deprived areas of Chichester, Selsey and the rural South Downs are dominated by the working poor and poorer pensioners with little generational unemployment. The local economy has many entry-level or intensive manual jobs in food production, retail, driving, warehousing as well as intermittent or traditionally low paid labour such as road repair and the care sector. Some of these workers commute from the outskirts of nearest major cities Brighton and Portsmouth. The contributory districts occupy the top two rankings out of all seven in terms of fuel poverty in West Sussex.\n\nThe seat has been Conservative since 1924; in 2017 incumbent Keegan saw her vote share exceed that of 1992. The closest election since then was the 1997 general election, where a Liberal Democrat took 29% of the vote. The best performances by a Labour candidates were in 2001 and 2017, with 21.4% and 22.4% of the vote, respectively. In terms of the fourth party since 2001, the three general elections to 2010 saw an increase in support for the UK Independence Party to their highest level to date, 6.8%.\n\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\" Seat reduced to one member \"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829101", "title": "Eastleigh (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Eastleigh (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEastleigh is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Paul Holmes, a Conservative.\n\n1955–1974: The Borough of Eastleigh, in the Rural District of New Forest the parishes of Eling and Netley Marsh, in the Rural District of Romsey and Stockbridge the parishes of Ampfield, Chilworth, North Baddesley, and Nursling and Rownhams, and in the Rural District of Winchester the parishes of Botley, Bursledon, Hamble, Hedge End, Hound, and West End.\n\n1974–1983: The Boroughs of Eastleigh and Romsey, in the Rural District of Romsey and Stockbridge the parishes of Ampfield, Braishfield, Chilworth, Melchet Park and Plaitford, Michelmersh, North Baddesley, Nursling and Rownhams, Romsey Extra, Sherfield English, and Wellow, and in the Rural District of Winchester the parishes of Botley, Bursledon, Hamble, Hedge End, Hound, and West End.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Eastleigh, and the City of Southampton ward of Woolston.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Eastleigh wards of Bishopstoke, Botley, Bursledon, Eastleigh Central, Eastleigh North, Eastleigh South, Eastleigh West, Fair Oak, Hamble, Hedge End St John's, Hedge End Wildern, Hound, West End North, and West End South.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Eastleigh wards of Bishopstoke East, Bishopstoke West, Botley, Bursledon and Old Netley, Eastleigh Central, Eastleigh North, Eastleigh South, Fair Oak and Horton Heath, Hamble-le-Rice and Butlocks Heath, Hedge End Grange Park, Hedge End St John’s, Hedge End Wildern, Netley Abbey, West End North, and West End South.\n\nThe constituency lies in a long band east of Southampton in Hampshire that stretches from Eastleigh to the sailing centre of Hamble, and comprises all of the Borough of Eastleigh apart from part of the town of Chandler's Ford which is in the Test Valley constituency.\n\nEastleigh constituency was created for the 1955 general election; before then Eastleigh itself had been in the Winchester constituency. It was a fairly safe seat for the Conservatives for nearly forty years until the death of its then MP, former journalist Stephen Milligan, in 1994. At the subsequent by-election, the Liberal Democrats gained the seat on a very large swing, and then held Eastleigh in the four following general elections (1997, 2001, 2005 and 2010), though with somewhat narrow majorities.\n\nChris Huhne, the MP from 2005 to 2013, was his party's environment spokesman in opposition, before becoming the Liberal Democrat senior spokesman for the Home Office (or Second Shadow Home Secretary). While in the previous role Huhne stood unsuccessfully for party leader in 2006 against Sir Menzies Campbell and again in 2007 against Nick Clegg. Following the 2010 general election, Huhne joined the coalition government's cabinet as Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, but resigned as an MP in February 2013 after admitting perverting the course of justice over a speeding case. His resignation took effect from 5 February, and the following day it was confirmed that a by-election to fill the vacancy would be held on 28 February 2013. Mike Thornton retained the seat for the Liberal Democrats in the by-election. However, at the 2015 general election Thornton was defeated by the Conservative Mims Davies.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1829102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829102", "title": "Tonalism", "text": "Tonalism\n\nTonalism was an artistic style that emerged in the 1880s when American artists began to paint landscape forms with an overall tone of colored atmosphere or mist. Between 1880 and 1915, dark, neutral hues such as gray, brown or blue, often dominated compositions by artists associated with the style. During the late 1890s, American art critics began to use the term \"tonal\" to describe these works. Two of the leading associated painters were George Inness and James McNeill Whistler.\n\nTonalism is sometimes used to describe American landscapes derived from the French Barbizon style, which emphasized mood and shadow. Tonalism was eventually eclipsed by Impressionism and European modernism.\n\nAustralian Tonalism emerged as an art movement in Melbourne during the 1910s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829103", "title": "Fareham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Fareham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nFareham is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. Since 2015, it has been represented by Suella Braverman of the Conservative Party. She is currently the Attorney General. \n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Boroughs of Portsmouth and Southampton, the Sessional Division of Fareham, and part of the Sessional Division of Southampton.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Fareham, Gosport and Alverstoke, Havant, and Warblington, and the Rural Districts of Fareham and Havant.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of Fareham.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Fareham except the wards of Hill Head and Stubbington, and the City of Winchester wards of Boarhunt and Southwick, Curdridge, Denmead, Droxford Soberton and Hambledon, Shedfield, Swanmore, Waltham Chase, and Wickham.\n\n1997–present: As above less the City of Winchester wards.\n\nThe constituency comprises all wards of the Fareham borough except Stubbington and Hill Head. The largest town in the constituency, as the name suggests, is Fareham. Other communities in the constituency include Portchester, Locks Heath, Warsash and Titchfield.\n\nThe constituency was first created in 1885, however in 1950 it was abolished to form the constituency of Gosport and Fareham. It was revived again in 1974. The constituency has always been represented by Conservatives.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829109", "title": "Order of Saint Michael", "text": "Order of Saint Michael\n\nThe Order of Saint Michael () is a French dynastic order of chivalry, founded by Louis XI of France on 1 August 1469, in competitive response to the Burgundian Order of the Golden Fleece founded by Philip the Good, duke of Burgundy, Louis' chief competitor for the allegiance of the great houses of France, the Dukes of Orléans, Berry, and Brittany. As a chivalric order, its goal was to confirm the loyalty of its knights to the king. Originally, there were a limited number of knights, at first thirty-one, then increased to thirty-six including the king. An office of Provost was established in 1476. The Order of St Michael was the highest Order in France until it was superseded by the Order of the Holy Spirit.\n\nAlthough officially abolished by the government authorities of the July Revolution in 1830 following the French Revolution, its activities carried on. It is still recognised by the International Commission on Orders of Chivalry.\n\nThe first knights were among the most powerful nobles in France, close relatives of the king and a few from other royal houses in Europe. Originally, the number of members (called companions) was limited to thirty-five. In 1565, during the Wars of Religion, when loyalties were strained and essential, Charles IX increased the membership to fifty, but there may have been as many as seven hundred knights under Henry III in 1574.\n\nThe Order of St. Michael dedicated to the Archangel Michael conveyed to every member a gold badge of the image of the saint standing on a rock (Mont Saint-Michel) in combat with the serpent. The motto of the order was \"\"immensi tremor oceani\"\" (meaning \"The tremor of the immense ocean\"), derived from the idea of Saint Michael looking out over the Atlantic from Mont Saint-Michel. It was suspended from an elaborate gold collar made of scallop shells (the badge of pilgrims, especially those to Santiago de Compostela) linked with double knots. The statutes state that the badge could be hung on a simple chain, and later it was suspended from a black ribbon\n\nWhen the Order of St Michael was founded, the famous illuminator Jean Fouquet was commissioned to paint the title miniature of the Statutes, showing the king presiding over the knights (Paris, Bibliothèque Nationale, fr. 19819). The original plan was for the knights to meet yearly on 29 September at Mont Saint-Michel in Normandy. Such an isolated location was impractical causing Charles VIII to transfer this meeting place to the chapel of Saint-Michel-du-Palais, part of Paris' medieval royal residence the Palais de la Cité which the kings no longer used, to the control of the order in 1496. By letters patent dated 15 August 1555, the seat of the Order was transferred to the royal Château de Vincennes outside Paris.\n\nThe Order of St. Michael was abolished by Louis XVI on 20 June 1790. It was revived by Louis XVIII on 16 November 1816 but the king took little interest in the order and no new knights were added after 1816. The Order was again abolished by the French authorities in 1830. The Order's last member died in 1850, although ten nominations of knights were conferred in 1929, 1930, and in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe French government considers the Order to be the origin of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres:\n\nSaint-Michel Order (1460–1830) can be considered as the precursor of the Order of the Arts and Lettres. Originally destined to the aristocracy, from 17th to 18th centuries it became an order of civil merit, which distinguished many artists, architects, collectors, and people of lettres\n\nNo formal list of members of the order exists. The names of members can be gleaned from reference to their receipt of the order, from secondary sources, or from periodic lists compiled showing companions from particular families or regions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829126", "title": "Alessandro Farnese (cardinal)", "text": "Alessandro Farnese (cardinal)\n\nAlessandro Farnese (5 October 1520 – 2 March 1589), an Italian cardinal and diplomat and a great collector and patron of the arts, was the grandson of Pope Paul III (who also bore the name \"Alessandro Farnese\"), and the son of Pier Luigi Farnese, Duke of Parma, who was murdered in 1547. He should not be confused with his nephew, Alessandro Farnese, Governor of the Spanish Netherlands, grandson of Emperor Charles V and great-grandson of Pope Paul III.\n\nFarnese was born at the family castle at Valentano in Tuscany (current province of Viterbo), the son of Pierluigi Farnese, who was the son of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese (Pope Paul III); and Girolama Orsini, daughter of Ludovico Orsini, seventh Conte di Pitigliano, and Giulia Conti. They were married in Rome on 6 August 1519. Young Alessandro studied at Bologna along with his cousin, Guido Ascanio Sforza di Santa Fiora. He was a member of the Collegio Ancarano, which had been founded in the 15th century by Petrus de Ancarano de nobilibus de Farnesino provinciae Patrimoniae B. Petri in Tuscia, for students specializing in legal studies.\n\nOn 18 December 1534, at the age of 14, he was appointed Cardinal Deacon of the Title of Sant'Angelo in Pescheria by his grandfather Paul III, who had been elected to the papacy two months previously. On 11 August 1535, he was appointed Abbot Commendatory of the Abbey of Tre Fontane on the Via Ostiense, a position he held until 1544. In 1535, he was also appointed Abbot commendatory of S. Étienne de Caën.\n\nYoung Cardinal Farnese received many other offices and benefices, becoming Vice-Chancellor of the Holy Roman Church (13 August 1535 – 2 March 1589), He also became Governor of Tivoli (1535-1550), Archpriest of St. Mary Major Basilica (1537-1543), Archpriest of St. Peter's Basilica (1543-1589). On 27 August 1539, at the age of 18, Alessandro Farnese was named titular Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem; he vacated the office on the appointment of a new Patriarch on 28 February 1550. The office was highly lucrative, the duties were nominal and did not necessarily involve episcopal functions.\n\nIn 1538, he was appointed Pope Paul III's principal Secretary and, with the assistance of Monsignor (Msgr.) Marcello Cervino, he managed most of the papal business until 1549.\n\nIn 1541, Cardinal Farnese was named Protector of the Holy Roman Empire before the Holy See and Protector of Spain before the Holy See. These offices made him the most prominent expediter of all Imperial and Spanish business in the Roman Curia; his opinion was always consulted and, since he was the Pope's nephew, it was often followed. At the same time, he was appointed (1541-1565). Royal consent was required.\n\nFrom 1564 to 1565, he was Bishop of Sabina and it is conjectured (in the absence of positive evidence) that it was in 1564 that Farnese finally was consecrated a bishop. He was certainly a bishop when he was the principal Consecrator of Cardinal Giulio della Rovere on April 15, 1566. From 1565 to 1578, he was Bishop of Tusculum (Frascati). He was the Bishop of Porto from 9 July 1578 to 5 December 1580. He was then Cardinal-Bishop of Ostia and Velletri and Dean of the College of Cardinals from 5 December 1580 until his death on 2 March 1589.\n\nHis grandfather, Pope Paul III, immediately named Alessandro Farnese Administrator of the Diocese of Parma (1 November 1534), allowing him to collect the episcopal income during the interregnum. Alessandro resigned on 13 August 1535, when Cardinal Guido Ascanio Sforza di Santa Fiora, another grandson of Paul III and only two years older than Alessandro, was named the new Administrator (enjoying his Parmesan income until he resigned in 1560).\n\nFarnese was appointed Administrator of Jaen, Spain, from 30 July 1535 until another Administrator, Cardinal Alessandro Cesarini, was appointed on 6 July 1537. He was Administrator of the Archdiocese of Avignon from 1535 to 1551. and of the Diocese of Vizeu, Portugal (1547-1552).\n\nOn 9 May 1536, the Emperor Charles V named Cardinal Farnese as the new Archbishop of Monreale in Sicily; his appointment was confirmed on 15 May 1536, by Pope Paul III. But Monreale was not a happy place, since the monks of the Cathedral of Monreale and the clergy of the diocese were in one squabble after another with each other. On 26 July 1549, the Pope was forced to intervene, in a letter in which he referred to the Cardinal under the title of \"perpetuus Administrator\". A Vicar was appointed for the underage and absentee Archbishop, Msgr. Giovanni Antonio Fassari, titular Bishop of Christopolis in Greece; he was succeeded in 1546 by Pompeo Zambecari. In 1557, he was followed by Msgr. Giovanni Pietro Fortiguerra, Bishop of Cyrene in Libya., The Cardinal allowed the Jesuits to found a college in Monreale, and allowed the priests of the Society to work in the diocese. In 1568, Cardinal Farnese visited his diocese and held a synod. He was accompanied by his librarian, the famous antiquarian and papal biographer, Onofrio Panvinio, who, unhappily, died at Palermo on 16 (?) March 1568. The Cardinal continued to enjoy the income of the diocese until 1573, when he resigned the bishopric.\n\nOn 17 June 1537, Farnese was appointed Administrator of the Diocese of Bitonto in the Kingdom of Naples on the resignation of Bishop Lopez de Alarcon; his administration ceased upon the appointment of a new bishop on 8 January 1538. He became Administrator of the Diocese of Massa Marittima on 15 November 1538, on the resignation of Bishop Hieronymus de Glanderonibus; since he was only eighteen, he was not canonically eligible to be the bishop, though he could—and did—collect the income of the bishop until a successor was appointed in April 1547. On 16 July 1540, Farnese was named Administrator of the Diocese of Cavaillon in Provence, which he resigned one year later on 20 July 1541. In 1549, his grandfather Pope Paul III died.\n\nHe was Administrator of the Archdiocese of Tours from 28 April 1553, until Pope Julius III ordered the issue of bulls for Archbishop Simon de Mailly on 25 June 1554. In the case of Tours, the right of nomination belonged to the King of France, Henri II, whose daughter Diane had married Farnese's youngest brother Orazio in 1552. On 25 June 1554, the same day that his administration of Tours ceased, Farnese was appointed Administrator of the Diocese of Viviers, which lasted until the Pope approved King Henri's nomination of a new bishop on 12 November 1554. He was likewise nominated by the King of France to be Administrator of the Diocese of Cahors, the appointment being approved by Pope Julius III on 12 November 1554; a new bishop was approved by Pope Paul IV on 7 May 1557, ending his appointment. There had been two Conclaves in the interim, accounting probably for the length of his Administration of Cahors. In 1555, Cardinal Farnese was named Administrator of the Diocese of Spoleto, a post he held until a new bishop was appointed on 16 December 1562. Cardinal Alessandro Farnese also served as Administrator of the Archdiocese of Benevento from 22 November 1556, until a new Archbishop was approved by Paul IV on 14 January 1558. All of these appointments should be considered as opportunities for financial enrichment, not opportunities for service in vineyards of the Lord far from Rome. The various administrations were carried out by authorized agents.\n\nIn 1564, Alessandro Farnese succeeded his brother Ranuccio as Abbot Commendatory of the Monastery of Farfa, which he held until his death in 1589. It was he who introduced the Benedictine monks of the Congregation of Monte Cassino into the monastery in 1567. He also built, or rebuilt, the monastery's water supply.\n\nFarnese also became a Papal Legate, arranging peace between the perpetually warring Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and Francis I of France. In the Consistory of 24 November 1539 he was sent as Apostolic \"Legatus a latere\" to attempt to arrange a peace between the two feuding monarchs. He left Rome on 29 November and made his solemn entry into Paris on 31 December. He was in Rouen on 14 January 1540, and had a solemn meeting with the King on 14 February. He then left for Flanders on 17 February for a meeting with the Emperor; he stayed for three months, and returned to Paris on 14 May. He had a meeting with King Francis on the 17th at Saint-Germain-en-Laye. He returned to Rome on 5 June 1540.\n\nCardinal Farnese was named \"Legatus a latere\" again, and for the same purpose, at the Consistory of 21 November 1543. He arrived at Fontainebleau on 29 December 1543 and remained until 6 January 1544, when he departed for Bruxelles to visit the Emperor. He arrived on 14 January, and was back in France by 4 February. He returned to Rome on 1 March 1544.\n\nIn 1546, he accompanied the troops sent by the pope to the aid of Charles V against the Schmalkaldic League.\n\nIn 1548, Cardinal Alessandro Farnese took into his service as his private secretary Annibale Caro, the noted poet and prose stylist. Caro had previously been in the service of Cardinal Alessandro's father, Pierluigi Farnese, and after his murder on 10 September 1547, to Duke Ottavio Farnese, and then to Cardinal Ranuccio Farnese, his own younger brother.\n\nIn 1551, Cardinal Alessandro was sent by Pope Julius III to convince his brother Ottavio, the Duke of Parma and Piacenza, to surrender those territories, which, the Pope pointed out, were fiefs of the Church. Julius was being incredibly arrogant, insensitive and stupid. The Farnese had spent more than fifteen years developing their dukedom, and Cardinal Alessandro's father had been assassinated in the struggle with the Gonzaga and the Emperor Charles over it. The Farnese were being protected by the French Crown, which considered Parma its entrée into northern Italy, where it challenged the Emperor to the possession of the Duchy of Milan and the Lombard plain. Julius was toying with explosive material. Naturally Ottavio refused, and Alessandro supported him. The Farnese underwent a complete breach in relations with the Pope, and Alessandro was immediately unwelcome in Rome. Pope Julius sequestrated his diocese of Monreale, and confiscated all of the moveables in the Palazzo Farnese, said to have been worth 30,000 scudi. Duke Ottavio's duchy was sequestered. He withdrew in April, first to a visit with his sister Vittoria, the Duchess of Urbino, then to Florence, and finally to Avignon.\n\nAfter peace was made between the Pope and France, Orazio Farnese had the Duchy of Castro restored to him (1552) and, to protect the Farnese's French connection, Orazio married Diane de France, the illegitimate daughter of Henri II. Unfortunately, Cardinal Farnese's brother Orazio was killed in battle on 18 July 1553, leaving no heirs. The dukedoms went to their younger brother Ottavio Farnese.\n\nFarnese had been in France, when on 6 June 1554, he was appointed by Henri II to go to Rome and take charge of French affairs in the absence of Cardinal d'Este, who was in Parma—over the objections of Cardinal du Bellay, who did not appreciate being supplanted. Cardinal d'Este was ruling Parma on behalf of the French king, who had acquired the duchy from Paul III as the price of an alliance. In November, Henri named a new Ambassador to the Holy See, and Cardinal Farnese was free to return to France. He took up residence in Avignon.\n\nCardinal Farnese did not participate in the first conclave of 1555, 5 April–9 April, which followed the death of Julius III. He had been in Avignon, serving as Legate and avoiding the unwelcome attention of the Pope. But, on the news of the death of Pope Julius, he took the road for Rome. He was carrying letters from Henri II of France to the College of Cardinals and to individual cardinals, in favor of Cardinal Reginald Pole. He did not arrive, however, until after the middle of the month of April. Cardinal Louis de Guise-Lorraine, also travelling from France, arrived on the 21st. In fact, only two French cardinals were in Rome, thereby giving the Imperial faction a great advantage. This was a matter of annoyance for the French, for King Henri had extracted from Pope Julius III, through negotiations carried on by Cardinals Georges d' Armagnac, Alessandro Farnese, and Jean du Bellay, a bull which allowed an extra 15 days before a Conclave began, in order to allow cardinals who had to travel a long distance (the French) to reach Rome. The bull was completely ignored by the Cardinals already in Rome, and only the \"Novendiales\" were observed.\n\nIn accordance with older instructions direct from Henri II, the French faction was supporting Cardinal d'Este, then the Cardinal de Tournon (who was not present at the Conclave), and then Cardinal du Bellay. The Emperor, as in the Conclave of 1550, had a preference for Cardinal Reginald Pole, the Papal Legate in England. Pole, however, was strongly opposed by the French (in ignorance of the letters which Farnese was carrying), and by Cardinal Gian Pietro Carafa, the Dean of the Sacred College of Cardinals and principal Inquisitor of the Roman Inquisition, who regarded Pole (and a number of other cardinals) as Protestant heretics. D'Este was not electable (Sir John Masone, the English agent wrote: \"Marry, we hear of no quality to set him forward but that he is rich.\"), though the six votes he received in the first ballot caused considerable consternation, and the beginning of a \"Stop D'Este\" movement. Some of the cleverer cardinals, led by Carafa and Madruzzi of Trent, realized that, when all the opinions were factored in, there were very few electable cardinals, the best of whom was Cardinal Marcello Cervini. He was a reformer, he was strict, and he was uncorrupted; he was opposed to nepotism. Unfortunately, Cervini was disliked by the Emperor. But the genuine reformers, who wanted the resumption of the Council of Trent, worked with Carafa and Madruzzi to produce a two-thirds majority. Among them were Ranuccio Farnese, Farnese's brother, and Guido Ascanio Sforza, his first-cousin. When Farnese finally arrived from Avignon in mid-April, he was no doubt delighted to find his grandfather's secretary, Cardinal Marcello Cervini, on the throne of Peter. Unfortunately, on the morning of the 18th, Pope Marcellus II showed symptoms of a fever and in the night between 30 April and 1 May, he died. But even before Marcellus was dead, Cardinal Farnese wrote directly to Henri II, urging him to send the French cardinals to Rome immediately. A second Conclave was necessary.\n\nThe second Conclave of 1555 opened on 15 May, with the same cardinals as in April, but with the addition of eight late arrivals. The leading candidate seemed to be Cardinal Carafa, the Inquisitor, but he was told to his face by the Imperial Ambassador that the Emperor Charles V did not want him as Pope. The Imperial faction was favoring Cardinals Carpi, Morone, and Pole. Pole also seemed to have French support, but there was an influential group, led by Carafa, Carpi, and Alvarez (all professional Inquisitors), who openly questioned the orthodoxy of Pole and of Morone. The French Ambassador, Jean d' Avanson, informed King Henri that his favorite candidate, Cardinal d'Este, was being opposed vigorously by the Imperial faction, and that he could not win, thanks to a \"virtual veto\" (that is, the withholding of votes for a candidate by more than one-third of the voters); the Emperor even expressed fears that d'Este might try to bribe himself into the papacy. D'Avanson also had to break the news that Cardinal du Bellay, out of personal ambition, had broken ranks and would support Cardinal Carafa. In the voting, the Imperial candidate, Cardinal Carpi, seemed to be moving forward, until the French faction and the cardinals created by Julius III (of which there were fifteen at the Conclave) combined to put him out of the running. Once it was clear that nobody in the French faction was going to succeed, Cardinal Farnese and Cardinal d'Este decided to throw their support to Cardinal Carafa. The Imperial faction was so frightened at what Pope Carafa might do in trying to get Naples out of the hands of the Emperor that they sent Cardinals Corner and Ricci to Alessandro Farnese to beg him to abandon Carafa and accept their votes \"for himself\". But Farnese was not so foolish as to believe that he could be successful without the endorsement either of the Emperor or of the King of France—and he had neither. He did not respond to the offer. The supporters of Carafa finally numbered more than the two-thirds needed for election, but the Imperialists (who were caucusing in the Hall of the Secret Consistory) refused to come to the Chapel and carry out the electoral process. It was Farnese who, using both blandishments and threats, managed to get the Imperialists to give in and assemble with the rest of the cardinals in the Cappella Paolina. On the afternoon of 23 May, the Feast of the Ascension, the seventy-eight year old Cardinal Gian Pietro Carafa of Naples was elected pope by acclamation. He chose the name Paul IV.\n\nHe had been the co-founder of the Theatine Order, and was a promoter of reform in the Church. He was no humanist, however, and preferred the doctrine of Thomas Aquinas. He was also a vigorous opponent of Protestantism, and anything that favored it. He saw heretics everywhere, even inside the College of Cardinals, and as an Inquisitor he showed no scruple or mercy for those who were tainted. Showing all of the traditional prejudices against the Jews, and especially against converted Jews, he issued a bull on 14 July 1555, \"Cum nimis absurdum\", creating the Jewish Ghetto of Rome. He refused to recognize the election of Ferdinand I as Holy Roman Emperor, and he refused to recognize the retirement of Charles V. He ruled until his death on 18 August 1559, or rather his nephew, Cardinal Carlo Carafa, did. It was only three months before his death that Paul IV was fully informed of the misdeeds of his nephews, Cardinal Carafa, Giovanni Caraffa Duke of Paliano, and Antonio Carafa Marchese of Montebello. When the Florentine Ambassador, Bongiano Gianfiliazzi, had attempted to have an audience with Paul IV to enlighten him about his corrupt nephews, the door was slammed in his face by Cardinal Carafa. Obviously, there was no room in the Curia for the advice of Cardinal Farnese. There was considerable danger to Farnese properties because of Paul IV's anti-imperial policy.\n\nIt was in 1556 that Cardinal Farnese commissioned Giacomo Barozzi da Vignola to take in hand the half-completed fortress at Caprarola and turn it into a country villa. Actual construction began in 1559 and was completed in 1573. Even when half completed, in 1561, Cardinal Alessandro commissioned Taddeo Zuccari and his workshop to decorate the rooms on the lower floor. The Stanza della solitudine was decorated by the same artists between 1563 and 1565, in accordance with a design created by Onufrio Panvinio.\n\nCardinal Farnese retired to Parma in the meantime (1557), where he stayed with his brother, Duke Ottavio. It was there and at that time that they were approached with peace feelers by Cardinal Carafa, who was even willing to marry one of the Carafas to young Duke Alessandro, the son of Ottavio and Margaret of Parma. That alliance did not take place. Nonetheless, Cardinal Alessandro's influence in Rome was considerable. He was named Cardinal Protector of the Empire (14 September 1541), Sicily, of Aragon (13 December 1565), of Portugal, of Poland, of the Republic of Genoa, and of Ragusa\n\nCarafa was elected, and began dealing with real or imagined enemies.\n\nFirst Ascanio della Corgna came under suspicion. He was general of the papal cavalry, and was actually suspected of being loyal to the Emperor. Paul IV had him sent to the Castel S. Angelo, along with his brother, Cardinal della Corgna (27 July 1556). Both were nephews of Pope Julius III. The cardinal had been Administrator of the Diocese of Spoleto on the appointment of Julius III, but Paul IV immediately replaced him with Cardinal Alessandro Farnese. The charge against the cardinal that brought him to the Castel S. Angelo was that he had attempted to open communications with Philip II of Spain. The pressure of Spanish victories in Lombardy and Tuscany, however, forced their release.\n\nThen it was the turn of Cardinal Morone, a man of tested prudence and familiar with Germany. He had been chosen as the Papal Legate to the Imperial Diet in Augsburg, on the insistence of both Charles V and his brother Ferdinand. He received the Legatine cross on 13 February 1555, and was in Augsburg on 23 March, the day Pope Julius III died. He therefore arrived in Rome too late for the April Conclave. In the second Conclave, a month later, both Pole and Morone were Imperial candidates, but Cardinal Carafa (a candidate himself) loudly voiced his suspicions that both were heretics.\n\nSuddenly, on 31 May 1557, Morone was arrested by the Pope's nephew and Secretary of State personally. Pietro Carnesecchi, a former adherent of Morone, wrote: \"Why Morone is imprisoned, no one knows; many say that the Cardinals have brought it about, in order that he may be out of their way at the next election of a Pope, when he would get the greatest number of votes. The Pope intends summoning all the Cardinals to Rome, that they as a college may judge Morone.\" There was an immediate outcry. The cardinals wanted a Congregation be held at which explanations would be demanded. Paul IV took the initiative and held a Congregation at which he presided, telling the cardinals that it was not politics but the honor of God that was involved. The process against Morone would be carried out by the members of the Inquisition. Twenty-one charges were levelled at him. On 12 June 1557, Morone was interrogated in the Castel S. Angelo by the committee: Cardinals Innocenzo del Monte, Jean Suau, Scipione Rebiba, Spoletano [Alessandro Farnese], and Michele Ghislieri. Having examined him and heard his extensive rejoinders, the committee reported in favor of Morone but Paul IV was not satisfied. Morone remained in the Castel S. Angelo until the death of Paul IV, when the College of Cardinals ordered his release. Cardinal Rebiba was sent as Nuncio to France, to discuss the matter of an alliance with Henri II.\n\nFor two decades, the Farnese had been trying to maintain friendships both with King Henri II of France and the Emperor Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire. This became more difficult when Cardinal Carafa, in the name of Paul IV, concluded a treaty with Henri II on 23 July 1556, committing them to a war against the Emperor for the Kingdom of Naples. In 1557, the efforts collapsed. On 23 October 1557, Henri struck against Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, issuing letters patent by which he confiscated all of the benefices of the Cardinal which he still enjoyed in France. The Abbeys of St. Étienne de Caën, Beauport in Brittany, and Granselve, as well as the Administratorship of the Diocese of Viviers, were also included. In the document, Henri complained of the Cardinal and his brothers taking the part of the King of Spain. The total loss for the Cardinal alone amounted to more than 30.000 francs. The benefices were all given to Cardinal Ippolito II d'Este, Farnese's enemy, who had spent his youth at the French Court and was a personal friend of Henri and the Royal Family.\n\nThese losses were in addition to those inflicted by Pope Julius III, whose election had been opposed by Cardinal Farnese in the interest of Pope Paul III's secretary, Marcello Cervini. One of those was the Governorship of Tivoli, which also went to Cardinal d'Este. Another was the Patriarchate of Jerusalem, which was granted away only twenty days after the end of the Conclave.\n\nBut Julius III (Monte) had died in 1555, as had Marcellus II (Cervini). The Emperor Charles V had retired in 1556 and died in 1558 and both Paul IV and Henri II died in 1559, within a month of each other. A new and brighter day dawned.\n\nPope Paul IV died on 18 August 1559. Riots overwhelmed Rome. The Pope's statue on the Capitol was pulled down, and its head used as a football for three days. The Palace of the Inquisition was destroyed and its prisoners released, under the eyes of 2000 Romans. S. Maria sopra Minerva, the Dominican headquarters, was attacked. Cardinal Carafa fled the City. For the approaching Conclave, King Philip II let it be known that his choices for pope were Cardinals Rodolfo Pio de Carpi, Giacomo Puteo, Giovanni Angelo de' Medici, and Clemente d' Olera. Medici had been one of the cardinals who had been on bad terms with Paul IV, and therefore he was living quietly at Bagni di Lucca. François II and Marie de Medicis were promoting Cardinals Ippolito d'Este, François de Tournon, and Ercole Gonzaga. Cardinal Farnese, who was the senior Cardinal Deacon in 1559, hated Cardinal d'Este and had no love for his cousin Cardinal Gonzaga, and therefore decided to do everything he could to elect Cardinal Carpi.\n\nThe Conclave of 1559 began on 5 September. Cardinal Farnese, still only 38 years of age, was active in the politicking, but, since he controlled only four or five votes, he had to work in alliance with some other group. He chose neither the French nor the Imperial faction, but allied himself with the Cardinals who had been created by Paul IV and were being led by his nephew, Cardinal Carlo Carafa. By 27 September, d'Este and Tournon were out of the running, and Gonzaga was the French candidate. The French attempted a coup-de-theatre by trying to have Gonzaga elected by acclamation. They failed miserably. Cardinal Jean Suau, who had been informed of the French king's wishes, ought to have worked for Gonzaga, but he was indebted to Cardinal Carafa, and therefore he worked with Carafa and Farnese to defeat the plan for Gonzaga. The maneuvering continued for months until it became apparent that the only candidate who could win support from both sides was Giovanni de' Medici. Suddenly, on the afternoon of Christmas Day, what turned out to be final negotiations began, and by 8:00 p.m. he was elected by acclamation. The next morning, a formal vote was taken, and it was Cardinal Farnese's privilege to announce to the people the election of Cardinal de' Medici as Pope Pius IV. He was crowned by Cardinal Farnese on 6 January 1560. The new Cardinal Nephews were Carlo Borromeo and Markus Sittich von Hohenems Altemps.\n\nDuring the reign of Pope Pius IV, Cardinal Farnese enjoyed good fortune. The Pope was a friend of his, and he was able to avoid the unpleasantries of international affairs, as he built a circle of friends in the College of Cardinals and in the Roman Curia. On 14 April 1564, Cardinal Farnese was promoted to the title of Cardinal Priest of S. Lorenzo in Damaso, a post he held for less than a month. On 12 May, he was promoted to the Order of Cardinal Bishops with the diocese of Sabina. He distanced himself from the horrors surrounding the fall of the Carafa nephews in 1561. Pius was not a healthy man, and his anticipated demise gave Farnese and others time to plan. Pope Pius IV (Medici) died on 4 December 1565.\n\nThe French, at this time Catherine de' Medicis, having learned nothing from 1555 or 1559, still offered their support to Cardinal Ippolito d'Este. King Philip II favored d' Olera, Ghislieri, Ricci, Morone, and Pacecho. When the Spanish Ambassador, Don Luis Requesens de Zuniga, arrived in Rome on December 21, 1565, however, he carried instructions to support Ghislieri and Morone. He was suspicious of the orthodoxy of Cardinal Morone though, and he feared that Cardinal Farnese might pursue a vendetta against Spain for the murder of his father if he were to become pope. The Emperor Maximilian II was informed by his agent in Rome, Nosti Camiani, that the most favored cardinals were: d' Olera, Boncompagni, Suau, Sirleto, Simonetta, Gianbernardino Scotti, and Michele Ghislieri. He wrote directly to Cosimo III of Florence, asking for his assistance in the election. Cosimo replied that he was no longer in the business of influencing papal elections, but agreed to serve the Emperor's wishes. He was in fact very active behind the scenes. He wanted a pope who would make him Duke of Tuscany, and would validate his control over Siena, and he had already picked out Cardinal Ghislieri. The Duchess of Ferrara, a daughter of the Emperor, was recommending Cardinal Francesco Gonzaga, the 27 year old nephew of Cardinal Ercole Gonzaga (who had died in 1563), for whom she was soliciting the Emperor, the Duke of Savoy and the King of France, Francois II. The Duchess of Savoy was pushing for Cardinal Ferrero, who was only 28 years old. The nephews of Pius IV, Cardinal Borromeo and Cardinal Altemps, had another candidate in mind, the Nuncio in Spain, Cardinal Ugo Boncompagni, and they sent a swift galley to fetch him. He did not arrive in time though. And then there was Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, who was campaigning for himself.\n\nThere were fifty-two cardinals in attendance on 20 December 1565. Seventeen cardinals were under the age of forty, seven of whom were under the age of thirty. Cardinal Farnese, nephew of Pope Paul III, had in his faction Cardinals Corregio, Gambara, Savelli, Paleotti and Orsini. Farnese was personally beloved by the Roman populace as a patron of the poor and a Maecenas of the arts. The cardinals who had been created by Paul IV were also supporting Farnese. They included: Vitelli (the Camerlengo), Capizucchi, Reuman Suau, Rebiba, Ghislieri, and D' Olera. The cardinals created by Pius IV numbered nine, and under certain circumstances might draw four more. The Gonzaga faction had six members. The cardinals created by Julius III numbered five. The Florentines had between four and six. The Venetians had three. Six French cardinals did not come to the Conclave at all. The large number of factions would present a major difficulty for anyone trying to put together a two-thirds majority. Nationality was not the only way of dividing up the cardinals either. There were the seniors and the juniors, and the eager reformers and the complacent majority. \n\nAs soon as the Conclave opened, Cardinal Borromeo, who, as the nephew of the late pope, considered himself a leader, if not a pope-maker, approached Cardinal Farnese, who had the largest number of commitments. He indicated that he thought that Cardinal Morone should be pope. This was in accordance with the wishes of the Emperor, and Morone had been one of the Presidents of the Council of Trent. Farnese seemed friendly and willing to please, which Borromeo (wrongly) took as an agreement to supply votes. There were those who would never vote for a friend of the Emperor, and there were those who remembered Morone's troubles with the Inquisition, and the bull of Paul IV which had stated that no one who was arrested, imprisoned, or convicted by the Inquisition could ever vote in a papal election, let alone be elected pope. In addition, there were those who did not like Morone personally. It is alleged that both Alessandro Farnese and Ippolito d'Este had grudges against Morone due to decisions which he had made while Legate in Bologna. His enemies could always muster more than one-third of the College to block his election. When it came to a vote, Morone got twenty-nine votes. Farnese must have realized that he was in somewhat the same situation himself. He could muster between twenty-eight and thirty votes, but not the thirty-five needed to elect.\n\nIn his straightforward way, Borromeo then went on to his second candidate, Cardinal Sirleto, but he too failed. Borromeo went to Farnese, and stated flatly that he was not going to support Farnese in the current Conclave, and he asked Farnese to help him in choosing a worthy pope. Farnese suggested the names of four cardinals whom he would support: Gianbernardino Scotti (Trani), D' Olera (Aracoeli), Ghislieri (Alessandrino) and Ricci (Montepulciano). Borromeo was delighted with the naming of Cardinal Ghislieri:\nHaving known the Cardinal of Alessandria [Ghislieri] for a considerable time, and conceived a high esteem for him on account of his singular holiness and zeal, I judged that no more fitting Pontiff than he could be found to rule the Christian commonwealth wisely and well. I therefore took up his cause with all my might; and with little delay he was elected Pope to the great satisfaction of all. Nothing could be so great a consolation to me in my grief for my uncle, as the certainty that he is succeeded by one who possesses all the qualities that your Eminence sympathizes with me in lamenting, and who with equal courage and strength of soul will know how to maintain and uphold the authority of religion\n\nWithin two hours, they had sufficient votes to elect Ghislieri. It was 7 January 1566. That afternoon, the Cardinals assembled and took a vote; two cardinals voted from their sickbeds. The votes were not by secret ballot, but out loud. Ghislieri was elected unanimously and took the name Pius V. Borromeo and Farnese had made a pope.\n\nBy 1569, the Cardinal was Legatus perpetuus (Permanent legate) of the Province of the Patrimony of St. Peter, resident in Viterbo. This is recorded on the inscription of a new town gate.\n\nIn 1569, Cardinal Alessandro Farnese made his journey to Sicily, to inspect his Archdiocese of Monreale. Transportation was provided by four galleys lent by the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem. At Monreale, he conducted a diocesan synod. He resigned the diocese on 9 December 1573.\n\nOn 7 October 1571, the Battle of Lepanto took place in the Gulf of Corinth. The Christian fleet, commanded by King Philip II's half-brother, Don John of Austria, inflicted a decisive defeat on the Ottoman Turks, destroying all but thirty of its ships. Cardinal Farnese was on the docks at Civitavecchia to welcome home the hero, his brother's brother-in-law.\n\nOne of the determining factors in the minds of the electors was the recent Battle of Lepanto (7 October 1571). It had been a stunning defeat for the Ottoman Turks, the first naval defeat in more than a century, and nearly their entire navy was destroyed. But they did not lose control over the Eastern Mediterranean, and they were already rebuilding their navy at lightning speed. In some people's minds, what was needed was a pope who could hold the various forces together: a Crusading pope who would also be generous with Church money to finance the war. The new pope must also be a strong and strict defender of the Faith in the face of unorthodoxy and one who would enforce the decrees of the Council of Trent (1545-1547; 1551-1552; 1562-1563).\n\nThere were other problems that a pope would have to face. Queen Elizabeth of England had been excommunicated by Pius V, and she had obtained possession of Mary, Queen of Scots. Mary's relatives, the Guises, were the leaders of the devout hyper-Catholic party in France, who were eager for a show-down with the Huguenots. Catherine de Medicis was attempting to avoid a civil war in France, and she believed that the marriage of her daughter Margot with Henri of Navarre, a Protestant, might avert disaster but dispensations would be required of the pope. She was also trying to tempt Queen Elizabeth into marriage with her son, Henri, and that would require papal cooperation as well. Her choices were the Cardinal of Ferrara, Ippolito d'Este, who was as disliked in 1572 as he had been in 1549. His collection of enemies had grown to include Cardinals Bonelli, Borromeo, Farnese, Medici, and Morone. Catherine, however, was in contact with her cousin, Cosimo I, Grand Duke of Tuscany, who, behind the scenes, was promoting Cardinal Boncompagni. Cardinal de' Medici was to inform the leaders of the Faction of Pius IV, Borromeo and Altemps, that the Medici were interested only in Sirleto and Boncompagni. With the French and Florentine votes, in fact, Cardinal d'Este had the resources to block any candidate he pleased (the 'virtual veto').\n\nD'Este, however, was not electable. The cardinals of Pius V (some twelve or thirteen votes) were joined with many of those of Pius IV to prevent the election of d'Este, but also of Farnese, Ricci, and Burali d' Arezzo. Cardinal Giovanni Morone was also a candidate again, but Cardinal Bonelli (Alessandrino, the nephew of Pius V) was prepared use his votes to exclude him. His friends nonetheless made an effort to have him elected by acclamation on the opening day of the Conclave, 12 May, but the attempt failed.\n\nCardinal Farnese believed that this was his conclave, and he was making every effort to win supporters. He knew, however, that the Spanish were against him. On the night of the opening of the Conclave, Cardinal Granvelle arrived from Naples. He had been sent to Italy by Philip II in 1571 to prepare the fleet which eventually met the Turks at Lepanto; he was kept on as Viceroy of Naples. Shortly after his entry into the Conclave, he produced an unopened letter which (he said) had reached him while he was on the highway from Naples. It was from Philip II. Granvelle opened the letter in Cardinal Farnese's presence and read the contents, which ordered Granvelle to advise Farnese that he was not to attempt to become pope \"this time\"—it should be remembered that, experienced as he was, Cardinal Farnese was only fifty-one. Farnese's chances ended on the first day of the Conclave.\n\nBoncompagni was the obvious candidate. He was acceptable to Cardinal Borromeo and the reformers. He was a successful Nuncio in Spain, and was acceptable to the Spanish faction, which included Naples. The Conclave turned out to be a very short one. On 14 May, Ugo Boncompagni was elected Pope, and took the name Gregory XIII. He was crowned by Cardinal Ippolito d'Este, the senior Cardinal Deacon, on 20 May 1572. Cardinal d'Este, one of Alessandro Farnese's favorite enemies, died on 2 December 1572.\n\nIn the Spring of 1585, an embassy from Japan was making its way to Rome. They arrived by ship at Livorno on March 1, and proceeded by land through Tuscany. They were received in Florence by the Grand Duke Francesco de' Medici. They proceeded on to Rome, accompanied by Cardinal Francesco Gambara, and were received with a grand show of hospitality at Caprarola by Cardinal Alessandro Farnese. Accompanied by Gambara and Farnese, the embassy reached Rome on 22 March. \n\nPope Gregory XIII died after thirteen years on the Throne of Peter on 10 April 1585. There were sixty-two living cardinals, but only thirty-two managed to make it to Rome in time for the opening ceremonies of the Conclave on Easter Sunday, 21 April 1585. Cardinal Farnese, though he was only sixty-four years old, was the senior cardinal present. He was both Dean of the Sacred College of Cardinals and Cardinal Bishop of Ostia. But he was no faction leader. Thirty-nine cardinals, many of them his friends and supporters, had died during the reign of Gregory XIII. There was only one other cardinal present who had been created by his grandfather, Paul III. The Imperial-Spanish faction was headed by Cardinal Ferdinando de' Medici, brother of the Grand Duke of Tuscany, and soon to become the Grand Duke himself. The actual Spanish leader was Cardinal Ludovico Madruzzo but he did not arrive in Rome until the evening of 23 April. The French faction was headed by Ludovico d'Este, grandson of Louis XII and Protector of France before the Holy See.\n\nAfter the first vote, on 23 April, it was obvious that neither a strong Spanish candidate nor a strong French candidate could be elected. Medici and d'Este met, and Medici proposed two possible compromise candidates to d'Este: Cardinal Albani and Cardinal Felice Peretti Montalto. Madruzzo's chosen candidate was Cardinal Sirleto, but in a meeting with d'Este shortly after he entered the Conclave on the 24th, it was made clear to him that Sirleto was being excluded by the votes of the French. Madruzzo declared that he would not accept Albani. D'Este met with Cardinal Farnese, hoping to stop any effort that Farnese might begin to exclude Montalto. He had already been trying to organize some of Gregory XIII's cardinals into a faction of his own. Farnese already believed that Montalto had little real support, and d'Este encouraged that misapprehension. But, when all the likely votes were tallied, it seemed that the supporters of Montalto lacked four votes, which would have to come from Farnese. When the Cardinals assembled to begin the balloting, d'Este suddenly intervened and announced that it was not necessary to proceed to a ballot since they already had a pope—Cardinal Montalto. The cardinals immediately proceeded to 'adore' Montalto—which was a legitimate method for electing a pope. There had to be no opposition, and there was none. Farnese had been silenced and coerced into cooperation.\n\nIn the Spring of 1586, Cardinal Farnese's young nephew Ranuccio, aged 17, came to Rome to swear allegiance for his domains of which the Church was the feudal souverain. He made the mistake of appearing before Pope Sixtus V in armor carrying weapons, and for that horrible crime he was imprisoned in the Castel S. Angelo. His uncle the Cardinal pleaded twice with the Pope to have him released, and finally contrived to have Ranuccio escape. The Spanish Ambassador, Olivares, invited the Castellan of the Castel S. Angelo to dinner, while the Cardinal tricked the guards into releasing Ranuccio into his custody. The Pope was livid at having been circumvented.\n\nThe buildings that Cardinal Farnese built or restored include the Church of the Gesù in Rome, the Villa Farnese at Caprarola, and the Farnese palace near Lake Bracciano, and the monastery Tre Fontane.\n\nAlessandro Farnese is remembered for gathering the greatest collection of Roman sculpture assembled in private hands since Antiquity, now mostly in Naples, after passing by inheritance to the Bourbon-Parma kings. His generosity towards artists made a virtual academy at the house he built at Caprarola, and in his lodgings at Palazzo della Cancellaria and, after his brother Cardinal Ranuccio Farnese died in 1565, at the Palazzo Farnese. In the Palazzo Farnese the best sculptors worked under his eye, to restore fragments of antiquities as complete sculptures, with great scholarly care. He was also a great patron of living artists including, most notably, El Greco. Under the direction of his curator and librarian, the antiquarian iconographer Fulvio Orsini, the Farnese collections were enlarged and systematized. Farnese collected ancient coins and commissioned modern medals. He had paintings by Titian, Michelangelo, and Raphael, and an important collection of drawings. He commissioned the masterpiece of Giulio Clovio, arguably the last major illuminated manuscript, the \"Farnese Hours,\" which was completed in 1546 after being nine years in the making (now the property of the Morgan Library, New York). The studiolo built to house this collection appears to be the one re-erected at the Musée de la Renaissance, Écouen.\n\nIn 1550, Farnese acquired a northern portion of Palatine hill in Rome and had Roman ruins from the palace built by the Roman Emperor Tiberius (A. D. 14–37) at the northwest end filled in, and converted to a summer home and formal gardens. The Farnese Gardens became one of the first botanical gardens in Europe. From these gardens are derived the names of Acacia farnesiana and from its floral essence, the important biochemical farnesol.\n\nCardinal Alessandro Farnese had a daughter , with Claude de Beaune de Semblançay, dame de Châteaubrun, a lady-in-waiting and confidante of Catherine de Medicis, born in 1556. Claude de Beaune's brother Martin became Bishop of Puy (1557-1561) and her other brother, Renaud, Bishop of Mende (1571-1581) and then Archbishop of Bourges. In 1570, Clelia married , Marchese of Civitanova, Gonfaloniere of the City of Rome (1565-1585). In September 1572, they had a son, . Clelia's husband died in 1585. On 2 August 1587, at the Farnese palace in Caprarola, she married her second husband, , Lord of Sassuolo; the marriage was without issue. Clelia died in 1613. The absence of scandal concerning her birth suggests that Cardinal Farnese was not yet in Holy Orders ca. 1555-1556.\n\nCardinal Alessandro Farnese wrote a will in 1580, and added codicils in 1585, but these were revoked and replaced by a new will, written on 22 June 1588, with codicils added in July and August.\n\nOn 7 July 1588, the physician of the Duke of Urbino, Vincenzo Remosetti, was summoned to a consultation at the Farnese Palace at Caprarola, \"per uno grande accidente di epilepsia,\" accompanied by severe respiratory problems. The Cardinal was gravely ill. He was subjected to the usual quackery, cautery and bleeding. He was attended by Msgr. Camillo Caetani, the brother of Cardinal Enrico Caetani, who kept his brother informed of Farnese's condition. On 13 August, the doctor had to return to Rome; he left the Cardinal restless and weak, and suffering from \"gotta\" in his left arm. On 28 February 1589, he suffered an attack of some sort, perhaps a stroke (\"ictus\"). Cardinal Farnese died quietly of the effects of apoplexy in Rome on 2 March 1589, at the age of seventy. He was buried before the high altar in the Church of the Gesù. Forty-two cardinals participated in the funeral ceremonies. Above the main door of that church, on the interior side, is the famous inscription:\nCARD . S . R . E . VICECANCELL<br>\nPAVLI . III. PONT . MAX . NEPOS<br>\nCVIVS . AVCTORITATE . SOCIETAS<br>\nIESV . RECEPTA . PRIMVM, FVIT<br>\nET . DECRETIS . AMPLISS . ORNATA<br>\nTEMPLVM . HOC . SUAE. MONVMENTVM<br>\nRELIGIONIS . ET. PERPETVAE<br>\nIN . EVM . ORDINEM . VOLVNTATIS<br>\nA . FVNDAMENTIS . EXTRVXIT<br>\nANNO . IVBILEI . M . D . LXXV\ncommemorating the establishment of the Jesuit Order by Paul III in 1540, and the building of the Church of the Gesù for them through the generosity of Cardinal Farnese. The church, the work of Giacomo Vignola and Giacomo della Porta (1568-1575), is one of the great monuments of Counter-Reformation religious architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829128", "title": "Amyl acetate", "text": "Amyl acetate\n\nAmyl acetate (pentyl acetate) is an organic compound and an ester with the chemical formula CHCOO[CH]CH and the molecular weight 130.19g/mol. It has a scent similar to bananas and apples. The compound is the condensation product of acetic acid and 1-pentanol. However, esters formed from other pentanol isomers (amyl alcohols), or mixtures of pentanols, are often referred to as amyl acetate.\n\nIt is used as a flavoring agent, as a paint and lacquer solvent, and in the preparation of penicillin.\n\nIt is an inactive ingredient in liquid bandages.\n\nIt is used as a fuel in the Hefner lamp.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829132", "title": "Block (basketball)", "text": "Block (basketball)\n\nIn basketball, a block or blocked shot occurs when a defensive player legally deflects a field goal attempt from an offensive player to prevent a score. The defender is not allowed to make contact with the offensive player's hand (unless the defender is also in contact with the ball) or a \"foul\" is called. In order to be legal, the block must occur while the shot is traveling upward or at its apex. A deflected field goal that is made does not count as a blocked shot and simply counts as a successful field goal attempt for shooter plus the points awarded to the shooting team. For the shooter, a blocked shot is counted as a missed field goal attempt. Also, on a shooting foul, a blocked shot cannot be awarded or counted, even if the player who deflected the field goal attempt is different from the player who committed the foul. If the ball is heading downward when the defender hits it, it is ruled as goaltending and counts as a made basket. Goaltending is also called if the block is made after the ball bounces on the backboard (NFHS excepted; the NCAA also used this rule until the 2009–10 season).\n\nNicknames for blocked shots include \"rejections,\" \"stuffs,\" \"bushed\", \"fudged\", or notably \"double-fudged\" (two-handed blocks), \"facials,\" \"swats,\" \"denials,\" and \"packs.\" Blocked shots were first officially recorded in the NBA during the 1973–74 season.\n\nLargely due to their height and position near the basket, centers and power forwards tend to record the most blocks, but shorter players with good jumping ability can also be blockers, an example being Dwyane Wade, the shortest player, at 6'4\", to record 100 blocked shots in a single season. A player with the ability to block shots can be a positive asset to a team's defense, as they can make it difficult for opposing players to shoot near the basket and by keeping the basketball in play, as opposed to swatting it out of bounds, a blocked shot can lead to a fast break, a skill Bill Russell was notable for. To be a good shot-blocker, a player needs great court sense and timing, and good height or jumping ability. One tactic is that a shot-blocker can intimidate opponents to alter their shots, resulting in a miss.\n\nA chase-down block occurs when a player pursues an opposing player who had run ahead of the defense (as in a fast break), and then blocks their shot attempt. Often, the block involves hitting the ball into the backboard as the opponent tries to complete a lay-up. One of the most recognized chase-down blocks was then-Detroit Pistons' Tayshaun Prince's game-saving block on Reggie Miller in Game 2 of the 2004 NBA Eastern Conference Finals against the Indiana Pacers. Pistons announcer Fred McLeod, who first witnessed this style of blocks from Prince, created the \"chase-down\" term later with the Cleveland Cavaliers. During the 2008–09 NBA season, the Cavaliers began tracking chase-down blocks, crediting LeBron James with 23 that season and 20 the following season. Another landmark chase-down block occurred in the 2016 NBA Finals when Lebron James, in the closing minutes of the 4th quarter delivered what became known as \"The Block\" on a lay-up attempt by Andre Iguodala with the score tied at 89 and 01:50 remaining in the game.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829135", "title": "The Bumpkin Billionaires", "text": "The Bumpkin Billionaires\n\nThe Bumpkin Billionaires was a British humoristic comic strip which ran from 1974 until 2000. It was drawn by Mike Lacey throughout except for the last years in \"Whizzer and Chips\" by Jim Hanson.\n\nThe main characters in the story were a family of four country yokels — \"Ma\" and \"Pa\" and their children Billy and Daisy — who had come into a great deal of money (possibly inspired by \"The Beverly Hillbillies\"). As the saying goes, however, \"money does not bring happiness\" and this particular family saw their wealth as more of a curse than a blessing. They aspired to returning to the simple life of paupers and were desperate to get rid of their money. Thus they would come up with an endless number of \"get-poor-quick schemes\", much to the distress of their long-suffering bank manager.\n\nThe stories usually ended with the Bumpkins' plans backfiring, leaving them either as well off as they were before or even more wealthy, much to the delight of the bank manager.\n\nIt originally debuted in the UK comic \"Whoopee!\" in issue 1, dated 9 March 1974. When \"Whoopee!\" merged with \"Whizzer and Chips\" in 1985, the strip went with it, becoming part of the \"Whizzer\" section. Likewise, when \"Whizzer and Chips\" merged with \"Buster\" in 1990, the strip continued there. It remained in \"Buster\" until the comic's last issue at the beginning of 2000, though, as with all other strips by this time, it had by now become a reprint.\n"}
{"id": "1829154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829154", "title": "Ganges Chasma", "text": "Ganges Chasma\n\nGanges Chasma is a deep canyon at the eastern end of the vast Valles Marineris system on Mars, an offshoot of Capri Chasma, and is in the Coprates quadrangle. It is named after the River Ganges in South Asia. Ganges Chasma is thought to have formed through a series of catastrophic discharges of water and CO from chaos terrains such as that preserved in Ganges Chaos at its southern margin. Most of the evidence for these discharges and the ensuing collapses is believed to have been washed away. Prior to developing an outlet that joined it to Capri Chasma and the connected outflow channels to its east, Ganges Chasma may at some point in the Noachian period have contained a lake which drained northward through partially subsurface pathways into Shalbatana Vallis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829168", "title": "Osmund Bopearachchi", "text": "Osmund Bopearachchi\n\nOsmund Bopearachchi (born 1949) is a Sri Lankan historian and numismatist who has specialized in the coinage of the Indo-Greek and Greco-Bactrian kingdoms. He is currently Emeritus Director of the CNRS at the École Normale Supérieure and Adjunct Professor of Central and South Asian Art, Archaeology, and Numismatics, University of California, Berkeley.\n\nOriginally from Sri Lanka, Professor Bopearachchi received his Bachelor of Arts (General) Degree from the University of Kelaniya. In 1983 he joined a team of the CNRS at the École Normale Supérieure to further his studies. He received his Ph. D. in Art History and Archaeology from the Institute of Art and Archaeology at the Sorbonne University Paris I in 1987. In 1998, he completed his Habilitation at the Université de Paris-Sorbonne (Paris IV). \n\nIn 1989, he became Research Specialist (\"Chargé de Recherche\") at CNRS. In 1991, Osmund Bopearachchi published an extensive work on Indo-Greek and Greco-Bactrian coinage, \"Monnaies gréco-bactriennes et indo-grecques. Catalogue raisonné\" (400 pages), which became the reference in its field. His conclusions are based on extensive numismatic analysis (find places, overstrikes, monograms, metallurgy, styles), classical writings, and Indian writings and epigraphic evidence. The book received the \"Prix Mendel\" (Mendel prize) for Historical Research in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829173", "title": "Old South (orange juice)", "text": "Old South (orange juice)\n\nOld South is the name of a brand of frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) sold in Canada since 1939. It produces a number of different kinds of orange juice, as well as other fruit juices. The brand used to be owned by the Pasco Beverage Company, a citrus growers' cooperative, but was bought by Louis Dreyfus Citrus, the third largest orange juice producer in the world, which is owned by the Louis Dreyfus Group.\n\nMcCain Foods Ltd. purchased the Old South Brand in 2000 in exchange for selling its citrus operation in the United States. Old South is the third-biggest selling frozen juice concentrate brand in Canada.\n\nMcCain Foods (Canada) has sold its frozen beverage business in 2013 to, Louis Dreyfus Canada, part of the Louis Dreyfus Commodities Group.</ref>\n\n1. McCain buys Old South Brand l\n"}
{"id": "1829176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829176", "title": "Communist Party of Denmark", "text": "Communist Party of Denmark\n\nThe Communist Party of Denmark (, DKP) is a communist political party in Denmark. DKP was founded on 9 November 1919 as the Left-Socialist Party of Denmark (Danish: \"Danmarks Venstresocialistiske Parti\", VSP) through a merger of the Socialist Youth League and Socialist Labour Party of Denmark, both of which had broken away from the Social Democrats in March 1918. The party assumed its present name in November 1920, when it joined the Comintern.\n\nDKP was last independently represented in the Danish Parliament (\"Folketing\") in 1979. In 1989, on the initiative of the Left Socialists party (VS), DKP and the Danish Socialist Workers Party (SAP) jointly launched what would become the new socialist party of Red-Green Alliance (\"Enhedslisten\").\n\nMarie-Sophie Nielsen led the breakaway faction from the Social Democrats in 1918 that founded the Socialist Labour Party of Denmark, due to an accumulation of conflicts with the reformist leadership of the Social Democrats. In particular, they opposed cooperation with the Radical Liberal Party, with whom the Social Democrats allied themselves in general elections. The Socialist Labour Party of Denmark began laying the foundations for a new party in March 1918, soon after its establishment.\n\nIn 1919, the party cooperated with the syndicalist movement, primarily organized in the Trade Union Opposition Coalition (Danish: \"Fagoppositionens Sammenslutning, FS\") and the Socialist Youth League, a left-wing Social Democratic breakaway group from the Social Democratic Youth (the youth wing of the Social Democrats), to found the Left-Socialist Party of Denmark on 9 November 1919.\n\nThe party participated in the 2nd Comintern Congress in 1920. The party approved the admission requirements, and changed its name to the Communist Party of Denmark and joined the Comintern the same year. This, however, led to a split within the party, with the syndicalist faction, led by FS, withdrawing the party.\n\nFollowing a rapprochement between the two groups, and with the approval of the USSR, the DKP and FS formed a joint federation in 1921, known as the Communist Federation (Danish: \"Kommunistisk Føderation\"). However, the cooperation would be short lived. The federation split in 1922 following an attempted coup of the party's leadership, and for the next 18 months Denmark would have two parties calling themselves the Communist Party of Denmark (although only one was recognized by the Comintern.) The two parties were successfully merged once more in 1923, but inter-factional conflicts would continue for another 20 years.\n\nFor the initial period following the party's reunification, DKP's leadership consisted of the left-wing social democrats which had formerly belonged to the Socialist Labour Party of Denmark and the Socialist Youth League. During this period, the party made little electoral or popular advancement, declining from 0.5% of the vote in 1924, to 0.4% in 1926, and 0.3% in 1929.\n\nIn 1929, the Comintern intervened, by means of an open letter to the party, forcing the removal of DKP's leadership. For the next 18 months, the party was placed under the direct administration of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The new leadership that was appointed consisted of pro-Soviet hardliners, with Aksel Larsen becoming the new Chairman of the Central Committee.\n\nThis intervention resulted in DKP making an 'ultra-left turn.' This was characterized strategically by a designation of Social Democrats as the primary enemy of communism, with the party adopting anti-Social Democratic rhetoric, including accusing the Social Democrats of being social fascist. Concurrently, the Great Depression was reaching its peak in Denmark, allowing DKP to channel rising economic dissatisfaction. Particularly, the party grew in popularity amongst the unemployed. The party also grew in popularity amongst students and intellectuals for its anti-fascist activities.\n\nIn the 1932 elections, DKP achieved parliamentary representation for the first time, obtaining 1.1% of the vote and 2 seats. This increased to 1.9% of the vote in 1935, and 2.4% in 1939. The 1930s was a period of constant advancement for the party.\n\nOn 9 April 1940 Germany invaded Denmark. For the first 14 months of German occupation, DKP was allowed to continue operating legally, but more than 300 communists, including members of parliament, were interned by the Danish police on 22 June 1941, following the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The party was subsequently outlawed when the Communist Law was signed into law two months later on 22 August 1941. A national unity government was formed by the other major parties, which cooperated with the Germans, including the outlawing of DKP.\n\nDKP continued to operate underground, and was a leading force of the Danish resistance. Members of DKP sat on the Danish Freedom Council, the largest underground resistance force against the German occupation. Following the collapse of the national unity government on 29 August 1943, the DKP, along with other non-socialist resistance forces, became the informal government of the country.\n\nThe Social Democrats experienced a rapid decline in influence during this period, remaining outside of the resistance movement for the entirety of the occupation. The party was weakened to the point that several failed attempts were made to merge it into DKP.\n\nAfter the liberation of Denmark, on 5 May 1945, the first Communist Minister was inducted into the new liberation government, when Alfred Jensen was made Minister for Traffic. Aksel Larsen was also made a Minister without portfolio. The government was roughly evenly split between members of the old national unity government, and members of the Danish Freedom Council and other resistance groups.\n\nIn the first post-liberation \"Folketing\" election DKP massively increased its votes to obtain 12.5% of the vote (255,236 votes) and 18 seats, although it was not inducted into the new post-election Venstre-led government. The party was the primary force against Denmark's participation in NATO in the late 1940s. While the party was unsuccessful in that effort, the movement successfully forced the Danish government to refuse permission to place NATO air fields in Denmark.\n\nOfficially, the DKP's political line did not conflict with that of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, but pre-war factional tensions continued in the party in the post-war period. Factional tensions peaked with the Soviet suppression of the Hungarian revolution of 1956, which caused a massive backlash against the party in Denmark, and sparked a split in the party.\n\nParty Chairman Aksel Larsen had been the leader of the revisionist camp in the party from 1956 onwards, but suffered a rout at the Twentieth Congress of the DKP in 1958. Larsen was expelled for his statements against Soviet involvement in the Hungarian revolution, and formed a new party, the Socialist People's Party (SF), which advocated socialism independent of the Soviet Union. Larsen was replaced by Knud Jespersen, a hardline pro-Soviet communist, positioning DKP as a staunch supporter of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the first post-split \"Folketing\" election, the Communist Party lost parliamentary representation for the first time since the liberation of Denmark, collapsing to 1.1% of the vote. The Socialist People's Party achieved 6.1% of the vote and 11 seats.\n\nThe party achieved a resurgence following the Twenty-fourth Congress of the DKP in 1973, which focused on demanding Denmark's withdrawal from NATO and the EC. On the back of rising disaffection with the EC and increased popularity amongst student movements, DKP regained parliamentary representation in 1973 election, achieving 3.6% of the vote and 6 seats.\n\nDKP fell out of parliament once again in the 1979 \"Folketing\" election, and suffered several high-profile defections in the waning years of the Soviet Union, including party Chairman Ole Sohn, who was expelled in 1991 and later joined the Socialist People's Party.\n\nIn 1989, DKP joined with two other left-wing parties, the Left Socialists, and the Trotskyist Socialist Workers Party to form the broad-based Unity List – The Red-Green Alliance (Danish: \"Enhedslisten – De Rød-Grønne\"). Gert Petersen, then-Chairman of the Socialist People's Party (SF), claimed at the time that cooperation between such diffuse ideological currents would fail. Not all members of DKP anticipated the launching of the Unity List either, and some chose to split with the party in 1990 to found a new Communist party, Communist Party in Denmark (KPiD). The Unity List has been a cause of political strife in relation to Danish Communists ever since. There are several issues, the two main ones being dual membership and Communist unity.\n\nIn 1992, DKP reorganized heavily, severing the party's links with the international Communist movement and officially changing its purpose from a political organ to a network-oriented organization. At the same time, the Unity List changed from a political cooperation to a regular independent membership-based political party. The Unity List achieved parliamentary representation in the 1994 \"Folketing\" election, winning 6 seats, 2 of which were held by members who were also DKP-members. The Unity List has been represented continually in parliament since.\n\nIn 2002, DKP revived its former contact with the international Communist movement by joining the annual International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties. Since 2009, DKP has been represented in local municipal and regional elections, often in a merge with KPiD and KP, two other Danish Communist parties.\n\nDKP issued the newspaper \"\"Land og Folk\"\" (Land and People) from 1919 till 1982.\n\nIn the early 1920s, the party's newspaper was named \"Arbejderbladet\" (The Worker's Paper) and had a circulation of approximately 6,000, but this dropped to around 4,000 by the late 1920s. Circulation began to climb again starting in the 1930s, rising to 7,000 in 1935 and 12,000 by 1940. Beginning in 1933, the party published a theoretical periodical called \"Kommunistisk Tidsskrift\" (Communist Periodical), which was renamed \"Tiden\" (Time) from 1936 onwards.\n\nDuring the German occupation of Denmark, the party began publishing a clandestine newspaper called \"Politiske Maanedsbreve\" (Political Monthly Letters), which was soon renamed \"Land og Folk\" (Land and People). It was one of the most widely circulated underground papers in the country, and continued as the main press organ of the DKP until 1982. In addition, the DKP published a large number of local papers.\n\nSince 2001, DKP has published the quarterly magazine \"\"Skub\"\" (Push) with news related to the party and Communism in general.\n\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829179", "title": "Omri Sharon", "text": "Omri Sharon\n\nOmri Sharon (, born 19 August 1964) is a former Israeli politician. Sharon served as a member of Knesset between 2003 and 2006. In 2006, he was convicted of corruption and served a prison term. He is the son of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.\n\nElected to the Knesset in 2003, Omri Sharon closely supported his father's positions on many issues, stepping out in his own direction on only one issue - the environment in Israel - in this arena it appeared that the father supported the son. Before long, Omri headed the Environmental Lobby within Knesset - his political term in this position is seen by some as a golden age for the environment in Israel's history. Thanks to powerful intervention from MK Omri and his father PM Ariel Sharon, environmentalists fought off real estate developers and won a battle to develop Mount Hiriya and the surrounding agricultural lands into a sprawling public park slated to be almost three times as large as Central Park in New York. Formerly known as \"Park Ayalon\", the park has been renamed after the former Prime Minister and is slated to be \"Ariel Sharon Park\".\n\nIn 2006, Omri became involved in a scandal relating to fundraising for his father's 1999 Likud leadership campaign. On July 26, 2005, Israeli attorney general Menachem Mazuz announced that he would indict Omri on charges of corruption. Omri had parliamentary immunity at the time, but indicated willingness to stand trial. The Knesset passed a law limiting members' immunity in order to allow the indictment. Omri was formally indicted on August 28, charged with felonies of political corruption and with perjury.\n\nOn November 14, Sharon agreed to plead guilty in a plea deal with prosecutors. He resigned from the Knesset on January 3, 2006 and his resignation became effective on January 5. On February 14, 2006 he was sentenced to nine months in prison, a nine-month suspended sentence, and a fine of 300,000 NIS. The start of his prison term was to be delayed by six months because of his father's health. A nine-month suspended sentence was handed down to Gavriel Manor, Omri Sharon’s associate in the affair.\n\nOn March 30, 2006, Sharon appealed against a prison sentence to the Tel Aviv District Court. He argued that he had already been punished by resigning from the Knesset. He cited his mother's death as reason for a more lenient sentence and expressed regret for his actions.\n\nSharon's prison term was later reduced to seven months. He reported to Maasiyahu Prison to begin serving his sentence in 2008. He was paroled after serving five months of his sentence, and remained subject to parole restrictions for the remaining two months.\n\nCritics accused Sharon and his father, Ariel Sharon, of nepotism, especially when Ariel sent Omri as his unofficial representative for talks with members of the Palestinian Authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829185", "title": "J. Fortescue", "text": "J. Fortescue\n\nHonorable J. Fortescue (alleged to have been born in 1868) was a nonexistent American surgeon and founder of the International Board of Hygiene that the League of Nations recognised in 1926.\n\nHonorable J. Fortescue was a brainchild of San Diego pathologist Rawson Pickard. The International Board of Hygiene was little else than a group of drinking friends who had founded it in a Turf Bar in Tijuana, Baja California, during the Prohibition. The original Sir John Fortescue (1385–1479) was an English lawyer.\n\nBecause most of the meetings were organised outside the borders of the U.S., the Board had to be international, and because many of the members were medical professionals, its theme was hygiene—the League of Nations already had its own International Board of Health. Anyone who had attended the meeting once became a lifetime member. On October 21, 1926, Pickard sent a long letter to the League of Nations headquarters in Geneva and received recognition in a couple of weeks.\n\nIn the following years, various organisations and publications expressed interest about the Board and its reclusive president Fortescue. The United States National Research Council included him in a directory of child psychologists and he was invited to join the American Conference on Hospital Service. Pickard wrote dozens of articles in Fortescue's name and answered journalists' enquiries in his stead. It appears none of the recipients ever bothered to check his credentials.\n\nAt the same time, the membership of the International Board of Hygiene spread by invitation. Every meeting was concluded with the reading of a scientific paper.\n\nThe 1936 \"Who's Who in San Diego\" included an entry about Fortescue, listing his multiple publications, memberships in associations, medical studies and travels, including winning the \"Fleischmann prize\" (actually a letter-writing contest for Fleischmann's Yeast). It also claimed that his mother was Lola Montez and that he lived in Paris. His only official address was \"The International Board of Hygiene, 1908 Eutaw Place, Baltimore, Maryland\". Some of the studies would have been really groundbreaking at the time, preceding such scientific studies like Kinsey surveys.\n\nRawson Pickard died in 1963. The correspondence of the Honorable J. Fortescue ceased as well.\n"}
{"id": "1829188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829188", "title": "Saint Roch", "text": "Saint Roch\n\nSaint Roch or Rocco (lived c. 1348 – 15/16 August 1376/79 (traditionally c. 1295 – 16 August 1327) was a Catholic saint, a confessor whose death is commemorated on 16 August and 9 September in Italy; he is specially invoked against the plague. He may also be called Rock in English, and has the designation of St Rollox in Glasgow, Scotland, said to be a corruption of St Roch's Loch, which referred to a small loch once near a chapel dedicated to St. Roch in 1506.\n\nHe is a patron saint of dogs, invalids, of falsely accused people, bachelors, and several other things. He is the patron saint of Dolo (near Venice) and Parma.\nHe is also the patron of Casamassima, Cisterna di Latina and Palagiano, Italy.\n\nSaint Roch is known as \"São Roque\" in Portuguese and as \"San Roque\" in Spanish, including in many now-English-speaking areas, such as the Philippines.\n\nSaint Roch is given different names in various languages:\n\nAccording to his \"Acta\" and his \"vita\" in the \"Golden Legend,\" he was born at Montpellier, at that time \"upon the border of France,\" as the \"Golden Legend\" has it, the son of the noble governor of that city. Even his birth was accounted a miracle, for his noble mother had been barren until she prayed to the Virgin Mary. Miraculously marked from birth with a red cross on his breast that grew as he did, he early began to manifest strict asceticism and great devoutness; on days when his \"devout mother fasted twice in the week, and the blessed child Rocke abstained him twice also, when his mother fasted in the week, and would suck his mother but once that day.\"\n\nOn the death of his parents in his twentieth year he distributed all his worldly goods among the poor like Francis of Assisi—though his father on his deathbed had ordained him governor of Montpellier—and set out as a mendicant pilgrim for Rome. Coming into Italy during an epidemic of plague, he was very diligent in tending the sick in the public hospitals at Acquapendente, Cesena, Rimini, Novara, and Rome, and is said to have effected many miraculous cures by prayer and the sign of the cross and the touch of his hand. At Rome, according to the \"Golden Legend\" he preserved the \"cardinal of Angleria in Lombardy\" by making the mark of the cross on his forehead, which miraculously remained. Ministering at Piacenza he himself finally fell ill. He was expelled from the town; and withdrew into the forest, where he made himself a hut of boughs and leaves, which was miraculously supplied with water by a spring that arose in the place; he would have perished had not a dog belonging to a nobleman named Gothard Palastrelli supplied him with bread and licked his wounds, healing them. Count Gothard, following his hunting dog that carried the bread, discovered Saint Roch and became his acolyte.\n\nOn his return incognito to Montpellier he was arrested as a spy (by orders of his own uncle) and thrown into prison, where he languished five years and died on 16 August 1327, without revealing his name, to avoid worldly glory. (Evidence suggests, as mentioned earlier, that the previous events occurred, instead at Voghera in the 1370s.)\nAfter his death, according to the \"Golden Legend\";\n\nThe townspeople recognized him as well by his birthmark; he was soon canonized in the popular mind, and a great church erected in veneration.\n\nThe date (1327) asserted by Francesco Diedo for Saint Roch's death would precede the traumatic advent of the Black Death in Europe (1347–49) after long centuries of absence, for which a rich iconography of the plague, its victims and its protective saints was soon developed, in which the iconography of Roche finds its historical place: previously the \"topos\" did not exist. In contrast, however, St. Roch of Montpellier cannot be dismissed based on dates of a specific plague event. In medieval times, the term \"plague\" was used to indicate a whole array of illnesses and epidemics.\n\nThe first literary account is an undated \"Acta\" that is labeled, by comparison with the longer, elaborated accounts that were to follow, \"Acta Breviora\", which relies almost entirely on standardized hagiographic \"topoi\" to celebrate and promote the cult of Roch.\n\nThe story that when the Council of Constance was threatened with plague in 1414, public processions and prayers for the intercession of Roch were ordered, and the outbreak ceased, is provided by Francesco Diedo, the Venetian governor of Brescia, in his \"Vita Sancti Rochi\", 1478. The cult of Roch gained momentum during the bubonic plague that passed through northern Italy in 1477–79.\n\nHis popularity, originally in central and northern Italy and at Montpellier, spread through Spain, France, Lebanon, the Low Countries, Brazil and Germany, where he was often interpolated into the roster of the Fourteen Holy Helpers, whose veneration spread in the wake of the Black Death. The 16th-century Scuola Grande di San Rocco and the adjacent church of San Rocco were dedicated to him by a confraternity at Venice, where his body was said to have been surreptitiously translated and was triumphantly inaugurated in 1485; the \"Scuola Grande\" is famous for its sequence of paintings by Tintoretto, who painted St. Roch in glory in a ceiling canvas (1564).\n\nWe know for certain that the body of St. Roch was carried from Voghera, instead of Montpellier as previously thought, to Venice in 1485. Pope Alexander VI (1492–1503) built a church and a hospital in his honor. Pope Paul III (1534–1549) instituted a confraternity of St. Roch. This was raised to an arch-confraternity in 1556 by Pope Paul IV; it still thrives today. Saint Roch had not been officially recognized as yet, however. In 1590 the Venetian ambassador at Rome reported back to the Serenissima that he had been repeatedly urged to present the witnesses and documentation of the life and miracles of San Rocco, already deeply entrenched in the Venetian life, because Pope Sixtus V \"is strong in his opinion either to canonize him or else to remove him from the ranks of the saints;\" the ambassador had warned a cardinal of the general scandal that would result if the widely venerated San Rocco were impugned as an impostor. Sixtus did not pursue the matter but left it to later popes to proceed with the canonization process. His successor, Pope Gregory XIV (1590–1591), added Roch of Montpellier, who had already been memorialized in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass for two centuries, to the Roman Catholic Church Martyrology, thereby fixing August 16 as his universal feast day.\n\nNumerous brotherhoods have been instituted in his honor. He is usually represented in the garb of a pilgrim, often lifting his tunic to demonstrate the plague sore, or bubo, in his thigh, and accompanied by a dog carrying a loaf in its mouth. The Third Order of Saint Francis, by tradition, claims him as a member and includes his feast on its own calendar of saints, observing it on August 17.\n\nFollowing the Black Death, especially the Italian plague epidemic of 1477–79, new images of Christian martyrs and saints appeared and Saint Roch gained new fame and popularity. The religious art of the time emphasized the importance of the saint to plague-ridden Christians.\n\nThe new plague-related images of Saint Roch were drawn from a variety of sources. Plague texts dating from ancient and classical times, as well as Christian, scientific and folk beliefs, all contributed to this emerging visual tradition. Some of the most popular symbols of plague were swords, darts, and most especially arrows. There was also a prevalence of memento mori themes, dark clouds, and astrological signs (signa magna) such as comets, which were often referenced by physicians and writers of plague tracts as causes of plague. The physical symptoms of plague – a raised arm, a tilted head, or a collapsed body – began to symbolize plague in post-Black Death painting.\n\nPlague saints offered hope and healing before, during, and after times of plague. A specific style of painting, the plague votive, was considered a talisman for warding off plague. It portrayed a particular saint as an intercessor between God and the person or persons who commissioned the painting – usually a town, government, lay confraternity, or religious order to atone for the \"collective guilt\" of the community.\n\nThese plague votives worked as a psychological defense against disease in which people attempted to manipulate their situation through requesting the intercession of a saint against the arrows of plague. Rather than a society depressed and resigned to repeated epidemics, these votives represent people taking positive steps to regain control over their environment. Paintings of St. Roch represent the confidence in which renaissance worshipers sought to access supernatural aid in overcoming the ravages of plague.\n\nThe very abundance of means by which people invoked the aid of the celestial court is essential in understanding Renaissance responses to the disease. Rather than depression or resignation, people \"possessed a confidence that put even an apocalyptic disaster of the magnitude of the Black Death into perspective of God's secure and benevolent plan for humankind.\"\n\nThe plague votives functioned both to request intercessory aid from plague saints and to provide catharsis for a population that had just witnessed the profound bodily destruction of the plague. By showing plague saints such as St. Roch and St. Sebastian, votives influenced the distribution of God's mercy by invoking the memory of the human suffering experienced by Christ during the Passion. In the art of St. Roch after 1477 the saint displayed the wounds of his martyrdom without evidence of pain or suffering. Roch actively lifted his clothing to display the plague bubo in his thigh. This display of his plague bubo showed that \"he welcomed his disease as a divinely sent opportunity to imitate the sufferings of Christ… [his] patient endurance [of the physical suffering of plague was] a form of martyrdom.\"\n\nRoch's status as a pilgrim who suffered plague is paramount in his iconography. \"The sight of Roch scarred by the plague yet alive and healthy must have been an emotionally-charged image of a promised cure. Here was literal proof that one could survive the plague, a saint who had triumphed over the disease in his own flesh.\"\n\nF. T. Prince published a long monologue from the perspective of Saint Roch's dog entitled 'His Dog and Pilgrim' in his 1983 collection \"Later On\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829193", "title": "St Roch", "text": "St Roch\n\nSt Roch may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1829196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829196", "title": "Westward Journey Online II", "text": "Westward Journey Online II\n\nWestward Journey Online II () is a MMORPG developed and run by NetEase. After its initial release it began experiencing serious technical problems and was closed for reworking, to be reopened several months later as \"Westward Journey II\". Another MMORPG, Fantasy Westward Journey, uses the same engine with a different graphical style. Westward Journey is one of the most popular online games in China, with a peak concurrent user count of 588,000 as of March 2005 and with over 56 million registered accounts, ranking it in the top 3 MMORPG games in China at the time. Registered users reached 83 million by July 2006.\n\nThe content of the game is heavily inspired by classical Chinese literature: the title is a reference to one such source, Journey to the West. Unlike many Western MMORPG's, the games feature prominent nudity and anti-religious themes. \"Westward Journey II\" met with controversy when the State party closed it for several months, due to criticism of the party in-game.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829197", "title": "Jim Parton", "text": "Jim Parton\n\nJim Parton is the author of several books, including \"Unreasonable Behaviour\", \"The Bucks Stops Here\" and \"Playing Footsie\". He also wrote a book with the pop star Robbie Williams, entitled 'Let Me Entertain You.'\n\nHe used to be a fathers' rights activist and was chairman of FNF for five years and later editor of the charity's newsletter, \"McKenzie\". Jim was a frequent spokesperson on family law issues in the UK media .\n\nHe now lives in Southern Poland where he is restoring a seventeenth-century former bishop's palace with his wife at Piotrowice Nyskie, near Nysa. He writes occasionally on the internet and for the press.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829198", "title": "Communist Party in Denmark", "text": "Communist Party in Denmark\n\nCommunist Party in Denmark () is a communist political party in Denmark.\n\nKPiD was founded in 1990, as a split from the Communist Party of Denmark (DKP). The founders of KPiD opposed the DKP decision (with other political fractions) to start the Unity List political party. KPiD can be seen as more ideologically orthodox than DKP.\n\nKPiD is one of four active communist parties in Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829202", "title": "Marion Fraser", "text": "Marion Fraser\n\nLady Marion Anne Fraser (née Forbes; 17 October 1932 – 25 December 2016) was a Scottish music educator.\n\nFraser was the daughter of Elizabeth Taylor Watt and Robert Forbes. She was attended school in Glasgow at Hutchesons' Girls' Grammar School, going on to the University of Glasgow in 1950, to study for an MA. While a student at the University, she was elected President of the Queen Margaret Union. She then attended the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama where she studied piano.\n\nIn 1956, she married William Kerr Fraser, a former President of the Glasgow University Students' Representative Council and at the time a junior civil servant at the Scottish Office. He went on to become Permanent Secretary there, and later Principal and then Chancellor of the University of Glasgow. The couple had four children, three sons and one daughter.\n\nFraser worked as a music teacher and became Director of St Mary's Music School in Edinburgh from 1989 to 1995, as well as being Founding Chair of the Friends of the Royal Scottish Academy from 1986–89, a governor of the former Laurel Bank School for Girls from 1988 to 1995 and a Director of Scottish Opera from 1990-1994. In 1996, shortly after stepping down as Director of St. Mary's, she was created a Lady of the Order of the Thistle. Her husband had been created a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1979 (and subsequently elevated within the order to Knight Grand Cross), entitling her to be addressed as Lady Fraser, however she now became Lady Marion Fraser in her own right.\n\nFraser had been a trustee of the Scottish Churches Architectural Heritage Trust since 1989, and President of Scotland's Churches Scheme since 1997. She was trustee of the Lamp of Lothian Collegiate Trust from 1996 to 2005, and Chairman of the Board of Christian Aid from 1990–97, and of both the Scottish International Piano Competition and the Scottish Association for Mental Health from 1995-99. She served as Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland from 1994 to 1995.\n\nFraser was made an Honorary Member of the Company of Merchants of the City of Edinburgh in 1998 and an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow in 2002, and was awarded an honorary LL.D. degree by the University of Glasgow in 1995 and an honorary D.Univ. degree by the University of Stirling in 1998.\n\nShe died at St Columba's Hospice, Edinburgh, on 25 December 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1829206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829206", "title": "Pedare Christian College", "text": "Pedare Christian College\n\nPedare Christian College is a joint Independent, junior, middle and senior school in South Australia. The junior school comprises reception to year 5, the middle school years 6 to 9, and the senior school years 10 to 12.\n\nThis school is a member of the Association of Independent Schools of South Australia, the Anglican Schools Heads Group, the Uniting Church Educational Ministries Commission, the Junior School Heads Association of Australia and the South Australian Christian Schools Association.\n\nThe Surrey Farm campus shares facilities with Gleeson College and Golden Grove High School, resulting in an extended curriculum and extra resources. Pedare Christian College is governed by a college board containing members elected from the college community, and representatives from the Anglican and Uniting churches.\n\nThe name \"Pedare\" originally came from a vineyard on Ladywood Road, Modbury Heights, owned by Leonard Tolley. It was formed from the names of his sons, Peter, David, and Reginald. The joint campus was originally going to be on this location but it was decided otherwise. That location is now The Heights School.\n\nThe founders decided to use the name \"Pedare\" to recognise the past pioneers. The names of the five communities, or houses, of the school also came from surrounding areas. Eldergreen, from Elder Green Farm, Brooklyn, from Brooklyn Villa Farm, Greenwith, from Greenwith Farm, Surrey, from Surrey Farm and Hillcott, from Hillcott Farm.\n\nIn 1984 Delfin Management Services were developing land in Golden Grove, along with Urban Land Trust. They came up with the idea to make a joint school, and contacted the Pedare foundation planning committee to see if they wanted to join this scheme, saying two of the joint schools would be a Catholic College, and a Government High School. Pedare agreed. Pedare Christian College had its first official school day in 1986. There were 90 students, spread through Years 7 and 8. By 1990 Pedare had enrolments in all Secondary School levels, Years 8 to 12. In 1991 the school board decided to form a Primary school, and located it at nearby Bicentennial Drive.\n\nToday, Pedare is a successful college with over 1100 students. In 2005 Years 6 to 9 were relocated to the Surrey Farm Campus, forming a middle school.\n\nThe Junior, Middle and Senior Schools are now all on the same campus. All campuses are located in Golden Grove, South Australia, off Surrey Farm Drive.\n\nCaptains\n\nAll student captains are elected then voted upon and chosen by the school leadership.\n\"Year 12 Captains\"\n\n\"Year 9 Captains\"\n\n\"Year 5 Captains\"\n\nOther notable leadership roles\n\n\"Year 12 Leaders\"\n\n\"Year 9 Leaders\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829212", "title": "North East Hampshire (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North East Hampshire (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth East Hampshire is a constituency\n"}
{"id": "1829215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829215", "title": "Left Socialists", "text": "Left Socialists\n\nLeft Socialists () was a political party in Denmark. The party worked on what it called an 'undogmatic revolutionary and Marxist basis'. It was formed in 1967 as a split from the Socialist People's Party (SF).\n\nIn 1989 the Left Socialists founded the Red-Green Alliance with the Communist Party of Denmark and Socialist Workers Party to contest in elections. At its congress in 1998 the Left Socialists transformed itself from a party to an association. Since then, VS concentrated most of its work towards building of the Red-Green Alliance. It continued to publish \"Solidaritet\" (Solidarity) and maintained a website, but except for that it had little activity of its own. \"Solidarity\" later became an independent publisher.\n\nOn 8 September 2013, the Left Socialists disbanded, explaining they did not want to be a \"party within the party\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1829217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829217", "title": "Frederick Rentschler", "text": "Frederick Rentschler\n\nFrederick Brant Rentschler (November 8, 1887 – April 25, 1956) was an American aircraft engine designer, aviation engineer, industrialist, and the founder of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Rentschler created and manufactured many revolutionary aircraft engines, including those used in the aircraft of Charles Lindbergh, Amelia Earhart and James Doolittle. He is also a co-founder of United Aircraft and Transport Corporation, the predecessor of United Technologies Corporation.\n\nRentschler was born on November 8, 1887 in Hamilton, Ohio, to German-Americans George A. Rentschler and Phoebe Schwab, whose family owned the Republic Motor Car Co. that built Republic cars from 1910 until 1916. They were also principals in Hooven-Owens-Rentschler, and his brother Gordon S. Rentschler would become Chairman of National City Bank. The family resided in the Rentschler House, which has since been named a historic site.\n\nHe graduated from Princeton University in 1909 and worked in his family's businesses as a molder and machinist. When the U.S. entered World War I in 1917, he joined the United States Army. As a First Lieutenant and later Captain, he was assigned to inspect Hispano-Suiza aircraft engines manufactured under French license at the Wright-Martin plant in New Brunswick, New Jersey. The armistice of November 11, 1918, ended the contract and caused the reorganization of Wright-Martin.\n\nRentschler left the Army convinced that future aircraft would require lighter-weight engines with much greater power and higher reliability. His proposed design of an air-cooled engine flew in the face of conventional wisdom, which held that heavier liquid-cooled engines would power the future of aviation.\n\nRentschler became president of the Wright Aeronautical Corporation and pressed for research into his idea. Unable to convince his board of directors, largely composed of investment bankers with little aviation knowledge, he resigned in 1924, and supported by old friend and Wright chief engineer George J. Mead, he developed a proposal for a high-powered air-cooled aircraft engine for the U.S. Navy. Admiral William A. Moffett promised to approve the purchase of such an engine.\n\nRentschler approached the Pratt & Whitney Machine Tool Company of Hartford, Connecticut, with his idea. On July 23, 1925, they agreed to fund its development, creating the Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company in which Rentschler and Mead had a controlling position.\n\nPratt & Whitney Aircraft's first engine, completed on Christmas Eve 1925, was named the Wasp by Faye Belden Rentschler, whom Frederick had married July 25, 1921. The Wasp easily passed its official qualification test in March 1926 and the Navy ordered 200 engines. The speed, climb performance, and reliability that the engine offered revolutionized American aviation. Over the next twenty years, from the original Wasp design the Pratt & Whitney Wasp series developed, approaching ten times the power of the 1925 engine.\n\nIn 1929, Rentschler ended his association with Pratt & Whitney Machine Tool Company, but was allowed to keep the name Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company. Rentschler, Vought and William Boeing of The Boeing Company formed the United Aircraft and Transport Corporation. United Aircraft completed the first coast-to-coast passenger network in March of that year.\n\nIn 1934, UATC was broken up, and its manufacturing interests east of the Mississippi River became United Aircraft Corporation, headquartered in Hartford with Rentschler as president.\n\nRentschler turned to developing jet engines after World War II. Pratt & Whitney produced the J57 jet engine in 1953. The engine was used to power the first B-52 Stratofortress in 1954.\n\nRentschler remained as president of United Aircraft until his death on April 25, 1956, in Boca Raton, Florida. He is buried at Fairview Cemetery in West Hartford.\n\nIn 1951, Rentschler was made an Officer of the Légion d'honneur “for his contribution to the progress of aeronautical science\".\n\nIn 1958, the United States Air Force posthumously presented him with the Civilian Service Award for Exceptional Service as a pioneer in the development, research and manufacture of aircraft engines.\n\nHe was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 1982.\n\nPratt & Whitney's former company airfield, located in East Hartford, Connecticut, was named Rentschler Field in his honor. The airfield was decommissioned in 1995, and the land it was on was donated to the state of Connecticut in 1999. A stadium, also called Rentschler Field, was built on the site and opened in 2003 as the home field for the University of Connecticut football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829223", "title": "Charlotte Bach", "text": "Charlotte Bach\n\nKaroly Hajdu (1920–1981), better-known as Charlotte Bach, was a Hungarian-British impostor who later in life became a trans woman and fringe evolutionary theorist. She developed an alternative theory of evolution which acquired a cult following among prominent writers and scientists in the London of the 1970s. They, without exception, remained ignorant of her true identity until after her death.\n\nHajdu was born near Budapest in 1920. In the wake of World War II she moved to England and in 1948 began to use the name Baron Carl Hajdu. In 1956 she collected money for Hungarian freedom fighters resisting the then Soviet occupation. \"The People\", which specialised in lurid exposés, alleged that Hajdu had pocketed the proceeds. He was found guilty of fraud in 1957, and was forced into bankruptcy.\n\nHajdu then adopted the persona of writer and society hypnotherapist Michel Karoly. She rented an apartment in Mayfair. She began to acquire a following in polite society, and wrote an agony uncle column in a mass-selling magazine of the day. Karoly continued in this role until 1965, when both her wife and stepson suddenly died. She was declared bankrupt again, and in 1966 was sentenced to two months in gaol for acquiring a loan whilst bankrupt.\n\nBy her own account, the sudden deaths had precipitated a profound identity crisis.\n\nIn 1968, Hajdu adopted the new identity of Dr Charlotte Bach, a supposed former lecturer at Budapest's Eötvös Loránd University, whose alumni included the philosophers Michael and Karl Polanyi and the mathematician John von Neumann.\n\n'Dr Bach' would openly tell lecture audiences how at first, putting ads in the windows of local newsagents, she had worked as a dominatrix. This experience had provided invaluable research data, she said, for the purpose of compiling a dictionary of psychology. These researches had in turn led to the all-embracing theory.\n\nShe lived full-time as Charlotte Bach until she died. She was thus what is sometimes referred to as a \"non-op trans woman\".\n\nIn 1971 Bach unveiled her transformative, as she would insist, theory of evolution. Among other things, she argued, it correctly displaced Darwinism in favour of Lamarckism. Drawing heavily on the work of animal ethologists such as Tinbergen and Konrad Lorenz, she argued that humans experience in varying degrees a pull towards becoming the opposite sex. This urge could either be denied or \"asseverated\": gays and femme lesbians, for example, are women in men's bodies or vice versa, but transvestites and butch lesbians are not. This gave rise to eight possible permutations.\n\nThis deep-seated and ineradicable phenomenon, she argued, was the true engine of evolutionary change. It was also the key to the proper understanding of culture—including science, politics and religion. Upon such reasoning, backed up by a polymathic accumulation of supporting evidence and a forceful lecturing style, she elaborated what she called the science of Human Ethology.\nEminent scientists who sought to engage with the apparent challenges of Bach's theory included the biologist Brian Goodwin and W. Grey Walter, a pioneer of cybernetics and former head of the Burden Neurological Institute in Bristol.\n\nBach attracted the interest in particular of the English writer Colin Wilson, as well as of a number of eminent British scientists and academics. Wilson began to write about her theory. Bach became a cult figure. A small group of followers who would gather at her home at Holly Lodge in Highgate, while weekly lectures would take place elsewhere. An Institute of Human Ethology was set up to promote her ideas and stimulate further research. Her literary executors included the then professor of educational technology at Britain's Open University. She was invited to speak at Sussex University and at Darwin College, Cambridge, named in honour of the man most of whose ideas she wished to consign to the dustbin.\n\nIn due course, leading members of London's then burgeoning Gay Liberation movement—equally ignorant of Bach's true identity—took up human ethology and started publishing pamphlets of their own, much attracted by the tantalising notion of homosexuals as the vanguard of evolutionary change.\n\nBach continued to elaborate upon her original thesis up to the time of her death in 1981.\n\n\n"}
