{"id": "1882828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882828", "title": "Aṅgulimāla", "text": "Aṅgulimāla\n\nAṅgulimāla (Pāli language; 'finger necklace') is an important figure in Buddhism, particularly within the Theravāda tradition. Depicted as a ruthless brigand who completely transforms after a conversion to Buddhism, he is seen as the example par excellence of the redemptive power of the Buddha's teaching and the Buddha's skill as a teacher. Aṅgulimāla is seen by Buddhists as the \"patron saint\" of childbirth and is associated with fertility in South and Southeast Asia.\n\nAṅgulimāla's story can be found in numerous sources in Pāli, Sanskrit, Tibetan and Chinese. Aṅgulimāla is born Ahiṃsaka. He grows up as an intelligent young man in Sāvatthī, and during his studies becomes the favorite student of his teacher. However, out of jealousy, fellow students set him up against his teacher. In an attempt to get rid of Aṅgūlimāla, the teacher sends him on a deadly mission to find a thousand human fingers to complete his studies. Trying to accomplish this mission, Aṅgulimāla becomes a cruel brigand, killing many and causing entire villages to emigrate. Eventually, this causes the king to send an army to catch the killer. Meanwhile, Aṅgulimāla's mother attempts to interfere, almost causing her to be killed by her son as well. The Buddha manages to prevent this, however, and uses his power and teachings to bring Aṅgulimāla to the right path. Aṅgulimāla becomes a follower of the Buddha, and to the surprise of the king and others, becomes a monk under his guidance. Villagers are still angry with Aṅgulimāla, but this is improved somewhat when Aṅgulimāla helps a mother with childbirth through an act of truth.\n\nScholars have theorized that Aṅgulimāla may have been part of a violent cult before his conversion. Indologist Richard Gombrich has suggested that he was a follower of an early form of Tantra, but this claim has been debunked. Buddhists consider Aṅgulimāla a symbol of spiritual transformation, and his story a lesson that everyone can change their life for the better, even the least likely people. This inspired the official Buddhist prison chaplaincy in the UK to name their organization after him. Moreover, Aṅgulimāla's story is referred to in scholarly discussions of justice and rehabilitation, and is seen by theologian John Thompson as a good example of coping with moral injury and an ethics of care. Aṅgulimāla has been the subject of movies and literature, with a Thai movie of the same name choosing to depict him following the earliest sources, and the book \"The Buddha and the Terrorist\" by Satish Kumar adapting the story as a non-violent response to the Global War on Terror.\n\nThe story of Aṅgulimāla is most well-known in the Theravāda tradition. Two texts in the early discourses in the Pāli language are concerned with Aṅgulimāla's initial encounter with the Buddha and his conversion, and are believed to present the oldest version of the story. The first is the Theragāthā, probably the oldest of the two, and the second is the Aṅgulimāla Sutta in the Majjhima Nikāya. Both offer a short description of Aṅgulimāla's encounter with the Buddha, and do not mention much of the background information later incorporated into the story (such as Aṅgulimāla being placed under oath by a teacher). Apart from the Pāli texts, the life of Aṅgulimāla is also described in Tibetan and Chinese texts which originate from Sanskrit. The Sanskrit collection called Saṃyuktāgama from the early Mūlasārvastivāda school, has been translated in two Chinese texts (in the 4th5th century CE) by the early Sarvāstivāda and Kāśyapīya schools and also contains versions of the story. A text translated in Chinese from the Sanskrit Ekottara Agāma by the Mahāsaṃghika school is also known. Furthermore, three other Chinese texts dealing with Aṅgulimāla have also been found, of unknown origin but different from the first three Chinese texts.\n\nApart from these early texts, there are also later renderings, which appear in the commentary to the Majjhima Nikāya attributed to Buddhaghosa (5th century CE) and the Theragāthā commentary attributed to Dhammapāla (6th century CE). The two commentaries do not appear to be independent of one another: it appears that Dhammapāla has copied or closely paraphrased Buddhaghosa, although adding explanation of some inconsistencies. The earliest accounts of Aṅgulimāla's life emphasize the fearless violence of Aṅgulimāla and, by contrast, the peacefulness of the Buddha. Later accounts attempt to include more detail and clarify anything that might not conform with Buddhist doctrine. For example, one problem that is likely to have raised questions is the sudden transformation from a killer to an enlightened disciplelater accounts try to explain this. Later accounts also include more miracles, however, and together with the many narrative details this tends to overshadow the main points of the story. The early Pāli discourses () do not provide for any motive for Aṅgulimāla's actions, other than sheer cruelty. Later texts may represent attempts by later commentators to \"rehabilitate\" the character of Aṅgulimāla, making him appear as a fundamentally good human being entrapped by circumstance, rather than as a vicious killer. In addition to the discourses and verses, there are also Jātaka tales, the Milindapañhā, and parts of the monastic discipline that deal with Aṅgulimāla, as well as the later Mahāvaṃsa chronicle.\n\nLater texts from other languages that relate Aṅgulimāla's life include the Avadāna text called Sataka, as well as a later collection of tales called \"Discourse on the Wise and the Fool\", which exists in Tibetan and Chinese. There are also travel accounts of Chinese pilgrims that mention Aṅgulimāla briefly. In addition to descriptions of the life of Aṅgulimāla, there is a Mahāyāna discourse called the Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra, which Gautama Buddha addresses to Aṅgulimāla. This is one of the Tathāgatagarbha Sūtras, a group of discourses that deal with the Buddha Nature. There is another \"sūtra\" with the same name, referred to in Chinese texts, which was used to defend the Buddhist stance against alcoholic beverages. This text has not been found, however. Apart from textual evidence, early epigraphic evidence has also been found. One of the earliest reliefs that depicts Aṅgulimāla dates from approximately 3rd century BCE.\n\nThe texts describe a previous incarnation before Aṅgulimāla met the Buddha Gautama. In this life, he was born as a man-eating king turned \"yaksha\" (, a sort of demon; ), in some texts called Saudāsa. Saudāsa develops an interest in consuming human flesh when he is served the flesh of a dead baby. When he asks for more, his subjects start to fear for their children's safety and he is driven from his own kingdom. Growing into a monster, Saudāsa meets a deity that promises Saudāsa can retrieve his status as king if he sacrifices one hundred other kings. Having killed 99 kings, a king called Sutasoma changes Saudāsa's mind and makes him a religious man, and he gives up all violence. The texts identify Sutasoma with a previous incarnation of the Buddha, and Saudāsa with a previous incarnation of Aṅgulimāla.\n\nAccording to the Ekottara Agāma, however, in a previous incarnation Aṅgulimāla is a crown prince, whose goodness and virtue irritate his enemies. When his enemies kill him, he takes a vow just before his death that he may avenge his death, and attain Nirvana in a future life under the guidance of a master. In this version, the killings by Aṅgulimāla's are therefore justified as a response to the evil done to him in a past life, and his victims receive the same treatment they once subjected Aṅgulimāla with.\n\nIn most texts, Aṅgulimāla is born in Sāvatthī, in the brahman (priest) caste of the Gagga clan, his father Bhaggava being the chaplain of the king of Kosala, and his mother called Mantānī. According to commentarial texts, omens seen at the time of the child's birth (the flashing of weapons and the appearance of the \"constellation of thieves\" in the sky) indicate that the child is destined to become a brigand. As the father is interpreting the omens for the king, the king asks whether the child will be a lone brigand or a band leader. When Bhaggava replies that he will be a lone brigand, the king decides to let it live.\n\nBuddhaghosa relates that the father names the child Ahiṃsaka, meaning 'the harmless one'. This is derived from the word \"ahiṃsa\" (non-violence), because no-one is hurt at his birth, despite the bad omens. The commentary by Dhammapāla states that he is initially named Hiṃsaka ('the harmful one') by the worried king, but that the name is later changed.\n\nHaving grown up, Ahiṃsaka is handsome, intelligent and well-behaved. His parents send him to Taxila to study under a well-known teacher. There he excels in his studies and becomes the teacher's favorite student, enjoying special privileges in his teacher's house. However, the other students grow jealous of Ahiṃsaka's speedy progress and seek to turn his master against him. To that end, they make it seem as though Ahiṃsaka has seduced the master's wife. Unwilling or unable to attack Ahiṃsaka directly, the teacher says that Ahiṃsaka's training as a true brahman is almost complete, but that he must provide the traditional final gift offered to a teacher and then he will grant his approval. As his payment, the teacher demands a thousand fingers, each taken from a different human being, thinking that Aṅgulimāla will be killed in the course of seeking this grisly prize. According to Buddhaghosa, Ahiṃsaka objects to this, saying he comes from a peaceful family, but eventually the teacher persuades him. But according to other versions, Ahiṃsaka does not protest against the teacher's command.\n\nIn another version of the story, the teacher's wife tries to seduce Ahiṃsaka. When the latter refuses her advances, she is spiteful and tells the teacher Ahiṃsaka has tried to seduce her. The story continues in the same way.\n\nFollowing his teacher's bidding, Aṅgulimāla becomes a highwayman, living on a cliff in a forest called Jālinī where he can see people passing through, and kills or hurts those travelers. He becomes infamous for his skill in seizing his victims. When the people start to avoid roads, he enters villages and drags people from their homes to kill them. Entire villages become abandoned. He never takes clothes or jewels from his victims, only fingers. To keep count of the number of victims that he has taken, he strings them on a thread and hangs them on a tree. However, because birds begin to eat the flesh from the fingers, he starts to wear them as a sacrificial thread. Thus he comes to be known as \"Aṅgulimāla\", meaning 'necklace of fingers'. In some reliefs, he is depicted as wearing a headdress of fingers rather than a necklace.\n\nSurviving villagers migrate from the area and complain to Pasenadi, the king of Kosala. Pasenadi responds by sending an army of 500 soldiers to hunt down Aṅgulimāla. Meanwhile, Aṅgulimāla's parents hear about the news that Pasenadi is hunting an outlaw. Since Aṅgulimāla was born with bad omens, they conclude it must be him. Although the father prefers not to interfere, the mother disagrees. Fearing for her son's life, she sets out to find her son, warn him of the king's intent and take care of him. The Buddha perceives through meditative vision () that Aṅgulimāla has slain 999 victims, and is desperately seeking a thousandth. If the Buddha is to encounter Aṅgulimāla that day, the latter will become a monk and subsequently attain \"abhiñña\". However, if Aṅgulimāla is to kill his mother instead, she will be his thousandth victim and he will be unsavable, since matricide in Buddhism is considered one of the five worst actions a person can commit.\n\nThe Buddha sets off to intercept Aṅgulimāla, despite being warned by local villagers not to go. On the road through the forest of Kosala, Aṅgulimāla first sees his mother. According to some versions of the story, he then has a moment of reconciliation with her, she providing food for him. After some deliberation, however, he decides to make her his thousandth victim. But then when the Buddha also arrives, he chooses to kill him instead. He draws his sword, and starts running towards the Buddha. But although Aṅgulimāla is running as fast as he can, he cannot catch up with the Buddha who is walking calmly. The Buddha is using some supernatural accomplishment (; ) that affects Aṅgulimāla: one text states the Buddha through these powers contracts and expands the earth on which they stand, thus keeping a distance of Aṅgulimāla. This bewilders Aṅgulimāla so much that he calls to the Buddha to stop. The Buddha then says that he himself has already stopped, and that it is Aṅgulimāla who should stop:\n\nAṅgulimāla asks for further explanation, after which the Buddha says that a good monk should control his desires. Aṅgulimāla is impressed by the Buddha's courage, and struck with guilt about what he has done. After listening to the Buddha, Aṅgulimāla reverently declares himself converted, vows to cease his life as a brigand and joins the Buddhist monastic order. He is admitted in the Jetavana monastery.\n\nMeanwhile, King Pasenadi sets out to kill Aṅgulimāla. He stops first to pay a visit to the Buddha and his followers at the Jetavana monastery. He explains to the Buddha his purpose, and the Buddha asks how the king will respond if he were to discover that Aṅgulimāla had given up the life of a highwayman and become a monk. The king says that he would salute him and offer to provide for him in his monastic vocation. The Buddha then reveals that Aṅgulimāla is sitting only a few feet away, his hair and beard shaven off, a member of the Buddhist order. The king, astounded but also delighted, addresses Aṅgulimāla by his clan and mother's name () and offers to donate robe materials to Aṅgulimāla. Aṅgulimāla, however, does not accept the gift, because of an ascetic training he observes.\n\nIn the end, the king chooses not to persecute Aṅgulimāla. This passage would agree with Buddhologist André Bareau's observation that there was an unwritten agreement of mutual non-interference between the Buddha and kings and rulers of the time.\n\nLater, Aṅgulimāla comes across a young woman undergoing difficult labor during a childbirth. Aṇgulimāla is profoundly moved by this, and understands pain and feels compassion to an extent he did not know when he was still a brigand. He goes to the Buddha and asks him what he can do to ease her pain. The Buddha tells Aṅgulimāla to go to the woman and say:\n\nAṅgulimāla points out that it would be untrue for him to say this, to which the Buddha responds with this revised stanza:\n\nThe Buddha is here drawing Angulimala's attention to his choice of having become a monk, describing this as a second birth that contrasts with his previous life as a brigand. \"Jāti\" means birth, but the word is also glossed in the Pāli commentaries as clan or lineage (). Thus, the word \"jāti\" here also refers to the lineage of the Buddhas, i.e. the monastic community.\n\nAfter Aṅgulimāla makes this \"act of truth\", the woman safely gives birth to her child. This verse later became one of the protective verses, commonly called the \"Aṅgulimāla paritta\". Monastics continue to recite the text during blessings for pregnant women in Theravāda countries, and often memorize it as part of monastic training. Thus, Aṅgulimāla is widely seen by devotees as the \"patron saint\" of childbirth. Changing from a murderer to a person seen to ensure safe childbirth has been a huge transformation.\n\nThis event helps Aṅgulimāla to find peace. After performing the act of truth, he is seen to \"bring life rather than death to the townspeople\" and people start to approach him and provide him with almsfood.\n\nHowever, a resentful few cannot forget that he was responsible for the deaths of their loved ones. With sticks and stones they attack him as he walks for alms. With a bleeding head, torn outer robe and a broken alms bowl, Aṅgulimāla manages to return to the monastery. The Buddha encourages Aṅgulimāla to bear his torment with equanimity; he indicates that Aṅgulimāla is experiencing the fruits of the karma that would otherwise have condemned him to hell. Having become an enlightened disciple, Aṅgulimāla remains firm and invulnerable in mind. According to Buddhist teachings, enlightened disciples cannot create any new karma, but they may still be subject to the effects of old karma that they once did. The effects of his karma are inevitable, and even the Buddha cannot stop them from occurring.\n\nAfter having admitted Aṅgulimāla in the monastic order, the Buddha issues a rule that from now on, no criminals should be accepted as monks in the order. Buddhaghosa states that Aṅgulimāla dies shortly after becoming a monk. After his death, a discussion arises among the monks as to what Aṅgulimāla's afterlife destination is. When the Buddha states that Aṅgulimāla has attained Nirvana, this surprises some monks. They wonder how it is possible for someone who killed so many people to still attain enlightenment. The Buddha responds that even after having done much evil, a person still has a possibility to change for the better and attain enlightenment.\n\nThe giving of goodbye gifts to one's teacher was customary in ancient India. There is an example in the \"Book of Pauṣya\" of the Vedic epic \"Mahābharatha\". Here the teacher sends his disciple Uttanka away after Uttanka has proven himself worthy of being trustworthy and in the possession of all the Vedic and Dharmashastric teachings. Uttanka says to his teacher:\n\nIndologist Friedrich Wilhelm maintains that similar phrases already occur in the \"Book of Manu\" (II,111) and in the \"Institutes of Vishnu\". By taking leave of their teacher and promising to do whatever their teacher asks of them, brings, according to the Vedic teachings, enlightenment or a similar attainment. It is therefore not unusual that Aṅgulimāla is described to do his teacher's horrible bidding—although being a good and kind person at heart—in the knowledge that in the end he will reap the highest attainment.\n\nIndologist Richard Gombrich has postulated that the story of Aṅgulimāla may be a historical encounter between the Buddha and a follower of an early Saivite or Shakti form of tantra. Gombrich reaches this conclusion on the basis of a number of inconsistencies in the texts that indicate possible corruption, and the fairly weak explanations for Aṅgulimāla's behavior provided by the commentators. He notes that there are several other references in the early Pāli canon that seem to indicate the presence of devotees of Śaiva, Kāli, and other divinities associated with sanguinary (violent) tantric practices. The textual inconsistencies discovered could be explained through this theory.\n\nThe idea that Aṅgulimāla was part of a violent cult was already suggested by the Chinese pilgrim Xuan Zang (602–64 CE). In his travel accounts, Xuan Zang states that Aṅgulimāla's was taught by his teacher that he would be born in the Brahma heaven if he killed a Buddha. A Chinese early text gives a similar description, stating that Aṅgulimāla's teacher followed the gruesome instructions of his guru, to attain immortality. Xuan Zang's suggestion was further developed by European translators of Xuan Zang's travel accounts in the early twentieth century, but partly based on translation errors. Regardless, Gombrich is the first recent scholar to postulate this idea. However, Gombrich's claim that tantric practices existed before the finalization of the canon of Buddhist discourses (two to three centuries BCE) goes against mainstream scholarship. Scholarly consensus places the arising of the first tantric cults about a thousand years later, and no corroborating evidence has been found, whether textual or otherwise, of earlier sanguinary tantric practices. Though Gombrich argues that there other, similar antinomian practices (going against moral norms) which are only mentioned once in Buddhist scriptures and for which no evidence can be found outside of the scriptures, Buddhist Studies scholars Mudagamuwa and Von Rospatt dismiss these as incorrect examples. They also take issue with Gombrich's metrical arguments, thus disagreeing with Gombrich's hypotheses with regard to Aṅgulimāla. They do consider it possible, however, that Angulimāla's violent practices were part of some kind of historical cult. Buddhist Studies scholar L. S. Cousins has also expressed doubts about Gombrich's theory.\n\nIn the Chinese translation of the Damamūkhāvadāna by Hui-chiao, as well as in archaeological findings, Aṅgulimāla is identified with the mythological Hindu king Kalmashapada or Saudāsa, known since Vedic times. Ancient texts often describe Saudāsa's life as Aṅgulimāla's previous life, and both characters deal with the problem of being a good \"brahman\".\n\nStudying art depictions in the Gandhāra region, Archeologist Maurizio Taddei theorizes that the story of Aṅgulimāla may point at an Indian mythology with regard to a \"yakṣa\" living in the wild. In many depictions Aṅgulimāla is wearing a headdress, which Taddei describes as an example of dionysian-like iconography. Art historian Pia Brancaccio argues, however, that the headdress is an Indian symbol used for figures associated with the wild or hunting. She concurs with Taddei that depictions of Aṅgulimāla, especially in Gandhāra, are in many ways reminiscent of dionysian themes in Greek art an mythology, and influence is highly likely. However, Brancaccio argues that the headdress was essentially an Indian symbol, used by artists to indicate Aṅgulimāla belonged to a forest tribe, feared by the early Buddhists who were mostly urban.\n\nAmong Buddhists, Aṅgulimāla is one of the most well-known stories. Not only in modern times: in ancient times, two important Chinese pilgrims travelling to India reported about the story, and reported about the places they visited that were associated with Aṅgulimāla's life. From a Buddhist perspective, Aṅgulimāla's story serves as an example that even the worst of people can overcome their faults and return to the right path. The commentaries uphold the story as an example of good karma destroying evil karma. Buddhists widely regard Aṅgulimāla as a symbol of complete transformation and as a showcase that the Buddhist path can transform even the least likely initiates. Buddhists have raised Aṅgulimāla's story as an example of the compassion () and supernatural accomplishment () of the Buddha. Aṅgulimāla's conversion is cited as a testimony to the Buddha's capabilities as a teacher, and as an example of the healing qualities of the teaching of the Buddha (Dharma).\n\nThrough his reply, the Buddha connects the notion of 'refraining from harming' () with \"stillness\", which is the cause and effect of not harming. Furthermore, the story illustrates that there is spiritual power in such stillness, as the Buddha is depicted as outrunning the violent Aṅgulimāla. Though this is explained as being the result of the Buddha's supernatural accomplishment, the deeper meaning is that \"... 'the spiritually still person' can move faster than the 'conventionally active' person\". In other words, spiritual achievement is only possible through non-violence. Furthermore, this stillness refers to the Buddhist notion of liberation from karma: as long as one cannot escape from the endless law of karmic retribution, one can at least lessen one's karma by practicing non-violence. The texts describe this as form of stillness, as opposed to the continuous movement of karmic retribution.\n\nThe story of Aṅgulimāla illustrates how criminals are affected by their psycho-social and physical environment. Jungian analyst Dale Mathers theorizes that Ahiṃsaka started to kill because his meaning system had broken down. He was no longer appreciated as an academic talent. His attitude could be summarized as \"I have no value: therefore I can kill. If I kill, then that proves I have no value\". Summarizing the life of Aṅgulimāla, Mathers writes, who bridges giving and taking life.\" Similarly, referring to the psychological concept of moral injury, theologian John Thompson describes Aṅgulimāla as someone who is betrayed by an authority figure but manages to recover his eroded moral code and repair the community he has affected. Survivors of moral injury need a clinician and a community of people that face struggles together but deal with those in a safe way; similarly, Aṅgulimāla is able to recover from his moral injury due to the Buddha as his spiritual guide, and a monastic community that leads a disciplined life, tolerating hardship. Thompson has further suggested Aṅgulimāla's story might be used as a sort of narrative therapy and describes the ethics presented in the narrative as inspiring responsibility. The story is not about being saved, but rather saving oneself with help from others. \n\nEthics scholar David Loy has written extensively about Aṅgulimāla's story and the implications it has for the justice system. He believes that in Buddhist ethics, the only reason offenders should be punished is to reform their character. If an offender, like Aṅgulimāla, has already reformed himself, there is no reason to punish him, even as a deterrent. Furthermore, Loy argues that the story of Aṅgulimāla does not include any form of restorative or transformative justice, and therefore considers the story \"flawed\" as an example of justice. Former politician and community health scholar Mathura Shrestha, on the other hand, describes Aṅgulimāla's story as \"[p]robably the first concept of transformative justice\", citing Aṅgulimāla's repentance and renunciation of his former life as a brigand, and the pardon he eventually receives from relatives of victims. Writing about capital punishment, scholar Damien Horigan notes that rehabilitation is the main theme of Aṅgulimāla's story, and that witnessing such rehabilitation is the reason why King Pasenadi does not persecute Aṅgulimāla.\n\nIn Sri Lankan pre-birth rituals, when the Aṅgulimāla Sutta is chanted for a pregnant woman, it is custom to surround her with objects symbolizing fertility and reproduction, such as parts of the coconut tree and earthen pots. Scholars have pointed out that in Southeast Asian mythology, there are links between bloodthirsty figures and fertility motifs. The shedding of blood can be found in both violence and childbirth, which explains why Aṅgulimāla is both depicted as a killer and a healer with regard to childbirth.\n\nWith regard to the passage when the Buddha meets Aṅgulimāla, feminist scholar Liz Wilson concludes that the story is an example of cooperation and interdependence between the sexes: both the Buddha and Aṅgulimāla's mother help to stop him. Similarly, Thompson argues that mothers play an important role in the story, also citing the passage of the mother trying to stop Aṅgulimāla, as well as Aṅgulimāla healing a mother giving childbirth. Furthermore, both the Buddha and Aṅgulimāla take on motherly roles in the story. Although many ancient Indian stories associate women with qualities like foolishness and powerlessness, Aṅgulimāla's story accepts feminine qualities, and the Buddha acts as a wise adviser to use those qualities in a constructive way. Nevertheless, Thompson does not consider the story feminist in any way, but does argue it contains a feminine kind of ethics of care, rooted in Buddhism.\n\nThroughout Buddhist history, Aṅgulimāla's story has been depicted in many art forms, some of which can be found in museums and Buddhist heritage sites. In modern culture, Aṅgulimāla still plays an important role. In 1985, the British-born Theravāda monk Ajahn Khemadhammo founded Angulimala, a Buddhist Prison Chaplaincy organization in the UK. It has been recognized by the British government as the official representative of the Buddhist religion in all matters concerning the British prison system, and provides chaplains, counselling services, and instruction in Buddhism and meditation to prisoners throughout England, Wales, and Scotland. The name of the organization refers to the power of transformation illustrated by Aṅgulimāla's story.\nAccording to the website of the organization, \"The story of Angulimala teaches us that the possibility of Enlightenment may be awakened in the most extreme of circumstances, that people can and do change and that people are best influenced by persuasion and above all, example.\"\n\nIn popular culture, Aṅgulimāla's legend has received considerable attention. The story has been the main subject of at least three movies. In 2003, Thai director Suthep Tannirat attempted to release a film named \"Angulimala\". Over 20 conservative Buddhist organizations in Thailand launched a protest, however, complaining that the movie distorted Buddhist teachings and history, and introduced Hindu and theistic influences not found in the Buddhist scriptures. The Thai film censorship board rejected appeals to ban the film, stating it did not distort Buddhist teachings. They did insist that the director cut two scenes of violent material. The conservative groups were offended by the depiction of Aṅgulimāla as a brutal murderer, without including the history which led him to become such a violent brigand. Tannirat defended himself, however, arguing that although he had omitted interpretations from the commentaries, he had followed the early Buddhist discourses precisely. Tannirat's choice to only use the early accounts, rather than the popular tales from the commentaries, was precisely what led to the protests.\n\nAṅgulimāla has also been the subject of literary works. In 2006, peace activist Satish Kumar retold the story of Aṅgulimāla in his short book \"The Buddha and the Terrorist\". The books deals with the Global War on Terror, reshaping and combining various accounts of Aṅgulimāla, who is described as a \"terrorist\". The book emphasizes the passage when the Buddha accepts Aṅgulimāla in the monastic order, effectively preventing King Pasenadi from punishing him. In Kumar's book, this action leads to backlash from an enraged public, who demand to imprison both Aṅgulimāla and the Buddha. Pasenadi organizes a public trial in the presence of villagers and the royal court, in which the assembly can decide what to do with the two accused. In the end, however, the assembly decides to release the two, when Aṅgulimāla admits to his crimes and Pasenadi gives a speech emphasizing forgiveness rather than punishment. This twist in the story sheds a different light on Aṅgulimāla, whose violent actions ultimately lead to the trial and a more non-violent and just society. Writing about Buddhist texts and Kumar's book, Thompson reflects that \"ahiṃsa\" in Buddhism may have different shades of meaning in different contexts, and often does not mean passively standing by, or \"non-violence\" as usually understood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882831", "title": "Drew Shirley", "text": "Drew Shirley\n\nAndrew Philip \"Drew\" Shirley (born April 3, 1974) is an American rock guitarist, formerly of All Together Separate, and since 2005 of the Grammy Award winning alternative rock band Switchfoot.\n\nShirley attended California Baptist University studying a Fine Arts degree with a Music minor. During that time, he also started and led various school bands and shows. He had only started playing guitar as a senior in high school. After graduating from college, he also began working with YFC as the Riverside area Campus Life director, working with local high schools.\n\nShirley played in the band All Together Separate in the late 1990s along with fellow CBU classmates Dex Alexander (singer), Ben Rayls (drummer), and Charles Rumahlewang (bass). The band toured nationally, but was cut short after breaking up in 2002.\n\nHe started touring with Switchfoot soon after their 2003 release \"The Beautiful Letdown\". He became an official member of the band on May 4, 2005. He has recorded seven LP albums with the band: \"Nothing Is Sound\" (2005), \"Oh! Gravity.\" (2006), Grammy-winning \"Hello Hurricane\" (2009), \"Vice Verses\" (2011), \"Fading West\" (2013), \"Where The Light Shines Through\" (2016), and “Native Tongue” (2019). \n\nBetween leaving All Together Separate and his transition to Switchfoot, Shirley produced and played guitar on many different band projects. He still produces and plays on various musical projects.\n\nDrew grew up in the Rancho Peñasquitos, community in San Diego, California. There, he attended Black Mountain Middle School and graduated from Mt. Carmel High School. Shirley's father was a Navy Chaplain, and his mother, Nancy, is a youth choir teacher who has previously worked with local middle and high schools as well as community organizations including the San Diego Children’s Choir and area churches. He has a younger brother.\n\nShirley married his wife, Jenna, in 2001. The couple has four daughters: Lauren (born 2004), Violet (born 2008), Isa, and Haven.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882836", "title": "Jerome Fontamillas", "text": "Jerome Fontamillas\n\nJerome Fontamillas (born June 20, 1967) is an American musician. Fontamillas has played in several bands, notably with industrial rock band Mortal and alternative rock band Fold Zandura, with longtime musical partner Jyro Xhan. Since 2003, he has played the keyboards, the guitar and other instruments, as well as sung backing vocals in Switchfoot, with which he has released eight studio albums.\n\nFontamillas was born on June 20, 1967 in Pasay City in the Philippines. When he was three years old, his family moved to the United States, where they lived in Chicago and then California. He started taking piano lessons when he was a child.\n\nIn 1985, Fontamillas graduated from Monterey Bay Academy in Watsonville, California.\n\nIn 1988, Fontamillas, Jyro Xhan, Ray Tongpo and Wilson Peralta released a six-song demo tape, titled \"Wish Fifteen\", on Blue Genius Music as Mortal Wish. Four years later, they signed with Intense Records and changed their name to Mortal. Fontamillas would continue to play with Mortal until 1996 and played in Fold Zandura, also with Xhan, between 1995 and 1999.\n\nIn 2000, Fontamillas quit his day job and started touring with Switchfoot shortly before the release of their third album, \"Learning to Breathe\". He became an official member of the band in 2003. His first release with Switchfoot was their 2003 break-through album \"The Beautiful Letdown\".\n\nIn 2002, Jyro and Fontamillas released a Mortal reunion album, \"Nu-En-Jin\".\n\nFontamillas is also a producer for the following independent acts:\n\nFontamillas is a Seventh-day Adventist.\n\nHe married his wife Kristi, who is a photographer, in December 2005. The couple have two sons, Parker Lennon (born in January 2010) and Jackson (born on October 2, 2013).\n\nOn December 20, 2018, Switchfoot announced that Fontamillas had cancer and nine days later they stated that a tumor has been removed and it had not spread or attached to any organs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882840", "title": "Sam S. Shubert", "text": "Sam S. Shubert\n\nSamuel S. Shubert (August 27, 1878 – May 13, 1905) was an American producer and theatre owner/operator. He was the middle son in the Shubert family and was raised in Syracuse, New York.\n\nBorn in Vladislavov, in the Suwałki Governorate of Congress Poland, a part of the Russian Empire (present-day Kudirkos Naumiestis, Lithuania) to a Lithuanian Jewish family, he was the second son and fifth child of Duvvid Schubart and Katrina Helwitz. He was four years old when the family emigrated to the United States in 1881. They settled in Syracuse, New York, where a number of Jewish families from there already were living. His father's alcoholism kept the family in difficult financial circumstances, and at a very young age Sam Shubert had to work as a shoeshine boy.\n\nHe eventually obtained a job at the Grand Opera House, selling programs and working in the box office. Although he had only rudimentary education, Sam Shubert had a quick mind for mathematics, which resulted in him being promoted to assistant treasurer. After accepting the position of treasurer at the \"Wieting Theatre\", the largest in the city of Syracuse, Shubert soon developed an interest in the production of plays. With borrowed money, he embarked on a venture that led him and his two brothers to be the successful operators of several theaters in upstate New York.\n\nThe Shubert brothers decided to expand to the huge market in New York City and at the end of March 1900, Sam Shubert leased the Herald Square Theatre at the corner of Broadway and 35th Street in Manhattan. Leaving younger brother Jacob at home to manage their existing theatres, he and older brother Lee moved to New York City, where they laid the foundation for what was to become the largest theatre empire in the 20th century.\n\nSam Shubert had the idea for his first original production, \"Fantana\", which premiered at the \"Lyric Theatre\" on January 14, 1905. \"The show was Sam's idea, and he more or less cowrote the libretto. When his coauthor, Robert B. Smith, claimed to have done all the actual writing, Sam admitted that he had but would not change the credits.\" He also took the directing credit for the 1904 revival of the comedy opera \"Wang\": \"under the personal direction of Sam. S. Shubert.\"\n\nIn May 1905, Sam Shubert was traveling to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on business, when the passenger train he was on collided with several freight cars in the Lochiel neighborhood of south Harrisburg. Severely injured in the train wreck, Sam Shubert succumbed to his injuries two days later at the age of 26. His body was brought back to New York for burial in the Salem Fields Cemetery in Brooklyn.\n\nIn 1913, Sam Shubert's brothers opened a prestigious new theatre at 225 West 44th Street, in the heart of the Broadway Theater District, which was named in his honor. The Sam S. Shubert Theatre remains in operation today as one of the great landmarks of Broadway. In 1945, The Shubert Organization purchased the Majestic Theatre, at 22 West Monroe Street in Chicago, Illinois, and it too was renamed the Sam S. Shubert Theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882851", "title": "Ford River Rouge Complex", "text": "Ford River Rouge Complex\n\nThe Ford River Rouge Complex (commonly known as the Rouge Complex or just The Rouge) is a Ford Motor Company automobile factory complex located in Dearborn, Michigan, along the River Rouge, upstream from its confluence with the Detroit River at Zug Island. Construction began in 1917, and when it was completed in 1928, it was the largest integrated factory in the world.\n\nIt inspired the GAZ factory built in the 1930s in the Soviet Union, as well as the later Hyundai factory complex in Ulsan, South Korea, which was developed beginning in the late 1960s. Designed by Albert Kahn, the Rouge was designated as a National Historic Landmark District in 1978 for its architecture and historical importance to the industry and economy of the United States.\n\nThe Rouge measures 1.5 miles (2.4 km) wide by 1 mile (1.6 km) long, including 93 buildings with nearly 16 million square feet (1.5 km²) of factory floor space. With its own docks in the dredged Rouge River, 100 miles (160 km) of interior railroad track, its own electricity plant, and integrated steel mill, the titanic Rouge was able to turn raw materials into running vehicles within this single complex, a prime example of vertical-integration production. More than 100,000 workers were employed there, even during the Great Depression of the 1930s.\n\nSome of the Rouge buildings were designed by architect Albert Kahn. His Rouge glass plant was regarded at the time as an exemplary and humane factory building, with ample natural light provided through windows in the ceiling. Since the late 20th century, several buildings at the Rouge complex have been renovated and converted to \"green\" structures with a number of environmentally friendly features.\n\nIn the summer of 1932, through Edsel Ford's support, Mexican artist Diego Rivera was invited to study the facilities at the Rouge. These studies informed his set of murals known as \"Detroit Industry\", which have been on continuous display at the Detroit Institute of Arts since their completion in 1933.\n\nThe Rouge's first products were Eagle Boats, World War I anti-submarine warfare boats produced in Building B. The original Building B, a three-story structure, is part of the legendary Dearborn Assembly Plant, which started producing Model A's in the late 1920s and continued production through 2004. After the war, production turned to Fordson tractors. Although the Rouge produced nearly all the parts of the Model T, assembly of that vehicle remained at Highland Park. It was not until 1927 that automobile production began at the Rouge, with the introduction of the Ford Model A. \n\nDuring World War II the Rouge complex produced jeeps, aircraft engines, aircraft components and parts, tires and tubes, armor plate, and tractors.\n\nOther Rouge products included the 1932 Model B, the original Mercury, the Ford Thunderbird, Mercury Capri, and four decades of Ford Mustangs. The old assembly plant was idled with the construction and launch of a new assembly facility on the Miller Road side of the complex, currently producing Ford F-150 pickup trucks.\n\nThe River Rouge Complex manufactured most of the components of Ford vehicles, starting with the Model T. Many of the vehicles were compiled into \"knock-down kits\", then sent by railroad to various assembly locations across the United States to be locally assembled, using local supplies as necessary. After the 1960s, Ford began to decentralize manufacturing, building several factories in major metropolitan centers. The Rouge was downsized, with units (including the famous furnaces and docks) sold off to independent companies, many still operating independently to this day.\n\nOn May 26, 1937, a group of workers attempting to organize a union at the Rouge were severely beaten, an event later called the Battle of the Overpass. Peter E. Martin's respect for labor led to Walter Reuther, a UAW leader, allowing Martin to be the only Ford manager to retrieve his papers or gain access to the plant.\n\nThe Rouge was one of only three locations where Ford manufactured the Mustang; the other sites were Metuchen Assembly and Milpitas Assembly in San Jose, California.\n\nBy 1987, only Mustang production remained at the Dearborn Assembly Plant (DAP). In 1987 Ford planned to replace that car with the front wheel drive Ford Probe, but public outcry quickly turned to surging sales. With the fourth-generation Mustang a success, the Rouge was saved as well. Ford decided to modernize its operations. A gas explosion on February 1, 1999 killed six employees and injured two dozen more, resulting in the idling of the power plant. Michigan Utility CMS Energy built a state-of-the-art Power Plant across Miller Road to replace the electricity and steam production, as well as the blast furnace waste gas consumption of the original power plant As it ended production, Dearborn Assembly Plant was one of six plants within the Ford Rouge Center. The plant was open from 1918 to May 10, 2004, with a red convertible 2004 Ford Mustang GT being the last vehicle built at the historic site. Demolition of the historic DAP facility was completed in 2008. All that remains is a 3000 place parking lot to hold light truck production from the new Dearborn Truck Plant.\n\nToday, the Rouge site is home to Ford's Rouge Center. This industrial park includes six Ford factories on 600 acres (2.4 km²) of land, as well as steelmaking operations run by AK Steel, a U.S. steelmaker. The new Dearborn Truck factory famously features a vegetation-covered roof and rainwater reclamation system designed by sustainability architect William McDonough. This facility is still Ford's largest factory and employs some 6,000 workers. Mustang production, however, has moved to the Flat Rock Assembly Plant in Flat Rock, Michigan.\n\nTours of the Rouge complex were a long tradition. Free bus tours of the facility began in 1924 and ran until 1980, at their peak hosting approximately a million visitors per year. They resumed in 2004 in cooperation with The Henry Ford Museum with multimedia presentations, as well as viewing of the assembly floor. The Ford Rouge Factory Tour had 148,000 visitors in 2017.\n\nThe management of Dearborn Truck has decreed that no vehicles from other manufacturers may park at the front of the main employee lot. Non Ford Family vehicles are required to park in the back 12 rows of parking spaces. Hourly workers from both Ford and AK Steel facilities at the complex are represented by UAW Local 600.\n\nA fleet of three Ford-owned Great Lakes freighters initially named for the Ford grandsons and later renamed for top company executives, was based at the River Rouge Plant. When the ships were retired, one was scrapped, but the deckhouse of the SS \"William Clay Ford\" was relocated to a museum in the Belle Isle Detroit city park in the Detroit River and the deckhouse of the SS \"Benson Ford\" was transported by crane barge to Put-in-Bay, Ohio and placed on an 18-foot cliff as a private home above Lake Erie.\n\nIn 1999, architect William McDonough entered into an agreement with Ford Motor Company to redesign its 85-year-old, Rouge River facility. The roof of the 1.1 million square foot (100,000 m) Dearborn truck assembly plant was covered with more than of sedum, a low-growing groundcover. The sedum retains and cleanses rainwater and moderates the internal temperature of the building, saving energy.\n\nThe roof is part of an $18 million rainwater treatment system designed to collect and clean rainwater annually, sparing Ford from a $50 million mechanical treatment facility.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882856", "title": "Harbour (programming language)", "text": "Harbour (programming language)\n\nHarbour is a computer programming language, primarily used to create database/business programs. It is a modernized, open sourced and cross-platform version of the older Clipper system, which in turn developed from the dBase database market of the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nHarbour code using the same databases can be compiled under a wide variety of platforms, including Microsoft Windows, Linux, Unix variants, several BSD descendants, Mac OS X, MINIX 3, Windows CE, Pocket PC, Symbian, iOS, Android, QNX, VxWorks, OS/2/eComStation, BeOS/Haiku, \nAIX and MS-DOS.\n\nThe idea of a free software Clipper compiler had been floating around for a long time and the subject has often cropped up in discussion on comp.lang.clipper. Antonio Linares founded the Harbour project and the implementation was started in March 1999. The name \"Harbour\" was proposed by Linares, it is a play on a Clipper as a type of ship. Harbour is a synonym for port (where ships dock), and Harbour is a port of the Clipper language.\n\nIn 2009 Harbour was substantially redesigned, mainly by Viktor Szakáts and Przemyslaw Czerpak.\n\nHarbour extends the Clipper Replaceable Database Drivers (RDD) approach. It offers multiple RDDs such as DBF, DBFNTX, DBFCDX, DBFDBT and DBFFPT. In Harbour multiple RDDs can be used in a single application, and new logical RDDs can be defined by combining other RDDs. The RDD architecture allows for inheritance, so that a given RDD may extend the functionality of other existing RDD(s). Third-party RDDs, like RDDSQL, RDDSIX, RMDBFCDX, Advantage Database Server, and Mediator exemplify some of the RDD architecture features. DBFNTX implementation has almost same functionality of DBFCDX and RDDSIX. NETIO and LetoDB provide remote access over TCP protocol.\n\nHarbour also offers ODBC support by means of an OOP syntax, and ADO support by means of OLE. MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Firebird, Oracle are examples of databases which Harbour can connect.\n\nxBase technologies often is confused with a RDBMS software. Although this is true, xBase is more than a simple database system as the same time xBase languages using purely DBF can not provide full concept of a real RDBMS.\n\nUnlike Java which is intended to be write once, run anywhere, Harbour aims to be write once, compile anywhere. As the same compiler is available for all of the above operating systems, there is no need for recoding to produce identical products for different platforms, except when operating system dependent features are used. Cross-compiling is supported with MinGW.\nUnder Microsoft Windows, Harbour is more stable but less well-documented than Clipper, but has multi-platform capability and is more transparent, customizable and can run from a USB flash drive.\n\nUnder Linux and Windows Mobile, Clipper source code can be compiled with Harbour with very little adaptation. Most software originally written to run on Xbase++, FlagShip, FoxPro, xHarbour and others dialects can be compiled with Harbor with some adaptation. As 2010 many efforts have been made to turn the transition from other xBase dialects easier.\n\nHarbour can use the following C compilers, among others:\nGCC,\nMinGW,\nClang,\nICC,\nMicrosoft Visual C++ (6.0+),\nBorland C++,\nWatcom C,\nPelles C and\nSun Studio.\n\nHarbour can make use of multiple Graphic Terminal emulations, including console drivers, and Hybrid Console/GUIs, such as GTWvt, and GTWvg.\n\nHarbour supports external GUIs, free (e.g. HBQt, HWGui, MiniGUI (latest version based on Qt) and QtContribs) and commercial (e.g. FiveWin, Xailer). HBQt is a library provinding bindings to Qt. HBIDE application is a sample of HBQt potential.\n\nHarbour is 100% Clipper-compatible and supports many language syntax extensions including greatly extended run-time libraries such as OLE, Blat, OpenSSL, FreeImage, GD, hbtip, hbtpathy, PCRE, hbmzip (zlib), hbbz2 (bzip2), cURL, Cairo, its own implementation of CA-Tools, updated NanFor libraries and many others. Harbour has an active development community and extensive third party support.\n\nAny xBase language provides a very productive way to build business and data intensive applications. Harbour is not an exception.\n\nOne of the most powerful features of xBase languages is the Macro Operator '&'. Harbour's implementation of the Macro Operator allows for runtime compilation of any valid Harbour expression. Such a compiled expression may be used as a VALUE, i.e. the right side of an assignment (rvalue), but such a compiled expression may be used to resolve the left side (lvalue) of an assignment, i.e. private, or public variables, or a database field.\n\nAdditionally, the Macro Operator may compile and execute function calls, complete assignments, or even list of arguments, and the result of the macro may be used to resolve any of the above contexts in the compiled application. In other words, any Harbour application may be extended and modified at runtime to compile and execute additional code on-demand.\n\nLatest Macro compiler can compile any valid Harbour code including code to pre-process before compile.\n\nSyntax:\n\nThe text value of the expression '...' will be compiled, and the value resulting from the execution of the compiled code is the result.\n\nis the short form for &( SomeId ).\n\nis the short form of &( SomeId + \"postfix\" ).\n\nProgramming in an OOP style is a broader issue than a specific library or a specific interface, but OOP programming is something many Clipper programmers have come to expect. CA-Clipper 5.2 and especially 5.3 added a number of base classes, and a matching OOP syntax. Libraries such as Class(y), Fivewin, Clip4Win, and TopClass provide additional OOP functionality.\n\nHarbour has OOP extensions with full support for classes including inheritance, based on Class(y) syntax. OOP syntax in Harbour is very similar to that of earlier Clipper class libraries so it should be possible to maintain legacy Clipper code with minimal changes.\n\nHarbour as every xBase language is case insensitive and can optionally accept keywords written just by first four characters.\n\nHarbour has 6 scalar types : Nil, String, Date, Logical, Numeric, Pointer, and 4 complex types: Array, Object, CodeBlock, and Hash. A scalar holds a single value, such as a string, numeric, or reference to any other type. Arrays are ordered lists of scalars or complex types, indexed by number, starting at 1. Hashes, or associative arrays, are unordered collections of any type values indexed by their associated key, which may be of any scalar or complex type.\n\nLiteral (static) representation of scalar types:\n\nComplex Types may also be represent as literal values:\nHashes may use \"any\" type including other Hashes as the \"Key\" for any element. Hashes and Arrays may contain \"any\" type as the \"Value\" of any member, including nesting arrays, and Hashes.\n\nCodeblocks may have references to Variables of the Procedure/Function>method in which it was defined. Such Codeblocks may be returned as a value, or by means of an argument passed , in such case the Codeblock will \"outlive\" the routine in which it was defined, and any variables it references, will be a variable.\n\nDetached variables will maintain their value for as long as a Codeblock referencing them still exists. Such values will be shared with any other Codeblock which may have access to those same variables. If the Codeblock did not outlive its containing routine, and will be evaluated within the lifetime of the routine in which it is defined, changes to its \"Detached Variables\"(s) by means of its evaluation, will be reflected back at its parent routine.\n\nCodeblocks can be evaluated any number of times, by means of the function.\n\nAll types can be assigned to named variables. Named variable identifiers are 1 to 63 ASCII characters long, start with codice_1 and further consist of the characters codice_2 up to a maximum of 63 characters. Named variables are not case sensitive.\n\nVariables have one of the following scopes:\n\n\nDue to the dynamic nature of and variables, they can be created and destroyed at runtime, can be accessed and modified by means of runtime macros, and can be accessed and modified by Codeblocks created on the fly.\n\nThe basic control structures include all of the standard dBase, and Clipper control structures as well as additional ones inspired by the C or Java programming languages:\n\n [DO] WHILE \"ConditionExp\"\n\n\nIn the \"FOR\" statement, the \"assignment\" expression is evaluated prior to the first loop iteration. The \"TO\" expression is evaluated and compared against the value of the control variable, prior to each iteration, and the loop is terminated if it evaluates to a numeric value greater than the numeric value of the control variable. The optional \"STEP\" expression is evaluated after each iteration, prior to deciding whether to perform the next iteration.\n\nIn \"FOR EACH\", the \"Var\" variable will have the value (scalar, or complex) of the respective element in the collection value. The collection expression, may be an Array (of any type or combinations of types), an Hash Table, or an Object type.\n\n IF \"CondExp\"\n\n\"...\" represents 0 or more \"statement(s)\".\n\nThe condition expression(s) has to evaluate to a \"LOGICAL\" value.\n\nHarbour supports a SWITCH construct inspired by the C implementation of switch().\n\n\n BEGIN SEQUENCE\n\nor:\n\nThe BEGIN SEQUENCE structure allows for a well behaved abortion of any sequence, even when crossing nested procedures/functions. This means that a called procedure/function, may issue a BREAK statement, or a Break() expression, to force unfolding of any nested procedure/functions, all the way back to the first outer BEGIN SEQUENCE structure, either after its respective END statement, or a RECOVER clause if present. The Break statement may optionally pass any type of expression, which may be accepted by the RECOVER statement to allow further recovery handing.\n\nAdditionally the Harbour \"Error Object\" supports \"canDefault\", \"canRetry\" and \"canSubstitute\" properties, which allows error handlers to perform some preparations, and then request a \"Retry Operation\", a \"Resume\", or return a Value to replace the expression triggering the error condition.\n\nAlternatively TRY [CATCH] [FINALLY] statements are available on \"xhb\" library working like the SEQUENCE construct.\n\n [STATIC] PROCEDURE \"SomeProcedureName\"\n\nProcedures/Functions in Harbour can be specified with the keywords codice_3, or codice_4. Naming rules are same as those for \"Variables\" (up to 63 characters non-case sensitive). Both Procedures and Functions may be qualified by the scope qualifier \"STATIC\" to restrict their usage to the scope of the module where defined.\n\nThe \"INIT\" or \"EXIT\" optional qualifiers, will flag the procedure to be automatically invoked just before calling the application startup procedure, or just after quitting the application, respectively. Parameters passed to a procedure/function appear in the subroutine as local variables, and may accept any type, including references.\n\nChanges to argument variables are not reflected in respective variables passed by the calling procedure/function/method unless explicitly passed BY REFERENCE using the \"@\" prefix.\n\nPROCEDURE have no return value, and if used in an Expression context will produce a \"NIL\" value.\n\nFUNCTION may return any type by means of the RETURN statement, anywhere in the body of its definition.\n\nAn example procedure definition and a function call follows:\n\nThe typical \"hello world\" program would be:\n\nOr:\n\nOr:\n\nOr, enclosed in an explicit procedure:\n\nMain procedure:\n\nClass definition:\n\nAll tools are multiplatform.\n\nToday Harbour development is led by Viktor Szakáts in collaboration with Przemysław Czerpak who also contributes many components of the core language and supplementary components. HBIDE and some other components especially HBQt, are developed by Pritpal Bedi. Other members of the development community send changes to the GitHub source repository.\nAs of 2015 Harbour development is active and vibrant.\n\nxHarbour is a fork of the earlier Harbour project. xHarbour takes a more aggressive approach to implementing new features in the language, while Harbour is more conservative in its approach, aiming first of all for an exact replication of Clipper behaviour and then implementing new features and extensions as a secondary consideration. It should also be noted that Harbour is supported on a wide variety of operating systems while xHarbour only really supports MS Windows and Linux 32-bit.\n\nThe Harbour developers have attempted to document all hidden behaviour in the Clipper language and test Harbour-compiled code alongside the same code compiled with Clipper to maintain compatibility.\n\nThe Harbour developers explicitly reject extensions to the language where those extensions would break Clipper compatibility. These rejections were softened recently since the new Harbour architecture allows extensions out of the core compiler.\n\nA detailed comparison between extensions implemented in Harbour and xHarbour can be found in the source repository of the project on GitHub.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882859", "title": "Cerium oxide", "text": "Cerium oxide\n\nCerium oxide may refer to either of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1882861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882861", "title": "Citizenship of the European Union", "text": "Citizenship of the European Union\n\nCitizenship of the European Union is afforded to qualifying citizens of European Union member states. It was created by the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, at the same time as the creation of the European Union (EU). European Union citizenship is additional to national citizenship, and affords EU citizens with rights, freedoms and legal protections available under EU law.\n\nEuropean Union citizens have the right to free movement, settlement and employment across the Union. EU citizens are free to trade and transport goods, services and capital through EU state borders, with no restrictions on capital movements or fees. Citizens have the right to vote in and run as a candidate in elections in the state where they live, while also voting for European elections and participating in a European Citizens' Initiative.\n\nCitizenship of the EU confers the right to consular protection by embassies of other EU member states when a person's country of citizenship is not represented by an embassy or consulate in the foreign country in which they require protection or other types of assistance. EU citizens have the right to address the European Parliament, European Ombudsman, and EU agencies directly, in any of the Treaty languages, provided the issue raised is within that institution's competence.\n\nEU citizens enjoy the legal protections of EU law, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and acts and directives regarding, for example, protection of personal data, rights of victims of crime, preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, equal pay, protection from discrimination in employment on grounds of religion or belief, sexual orientation and age. The office of the European Ombudsman whom EU citizens can approach directly.\n\nEU citizenship was first introduced by the Maastricht Treaty, and was extended by the Treaty of Amsterdam. Prior to the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, the European Communities treaties provided guarantees for the free movement of economically active persons, but not, generally, for others. The 1951 Treaty of Paris establishing the European Coal and Steel Community established a right to free movement for workers in these industries and the 1957 Treaty of Rome provided for the free movement of workers and services.\n\nHowever, the treaty provisions were interpreted by the European Court of Justice not as having a narrow economic purpose, but rather a wider social and economic purpose. In \"Levin\", the Court found that the \"freedom to take up employment was important, not just as a means towards the creation of a single market for the benefit of the member state economies, but as a right for the worker to raise her or his standard of living\". Under the ECJ caselaw, the rights of free movement of workers applies regardless of the worker's purpose in taking up employment abroad, to both part-time and full-time work, and whether or not the worker required additional financial assistance from the member state into which he moves. Since the ECJ has held that a recipient of service has free movement rights under the treaty and this criterion is easily fulfilled, effectively every national of an EU country within another member state, whether economically active or not, had a right under Article 12 of the European Community Treaty to non-discrimination even prior to the Maastricht Treaty.\n\nIn the case of \"Martinez Sala\", the European Court of Justice held that the citizenship provisions provided substantive equal treatment rights alongside those already granted by union law. The case of Baumbast later established that the right to equal treatment applies equally to both economically active and inactive citizens. Despite these broad interpretations, the landmark case of Dano combined the criteria of freedom to move and equal treatment, citing them as inter-dependant, subsequently limiting the scope of Martinez Sala.\n\nHistorically, the main benefit of being a citizen of an EU state has been that of free movement. The free movement also applies to the citizens of European Economic Area countries and Switzerland. However, with the creation of EU citizenship, certain political rights came into being. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for citizens to be \"directly represented at Union level in the European Parliament\" and \"to participate in the democratic life of the Union\" (Treaty on the European Union, Title II, Article 10). Specifically, the following rights are afforded:\n\n\n\n\nArticle 21 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that Every citizen of the Union shall have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, subject to the limitations and conditions laid down in this Treaty and by the measures adopted to give it effect.\n\nThe European Court of Justice has remarked that, EU Citizenship is destined to be the fundamental status of nationals of the Member States\n\nThe ECJ has held that this Article confers a directly effective right upon citizens to reside in another Member State. Before the case of \"Baumbast\", it was widely assumed that non-economically active citizens had no rights to residence deriving directly from the EU Treaty, only from directives created under the Treaty. In \"Baumbast\", however, the ECJ held that (the then) Article 18 of the EC Treaty granted a generally applicable right to residency, which is limited by secondary legislation, but \"only\" where that secondary legislation is proportionate. Member States can distinguish between nationals and Union citizens but only if the provisions satisfy the test of proportionality. Migrant EU citizens have a \"legitimate expectation of a limited degree of financial solidarity... having regard to their degree of integration into the host society\" Length of time is a particularly important factor when considering the degree of integration.\n\nThe ECJ's case law on citizenship has been criticised for subjecting an increasing number of national rules to the proportionality assessment.\n\nArticle 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that 1. Freedom of movement for workers shall be secured within the Union.2. Such freedom of movement shall entail the abolition of any discrimination based on nationality between workers of the Member States as regards employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment.\n\nState employment reserved exclusively for nationals varies between member states. For example, training as a barrister in Britain and Ireland is not reserved for nationals, while the corresponding French course qualifies one as a 'juge' and hence can only be taken by French citizens. However, it is broadly limited to those roles that exercise a significant degree of public authority, such as judges, police, the military, diplomats, senior civil servants or politicians. Note that not all Member States choose to restrict all of these posts to nationals.\n\nMuch of the existing secondary legislation and case law was consolidated in the Citizens' Rights Directive 2004/38/EC on the right to move and reside freely within the EU.\n\nNew member states may undergo transitional regimes for Freedom of movement for workers, during which their nationals only enjoy restricted access to labour markets in other member states. EU member states are permitted to keep restrictions on citizens of the newly acceded countries for a maximum of seven years after accession. For the EFTA states (Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway and Switzerland), the maximum is nine years.\n\nFollowing the 2004 enlargement, three \"old\" member states—Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom—decided to allow unrestricted access to their labour markets. By December 2009, all but two member states—Austria and Germany—had completely dropped controls. These restrictions too expired on 1 May 2011.\n\nFollowing the 2007 enlargement, all pre-2004 member states except Finland and Sweden imposed restrictions on Bulgarian and Romanian citizens, as did two member states that joined in 2004: Malta and Hungary. As of November 2012, all but 8 EU countries have dropped restrictions entirely. These restrictions too expired on 1 January 2014. Norway opened its labour market in June 2012, while Switzerland kept restrictions in place until 2016.\n\nFollowing the 2013 enlargement, some countries implemented restrictions on Croatian nationals following the country's EU accession on 1 July 2013. As of May 2019, all EU countries except Austria have dropped restrictions entirely. , the Austrian restrictions are set to expire on 1 July 2020.\n\nThere is no common EU policy on the acquisition of European citizenship as it is supplementary to national citizenship. (EC citizenship was initially granted to all citizens of European Community member states in 1994 by the Maastricht treaty concluded between the member states of the European community under international law, this changed into citizenship of the European Union in 2007 when the European Community changed its legal identity to be the European Union. Many more people became EU citizens when each new EU member state was added and, at each point, all the existing member states ratified the adjustments to the treaties to allow the creation of those extra citizenship rights for the individual. European citizenship is also generally granted at the same time as national citizenship is granted; likewise it is removed at the point of removal of national citizenship). (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that: \"Citizenship of the Union is hereby established. Every person holding the nationality of a Member State shall be a citizen of the Union. Citizenship of the Union shall be additional to and not replace national citizenship.\"\n\nWhile nationals of Member States are citizens of the union, \"It is for each Member State, having due regard to Union law, to lay down the conditions for the acquisition and loss of nationality.\" As a result, there is a great variety in rules and practices with regard to the acquisition and loss of citizenship in EU member states.\n\nIn practice this means that a member state may withhold EU citizenship from certain groups of citizens, most commonly in overseas territories of member states outside the EU.\n\nA previous example, was for the United Kingdom. Owing to the complexity of British nationality law, a 1982 declaration by Her Majesty's Government defined who would be deemed to be a British \"national\" for European Union purposes:\n\nThis declaration therefore excluded from EU citizenship various historic categories of British citizenship generally associated with former British colonies, such as British Overseas Citizens, British Nationals (Overseas), British protected persons and any British subject who did not have the 'right of abode' under British immigration law.\n\nIn 2002, with the passing of the British Overseas Territories Act 2002, EU citizenship was extended to almost all British overseas territories citizens when they were automatically granted full British citizenship (with the exception of those with an association to the British sovereign base areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia on the Island of Cyprus). This had effectively granted them full EU citizenship rights, including free movement rights, although only residents of Gibraltar had the right to vote in European Parliament elections. In contrast, British citizens in the Crown Dependencies of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man had always been considered to be EU citizens but, unlike residents of the British overseas territories, were prohibited from exercising EU free movement rights under the terms of the UK Accession Treaty if they had no other connection with the UK (e.g. they had lived in the UK for five years, were born in the UK, or had parents or grandparents born in the UK) and had no EU voting rights. (see Guernsey passport, Isle of Man passport, Jersey passport).\n\nAnother example are the residents of Faroe Islands of Denmark who, though in possession of full Danish citizenship, are outside the EU and are explicitly excluded from EU citizenship under the terms of the Danish Accession Treaty. This is in contrast to residents of the Danish territory of Greenland who, whilst also outside the EU as a result of the 1984 Greenland Treaty, do receive EU citizenship as this was not specifically excluded by the terms of that treaty (see Faroe Islands and the European Union; Greenland and the European Union).\n\nThis is a summary of nationality laws for each of the twenty-seven EU member states.\n\nThe general rule for losing EU citizenship is that European citizenship is lost if member state nationality is lost, but the automatic loss of EU citizenship as a result of a member state withdrawing from the EU is the subject of debate.\n\nOne school of legal thought indicates that the Maastricht treaty created the European Union as a legal entity, it then also created the status of EU citizen which gave an individual relationship between the EU and its citizens, and a status of EU citizen. Clemens Rieder suggests a case can be made that \"[n]one of the Member States were forced to confer the status of EU citizenship on their citizens but once they have, according to this argument, they cannot simply withdraw this status.\". In this situation, no EU citizen would involuntarily lose their citizenship due to their nation's withdrawal from the EU.\n\nIt is likely that only a court case before the European Court of Justice would be able to properly determine the correct legal position in this regard, as there is no definitive legal certainty in this area. As of 7 February 2018, the District Court of Amsterdam decided to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, but the state of the Netherlands has appealed against this referral decision.\n\nAlthough Greenland withdrew from the European Communities in 1985, all citizens of Denmark residing in Greenland are eligible for EU citizenship by virtue of their Danish citizenship. This contrasts with Danish citizens living the Faroe Islands who are excluded from EU citizenship.\n\nAs a result of the Withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the opinion of both the European Union and the British government has been that British citizens would lose their EU citizenship and EU citizens would lose their automatic right to stay in the UK. To account for the problems arising from this, a provisional agreement outlines the right of UK citizens to remain in the EU (and vice versa) where they are resident in the Union on the day of the UK's withdrawal. EU citizens may remain in the UK post-Brexit if and only if they apply to EU Settlement Scheme. The only exception to this is citizens who possess dual citizenship with an EU state. This eligibility includes the majority of British citizens from Northern Ireland, who are automatically entitled to Irish citizenship as part of the Good Friday Agreement.\n\nAs a result of the Brexit referendum, there were three European Citizens' Initiatives that were registered which sought to protect the rights and/or status of British EU citizens. Out of these three initiatives, the one with the strongest legal argument was registered on 27 March 2017 and officially named \"EU Citizenship for Europeans: United in Diversity in Spite of jus soli and jus sanguinis\". It is clear that the initiative abides by the first school of thought mentioned above because the annexe that was submitted with the initiative clearly makes reference to Rieder's work. In an article titled \"[http://vip.politicsmeanspolitics.com/2017/09/06/extending-full-eu-citizenship-to-uk-nationals-especially-after-brexit/ <nowiki>Extending [full] EU citizenship to UK nationals ESPECIALLY after Brexit</nowiki>]\" and published with the online magazine \"Politics Means Politics\", the creator of the Initiative argues that UK nationals \"must\" keep their EU citizenship by detaching citizenship of the European Union from Member State nationality. Perhaps the most convincing and authoritative source that is cited in the article is the acting President of the European Court of Justice, Koen Lenaerts who published an article where he explains how the Court analyses and decides cases dealing with citizenship of the European Union. Both Lenaerts and the creator of the Initiative refer to rulings by the European Court of Justice which state that:\nBased on the argument presented by \"EU Citizenship for Europeans\" and its creator, Brexit is a textbook definition of a Member State depriving a European citizen of his or her rights as EU citizens, and therefore a legal act is necessary to protect not just rights but the status of EU citizen itself. Despite variances in interpretation of some points of law raised by the Initiative, the European Commission's decision to register the initiative confirms the strength and merit of the initiative's legal argument.\n\nA proposal made first by Guy Verhofstadt, the European Parliament's Brexit negotiator, to help cover the rights of UK citizens post-Brexit would see UK citizens able to opt-out of the loss of EU citizenship as a result of the general clauses of the withdrawal agreement. This would allow visa-free working on the basis of their continuing rights as EU citizens. This, he termed, \"associate citizenship\". This has been discussed with the UK's negotiator David Davis. However, it was made clear by the UK government that there would be no role for EU institutions concerning its citizens, effectively removing the proposal as a possibility.\n\nDenmark obtained four opt-outs from the Maastricht Treaty following the treaty's initial rejection in a 1992 referendum. The opt-outs are outlined in the Edinburgh Agreement and concern the EMU (as above), the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP), Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) and the citizenship of the European Union. The citizenship opt-out stated that European citizenship did not replace national citizenship; this opt-out was rendered meaningless when the Amsterdam Treaty adopted the same wording for all members. The policy of recent Danish governments has been to hold referendums to abolish these opt-outs, including formally abolishing the citizenship opt-out which is still technically active even if redundant.\n\nAround 500,000 UK citizens applied for Irish citizenship during the first half of 2017 with the possible intention of keeping European Union Citizenship after Brexit.\n\nGiven the substantial number of Europeans who emigrated throughout the world in the 19th and 20th centuries, and the extension of citizenship by descent, or \"jus sanguinis\", by some European countries to an unlimited number of generations of those emigrants' descendants, there are potentially many tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of persons currently outside Europe who have a claim to citizenship in an EU member state and, by extension, to EU citizenship. If these individuals were to overcome the bureaucratic hurdles of certifying their citizenship, they would have freedom of movement to live anywhere in the EU, under the 1992 European Court of Justice decision \"Micheletti v Cantabria\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882874", "title": "Quincey Morris", "text": "Quincey Morris\n\nQuincey P. Morris is a fictional character in Bram Stoker's 1897 horror novel \"Dracula\".\n\nHe is a rich young American from Texas, and one of the three men who propose to Lucy Westenra. Quincey is friends with her other two suitors, Arthur Holmwood and Dr. John Seward, even after Lucy has chosen Arthur, as well as Jonathan Harker. He carries a Bowie knife at all times, and at one point he admits that he is a teller of tall tales and 'a rough fellow, who hasn't perhaps lived as a man should' (\"Dracula\" Chapter 25). Quincey is the last person to donate his blood to Lucy before her death. Aside from Dracula, Quincey is the only major character not to keep some form of journal.\n\nQuincey is one of the few characters in \"Dracula\" to have prior knowledge of blood drinkers. In chapter 12, he mentions that he was forced to shoot his Horse while in the Pampas after vampire bats drank it dry during the night. Quincey plays an important role in the climax of the novel. He and Jonathan Harker are the ones who finally destroy Count Dracula. Quincey is gravely injured in the final battle with Count Dracula and his minions and dies shortly afterwards. In gratitude for his efforts, Harker and his wife, Mina Harker, name their son Quincey.\n\nIn 1991, author P. N. Elrod wrote a short story called \"The Wind Breathes Cold\" which appeared in the anthology \"Dracula: Prince of Darkness\" (). In the story, Morris, who had been killed in the process of destroying Dracula (who had fled back to Transylvania when his plans for establishing a residence in England failed), awakens in the night to discover that, as the result of an old affair with a woman who turned out to be a vampire, he himself has become a vampire. Dracula confronts him, explaining that they belong to what effectively amounts to two different species of vampires and that many of Dracula's weaknesses (crosses, garlic, and other anti-vampire paraphernalia) are the price for his additional powers. The story ends with Quincey returning to the castle with Dracula for a short time to adjust to what has happened to him.\n\nIn 2001, Elrod expanded the chapter into a full novel (Baen Paperbacks, 2001, ) with Quincey leaving Transylvania and traveling first to Paris, then on to London in the hopes of convincing his friends that he's not the evil monster Van Helsing has painted him to be.\n\nIn author Edward M. Erdelac's epistolary sequel to Dracula, Terovolas, Van Helsing returns the earthly remains and personal effects of Quincey to his ancestral ranch in the fictional Sorefoot, Texas. There, Professor Van Helsing becomes embroiled in another preternatural caper with Quincey's estranged younger brother, Cole Morris.\n\n\nMost film adaptations of the novel omit Quincey altogether. In the 1977 adaptation \"Count Dracula\", he is merged with the Arthur Holmwood character and renamed Quincey Holmwood. To date, Morris has been portrayed in film and television by:\n\n\n\nIn the \"Castlevania\" video game series, Quincey is a distant relative of the series' main heroes, the Belmonts. In addition, two games, \"Castlevania Bloodlines\" and \"\", feature his son John and grandson Jonathan as their respective protagonists, in which they hunt the resurrected Dracula with the Belmonts' family weapon, the Vampire Killer whip. How exactly Quincey had a son remains to be explained.\n\nIn the full motion video based game \"Dracula Unleashed\", the protagonist is Quincey's brother Alexander Morris. The plot involves Alexander's investigation of his brother's death. Quincey also appears to Alexander in a dream sequence. Both brothers are played by Bill Williamson in the game.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882875", "title": "Bloomers", "text": "Bloomers\n\nBloomers, also called the bloomer, the Turkish dress, the American dress, or simply reform dress, are divided women's garments for the lower body. They were developed in the 19th century as a healthful and comfortable alternative to the heavy, constricting dresses worn by American women. They take their name from their best-known advocate, the women's rights activist Amelia Bloomer.\n\nBloomers were an innovation of readers of the \"Water-Cure Journal\", a popular health periodical that in October 1849 began urging women to develop a style of dress that was not so harmful to their health as the current fashion. It also represented an unrestricted movement, unprecedented by previous women's fashions, that allowed for greater freedom—both metaphorical and physical—within the public sphere. The fashionable dress of that time consisted of a skirt that dragged several inches on the floor, worn over layers of starched petticoats stiffened with straw or horsehair sewn into the hems. In addition to the heavy skirts, prevailing fashion called for a \"long waist\" effect, achieved with a whale-bone-fitted corset that pushed the wearer's internal organs out of their normal place. The result was a feminine population which, as one medical professor warned his students, was of no use as cadavers from which to study human anatomy.\n\nWomen responded with a variety of costumes, many inspired by the pantaloons of Turkey, and all including some form of pants. By the summer of 1850, various versions of a short skirt and trousers, or \"Turkish dress\", were being worn by readers of the \"Water-Cure Journal\" as well as women patients at the nation's health resorts. After wearing the style in private, some began wearing it in public. In the winter and spring of 1851, newspapers across the country carried startled sightings of the dresses.\n\nIn February 1851, Elizabeth Smith Miller of Peterboro, New York wore the \"Turkish dress\" to Seneca Falls, New York, home of Amelia Bloomer and her temperance journal, \"The Lily\". The next month Bloomer announced to her readers that she had adopted the dress and, in response to many inquiries, printed a description of her dress and instructions on how to make it. By June many newspapers had dubbed it the \"Bloomer dress\".\n\nDuring the summer of 1851, the nation was seized by a \"bloomer craze\". Health reformer Mary Gove Nichols drafted a Declaration of Independence from the Despotism of Parisian Fashion and gathered signatures to it at lectures on woman's dress. Managers of the textile mills in Lowell, Massachusetts, gave a banquet for any of their female workers who adopted the safer dress before July 4. In Toledo, Ohio, sixty women turned out in Turkish costume at one of the city's grandest social events. Bloomer balls and bloomer picnics were held; dress reform societies and bloomer institutes were formed. A grand festival in favor of the costume was held at New York City's Broadway Tabernacle in September. In August, a woman who had spent six months sailing from Philadelphia around the Horn to California with the reform dress packed in her trunk disembarked to find that the dress had preceded her and was being displayed in the window of a San Francisco dress shop.\n\nInterest in the bloomers was also sparked in England when Hannah Tracy Cutler and other women delegates wore the new dress to an international peace convention in London. Many newspaper reports were dedicated to the controversy the outfit caused. One prominent figure who began to lecture about the bloomers in London and beyond was Caroline Dexter. When she and her husband later emigrated to Australia, she continued to advocate for dress reform. Although few women are known to have worn the bloomers in Australia, Dexter's continued support led to controversy in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\".\n\nThe Bloomer also became a symbol of women's rights in the early 1850s. The same women—Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone, and Susan B. Anthony—who adopted the new form of dress also advocated women's right to vote. These women preferred to call their new style the \"freedom dress.\" Crowds gathered to not only hear these women's radical words, but also to see their \"scandalous\" mode of dress. After three years, however, fearing that the new dress was drawing attention away from the suffragist cause, many of these women returned to corsets, long skirts, and more conventional forms of dress. In similar suit, the Dress Reform Association which was formed in 1856 called the outfit the \"American costume\" and focused on its health benefits rather than its political symbolism. Following the American Civil War, interest in the Bloomer costume waned almost completely until its resurgence in the 1890s.\n\nIn the 1850s, the \"bloomer\" was a physical and metaphorical representation of feminist reform. This garment originated in late 1849 for the purpose of developing a style of dress for women that was less harmful to their health. Because it was less restricting than the previously popular attire, the bloomer provided more physical freedom for women. Being a completely new and distinctively different form of dress, the bloomer garment also provided women with a metaphorical freedom, in the sense that it gave women not only more diverse dress options, but also the opportunity and power to choose their type of garment.\n\nSome individuals at the time even argued that the Bloomer dress should be adopted for moral reasons. A reporter noted that a group of \"very intelligent appearing, lady-like women\" met in Milford, Massachusetts in July 1852. The purpose of this meeting was to consider the propriety of adopting bloomers. The women unanimously passed a resolution approving the costume, declaring the currently existing fashion to be consistent with \"moral evils\" and arguing that the bloomer would facilitate women's efforts to engage in good works.\"\n\nFeminists, such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and numerous others, essentially claimed that women who took on the \"feminist dress\" look without being fully knowledgeable of all the accompanying issues were imposters. They were concerned that individuals could demonstrate reform without actually being an expert in the issues. In the \"Sibyl\" poem, the feeling and element of reform was demonstrated through simplicity and the subtle appreciation of this small step in women's fashion in parallel to a small step for women in general. During the 1850s, feminist reformers were fighting numerous battles to bring about change and further equality to women everywhere. Feminists believed that it was more important to focus on the issues, and that giving in to fashionable trends was exactly what they were battling against. This now popularized simple change in dress symbolically furthered women's liberation.\n\nBloomer's promotion of the style as a freedom dress rather than as a health dress did nothing to recommend it to the orthodox clergy and other critics of the woman's rights movement, who denounced the wearing of pants by women as a usurpation of male authority. Associating it with the woman's rights movement, the \"New York Sunday Mercury\" published a woodcarving representing the woman's rights convention held in Akron, Ohio, in May 1851. It depicted every woman in coat, breeches, and high boots, sitting cross-legged and smoking cigars, when in truth not a bloomer was present. Some young women were denied church membership for wearing the dress. Public meetings were called to put down the fad, and the very same newspapers that had previously praised the dress began ridiculing and condemning \"Bloomerism\". In August 1851, \"Harper's Monthly\" reprinted a cartoon and article from a London newspaper ridiculing the American dress, one month after it had printed a sketch of the \"Oriental Costume\" and pronounced it tasteful, elegant, and graceful.\n\nLucy Stone, one of America's most famous orators in the woman's rights movement during the 1850s, helped popularize the dress by wearing it as she addressed immense audiences in over twenty states, the District of Columbia, and Ontario between 1851 and 1855. She had begun wearing the dress as a health measure while recuperating from typhoid fever during the winter of 1850–51, and she wore it exclusively for three years. In 1856 a National Dress Reform Association organized and one of its officers, Dr. Lydia Sayer Hasbrouck, who had worn the dress since 1849, established a journal, \"The Sibyl\", as the society's organ. From July 1856 through June 1864, that paper carried news of dress reform to subscribers from New England to California and published the names of nearly a thousand women who sent in their names as wearers of the reform dress. A letter-writer from Iowa said it was especially suited for life on the prairie and reported that many women from various parts of the state wore it all the time. Readers from Illinois, Arkansas, Michigan, Wisconsin, Kansas, Nebraska, Dakota, and Oregon attested to its popularity among western women. In 1860, an English traveler reported meeting a bloomer wearer in Laramie, Wyoming, and a traveler to Pike's Peak reported that \"the bloomer costume is considerably in vogue and appears peculiarly adapted to overland travel\".\n\nWhen Dorothea Dix was appointed superintendent of army nurses in June 1861, she issued a statement banning the bloomer from army hospitals and requiring women to abandon it before entering nursing service. But as western communities organized battalions of soldiers, they also formed corps of volunteer nurses to accompany them, and many of these nurses adopted the reform dress for field service. All members of one such corps, organized by Dr. Fedelia Harris Reid of Berlin, Wisconsin, and called the \"Wisconsin Florence Nightengale Union\", wore the bloomer not only in the field, but also while caring for patients at a military hospital in St. Louis. Four bloomer wearers were among the nurses who accompanied Minnesota's First Regiment. Dr. Mary E. Walker, who earned the Congressional Medal of Honor for her medical services during the Civil War, wore the reform dress while working in a military hospital in Washington, D.C., as well as for field work. As she accompanied troops in the South, she wrote to the \"Sibyl\" that New Orleans women of wealth and standing had worn it to Haiti and Cuba. The dress was still being worn by members of the utopian Oneida Community in 1867 but gradually it was abandoned by all but a very few stalwart wearers willing to defy society's mores.\n\nIn 1893, the Woman's Congress of the World's Columbian Exposition revived interest in the bloomer as an aid in improving women's health through physical exercise. Their session on women's dress opened with Lucy Stone reminiscing about the bloomer movement of the 1850s; her extolling the bloomer as the \"cleanest, neatest, most comfortable and most sensible garment\" she had ever worn; and young women modeling different versions of the dress. The following year Annie \"Londonderry\" Cohen Kopchovsky donned the bloomer during her famous bicycle trip around the world, and an updated version of the bloomer soon became the standard \"bicycle dress\" for women during the bicycle craze of the 1890s.\n\nIn 1909, fashion designer Paul Poiret attempted to popularize harem pants worn below a long flaring tunic, but this attempted revival of fashion bloomers under another name did not catch on.\n\nDuring the late 19th century, athletic bloomers (also known as \"rationals\" or \"knickerbockers\") were skirtless baggy knee-length trousers, fastened to the leg a little below the knees; at that time, they were worn by women only in a few narrow contexts of athletic activity, such as bicycle-riding, gymnastics, and sports other than tennis (see 1890s in fashion). Bloomers were usually worn with stockings and after 1910 often with a sailor middy blouse.\n\nBloomers became shorter by the late 1920s. In the 1930s, when it became respectable for women to wear pants and shorts in a wider range of circumstances, styles imitating men's shorts were favored, and bloomers tended to become less common. However, baggy knee-length gym shorts fastened at or above the knees continued to be worn by girls in school physical education classes through to the 1950s in some areas. Some schools in New York City and Sydney still wore them as part of their uniforms into the 1980s. In Japan their use persisted into the early 2000s.\n\nThe Bloomington, Illinois, entry in the Three-I League of minor league baseball, despite being an all-male team, was tagged with the nickname \"Bloomers\" for several decades in the early 1900s.\n\nKnown as \"buruma\" (ブルマ), also \"burumā\" (ブルマー), bloomers were introduced in Japan as women's clothing for physical education in 1903. After the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, a newer style of bloomers which fit the body closer, similar to volleyball uniforms, became commonplace. Around the mid-1990s, however, schools and individuals began to choose sports shorts instead, citing modesty concerns. Some people are interested in bloomers in clothing fetish context.\n\nWomen's baggy underpants fastened to just below or above the knee are also known as \"bloomers\" (or as \"knickers\" or \"directoire knickers\"). They were most popular from the 1910s to the 1930s but continued to be worn by older women for several decades thereafter. Often the term \"bloomers\" has been used interchangeably with the pantalettes worn by women and girls in the mid-19th century and the open-leg knee-length drawers of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n"}
{"id": "1882882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882882", "title": "Crowmarsh Gifford", "text": "Crowmarsh Gifford\n\nCrowmarsh Gifford, commonly known as Crowmarsh, is a village in the civil parish of Crowmarsh in South Oxfordshire. It is beside the River Thames opposite the market town of Wallingford, the two linked by Wallingford Bridge. Crowmarsh parish also includes the hamlet of Newnham Murren, which is now merged with the village; the hamlet of Mongewell, and the village of North Stoke to the south.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest of England most of the land was granted to Walter Giffard, later Earl of Buckingham. It later came into the possession of William Marshal, 1st Earl of Pembroke and remained with his heirs until passing back to the Crown. Nearby Newnham Manor was originally granted by William the Conqueror to Miles Crispin, but by 1428 was owned by Thomas Chaucer, son of the poet Geoffrey Chaucer. After his death it was passed to his daughter Alice, wife of William de la Pole, 4th Earl of Suffolk. Other land was granted to Battle Abbey.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of Saint Mary Magdalene is said to have been built in about 1120. The north door, south door, three windows in the south wall, chancel arch and font are all Norman. A north transept with a pointed arch was added in about 1200. The building was restored in 1836 and 1868.\n\nIn 1139 King Stephen built a wooden fort in Crowmarsh, the first of a series built in opposition to Wallingford Castle, which supported his cousin Matilda during the civil war known as The Anarchy. The forts were probably dismantled as a result of the Treaty of Wallingford of 1153. The castle at Crowmarsh consisted of a wide ditch surrounding an enclosure measuring .\nIn 1701 agriculturist Jethro Tull invented his revolutionary seed drill here. In 1770 nearby Mongewell Park was acquired by Shute Barrington, then Bishop of Llandaff. He was buried in Mongewell Church. Mongewell Park later became the site for Carmel College. The Jacobethan country house Howbery Court (also known as Howbery Park) in Crowmarsh was built in about 1850 for local MP William Seymour Blackstone. It now houses the facilities of HR Wallingford Group. Nearby North Stoke was the home of the contralto singer Dame Clara Butt, who died there and was buried locally in St Mary's Church graveyard in 1936.\nIn 1944 a Royal Canadian Air Force Halifax bomber with a full bomb load caught fire over Wallingford. Most of the crew bailed out, but Flying Officer Johnny Wilding (USA) and Sergeant John Andrews (RAF) gave their lives to steer the plane away from the town and crash it into the fields of Crowmarsh. They are commemorated by an obelisk at the junction of Wilding Road and Andrew Road in Wallingford.\n\nCrowmarsh Gifford is the administrative headquarters of South Oxfordshire District Council. The Offices were badly damaged by fire on 15 January 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882895", "title": "Emin (surname)", "text": "Emin (surname)\n\nEmin can be a surname of Arabic (Amin) origin.\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882915", "title": "Out and back roller coaster", "text": "Out and back roller coaster\n\nOut and back refers to the layout of a roller coaster. An out and back coaster is one that climbs a lift hill soon after leaving the station, races out to the far end of the track after the initial drop, performs a 180 degree turn and then returns to the station. Some out and back coasters perform more complicated turns at the far end of the track.\n\nThis particular design is very popular and is easy to design and construct. With an out and back design the hills on the way \"out\" usually are quite large and gradually decrease in size. The hills on the way \"back\" are usually \"bunny hops\", or small hills created to maximize air-time.\n\nThe simplest out-and-back layout resembles a flattened oval when viewed from above. In profile, the train leaves the station (point A) and ascends the lift hill; after gaining kinetic energy from the initial drop, the train ascends a second hill to slow the train before it enters the first turn-back at the far end of the track (point B). Exiting the turn-back, the train descends the second hill to gain speed again before entering a third hill (or a braking area) to slow for a second turn-back at the near end of the track (point C) and the return to the station.\n\nA variation on the theme has the track traveling from the station (point A) out to the far end (point B), then returning past the station before traveling out to the far end again, and finally returning to the station. From above, the simplest double out-and-back would appear as a flattened oval spiral with a crossover for the final return to the station.\n\nExamples of this type of ride include the venerable Comet, which was moved from Crystal Beach Park in Ontario to Great Escape at Queensbury, New York, and the Phoenix at Knoebels' Amusement Resort in Elysburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nThese coasters travel back and forth between A and B thrice; the resulting appearance is often hard to discern from true twisters, which are usually free-form in design. An example of this type of ride is the Coney Island Cyclone.\n\nWhile no roller coasters of this type are known, they would travel between A and B more than three times. Like triple out-and-backs, they are hard to discern from twisters, and sometimes wild mice.\n"}
{"id": "1882919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882919", "title": "Project Gotham Racing 3", "text": "Project Gotham Racing 3\n\nProject Gotham Racing 3 is a racing arcade game developed by Bizarre Creations and published by Microsoft Game Studios. It was released exclusively for the Xbox 360 as a launch title in November 2005.\n\n\"Project Gotham Racing 3\" was rated by \"Official Xbox Magazine\" as Xbox 360 \"Game of the Year\" (2005), as well as \"Best 1st Person (Not Shooter) of the Year\", because of its realistic inside-car view.\n\n\"Project Gotham Racing 3\" offers players four cities—Las Vegas, London, New York City, and Tokyo—as well as the Nürburgring to race through. \"Project Gotham Racing 3\" features 80 licensed cars from over 30 manufacturers such as Ferrari, Dodge, and Lamborghini.\n\nThe polygons used to make up a car model increases in \"Project Gotham Racing 3\", to between 80-100,000. The increased polygon count allows for smoother, less jagged-shaped cars than in earlier games. Of the 80 cars in the game, 71 are unlocked and available for play at the start of a new game, while the remaining 9 (prototypes, one-offs, and concept) cars are left for the player to unlock.\n\nIn a change from the previous two games, \"Project Gotham Racing 3\" emphasizes supercars and special models instead of generic production cars (cars with a top speed of over 170 mph). One of the starter cars is the Acura NSX. Similar to its predecessors, each car in \"Project Gotham Racing 3\" is allocated to a specific class. There are five classes, A through E, the high performance cars being Class A, and the low performance cars in Class E.\n\nKudos once again play an important part in \"Project Gotham\". Kudos points are given for stylish driving, for example drifting around a corner, drafting, or getting two or four wheels off the ground. When combos are linked up, the player is given a bonus for keeping them linked together, and this builds up to huge amounts if the combo is held for a substantial length of time. This bonus is, however, lost if the player crashes into any barriers, though the base Kudos (all but the combo bonus) are kept.\n\n\"Project Gotham Racing 3\" allows multiplayer offline with up to two players on one Xbox 360 console or more players via System Link. \"Project Gotham Racing 3\" offers online integrated scoreboards for single player career events as well as Time Trials and test track times. Gamers with Xbox Live Gold are able to race with up to seven other competitors in races online. Online career (ranked) and playtime (unranked) are both offered as online multiplayer modes. Scoreboards also track standings for online career.\n\n\"Project Gotham Racing 3\" received \"generally favourable\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\"USA Today\" gave it a score of nine-and-a-half stars out of ten and said it \"offers plenty of \"oohs\" and \"aahs\" with impressive graphics and sound. But luckily this game still plays very well too. And with a robust online package and plenty of racing options, it becomes a 360 must-have.\" \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave it four stars out of five and said that \"Despite \"Gotham\"'s obliging nature, high-speed thrills and gorgeous graphical sheen, it's hard not to feel that we have seen its best tricks before.\" However, \"Detroit Free Press\" gave it a score of three stars out of four and stated that \"Online play is as hectic, though perhaps not as friendly, as the previous Xbox version.\"\n\n\"Project Gotham Racing 3\" received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 300,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe entire Cadillac V-Series was made available May 2006 as free download content.\n\nA speed pack was made available April 2006, with tournament access, new features, some fixes, and new cars.\n\nA style pack was made available July 2006, featuring more cars and features.\n"}
{"id": "1882924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882924", "title": "Sakkos", "text": "Sakkos\n\nThe sakkos (Greek: σάκκος, \"sackcloth\") is a vestment worn by Orthodox and Greek Catholic bishops instead of the priest's \"phelonion\". The garment is a tunic with wide sleeves, and a distinctive pattern of trim. It reaches below the knees and is fastened up the sides with buttons or tied with ribbons. It is similar in form to the western dalmatic, which is similarly derived from Byzantine dress. The \"sakkos\" was originally worn by the Emperor as an imperial vestment, symbolizing the tunic of disgrace worn by Christ during his trial and mockery.\n\nThe \"sakkos\" is usually made of a rich brocade fabric and may be intricately embroidered. There is normally a cross in the center of the back, which the bishop kisses before it is placed on him. Buttons or loops are sewn on the back, by which the bishop's \"omophorion\" (either great or small) may be attached. Traditionally, bells are attached to the \"sakkos\", following the biblical directions for the vestments of the Jewish High Priest (; ).\n\nOriginally, all bishops wore a \"phelonion\" similar to the one worn by priests, but woven or embroidered with a multilayered cross pattern called the \"polystavrion\" (\"many-crosses\"). The use of the \"sakkos\" was a privilege bestowed by the \"Basileus\" (Emperor) upon individual patriarchs as a sign of his personal favor. The first literary evidence for the garment is found in the writings of Theodore Balsamon, Patriarch of Antioch (ca. 1130–1140). By the 13th century it worn by all the patriarchs and a few high-ranking archbishops—but only on Easter and the Great Feasts of Pentecost and Nativity; other bishops continued to wear the \"polystavrion\". After the Fall of Constantinople (1453) it came into general use by bishops along with the mitre, derived from the Imperial crown, as a sign of their temporal authority within the \"Rum millet\" of the Ottoman Empire. The \"sakkos\" is now worn by all Eastern Orthodox and Byzantine Catholic bishops, regardless of rank. Unlike Western \"pontificalia\" which may be worn by prelates who are not bishops—provided they have the privilege of doing so—the \"sakkos\" may only be worn by a bishop.\n\nThe bishop wears the \"sakkos\" when he vests fully to celebrate the Divine Liturgy, at the Great Doxology at Matins when there is an All-Night Vigil, or on specific other occasions when called for by the rubrics (for instance, at the bringing out of the Epitaphios on Great and Holy Friday, or the cross on the Great Feast of the Exaltation). At other services, he will wear the episcopal mantle (Greek: Μανδύας, \"Mandýas\", Old Church Slavonic: \"Mantiya\"). When the bishop is vested, the \"sakkos\" is presented to him on a tray. He blesses it with both hands, and two subdeacons lift it off the tray, hold it for him to kiss the cross on the back, place it on him and button the sides (as shown here). The \"epigonation\", which was placed on the bishop first, is lifted up as the \"sakkos\" is buttoned, so that it remains visible on the outside. During the vesting with the \"sakkos\", the protodeacon swings the censer and says the Prayer of the Sakkos:\n\nThy high priests shall by clothed in glory, and Thy saints shall rejoice with joy, always, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.\n\nThis prayer is identical to that used by a priest when he vests in the \"phelonion\", except that instead of saying \"Thy high priests\", a priest says simply, \"Thy priests\".\n\nIn some traditions, a bishop may choose to celebrate the Liturgy \"as a priest\"; meaning he does not vest in full episcopal vestments, nor does he make use of the \"dikirion\" and \"trikirion\" (episcopal candlesticks). Instead of the \"sakkos\" he wears a priestly \"phelonion\", with only the small \"omophorion\" on his shoulders and the \"epigonation\" at his side. The bishop will in this instance, as always, wear his Panagia \"enkolpion\", and will stand on the eagle rug. Moreover, certain ceremonial practices are not observed as they would be for a full hierarchal service.\n\nA bishop may theoretically always use the \"phelonion\" rather than the \"sakkos\", but this is very rarely done. A notable instance where the \"phelonion\" is always used is in the Liturgy of St. James. The phelonion was originally used by both the presbyters and the bishops of the church. However, as the Roman Empire drew to a close, the Ecumenical Patriarch began wearing the sakkos, due to being the \"Ecumenical\" Patriarch, that is, the Patriarch of the imperial capital and most of the Empire. After the Empire fell, the Turks appointed most Orthodox Bishops to wear the sakkos. This was also the period in which Orthodox Bishops began wearing imperial mitres and also were seated on a throne off to the side, rather than the center near where the original ambo would have been. The Slavic Churches retain standing the Bishops in the center of the Church, but during various reforms, began wearing mitres and the sakkos as the Greeks did. However, the Russian Patriarch/Metropolitan already wore a mitre similar to the one he wears today, and other Russian Bishops adopted the mitres of the Greeks only later.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882935", "title": "Diane Baker", "text": "Diane Baker\n\nDiane Carol Baker (born February 25, 1938) is an American actress, producer and educator who has appeared in motion pictures and on television since 1959.\n\nBaker was born in Hollywood Presbyterian Hospital in Hollywood, raised in North Hollywood and Studio City, California. She is the daughter of Dorothy Helen Harrington, who had appeared in several early Marx Brothers movies, and automobile salesperson Clyde Lucius Baker. Baker has two younger sisters, Patricia and Cheryl. At age 18, after graduating from Van Nuys High School in 1956, Baker moved to New York to study acting with Charles Conrad and ballet with Nina Fonaroff.\n\nAfter securing a seven-year contract with 20th Century Fox in 1958, Baker made her film debut when she was chosen by director George Stevens to play Margot Frank in the 1959 motion picture \"The Diary of Anne Frank\". In the same year, she starred in \"Journey to the Center of the Earth\" with James Mason and in \"The Best of Everything\" with Hope Lange and Joan Crawford.\n\nOther Fox films in which Baker appeared include the assassination thriller \"Nine Hours to Rama\", \"Hemingway's Adventures of a Young Man,\" and \"The 300 Spartans\". Her television work, which began in the 1960s, includes appearances on \"Follow the Sun\", \"Bus Stop\", \"Adventures in Paradise\", \"The Lloyd Bridges Show\", \"The Nurses\", \"The Invaders\" (in the first episode), and two episodes of \"Route 66\".\n\nFinally out of her contract with Fox after starring in the fourth screen version of Grace Miller White's novel \"Tess of the Storm Country\" and \"The 300 Spartans\" (1962), Baker appeared in \"Stolen Hours\", a 1963 remake of \"Dark Victory\" (Mirisch Corp. and United Artists), and, the same year, opposite Paul Newman and Elke Sommer in \"The Prize\" (MGM). From 1963 to 1966, Baker had a recurring role on the medical drama \"Dr. Kildare\".\n\nIn 1964, she co-starred with Joan Crawford in both \"Strait-Jacket\", William Castle's thriller about an axe murderess, and an unsold television pilot \"Royal Bay\", released to theaters as \"Della\". Alfred Hitchcock cast her in his film \"Marnie\" (1964) as Lil Mainwaring, the sister-in-law of Mark Rutland (Sean Connery). She co-starred with Gregory Peck and Walter Matthau in the thriller \"Mirage\" (1965), directed by Edward Dmytryk, and in \"Krakatoa, East of Java\" (1969) with Maximilian Schell. In the TV movie Western \"The Dangerous Days of Kiowa Jones\" (1966), she played the role of a woman who falls in love with a drifter (Robert Horton) who is deputized by a dying marshal to take two killers (one of whom is played by Sal Mineo) to a distant jail.\n\nIn August 1967, Baker had the distinction of playing David Janssen's love interest in the two-part finale of \"The Fugitive\", which became the most-watched show in the history of episodic television up until that time. In 1968, she co-starred with Dean Jones in the Disney film \"The Horse in the Gray Flannel Suit\". In January 1970, she had the lead guest-starring female role as Princess Francesca in the only three-episode mission of \"\". In 1973, Baker co-starred in ABC sitcom \"Here We Go Again\". The series was canceled after one season. In 1976, she played the frequently drunken daughter of the title character of the \"Columbo\" episode \"Last Salute to the Commodore\", which departed from the standard TV-show format whereby the viewer knows early-on who the murderer is.\n\nIn the decades after \"Mirage\", she appeared frequently on television and began producing films, including the drama film \"Never Never Land\" (1980) and the miniseries \"A Woman of Substance\" (1984), in which she played Laura. She reemerged on the big screen in \"The Silence of the Lambs\" (1991) as Senator Ruth Martin (\"Love your suit,\" Hannibal Lecter memorably said to her). Baker also appeared in the films \"The Joy Luck Club\", \"The Cable Guy\", \"The Net\" and \"A Mighty Wind\". She guest-starred in four episodes of \"House\" in 2005, 2008, and twice in 2012 as Blythe House, the mother of the title character.\n\nBaker spent more than a decade teaching acting at the Academy of Art University, the nation's largest accredited private art and design school, in San Francisco. She was formerly the Executive Director of the School of Motion Pictures-Television and the School of Acting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882936", "title": "Francine (wrestling)", "text": "Francine (wrestling)\n\nFrancine Meeks (née Francine Fournier; born February 19, 1972), known by the mononym Francine, is an American semi-retired professional wrestling valet and occasional professional wrestler. She is best known for her appearances with Extreme Championship Wrestling from 1995 to 2001 and with World Wrestling Entertainment in 2005 and 2006. During her tenure with ECW, Francine managed several of the promotion's top wrestlers.\n\nFrancine was born on February 19, 1972. She grew up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where she attended West Catholic Preparatory High School in West Philadelphia. She became a fan of professional wrestling as a teenager, attending events at the Spectrum.\n\nWhile working for a life insurance company in 1993, Francine saw a television commercial for the \"House of Hardcore\", the professional wrestling school run by Extreme Championship Wrestling, on SportsChannel Philadelphia and decided to enroll as she \"didn't want to be stuck behind a desk\".\n\nFrancine trained with J.T. Smith at House of Hardcore. During her training she made a handful of appearances on the independent circuit. After seven months, she began appearing on ECW house shows. Francine made her first ECW in-ring appearance in 1994 under the name \"Miss Montgomeryville\", portraying a beauty pageant winner who acted as a guest timekeeper until being chokeslammed by 911. Early into her ECW career, Francine was approached by the World Wrestling Federation about joining the promotion as \"Sister Love\", a valet for Brother Love.\n\nIn the summer of 1995, Francine debuted on ECW television at Hardcore Heaven as a devoted fan of Stevie Richards and later became his manager and on-screen girlfriend. The new partnership angered both Richards's tag team partner Raven and Raven's valet Beulah McGillicutty. This rivalry led to several catfights between the women including a match in which Richards turned on Francine due to the influence of Raven and Beulah winning the match.\nFrancine then allied herself with The Pitbulls tag team, who had left Raven's Nest, adopting a leather-clad dominatrix persona to fit with the Pitbulls' gimmick. She led The Pitbulls to a victory over Richards and Raven for the ECW Tag Team Championships on September 16, 1995. At Cyberslam '96 Francine and the Pitbulls defeated The Eliminators and Richards in a Dog Collar match when Francine pinned Richards after he was superbombed by The Pitbulls. She also led Pitbull #2 to win the ECW Television Championship from Shane Douglas, who had insulted her earlier in the program. On July 13, 1996 at \"ECW Heat Wave\", Francine turned on The Pitbulls and became the manager of Shane Douglas. The Pitbulls gained their revenge by superbombing her through a table.\n\nFrancine managed Douglas from 1996 until his departure from the promotion in 1999. Referred to as his \"Head\" Cheerleader, she twice helped him become ECW World Heavyweight Champion. During this time, she could also occasionally be found at ringside in support of Douglas' Triple Threat teammates Chris Candido and Bam Bam Bigelow. Bigelow, however, legitimately broke her pelvic bone while performing a press slam on her. In November 1997, she was by Douglas' side when he defeated Bigelow for the World Championship. She remained Douglas's manager until he left ECW in 1999.\n\nIn 1999, Francine began managing Tommy Dreamer. In mid-1999, Francine feuded with Steve Corino, who she defeated in multiple singles matches. Her partnership with Dreamer lasted until March 2000, when she left Dreamer after he accidentally DDT'd her while temporarily blinded, aligning herself with Raven.\n\nOn April 22, 2000 at CyberSlam, Dreamer defeated Taz to win the ECW World Heavyweight Championship. Following the match, Francine and Raven came to ringside to congratulate him. As Dreamer celebrated with Raven, Justin Credible and Jason attacked them, resulting in an impromptu championship bout between Dreamer and Credible. The match ended when Francine aligned herself with Credible by low blowing Dreamer, enabling Credible to pin him for the ECW World Heavyweight Championship. Francine went on to manage Credible until ECW closed in April 2001.\n\nOn June 26, 2002, Francine participated in the Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) lingerie battle royal for the Miss TNA Crown. On TNA's debut weekly PPV, Francine and Elektra had an in ring argument, leading Elektra to name Francine the reason for ECW's bankruptcy. In the match, Francine was eliminated by Elektra, Shannon and Miss Joni. She was upset that she lost, so she began to whip Ed Ferrera with his own belt. Francine then got back in the ring and started to whip Taylor Vaughn with Ferrera's belt after she won the match.\n\nThe next week the two women had a match against each other. Francine took a leather strap out of her boot and started to whip and choke Taylor with it. Referee Scott Armstrong grabbed it and took it away but Taylor grabbed it from the him and proceeded to whip and choke Francine with it. Armstrong tried to stop her, but Taylor hit him too causing her to be disqualified. Commentator Ed Ferrara got into the ring to help Francine, telling her she was the winner. Francine then put Ferrara's hand on her breast and slapped him for touching it, then whipped him with the leather strap.\n\nTwo weeks later Francine attacked Jasmine St. Claire while she was being interviewed by Goldy Locks. The two had a match later that night which resulted in both women being stripped to their underwear. It ended in a disqualification after interference by The Blue Meanie and Francine was taken away on a stretcher. This was her last appearance in TNA.\n\nShe made appearances with Major League Wrestling in 2003 as Michael Shane's manager and was later involved with the Women's Extreme Wrestling and Hottest Ladies of Wrestling promotions. In 2003, she also appeared in Delaware Championship Wrestling, where she feuded with Talia Madison and Noel Harlow. In 2004 Delaware Championship Wrestling changed its name to Dynamite Championship Wrestling.\n\nOn June 10, 2005 Francine appeared at the ECW reunion show Hardcore Homecoming, where she acted as the valet of Shane Douglas.\n\nOn June 12, she appeared at World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) produced ECW One Night Stand reunion pay-per-view, interfering in the main event of Tommy Dreamer and The Sandman versus The Dudley Boyz. After she kicked Dreamer in the crotch, Francine was attacked by Dreamer's wife and former valet, Beulah McGillicutty. On June 19, Francine apologized to her fans via her website for not disclosing that she was going to appear at One Night Stand, stating that the WWE had asked her to keep her appearance a surprise.\n\nFrancine then signed a contract to appear on the newly created Extreme Championship Wrestling brand. She made her first appearances with the promotion in house shows, normally competing in bikini contests with Kelly Kelly. Francine began acting as the valet of fellow \"ECW Original\" Balls Mahoney in his feud with Kevin Thorn to even the odds against him and Ariel, Thorn's valet. Francine made her return to television on the September 19, 2006 episode of \"ECW on Sci Fi\". On the following week's show, she made her in-ring debut as she wrestled Ariel to a no-contest in an \"Extreme Catfight.\" She was released from her WWE contract on October 12, 2006.\n\nFollowing her release from WWE, Francine announced her imminent retirement from professional wrestling on November 9, 2006. She also made appearances with Women's Extreme Wrestling (WEW) and made frequent appearances at autograph signings. In WEW, she managed Amber O'Neal.\n\nOn June 27, 2009, Francine held an ECW reunion show entitled \"Legends of the Arena\", with proceeds from the show being donated to the American Cancer Society. On August 8, 2010, Francine appeared via pre-taped video at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882942", "title": "Blue Skies (Diana DeGarmo album)", "text": "Blue Skies (Diana DeGarmo album)\n\nBlue Skies is the debut album by American Idol runner-up Diana DeGarmo, released in December 7, 2004 on RCA Records. It debuted at number 52, selling 47,000 copies in its first week and currently 168,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882946", "title": "Magnum XL-200", "text": "Magnum XL-200\n\nMagnum XL-200, colloquially known as simply Magnum, is a steel roller coaster built by Arrow Dynamics at Cedar Point in Sandusky, Ohio. When it opened in 1989, it was the tallest, fastest, and steepest complete-circuit roller coaster in the world as well as the first hypercoaster – a roller coaster that exceeds in height. Some have credited Magnum with starting a period in the industry known as the \"roller coaster wars\", in which amusement parks competed with one another at a rapid pace to build the next tallest and fastest roller coaster. More than 40 million people had ridden Magnum as of 2009.\n\nMagnum XL-200 held the title of tallest roller coaster in the world until 1994 when Pepsi Max Big One opened at Blackpool Pleasure Beach in the United Kingdom. \"Amusement Today\" presented Magnum with its \"Best Steel Roller Coaster\" Golden Ticket Award for three consecutive years from 1998 to 2000. , it was ranked thirteenth in the world by the same publication.\n\nBy the mid-1980s, Cedar Point had grown into a successful collection of roller coasters and other smaller rides on the shores of Lake Erie. Dick Kinzel took over as president and CEO of Cedar Fair, the company that operates the park, in 1986. In 1988, Kinzel saw a report on CNN about the opening of a new coaster in Japan called Bandit at Yomiuriland that emphasized height and speed but had no inversions. Kinzel wanted to introduce a similar coaster that emphasized steep drops and negative g-forces over inversions and spins, which were common at the time. It had been 10 years since the last major addition, Gemini, was introduced. Cedar Point asked for proposals from TOGO, Dinn Corporation, Intamin and Arrow Dynamics to build a roller coaster without inversions or over-the-shoulder restraints. They chose Arrow, which proposed a -tall coaster. That got Cedar Point's management interested in breaking the barrier, partly because of the publicity to be gained from building the first roller coaster to do so. The name \"Magnum XL-200\" was chosen because Magnum, P.I. was popular at the time and Cedar Point's management wanted to incorporate the height into the name. The original proposal was to cost $7.5 million, but was raised to $8 million after the height was extended to .\n\nMagnum XL-200 was announced on August 16, 1988, and construction began shortly thereafter. Following its completion in 1989, Kinzel was one of the first people to ride the coaster, boarding the train after one test cycle. It officially opened to the public on May 6, 1989 as the world's tallest, fastest and steepest complete-circuit roller coaster. It was measured for the Guinness Book of World Records on June 2. Cedar Point set a record attendance in 1989, due in part to the introduction of the Magnum.\n\nMagnum was awarded the ACE Roller Coaster Landmark award on June 21, 2004. Magnum has been repainted once in its history. The original track color was scarlet red, but the park started painting Magnum Molly orange in 2005. The job was completed in 2006. Cedar Point celebrated Magnum's 20th anniversary on opening day in 2009 with a ceremony and an appearance by Ron Toomer, its designer. A new entrance sign was also introduced.\n\nMagnum XL-200 has been the target of false rumors since 1998 claiming the structure was sinking due to unstable ground. The rumors supposedly started as an April Fools' Day joke in an Ohio newspaper, but quickly spread via the Internet. Cedar Point quickly denounced such rumors.\n\nMagnum XL-200 is classified as a hypercoaster and an out and back roller coaster. After the train departs the station, it travels west over the walkway leading to Cedar Point Shores. It then makes a slight decline and a 90-degree turn to the right and begins the climb to the top of the chain lift hill, which operates at a speed of . The train descends at a 60-degree angle, reaching a top speed of . The train then ascends a camelback hill, curving to the left into the first tunnel. Coming out of the tunnel, the train ascends a third, -tall hill. After the third hill, it enters a set of trim brakes and a pretzel-shaped turnaround where it curves to the left toward the beach and then left again into another tunnel. The train then traverses over seven airtime hills and a third tunnel into a mid-course brake run. The train turns left and goes back over the walkway to Cedar Point Shores. It then turns right and enters the brake run, followed by a 90 degree right turn back into the station. One cycle of the ride lasts about 2 minutes.\n\nMagnum XL-200 has three white-and-black trains. Each train has red, black or blue striping at the front. Each train has six cars; riders are arranged two-across in three rows for a total of 36 riders per train. Magnum was the first coaster in which Arrow Dynamics used its Hypercoaster trains, which were subsequently installed on dozens of other new rides. Riders are secured by a single lap bar and a seat belt.\n\nWhen Magnum XL-200 opened, it used pads similar to those still in use on Gemini. Shortly after its debut, however, these up-stop plates were replaced with more traditional up-stop wheels that stops excess wear and tear\n\nMagnum XL-200's steel track is in length, and its main hill is approximately high. Magnum XL-200 originally had a scarlet red track with silver supports. The track was repainted Molly orange in 2005, but the supports remained silver. The track consists of a tubular steel spine connected by struts to tubular steel running rails. When it opened, a steel out and back roller coaster without any loops was unheard of. Magnum's track is not smooth, partly because its pieces were welded together and unassisted by computer design. The track sections range from and are supported by 157 structural columns.\n\nOn May 26, 2007, one of the coaster's trains collided with another at less than , causing minor damage to both trains and minor injuries to at least three passengers. Two people were taken to a first aid station, and a third person was taken to a local hospital because of an asthma attack. The ride reopened the next day and park spokesman Robin Innes said the accident was caused by rain: \"We think it was just caused by excessive moisture on the tracks due to the heavy rain storms we had in the morning\" he said.\n\nMagnum XL-200 was designated an ACE Roller Coaster Landmark on June 21, 2004, at the 27th Annual Convention of the American Coaster Enthusiasts. It received the designation for inspiring more than a dozen similar rides on three continents and for being the first hypercoaster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882947", "title": "Crazy/Beautiful", "text": "Crazy/Beautiful\n\nCrazy/Beautiful (stylized as crazy/beautiful) is a 2001 American teen romantic drama film starring Kirsten Dunst and Jay Hernandez. It is largely set at Palisades Charter High School and the surrounding area, including Downtown Los Angeles, Pacific Palisades, Malibu (where Dunst's character lives), and East Los Angeles (where Hernandez's character lives).\n\nNicole Oakley, the out-of-control daughter of congressman Tom Oakley, meets a working class Mexican-American straight-A student, Carlos Nuñez. Nicole is troubled because her mother committed suicide when she was very young, feeling unwanted by her father, who has another young daughter with his new wife. Carlos, on the other hand, is from a poor background and is working hard towards becoming a Navy pilot.\n\nThey fall in love, and Carlos spends so much time with her that he stops performing well in school. Carlos is applying to the U.S. Naval Academy and Nicole's father suggests Carlos talk to him about gaining his Congressional sponsorship to the Academy. During their meeting, Nicole's father tells Carlos that he needs to end his relationship with Nicole, or she will destroy his life. Carlos breaks up with her, which leads Nicole into depression and back into wild, drunken partying. One night, Carlos calls her and finds out she is getting drunk at a high school party. He saves Nicole from a boy trying to take advantage of her. Carlos drives her home, but they get stopped by the police.\n\nAs a result of this incident, Nicole's father and step-mother decide that she needs to go to a boarding school far away from home; Carlos rescues her and they run away together. While they are away, Nicole realizes she is getting in the way of Carlos's dreams, so she decides it is time to stop running away from her problems, feeling she wants to be better for Carlos and have a future with him. They go back home and she makes up with her father. Her father thanks Carlos for not listening to his advice to abandon Nicole. In the end credits, we see that Carlos has become a pilot with the Navy.\n\n\n\"Crazy/Beautiful\" was directed by John Stockwell, who was interested in casting actress Kirsten Dunst as a self-destructive teenager after seeing her role in \"The Virgin Suicides\". Dunst, who was 18 at the time, accepted the role because she was tired of playing \"sweet\" girls in previous films. The actress also helped Stockwell convince Disney executives not to tone down the film's language and adult themes. Although a nude scene was in the script, it was never filmed because Dunst was 17 years old when she got cast and her mother flatly refused to let her do this scene. \"Crazy/Beautiful\" was planned as an R-rated film, but Disney ultimately wanted a more commercial PG-13 rating and ordered Stockwell to cut 35 obscenities, including a sex scene and a character's drug use. The film was originally titled \"At Seventeen\".\n\n\"Crazy/Beautiful\" opened at #9 at the U.S. Box office taking in $4,715,060 USD during its opening weekend. The film eventually grossed a worldwide total of $19,937,988 on a $13 million budget. Rotten Tomatoes gave the movie a score of 63% from 99 reviews. The critical consensus read, \"The story is not new, but the film gets credit for trying to move away from the genre's cliches. Kirsten Dunst and newcomer Jay Hernandez give believable performances\". Metacritic gave the film a score 61 based on 26 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\"The New York Times\" critic A. O. Scott praised the lead actors and the film's lively soundtrack, but criticized the other characters for being flat and superficial. He concluded that \"Crazy/Beautiful\" is \"an enormous improvement over the brainless, patronizing teenage romances\" of the time, but also admitted that it could have been much better if the filmmakers \"had trusted themselves and the actors a bit more\".\n\nThe soundtrack album was released by Hollywood Records on June 6, 2001; Seven Mary Three's \"Wait\" served as the album's English lead single; La Ley's \"Siempre (Every Time)\" was its Spanish lead single. \"Wait\" charted considerably well and its music video, directed by the film's director Stockwell, featured Dunst and Hernandez. Amazon.com editorialist Rickey Wright gave a mixed review of the soundtrack, citing groups like The Dandy Warhols, Mellow Man Ace, and Delinquent Habits as \"evocative\" while also stating that it \"hardly makes a good argument for the continuing validity of guitar rock.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882950", "title": "Battle of the Gridiron Stars", "text": "Battle of the Gridiron Stars\n\nBattle of the Gridiron Stars is a television show that airs on ESPN. It pits teams of National Football League players, one from the American Football Conference (\"Americans\") and the National Football Conference (\"Nationals\"), against each other in various athletic events.\n\nThe program, which takes its inspiration from the likes of \"Battle of the Network Stars\" and \"The Superstars\", is produced by IMG, the world's leading sports management firm.\n\nThe show takes place at Disney's Wide World of Sports in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. Each team is coached by a former NFL quarterback: Archie Manning coaches the National team, and Ken Stabler coaches the American team.\n\n\"Battle\" began in the spring of 2005 as ESPN sought replacement programming for the National Hockey League, which was in the midst of a lockout that would cost the league its entire season. Because of good ratings, and also in light of ESPN losing the NHL rights to OLN (now Versus), the series was renewed in 2006.\n\nDue to licensing restrictions, no actual team names or game highlights are used on the program.\n\n\n\nEach show consists of four competitions. The first three are worth one point to the winner, the final event is worth two points. Each season consists of six shows; the team with the most points at the end of the season is the winner.\n\nStabler's Americans have beaten Manning's Nationals both years.\n\nIMG's media division TWI produced the event both years. Steve Mayer and Geoff Cochrane are the executive producers.\n"}
{"id": "1882956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882956", "title": "Moonlight Mile (film)", "text": "Moonlight Mile (film)\n\nMoonlight Mile is a 2002 American romantic drama film written and directed by Brad Silberling. This film was loosely inspired by writer/director Brad Silberling's own experience. He was dating actress Rebecca Schaeffer at the time she was killed by an obsessed fan in 1989.\n\nThe film takes its name from the Rolling Stones song of the same name. The film's original title was \"Baby's in Black\", and then later changed to \"Goodbye Hello\", and then the current title. The film is set in 1973 and music from that era is heavily featured, including that of the Rolling Stones, Van Morrison, Bob Dylan, and Elton John.\n\nFollowing the murder of Diana Floss in a restaurant in Cape Ann, Massachusetts in 1973, her fiancé Joe Nast elects to stay with her parents. Her father, Ben, is a realtor whose business partner has recently left. Ben and Joe go into business as Floss & Son, as this was their plan before Diana's death. Joe goes to the post office to retrieve all the invitations that had been sent out for his and Diana's wedding, and with the help of Bertie Knox he retrieves seventy-four of seventy-five. She finds the last invitation and takes it to his house later that night. He drops her off at a local bar, and returns home, despite her inviting him in for a drink. Joe and Ben attend a local property fair, and Ben pitches the idea of redeveloping a block in the town to developer Mike Mulcahey. Mulcahey agrees, but they need to get all the tenants to agree.\n\nDiana's friends come around to look through her possessions, much to the consternation of her mother, Jojo. They then take Joe out for a drink at the same bar Bertie went to the previous night. Joe puts \"Moonlight Mile\" on the jukebox and Bertie dances with him. Joe convinces Ben to let him talk to the bar's owner to convince them to sell. Feeling trapped at the Floss home, he meets Bertie and tells her about Diana. He confesses to her that he had split up with Diana three days before she was killed. Bertie tells Joe about her boyfriend, the owner of the bar, who is lost in Vietnam.\n\nOne night Joe sneaks out the window to go see Bertie again. They sleep together, and he leaves the next morning, slipping back into Diana's house through the window. Jojo is sitting in the room, drinking, knowing that he was out seeing another woman, and saddened by the idea that she had always known he would have never ended up with her daughter. She does not want Joe to leave, as they have formed a bond.\n\nJoe goes to dinner at the Mulcahey's, where Mike's wife presumes aloud that Joe was not still tied up with thoughts of his fiancee's murder. Joe states that this is not the case, upsetting the mood at the dinner table. Mike calls Ben and ends their deal.\n\nBertie confronts Joe about what happened between them, and they have an argument in which he tells her no one believes her boyfriend is coming home and that she deserved better anyway. She leaves, upset.\n\nThe family attends the trial of Diana's murderer. However, the murderer's wife elicits sympathy from the jury, and the prosecutor, Mona Camp, asks Joe to testify and help the jury gain sympathy for Diana. While on the witness stand, Joe confesses that he and Diana had broken up prior to her death, and had not told her parents. Ben and Jojo are happy with the confession and gain closure. Joe symbolically writes 75 letters expressing his newfound clarity about what course his life ought to take and his love for Bertie, and places them in mailboxes around town, hoping that one will get to her.\n\nBen closes the shop, Jojo resumes her writing career, Bertie sells the bar, and she and Joe leave town.\n\nThe film grossed $10,011,050 worldwide from a $21 million budget.\n\n\"Moonlight Mile\" received mixed reviews from critics: the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes sampled 147 reviews, and gave the film a \"63%\" positive rating.\n\nThe \"Moonlight Mile\" soundtrack was released September 24, 2002 by Sony Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882965", "title": "Ham and cheese sandwich", "text": "Ham and cheese sandwich\n\nA ham and cheese sandwich is a common type of sandwich. It is made by putting cheese and sliced ham between two slices of bread. The bread is sometimes buttered and/or toasted. Vegetables like lettuce, tomato, onion or pickle slices can also be included. Various kinds of mustard and mayonnaise are also common.\n\nSliced bread, sliced cheese, and sliced cooked ham are very readily available in Western supermarkets and as a result ham and cheese sandwiches are quick and easy to prepare. They are a common component of a packed lunch.\n\nAs recalled by ballpark concessionaire Harry Stevens in a 1924 interview, in 1894 ham and cheese sandwiches were the only food sold in New York baseball parks; frankfurters were introduced in 1909.\n\nAn Englishwoman, writing in 1923 of her passage through Ellis Island on a trip to the U.S., noted:\n\nRichard E. Byrd took ham and cheese sandwiches on his 1926 polar flight as did 1927 transatlantic fliers Chamberlin and Levine.\n\nThe origin of the ham and cheese sandwich has been debated for a number of years by culinary intellectuals. The leading theory as to who first started to produce a ham, cheese and bread dish is mentioned in \"The Larousse Gastronomique 1961\". Here it notes that Patrick Connolly, an 18th-century Irish immigrant to England, sold a bread dish which:\n\n\"combined the remains of pig, cured and sliced with a topping of Leicester cheese and a kiss of egg yolk sauce (a form of mayonnaise) in a round bread roll. The dish was rather unimaginatively known as a Connolly and is still sometimes referred to as this in some parts of the Midlands in the UK.\"\n\nIn the UK, a common addition to a ham and cheese sandwich is pickle (a sweet, vinegary chutney originally by Branston); the snack is then known as a ham, cheese and pickle sandwich.\n\nIn French cuisine, a croque-monsieur is a type of ham and cheese sandwich. It is baked or fried.\n\nIn Brazilian cuisine, this sandwich roasted is known as \"misto-quente\" (\"hot mix\" in literal translation).\n\nThe Cuban sandwich is made with ham, cheese, and crusty Cuban bread, often toasted in a panini press. Variations of this sandwich are popular in both Cuba and South Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "1882966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882966", "title": "Greeley, Salt Lake and Pacific Railway", "text": "Greeley, Salt Lake and Pacific Railway\n\nThe Greeley, Salt Lake and Pacific Railway was a railroad that operated in northern Colorado in the United States during the 1880s. Founded with heavy backing with the Union Pacific Railroad, it was controlled by the Union Pacific from its inception, but was incorporated into the new Colorado and Southern Railway in 1898, becoming part of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad in 1908.\n\nThe railroad company was organized by investors in northern Colorado on January 17, 1881 with the intention of starting a southern branch of the transcontinental railroad that would pass through northern Colorado, connecting westward from the former Denver Pacific Railroad line at Greeley, as well as a narrow gauge line west of Boulder to the gold mining area above that city. The railroad received financial backing from the Union Pacific, which was concerned about plans by its rival, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad, to extend its line westward from the South Platte River valley over the Rocky Mountains to Salt Lake City. The GSLPRR constructed a line between Greeley and Fort Collins, as well as several spurs, one which went up into the foothills to the stone quarries at Stout at the present site of Horsetooth Reservoir. The GSLPRR was the second railroad to arrive in Fort Collins, coming five years after the arrival of the Colorado Central Railroad. The line skirted the Cache la Poudre River in Fort Collins, along the current Willow Street. Eminent domain was used by the (then) Town of Fort Collns to obtain property for the line. The line is still part of the Union Pacific system.\n\nThe narrow gauge line penetrated the foothills west of Boulder by following Boulder Canyon to Four Mile Canyon to the town of Sunset. a line was surveyed further westward, but no track was ever laid by this company. The GSLPRR owned no narrow gauge equipment, and the line was actually operated by the Colorado Central Railroad using their own narrow gauge equipment and later by the Union Pacific, Denver and Gulf Railway. The line was badly damaged by flooding in the spring of 1894, and was subsequently abandoned. The Colorado and Northwestern Railway was built along this same route, starting in 1897.\n\nThe towns of Timnath and Windsor were both founded in the early 1880s along the line between Greeley and Fort Collins.\n\nAlthough the Union Pacific sponsored surveying expeditions up the Poudre Canyon, with the intention of possibly extending the line over Cameron Pass into North Park, the parent railroad lost interest in the project after the abandonment of the similar plans by its rival, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy.\n"}
{"id": "1882970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882970", "title": "Tim Yohannan", "text": "Tim Yohannan\n\nTim Yohannan (August 15, 1945 – April 3, 1998), also known as Tim Yo, was the founder of \"Maximum Rocknroll\", a radio show and fanzine documenting punk subculture. He also helped in establishing a number of DIY collectives, such as 924 Gilman Street, Blacklist Mailorder, and the Epicenter Zone record store.\n\nYohannan was initially a 1960s counterculture-era leftist, before shifting this ideology to the punk scene. Issue 425 of Maximumrocknroll stated, \"Tim Yo was a Marxist!\" He helped mold the early 1980s American punk scene, and tied in various international punk scenes, through documenting them in \"Maximum Rocknroll\", a fanzine he founded in 1982. As the zine became popular and profitable, Yohannan donated those profits to zines and collectives, even as he continued blue-collar work in the Lawrence Hall of Science at University of California, Berkeley.\n\nAs a self-appointed \"punks' herdsman\", Yohannan had a reputation as being notoriously difficult.\n\nYohannan died at 53 on April 3, 1998 from complications from lymphatic cancer.\n\nTim Yohannan had a daughter named Sophia Price Palmira, born in San Francisco on August 21. While he acknowledged her as his biological daughter, he chose to not participate in her life.\n\nYohannan's divisive personality was described in the NOFX song \"I'm Telling Tim\" from their 1997 album \"So Long and Thanks for All the Shoes.\" NOFX would later mention missing him in their song \"We Threw Gasoline On The Fire And Now We Have Stumps For Arms And No Eyebrows\" from Punk-O-Rama III.\n\nThe band Green Day recorded the song \"Platypus (I Hate You)\" on their 1997 album \"Nimrod\". The song does not directly mention Tim. However, frontman Billie Joe Armstrong tweeted on February 17, 2011 (and deleted the tweet a few hours later), \"Platypus was written for Tim Yohanon. And I pray to god I misspelled his name. Rest in shit you fucking cunt\".\n\nThe band MDC recorded a tribute to Yohannan titled \"Timmy Yo\" on their 2004 studio album \"Magnus Dominus Corpus\".\n\nJulio Rey of Christian punk band The Lead recorded a demo track in 2011 titled, \"What I Should Have Told Tim Yohannan Back In 1985\" recalling an earlier incident in which Yohannan refused to run an ad for the band, returned the check, and the two men exchanged a few letters.\n\nThe Rhythm Pigs (Texas punk/hc) - \"Little Brother\", off their 1987 \"Choke on This\" LP, makes sarcastic reference \"to acceptable behaviour in the scene\" and \"Maximum Rock n' Roll...big brotha's little brother,\" a reference to Yohannan's short height.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882974", "title": "Natalya Neidhart", "text": "Natalya Neidhart\n\nNatalie Katherine Neidhart-Wilson (born May 27, 1982) is a Canadian-American professional wrestler and columnist currently signed to WWE under the ring name Natalya, performing on the Raw brand. She is a two-time Women's Champion in WWE, having held the SmackDown Women's Championship and Divas Championship once each.\n\nThe first third-generation female wrestler in the world, Neidhart is a member of the Hart wrestling family through her mother. She trained in the Hart family Dungeon under the tutelage of her uncles Ross and Bruce Hart. In 2000 and 2001, she worked for the Matrats promotion, before debuting for Stampede Wrestling in 2003. In 2004 and 2005, she wrestled abroad in both England and Japan. In June 2005, she became the inaugural Stampede Women's Pacific Champion and won the SuperGirls Championship the following year in October 2006.\n\nIn January 2007, she signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and spent time in Deep South Wrestling, Ohio Valley Wrestling, and Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) developmental territories. While in FCW, she managed her cousin, Harry Smith (known as David Hart Smith during his WWE tenure), and her husband, T.J. Wilson (known as Tyson Kidd during his WWE tenure). She debuted on the main roster in April 2008, allying herself with Victoria. The following year she began managing her husband again, and they were joined by Smith to form The Hart Dynasty. In November 2010, Neidhart won the WWE Divas Championship. Since July 2013, Neidhart has been featured as a main cast member of the reality television series \"Total Divas\". In August 2017, Neidhart became the SmackDown Women's Champion after defeating Naomi at SummerSlam. She is the first woman in WWE history to hold both the Divas Championship and the SmackDown Women's Championship.\n\nNeidhart is the daughter of wrestler Jim \"The Anvil\" Neidhart and Elizabeth “Ellie” Hart, a daughter of Stu Hart, making Neidhart a third generation wrestler. She has two sisters; her older sister, Jennifer, is a gourmet chef and caterer, and Kristen (nicknamed \"Muffy\") is her younger sister. She is of Greek descent through a maternal great-grandmother. Neidhart cites her grandfather, Stu, and her uncle, Bret, as her inspirations, both in and out of the ring. As a member of the Hart wrestling family, she is a cousin to Harry Smith, Teddy, Matt, and Mike Hart, who are all also professional wrestlers. She is close friends with Smith, and the two lived together for a short time as children while their fathers were wrestling as a team.\n\nNeidhart attended Vincent Massey junior high school and Bishop Carroll High School, from which she graduated in 2000. Neidhart is trained in Jiu-Jitsu and amateur wrestling, and also participated in dance and gymnastics. She briefly worked as a saleswoman for Kirby vacuum when she was eighteen.\n\nNeidhart received formal professional wrestling training in the Hart family \"Dungeon\" from her uncles Ross and Bruce Hart, becoming the first woman to do so. In addition to her professional wrestling career, Neidhart has received training in amateur wrestling and mixed martial arts. Neidhart is the first third-generation female wrestler in the world.\n\nIn late 2000 through 2001, she served as the host and ring announcer of the Eric Bischoff led youth-promotion MatRats.\n\nIn 2003, she began working for the Hart Family's own promotion, Stampede Wrestling, beginning a long time feud with Belle Lovitz. The pair wrestled each other repeatedly, including a match for the Prairie Wrestling Alliance, where Neidhart teamed with her father, Jim \"The Anvil\" Neidhart, against Lovitz and Apocalypse. In 2004, however, Neidhart and Lovitz formed a tag team, wrestling several intergender matches against The Meyers Brothers as well as against Anna and Ma Myers.\n\nIn mid-2004, she began accepting bookings for a tour in England, and in March 2005, started on a two-month tour of Japan where she used the name Nadia Hart. When she returned to Canada she promptly turned into a villainous character, labeling herself \"Nasty Nattie\". On June 17, 2005 she defeated Anna Marie, Lovitz, and Ma Myers in a four-way match to become the first Stampede Women's Pacific Champion, though she later vacated the championship. In November 2005, Neidhart damaged her cruciate ligament while wrestling in Japan, and underwent surgery in early 2006. She was sidelined for six months while she recovered.\n\nOn October 8, 2006, Neidhart won the SuperGirls Championship from Lisa Moretti at a Big Time Wrestling show held by in Newark, California. She held the championship for 19 days, before losing it to Nikki Matthews on October 27 in Surrey, British Columbia. Also in October 2006, she debuted in the all-female promotion, Shimmer Women Athletes. She lost to Sara Del Rey at the tapings of Volume 7, but defeated \"The Portuguese Princess\" Ariel at the Volume 8 tapings.\n\nThe following month she competed in the tournament to determine Great Canadian Wrestling's inaugural W.I.L.D. Champion, and defeated Danyah and Aurora en route to the final, where she lost to Sirelda. She had her last match for Stampede Wrestling on January 26, 2007, after she had signed with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), defeating Veronika Vice. During the show, she also delivered a speech thanking the fans for their support.\n\nOn January 5, 2007, Neidhart signed a contract with WWE. Upon signing she was assigned to their developmental territory Deep South Wrestling for the first half of the year, competing against wrestlers including Krissy Vaine and Angel Williams. She was briefly transferred to Florida Championship Wrestling when it opened in June, and then moved to Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), debuting in a dark match at the television tapings on July 18, 2007, where she won a battle royal. She debuted the next week as a member of the Next Generation Hart Foundation, accompanying her cousins Teddy Hart and Harry Smith for tag team matches. In September, she and the rest of the Hart Foundation were moved back to FCW. Initially, Neidhart formed an alliance with Victoria Crawford to take on The Bella Twins (Nikki and Brie Bella), but in 2008, the pair began competing against one another, either in singles matches or in tag team matches with various partners. She continued to make appearances in FCW in late 2008, after debuting on \"SmackDown\", and managed TJ Wilson and DH Smith (Harry Smith) to the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship on October 30.\n\nOn the April 4 episode of \"SmackDown\" she made her main roster debut, as a villainous character, when she came out of the crowd to aid Victoria in an attack against McCool and Cherry, forming an alliance with her in the process. On the April 11, 2008 episode of \"SmackDown!\", she introduced herself as the daughter of Jim Neidhart under the name Natalya Neidhart, accompanying Victoria to her match against Michelle McCool. Two weeks later on \"SmackDown\" she made her televised in-ring debut, under the shortened ring name Natalya, defeating Cherry with her uncle's submission move the \"sharpshooter\". At the Backlash pay–per–view on April 27 Natalya teamed up with Victoria, Beth Phoenix, Jillian Hall, Layla and Melina to defeat Mickie James, Maria Kanellis, Ashley, Michelle McCool, Cherry and Kelly Kelly in a 12-Diva tag team match. On the May 2 episode of \"SmackDown\", Victoria and Natalya defeated McCool and Cherry.<ref name=\"SmackDown 02/10/08 results\"></ref> On the June 6 episode of \"SmackDown\", SmackDown General Manager Vickie Guerrero introduced the Divas Championship, and that same night the Divas competed in a Golden Dreams match to qualify for the championship match at The Great American Bash. Natalya won and advanced to the Bash, but lost the Championship match to Michelle McCool.\n\nNatalya and Victoria started a feud with the debuting Brie Bella, after Victoria lost to her on the August 29 episode of \"SmackDown\". On the September 26 episode of \"SmackDown\", Victoria and Natalya lost to Maria and Brie.<ref name=\"SmackDown 09/26/08 results\"></ref> On the October 31 episode of \"SmackDown\", Natalya teamed up with Victoria and Maryse during a Divas Halloween costume tag team match in a losing effort to Michelle McCool, Maria and Brie.<ref name=\"SmackDown 10/31/08 results\"></ref> On the November 7 episode of \"SmackDown\", Natalya accompanied Victoria to her match against Brie, where she was once again defeated. Post-match, Brie ran under the ring to escape from Natalya and Victoria, but they both reached under the ring for her, pulling her and Nicole out. The twins then attacked them and celebrated afterward.<ref name=\"SmackDown 11/7/08 results\"></ref> On the November 21 episode of \"SmackDown\", Victoria teamed up with Natalya in a losing effort to The Bella Twins.<ref name=\"SmackDown 11/21/08 results\"></ref> At Survivor Series (2008), Natalya competed in a 5-on-5 Survivor Series elimination match apart of Team Smackdown where her team lost to Team Raw. On the November 28 episode of \"SmackDown\", Victoria teamed up with Natalya and Maryse to defeat the Bella Twins and Michelle McCool, before the feud ended.<ref name=\"SmackDown 11/28/08 results\"></ref> Followed this, her association with Victoria also ended after she retired from the company on the January 16, 2009 episode of \"SmackDown\".<ref name=\"SmackDown 01/16/09 results\"></ref> at Armageddon (2008), Natalya, Jillian Hall, Victoria and Maryse lost to Maria, Kelly Kelly, Mickie James, and Michelle McCool in an Eight-Diva Santa's Little Helper tag team match.\n\nWhile still a member of the SmackDown brand, she made her debut for the ECW brand, via the talent exchange agreement, on February 10, 2009, managing her real life boyfriend Tyson Kidd (TJ Wilson). In her ECW in-ring debut, on the March 3 episode, Natalya defeated Alicia Fox. On April 5, Neidhart competed in a Divas battle royal at WrestleMania XXV, but the match was won by Santina Marella. On April 15 Natalya was made an official member of the ECW brand, when she was drafted there as part of the 2009 Supplemental Draft. On the May 13 episode of \"ECW\", Kidd and Natalya were joined by her real-life cousin David Hart Smith, forming The Hart Dynasty, although it was originally called The Hart Trilogy.\nOn June 29, 2009, Natalya was traded back to SmackDown along with the other members of The Hart Dynasty. Natalya's first match back for the brand was in a six-person mixed tag team match on the July 17 episode, when The Hart Dynasty defeated Cryme Tyme (JTG and Shad Gaspard) and Eve Torres. Natalya, Kidd, and Smith went on to feud with Torres and Cryme Tyme, with Natalya also facing Torres in singles matches and tag team matches involving other Divas. Natalya was on the winning team when the SmackDown Divas defeated the Raw Divas at the Bragging Rights pay-per-view in October. On December 4, Natalya lost in a triple threat match to determine to number one contender for the WWE Women's Championship after she was pinned by Mickie James. The match also involved Beth Phoenix.\n\nNatalya, along with the other Hart Dynasty members, appeared at WrestleMania XXVI, helping her uncle Bret Hart during his match against Vince McMahon, turning them into faces as a result. On April 26, The Hart Dynasty won the Unified WWE Tag Team Championship from The Miz and The Big Show. The following day, as part of the 2010 WWE Supplemental Draft, Natalya was drafted to the Raw brand, along with Kidd and Smith. On the May 24, 2010, episode of \"Raw\", all three members of The Hart Dynasty were attacked by The Usos (Jimmy and Jey Uso) and Tamina, who were making their debuts. This provoked a feud between the trios, with The Hart Dynasty attacking The Usos and Tamina the following week in retaliation. At the Fatal 4-Way pay-per-view in June, Natalya and The Hart Dynasty defeated Tamina and The Uso brothers in a six-person mixed tag team match, when Natalya pinned Tamina following a discus clothesline. At the next pay-per-view, Money in the Bank, Natalya helped The Hart Dynasty to retain the championship against The Usos by stopping Tamina from interfering in the match, ending the feud. In September, at Night of Champions, The Hart Dynasty lost the Tag Team Championship in a Tag Team Turmoil match. After a failed attempt to regain the championship, in which Kidd was pushed off balance during their double-team Hart Attack move, Kidd and Smith began to have a falling out with one another.\n\nThis culminated on the November 15 episode of \"Raw\", when Kidd refused to tag in and attacked Smith during a match for the WWE Tag Team Championship against The Nexus (Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater), resulting in Kidd became a heel once again. Smith defeated Kidd in a singles match on the November 25 episode of \"WWE Superstars\". Afterward, Smith offered to shake Kidd's hand, but Kidd refused and instead slapped him across the face. On the following episode of \"Raw\", Kidd defeated Smith in a rematch, with this officially ending the alliance as a team.\n\nNatalya started her singles competition run, on the September 27 episode of \"Raw\", when she won a battle royal to become the number one contender to the WWE Unified Divas Championship, and began feuding with self-professed co-Divas Champions Lay-Cool (Michelle McCool and Layla). At the Hell in a Cell pay-per-view on October 3, she defeated Michelle McCool via disqualification in a match for the championship, which meant that McCool retained the championship. She received another championship match three weeks later at the Bragging Rights pay-per-view, where she lost to Layla after McCool interfered. On November 1, she once again became number one contender to the Unified Divas Championship after defeating McCool in a non-title match.\nAt the Survivor Series pay-per-view on November 21, Natalya defeated McCool and Layla in a two-on-one handicap match to win the WWE Divas Championship for the first time. After the match she was attacked by Lay-Cool until Beth Phoenix came to her aid, with the pair forming an alliance. At the pay-per-view in December, Natalya and Phoenix defeated Lay-Cool in the first Diva's Tag Team Tables match in WWE history. Natalya was scheduled to defend her championship against Lay-Cool in a two-on-one handicap match at the Royal Rumble, but the match was changed to a fatal four-way, also involving Eve. Eve went on to pin Layla and become the new Divas Champion ending Natalya's reign at 70 days.\n\nOn April 26, Natalya was drafted back to the SmackDown brand as part of the 2011 supplemental draft. In her return match for the brand, she unsuccessfully challenged Brie Bella for the Divas Championship. In May, Natalya began acting as the on-screen mentor to The Chickbusters of AJ and Kaitlyn, giving them advice and managing them during their matches. Natalya, AJ, and Kaitlyn feuded with Alicia Fox, Tamina, and Rosa Mendes throughout 2011.\n\nOn the August 1, 2011, episode of \"Raw\", she competed in a battle royal to determinate the number one contender to Kelly Kelly's Divas Championship at SummerSlam, which was won by Beth Phoenix. Post-match, she turned villainous by attacking Kelly, and stating \"[her] days as the perky, cute, blonde little bimbo were officially over\", four days later on \"SmackDown\", Natalya defeated AJ before turning on her protégé, attacking her and declaring war on the \"perky little princesses\" that comprised the rest of the Divas division. As part of the storyline, she aligned herself with Phoenix, and the pair dubbed themselves \"The Divas of Doom\", defeating The Chickbusters the following week. Throughout September, The Divas of Doom feuded with The Chickbusters on \"SmackDown\", while feuding with Kelly Kelly and Eve Torres on \"Raw\".\n\nNatalya accompanied Phoenix to her Divas Championship match at the SummerSlam pay-per-view against Kelly Kelly, who was accompanied by Eve Torres, but she failed to win the match. On the September 19 episode of \"Raw\", the Divas of Doom lost a tag team match to Kelly and Torres after Eve pinned Natalya for the win. On the September 26 episode of \"Raw\", Phoenix pinned Kelly Kelly in a tag team match and granted her a new match for Kelly's WWE Divas Championship. Four days later on \"SmackDown\", Natalya lost a match to Kelly. Post-match, Phoenix jumped into the ring and delivered a 'Glam Slam' on Kelly, then Natalya applied and debuted their new submission manoeuvre the 'Pin-Up Strong'. Phoenix received her title match against Kelly on October 2 at Hell in a Cell, which she won, with Natalya's help, to become a one–time WWE Divas Champion. Phoenix successfully defended her title against Eve Torres, on two different occasions, at Vengeance, on October 23, in which Natalya was banned from ringside after she and Phoenix had attacked Torres and Kelly at backstage, and at Survivor Series, on November 20, during a Divas lumberjack match.\n\nThrough November, the Divas of Doom started a winning streak over \"\"The Chickbusters\"\" (AJ and Kaitlyn), after defeating them in both tag team and singles matches, with Kaitlyn beginning to display villainous traits, due to her being upset at AJ over the defeats. On the December 6 \"SmackDown\" tapings, the Divas of Doom defeated The Chickbusters once again. Post match, Kaitlyn solidified her heel turn after joining the Divas of Doom, however the segment was cut from the broadcast and not recognized by WWE.\n\nIn early 2012, Natalya was characterized as being notable for smelly flatulence; this character development was heavily panned by critics.\n\nOn January 29, at Royal Rumble, the Divas of Doom competed in an eight-woman tag team match alongside the Bella Twins, and defeated the team of Eve Torres, Kelly Kelly, Alicia Fox, and Tamina. The next night on \"Raw\", Phoenix successfully defended her Divas Championship against Eve. At the Elimination Chamber pay-per-view, Phoenix successfully defended her championship against Tamina, in a point where her association with Phoenix started splitting up, and on the March 22 episode of \"Superstars\", Phoenix teamed with Eve Torres against Natalya and Tamina, in a losing effort, with this effectively ensuring the ending for the team.\n\nBeginning in April, while on \"NXT Redemption\", Natalya became allied with former Hart Dynasty partner Tyson Kidd again, and started feuding with former protégé Kaitlyn when she felt Kaitlyn was paying Kidd too much attention. The pair faced off in both singles and tag team competition throughout mid-2012, including being on opposite sides of a six-Diva tag team match at Money in the Bank, which Natalya's team lost. Their feud ended on August 31, when Natalya lost to Kaitlyn in a singles match on \"SmackDown\". In November, Natalya began an on-screen relationship with The Great Khali. The following month, Natalya saved Hornswoggle from an attack by Rosa Mendes, thus turning face in the process. This led to a feud with Natalya, Khali, and Hornswoggle facing off against Mendes and her allies, Primo and Epico in mixed tag team matches in early 2013. On the March 27 episode of \"NXT\", Natalya lost a Divas Championship match to champion Kaitlyn.\n\nUpon the debut of the \"Total Divas\" reality television program in July 2013, Natalya began feuding with fellow co–stars on the show, The Bella Twins. Natalya and Brie Bella went on to trade victories in singles matches on \"Raw\" and at SummerSlam. The cast of \"Total Divas\" then transitioned into a feud with AJ Lee, the WWE Divas Champion, who ridiculed the cast and the show. This resulted in a four-way match at Night of Champions in September, where AJ successfully retained the title against Natalya, Brie, and Naomi. Simultaneously, Natalya continued appearing alongside long–time ally The Great Khali, and the two began a feud with Fandango and the debúting Summer Rae, which led to a mixed tag team match at the Hell in a Cell pay–per–view, which Natalya and Khali lost. After forcing AJ to submit on the November 1 episode of \"SmackDown\" during a tag team match, Natalya unsuccessfully challenged AJ for the Divas Championship on \"WWE Main Event\" two weeks later. At Survivor Series, the cast of \"Total Divas\" faced off with a team led by AJ and Natalya and Nikki Bella were the sole survivors in the match. In December, Natalya unsuccessfully challenged Paige for the NXT Women's Championship. After pinning AJ again in a tag team match on \"Raw\", Natalya was named number one contender to the WWE Divas Championship, but failed to capture the title at .\n\nOn April 6, 2014, Natalya competed at WrestleMania XXX in the 14–Diva \"Vickie Guerrero Invitational match\" for the WWE Divas Championship, which was won by the defending champion AJ Lee. In May, Natalya was entered into a tournament to determine the new NXT Women's Champion. She defeated Layla and Sasha Banks en route to the final at NXT TakeOver, in which she lost to Charlotte. Throughout September, Natalya started acting as the on-screen mentor for Rosa Mendes, starting a feud against \"\"The Slayers\"\" (Summer Rae and Layla). They faced off against them during the \"Main Event\"<ref name=\"MainEvent9/2/14\"></ref> and \"Smackdown\" shows, losing both tag matches due to miscommunication as a team. Additionally they also faced off against AJ Lee and Paige on the September 8, episode of \"Raw\", once again in a losing effort.<ref name=\"WWE Raw 8/09/14\"></ref> On the September 29, episode of \"Raw\", Natalya and Tyson Kidd accompanied Mendes to her match against Layla, in which she was defeated, followed this her association with Mendes quietly disbanded. On November 23, Natalya took part of Alicia Fox's team at Survivor Series, which was victorious in a clean sweep.\n\nIn mid–2014, Natalya entered a storyline with her real–life husband Tyson Kidd, in which their relationship was openly acknowledged on-screen. She regularly accompanied Kidd to the ring, where he often used her as a distraction to win his matches. The storyline would continue followed \"Total Divas\" footage, in which Kidd transitioned into a disrespectful angle against Natalya, this part of the storyline was done in order to use the marriage problems they both had.<ref name=\"WWE Smackdown 2/5/15\"></ref>\n\nOn the January 5, 2015, episode of \"Raw\", after Natalya defeated WWE Divas Champion Nikki Bella in a non–title match, Brie and Nikki would attack Natalya, with Paige making the save. This led to a tag team match at Royal Rumble between the two teams, with The Bella Twins picking up the win. Through February, Natalya and Kidd started a brief feud against Naomi and Jimmy Uso, facing off during an intergender tag team match on the February 16, episode of \"Raw\", which Natalya and Kidd lost.<ref name=\"WWE Smackdown 2/16/15\"></ref> When Kidd allied himself with Cesaro, Natalya began managing the team and was by their side in February, when they won the WWE Tag Team Championship's at Fastlane. The following night on \"Raw\", Natalya helped the duo retain the titles against The Usos, turning heel in the process. On the February 26 episode of \"Smackdown\", the villainous Natalya defeated Naomi in a singles match, before the feud ended.<ref name=\"WWE Smackdown 2/26/15\"></ref> On March 28, Natalya inducted Alundra Blayze into the WWE Hall of Fame. On March 29, she accompanied Kidd and Cesaro during the WrestleMania 31 kick-off show, in which they successfully retained the Tag Team Championships.\n\nNatalya lasted the rest of the year competing in various matches,<ref name=\"Raw 3/23/15 results\"></ref><ref name=\"Raw 3/30/15 results\"></ref><ref name=\"Smackdown 3/19/15 results\"></ref> including a number one contender's battle royal for Nikki Bella's Divas Championship, on the April 13 episode of \"Raw\", which was won by Paige. On the April 9 episode of \"Smackdown\", Natalya defeated Alicia Fox. Post-match, she and Fox were attacked by the special guest referee for the match Cameron, which would lead to a triple–threat match the following week, with Cameron coming out victorious. During a dark match on the June 1 episode of \"Raw\", Kidd had suffered a severe neck/spinal injury after receiving Samoa Joe's 'Muscle buster' finishing maneuver. Several weeks later, Kidd stated that he would be out of action for over a year, with Natalya taken off television for the very first time in order to care for Kidd.\n\nAfter a three-month absence from television, Natalya returned on the September 21, 2015 episode of \"Raw\", as a face, confronting the villainous Paige over her actions during Charlotte's WWE Divas Championship celebration. Later that evening, she was defeated by Naomi in a singles match. After multiple confrontations between the two, Natalya would defeat Paige on the October 5 episode of \"Raw\". Three days later, on \"Smackdown\", Natalya teamed with Charlotte and Becky Lynch and the three defeated Team Bella (Alicia Fox, Brie Bella, and Nikki Bella). On the October 15 episode of \"Smackdown\", while Paige saved Charlotte and Becky from an attack by Team Bella, Natalya, after a backstage altercation with Paige, would be attacked. In the end of October, Natalya started a feud with Team B.A.D. (Naomi, Tamina and Sasha Banks), after the three distracted her during her match with Paige, and attacked her, but Natalya went on to gain revenge over the team by defeating Naomi and Tamina in two singles matches before the feud quietly ended.\n\nIn January 2016, Natalya revealed that she had been working through a broken ankle, which was mistaken for a simple sprain and after two months of inactivity, she made her official return during a live event on January 3. Few weeks later, Natalya returned to WWE television, on the January 18 episode of \"Raw\", where she defeated Brie Bella, with her former rival Paige in her corner.<ref name=\"WWE Raw 18/01/16\"></ref> Upon her return, Natalya started competing in various singles and tag team matches, ending on both winning and losing sides.<ref name=\"WWE Smackdown 2/18/16\"></ref> On March 12, at Roadblock, Natalya unsuccessfully challenged Charlotte for the Divas Championship.\nOn the March 22 episode of \"Main Event\", alongside Alicia Fox she accompanied Paige to her match against Naomi, accompanied by Tamina and Lana. Later in the match, she and Fox were viciously attacked by Summer Rae and a returning Emma, distracting Paige as they aligned themselves with Lana and Team B.A.D.<ref name=\"Main Event 22/3/16\"></ref> The following week, she along with Brie Bella and Alicia Fox accompanied Paige to her match against Emma on the March 28 episode of \"Raw\", where she was defeated after Lana attacked Paige. Post-match, she along her allies were attacked by Emma, Summer Rae, Lana, Tamina and Naomi, before they were saved by a returning Eva Marie.<ref name=\"Raw 28/03/16\"></ref> As a result, Natalya's Total Divas team (also including Brie, Alicia Fox, Eva Marie and Paige) faced the newly dubbed team B.A.D. & Blonde (Naomi, Tamina, Lana, Emma, and Summer Rae) in a 10-Diva tag team match at WrestleMania 32's pre-show. Natalya's team won after Naomi submitted to Brie Bella. After confronting Charlotte during her championship celebration the following night, she challenged Charlotte to a championship match on the April 11 episode of \"Raw\", in which she was unsuccessful in capturing the WWE Women's Championship. On the April 18 episode of \"Raw\", Natalya confronted Charlotte during an interview and revealed that Shane McMahon had booked them in a rematch for the Women's Championship at Payback and that her uncle Bret Hart will be at her corner. At the event, she was defeated after match referee Charles Robinson, ended the match as Charlotte held her in the Sharpshooter submission hold, Natalya's signature finishing move, even though she had not submitted making reference to the infamous \"shoot screwjob\" the Montreal Screwjob. After the match, both Natalya and Hart applied their finishing maneuver the \"Sharpshooter\" on Charlotte and Ric Flair. The following month at the Extreme Rules pay-per-view, she was once again defeated by Charlotte in a submission match in which Ric Flair was banned from ringside, however, she was helped by Dana Brooke while dressed as Flair allowing Charlotte to get the victory.\n\nOn June 19 at Money In The Bank, Natalya teamed with Becky Lynch in a losing effort against Charlotte and Dana Brooke. After the match, Natalya attacked Becky, turning into a villainess. Followed by multiple continuous attacks between both women, Natalya defeated Becky in a match at Battleground.\n\nOn July 19, Natalya was drafted to SmackDown as part of the 2016 WWE draft.<ref name=\"SmackDown 19/07/16\"></ref> She made her first appearance for the brand on the July 26 episode of \"SmackDown\", losing against Becky Lynch.<ref name=\"Smackdown 26/07/16\"></ref> On the August 9 episode of \"SmackDown\", Natalya competed in a losing effort against Carmella. The following week, Natalya teamed with Alexa Bliss in a losing effort against the team of Carmella, and Becky Lynch, after a distraction provided by Eva Marie and Naomi, At SummerSlam, Natalya teamed with Alexa Bliss and the returning Nikki Bella (who replaced the suspended Eva Marie) against Naomi, Lynch, and Carmella in a six-woman tag team match. Nikki Bella pinned Carmella to score the victory for Natalya's team. At Backlash, Natalya competed in a six-pack elimination challenge to determine the inaugural SmackDown Women's Champion and was eliminated by Nikki Bella.\n\nOn the October 25 episode of \"SmackDown\", Natalya lost against Nikki Bella in a match to determine the captain of the SmackDown women's team at the Survivor Series pay-per-view. However, after Nikki had been attacked backstage before the match, Natalya replaced Nikki but led her team to defeat. At the pay-per-view, Carmella accused Natalya of having been Nikki's attacker at Survivor Series; Natalya denied this for weeks before attacking Carmella on the December 20 episode of \"SmackDown\" and admitting to having attacked Nikki, revealing her pent-up jealousy of Bella's success over the years. Natalya and Nikki were set to compete in a match on the January 10, 2017, episode of \"SmackDown\", but the match never officially started due a brawl between the two, where referees came in to break them up. At the Royal Rumble pay-per-view on January 29, Natalya competed in a six-woman tag team match alongside Alexa Bliss and Mickie James against Nikki, Naomi, and Becky Lynch, where her team was defeated after Naomi pinned Bliss. On February 12 at the Elimination Chamber pay-per-view, Natalya faced Nikki in singles competition, which ended in a double count-out. The feud culminated in a Falls Count Anywhere match on the February 21 episode of \"SmackDown\", in which Natalya was victorious after an interference from Maryse. On June 18 at Money in the Bank, Natalya competed in the inaugural women's Money in the Bank ladder match, which was won by Carmella following an interference by James Ellsworth.\n\nOn July 23, Natalya defeated Flair, Lynch, Tamina, and Lana in a five-way elimination match at Battleground, earning an opportunity to face Naomi for the SmackDown Women's Championship at SummerSlam on August 20. At the event, Natalya defeated Naomi to capture the SmackDown Women's Championship. With this victory, Natalya became the first woman to hold both the Divas Championship and the SmackDown Women's Championship.<ref name=\"SummerSlam20/08/17\"></ref> On the September 12 episode of \"SmackDown\", Natalya made her first successful title defense in a rematch against Naomi. At Hell in a Cell on October 8, Natalya defended her championship against Charlotte Flair, which resulted into a disqualification loss after she attacked Flair with a chair. On November 14 episode of \"SmackDown\", she dropped the title to Charlotte, losing by submission, and hereby ending her reign at 86 days. Natalya then competed at Survivor Series along with Becky Lynch, Tamina Snuka, Naomi and Carmella as a part of Team Smackdown against Team Raw in a losing effort. Natalya received her Smackdown Women's Championship rematch at Clash of Champions, but was unsuccessful against Flair in a lumberjack match.\n\nAt the 2018 Royal Rumble, Natalya participated in the first Women's Royal Rumble Match; she entered at number 18 but was eliminated by Trish Stratus. At Fastlane, Carmella and Natalya defeated Naomi and Becky Lynch after Carmella pinned Becky.\n\nOn the April 16, 2018 episode of \"Raw\", Natalya was once again drafted to Raw and became a fan favorite for the first time since June 2016. In her first match, she defeated Mandy Rose, but after the match, both Rose and Sonya Deville attacked her before Ronda Rousey made the save. Shortly after that scene, Natalya was placed in a storyline with Rousey as she was revealed to be her training partner and friend. In June, Natalya competed in the Money in the Bank ladder match for the third time in her career, however, at the event, the match was ultimately won by Alexa Bliss. Throughout the following months, Natalya continued to compete in various singles and tag team matches and also worked as a manager for both Nia Jax and Ronda Rousey in some of their matches against Alexa Bliss to avoid Mickie James' interference.\n\nIn October, Natalya joined forces with Sasha Banks and Bayley against The Riott Squad (Sarah Logan, Liv Morgan and Ruby Riott) which led to a six–woman tag team match at the first ever all women's pay–per–view, Evolution, where Natalya, Banks and Bayley were victorious. Shortly after the event, Natalya continued her feud with Ruby Riott after the latter broke the \"glasses\" of Natalya's recently deceased father. During that time, both women were announced as the final members of Team Raw for the interbrand women's traditional five–on–five tag team elimination match, however, they were eventually removed from the match as they brawled just before Survivor Series started. On the December 3 episode of \"Raw\", in what was supposed to be a tag team match pitting Natalya and Ronda Rousey against Nia Jax and Tamina, The Riott Squad attacked Natalya and put her through a table while Jax and Tamina cornered Rousey to prevent her from helping. This led to a tables match between Ruby Riott and Natalya at the event, where Natalya gained revenge and defeated Riott after powerbombing her from the top rope through a table. On the December 24 episode of \"Raw\", after she won an eight-woman gauntlet match to become the number one contender a week prior, Natalya faced Rousey for her Raw Women's Championship, however, she was unsuccessful in winning the match and the title. On January 27, 2019, at the 2019 Royal Rumble, Natalya entered the second women's Royal Rumble match at number 2, lasting 56:01 (surpassing Sasha Banks' previous record set in 2018), and eliminated Liv Morgan and Sarah Logan, before she was eliminated by Nia Jax.\n\nAt Fastlane, Natalya reunited her team with Beth Phoenix, known as The Divas of Doom, after the two were attacked by Nia Jax and Tamina. The Divas of Doom took part of a fatal four-way tag team match for the WWE Women's Tag Team Championship at WrestleMania 35 on April 7, however, the match was won by The IIconics (Billie Kay and Peyton Royce).\n\nIn May, Natalya competed in the Money in the Bank ladder match at the namesake pay–per–view, where she was unsuccessful in winning the match. In June, Natalya and Alexa Bliss were supposed to compete in an late addition match at the Super Show-Down pay–per–view in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, however, the match was rejected by the Saudi Arabian government just before the show started due to the suppression of women's rights. On July 15's edition of \"Raw\", Natalya won a fatal four-way elimination match to become the #1 contender for Becky Lynch's Raw Women's Championship. At SummerSlam, Natalya was unsuccessful in winning the Raw Women's title from Lynch in a Submission match. She got an injured shoulder, and came out on \"Raw\" wearing a cast, when she was then subjected to a brutal assault from the returning Sasha Banks, whom Natalya considered a friend. Natalya was defeated by Banks on August 26 edition of \"Raw\". Natalya later began feuding with Lacey Evans, exchanging victories and losses, before defeating her in a last woman standing match. The pair later took on the Kabuki Warriors in a losing effort. Natalya defeated Evans again at Crown Jewel, which was the first ever women's match to take place in Saudi Arabia. On the WrestleMania 36 kickoff show, she lost to Liv Morgan.\n\nBeginning in October 2017, Neidhart writes a weekly column that appears in the \"Calgary Sun\" and \"Edmonton Sun\", detailing her life and career.\n\nNeidhart has known TJ Wilson since she was 12 years old, and they began dating in November 2001. The pair married on June 26, 2013. Their wedding was featured on the first season of \"Total Divas\". She also owns a home in Calgary. \nOn October 1, 2016, Neidhart had her two front teeth knocked out during a house show match in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nNeidhart's father, Jim Neidhart, died on August 13, 2018. He was a featured guest in several seasons of Total Divas.\n\nNatalya appeared alongside Paige, Brie Bella and the Chrisley family on the 88th Academy Awards edition of \"E! Countdown to the Red Carpet\" in February 2016.\n\nNatalya has appeared in eleven WWE video games. She made her in-game debut at \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010\" and appears in \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011\", \"WWE 12\", \"WWE 13\" (DLC), \"WWE 2K14\", \"WWE 2K15\", \"WWE 2K16\", \"WWE 2K17\", \"WWE 2K18\", WWE 2K19 and WWE 2K20.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882976", "title": "Benson, Oxfordshire", "text": "Benson, Oxfordshire\n\nBenson is a village and civil parish in South Oxfordshire, England. The 2011 Census recorded the parish's population as 4,754. The village is about north of Wallingford at the foot of the Chiltern Hills at the confluence of a chalk stream (Ewelme Brook) and the River Thames, next to Benson Lock.\n\nBeing on the northern (eastern) bank of the Thames, Benson was unaffected by the 1974 boundary changes between Berkshire and Oxfordshire\n\nThe village is on river silts and gravel, just above the surrounding marshy land that gives nearby settlements of Preston Crowmarsh, Crowmarsh Gifford, and Rokemarsh their names. The fertile land which surrounds the village meant that farming was the main source of employment until the 20th century.\n\nThe brook that runs through the village is home to trout and to the invasive American signal crayfish.\n\nThe toponym was originally \"Villam Regiam\", \"The King's Town\". Later it was Bensington, from the Old English \"Bænesingtun\" meaning \"farmstead of the people of [a man called] Benesa\". The village is reputedly the site of the Battle of Bensington. The present name, Benson, can be found early in the 19th century but Bensington continued in use, at least for formal documents, until well into the second half of the century. The 1866 Working Agreement, made by the GWR for operating the Wallingford and Watlington Railway, used the older form.\n\nThere is evidence of human presence dating back to the Palaeolithic period – around 10,000 BC. The village occupies the site of an ancient British town and there is known to have been occupation during the Roman period, although Benson's written history dates back only as far as AD 571.\n\nRecent excavations at the site of a new housing site at the junction of St Helen's Avenue and Church Road revealed evidence of early Neolithic (3500 BC) and later Bronze Age or early Iron Age (11th–8th centuries BC) pits and post holes, as well as a possible later Bronze Age roundhouse, three early or middle Saxon (5th–6th centuries AD) sunken-floored buildings and a small Saxon enclosure.\n\nThe village was taken by the West Saxons in AD 573, who established a royal vill. In 775 the West Saxons surrendered it to Offa of Mercia, who wanted a stronghold on the eastern bank of the Thames.\n\nAt the time of the Domesday Book of 1086 Benson was \"the richest royal manor in Oxfordshire\". The boundaries of the manor extended from the borders of Stadhampton in the north to include Henley in the south-east and were probably established long before the Conquest. The manor is stated to be worth £85 a year although comprising only 11.75 hides, whereas the Bishop of Lincoln's 90 hides at Dorchester were valued at only £30. Benson itself was clearly the most valuable part of the manor. The map shows that Benson parish is only about one tenth of the area of Benson manor, but the Domesday Book values the parish alone at £30, compared with £5 for the neighbouring parish of Berrick.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of Saint Helen is partly ancient. John Marius Wilson described it as \"variously late pointed Norman and decorated; has a modern tower; contains a Norman font and two [monumental] brasses; and is very good.\" The parish includes the hamlets of Fifield and Crowmarsh-Battle or Preston-Crowmarsh. The village is often confused with RAF Benson, which is a well-known RAF station and airfield. The RAF airfield boundary is immediately adjacent to the village, and the aerodrome's construction closed the former \"London Road\". The RAF buildings are on the opposite side of the airfield to Benson village, adjacent to the village of Ewelme.\n\nThe church tower was rebuilt in 1794. It has a single clock face on the east-facing side with hours displayed in Roman numerals. The clock face erroneously has the nine o'clock marker painted as \"XI\". The eleven o'clock marker is also XI. This mistake gained fame during the Second World War when Germany's English-speaking propaganda broadcaster, William Joyce (Lord Haw Haw) promised an air raid on \"an airfield near the village whose clock had two elevens\". RAF Benson was bombed soon afterwards.\n\nThe bell tower has a ring of eight bells. Six including the tenor and treble were cast by Thomas Janaway of Chelsea in 1781. The current second and third bells were added by the Whitechapel Bell Foundry: the second cast by Charles and George Mears in 1852 and the third cast by Mears and Stainbank in 1922. In October 2009 White's of Appleton removed the original oak bell frame of 1794 and replaced it with a modern steel frame. White's refurbished the bells and fitted them with new headstocks for installation in the new steel frame.\n\nBenson is one of several key sites of the English civil war in South Oxfordshire, lying between the site of the Battle of Chalgrove Field (which took place on 18 June 1643) and Wallingford Castle, reputedly the last Royalist stronghold to surrender, and close to the Royalist cities of Oxford and Newbury. At Benson itself, a building is still known as the Court House from the time that King Charles I held court there when en route to Oxford.\n\nA flash lock was installed on the Thames at Benson in 1746. Benson weir collapsed in 1783, necessitating the construction of Benson pound lock in 1788. The lock was rebuilt in 1870.\n\nThe road between Henley-on-Thames and Dorchester on Thames was made into a turnpike in 1736 and in the 18th and early 19th centuries Benson became an important staging post for coaches running between London and Oxford via Henley. Its broad open square was surrounded by coaching inns. At its peak the village had four large inns, ten smaller alehouses and a blacksmith. The opening, in 1844, of the Oxford branch of the GWR resulted in a rapid decline in coach traffic, so that within ten years only three Oxford-London coaches per week were running through Benson. The Henley – Dorchester road ceased to be a turnpike in 1873.\n\nThe decline in coaching, the enclosures, and the agricultural depression led to a fall in population, which continued from 1300 in 1831 to 960 by 1901.\nAmong those who moved away was the family of Reginald Robinson Lee, aged about 16 when they moved to Hampshire. Reginald was born in Bensington in 1870, the son of William Lee (schoolmaster) and his wife Jane, and was baptised at the church of St Helen, Bensington on 19 June 1870. Reginald signed on to the in Southampton on 6 April 1912, aged 42. He was in the crows' nest with Fred Fleet when the iceberg was sighted at about 11:40 p.m. on 14 April 1912, and survived the tragedy, being rescued in lifeboat 13.\n\nLee subsequently testified before the Board of Trade inquiry. He died on 6 August 1913 whilst serving aboard the \"Kenilworth Castle\".\n\nThe failure to extend the Wallingford and Watlington Railway to Watlington, which would have included a station at Benson (on an embankment north of Littleworth Road and close to the junction with Oxford Road), left the village increasingly isolated, as passenger transport between London and Oxford largely followed a railway line that ran nowhere near the once-prominent coaching stop.\n\nThe village recovered as motor coaches (and increasingly private cars) became more important, and Benson gained a number of roadhouse-type cafes – early 20th-century equivalents of the coaching inns.\n\nDespite its lack of a railway station and distance from the M4 and M40, Benson today is a commuter village.\n\nIt has a Church of England primary school on Oxford Road. A separate infants school was built at the top of Westfield Road in 1972 \"to relieve congestion at the Oxford Road school\", but early in the new millennium, the infants department returned to Oxford Road, allowing the Westfield Road site to be sold off for a housing development known as Millar Close. There is also a pre-school. There is also a GP's practice, and two public houses: the 18th-century coaching inn, \"The Crown Inn\", and the \"Three Horseshoes\". (The number is down from five since 1990, the closed ones having become private homes.) There are about a dozen small shops, including a supermarket and a dispensing chemist. A large garage on the main Oxford road just outside the village has an on-site McDonald's (with drive-through) and a Marks and Spencer food outlet, but the Vauxhall main car dealership there has now closed.\n\nAircraft noise in the area can be significant, which lowers property values compared with many of the surrounding villages.\n\nThe village is also a well-known frost-pocket, sometimes recording the lowest night-time temperatures in the UK. This minor climatic quirk may have led to the village's part in the development of modern meteorology, with an important meteorological observatory being located in the village in the early 19th century.\n\nIn 1993 the River Thames in Benson was used as one of the primary filming locations for Episode 7 of Series 3 of the BBC sitcom \"Keeping up Appearances\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882988", "title": "York Catholic District School Board", "text": "York Catholic District School Board\n\nThe York Catholic District School Board (YCDSB, known as English-language Separate District School Board No. 42 prior to 1999) is the English-language public-separate school district authority for the Regional Municipality of York in Ontario, Canada. Its head office is in Aurora.\n\nThe YCDSB operates schools in each of the nine municipalities in York Region. It employs over 5,000 instructional staff to teach over 54,000 students in 85 elementary schools and 16 secondary schools. The school board until 1998 was originally known as the York Region Roman Catholic Separate School Board (YRRCSSB) as an anglophone/francophone school district.\n\nThe Instructional Services department is responsible for the development and delivery of the YCDSB curriculum, guided by the following criteria:\n\n\nThe 85 elementary schools are administered as part of an \"Elementary School Area\"; there are four areas in the school board. Each area is administered by a \"Superintendent of Education\", and the schools are divided into two groups, each of which has a \"Trustee\".\n\nThe 16 secondary schools are administered as a single group with two Superintendents of Education. Additionally, each school has at least one trustee, and each trustee may serve duties for one or more schools.\n\nThe department also has a Superintendent of Curriculum & Assessment and a Superintendent of Education & Student Services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882999", "title": "All the Fine Promises", "text": "All the Fine Promises\n\nAll the Fine Promises (original French title: Toutes ces belles promesses) is a 2003 French movie directed by Jean-Paul Civeyrac based on the novel \"Hymne à l'amour\" by Anne Wiazemsky.\n\nComing off the bad end of a doomed love affair, and trying to cope with her Mother's death Marianne (Jeanne Balibar) is surprised to discover that her Father's last will and testament was not correctly administered. The will reveals the existence of a love affair. Her father had a mistress: Béatrice (Bulle Ogier). Marianne meets Béatrice and remembers her childhood. She reconnects with her nanny Ghislaine (Valérie Crunchant).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883001", "title": "Blue Skies (Irving Berlin song)", "text": "Blue Skies (Irving Berlin song)\n\n\"Blue Skies\" is a popular song, written by Irving Berlin in 1926.\n\nThe song was composed in 1926 as a last-minute addition to the Rodgers and Hart musical \"Betsy\". Although the show ran for only 39 performances, \"Blue Skies\" was an instant success, with audiences on opening night demanding 24 encores of the piece from star Belle Baker. During the final repetition, Ms. Baker forgot her lyrics, prompting Berlin to sing them from his seat in the front row.\n\nIn 1927, the music was published and Ben Selvin's recorded version was a hit. That same year, it became one of the first songs to be featured in a talkie, when Al Jolson performed it in \"The Jazz Singer\". The song was recorded for all of the major and dime store labels of the time. Another version of the song was recorded by Benny Goodman and his Orchestra in 1935 (Victor 25136). 1946 was also a notable year for the song, with a Bing Crosby/Fred Astaire film taking its title along with two recorded versions by Count Basie and Benny Goodman reaching #8 and #9 on the pop charts, respectively. Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye performed the song in 1954's White Christmas. Crossing genres, Willie Nelson's recording of \"Blue Skies\" was a #1 country music hit in 1978. It was a major western swing and country standard already in 1939, when it was performed by Moon Mullican.\n\nThelonious Monk's 1947 composition \"In Walked Bud\" is based on the chord changes to \"Blue Skies.\"\n\nThe song was featured prominently in the film \"\", as sung by Commander Data during the wedding at the start of the film. It is sung again at the very end of the film by his \"brother,\" the android B-4, during the final scene set in the 24th century, a time period not revisited by the \"Star Trek\" franchise for another 18 years, until the release of \"\" in 2020. The song Blue Skies is featured in that series' premiere episode during a dream sequence involving Data and Captain Picard. The song receives a cover by lead actress Isa Briones for the 10th episode, depicting the final death of the fan-favorite character Data.\n\n\"Blue Skies\" is one of many popular songs whose lyrics use a \"bluebird of happiness\" as a symbol of cheer: \"Bluebirds singing a song—Nothing but bluebirds all day long.\" The sunny optimism of the lyrics are undercut by the minor key giving the words an ironic feeling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883014", "title": "Christina of Denmark", "text": "Christina of Denmark\n\nChristina of Denmark (; November 1521 – 10 December 1590) was a Danish princess, the younger surviving daughter of King Christian II of Denmark and Norway and Isabella of Austria. She became the duchess-consort of Milan, then duchess-consort of Lorraine. She served as the regent of Lorraine from 1545 to 1552 during the minority of her son. She was also a claimant to the thrones of Denmark, Norway and Sweden in 1561-1590. Finally, she was sovereign Lady of Tortona in 1578-1584.\n\nChristina was born in Nyborg in central Denmark in 1521. In January 1523, nobles rebelled against her father and offered the throne to his uncle, Duke Frederick of Holstein. Christina and her sister and brother followed their parents into exile in April of the same year, to Veere in Zeeland, the Netherlands, and were raised by the Dutch regents, their grandaunt and aunt, Margaret of Austria and Mary of Hungary. Her mother died on 19 January 1526. In 1532, her father Christian II of Denmark was imprisoned in Denmark after an attempt to retake his throne. The same year, her brother died, and she became second in line to her father's claim to the Danish throne after her elder sister Dorothea.\n\nChristina was given a good education by her aunt, the regent of the Netherlands, under supervision of her governess, Madame de Fiennes. She was described as a great beauty, intelligent and lively, and enjoyed hunting and riding. As a ward of her uncle the Emperor, Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, and a member of the Imperial house, she was a valuable pawn on the political marriage market. In 1527, Thomas Wolsey, Primate of England, suggested that the illegitimate son of Henry VIII be married to Christina or Dorothea, but the Habsburgs did not wish for them to marry someone born out of wedlock. In 1531, Francesco II Sforza, Duke of Milan proposed to marry either of the sisters, as he wished to make an alliance to the Imperial house. Charles V denied him a match with Dorothea, but agreed to a marriage with Christina.\n\nOn 23 September 1533 in Brussels, Christina was married by proxy to Francesco II Sforza, Duke of Milan, through his representative Count Massimiliano Stampa. On 3 May 1534, Christina made her official entry in Milan among great festivities, and on 4 May, the second wedding ceremony was celebrated in the hall of the Rocchetta. \nChristina's relationship with Francesco was reportedly good, and she was very popular in Milan, where she was regarded as a symbol of peace and hope for the future after decades of war, and her beauty was much admired. She enjoyed hunting parties, and the palace was redecorated and beautified for her. When she was given her own court, her chief lady in waiting was Francesca Paleologa of Montferrat, spouse of Constantine Comnenus, titular Prince of Macedonia, who was to become one of her most intimate lifelong friends. \nFrancesco II Sforza was at that time very weak, as his health had never recovered after he survived a poison attempt years before, and there was concern that he would never be able to have children, and die without heirs. According to the marriage settlement, the Duchy of Milan was to become a part of the Empire if it did not result in issue. She and Francesco had no children.\n\nFrancesco II Sforza died in October 1535, leaving her widowed when she was thirteen. Her rights as a widow to the town of Tortona for life was secured, while the Duchy was incorporated with the Empire. However, Massimiliano Stampa remained in charge as castellan of Milan, and Christina remained in the ducal residence. Charles V supported her wish to stay in Milan, as she was very popular there and her presence was regarded as a protection to Milanese independence and calm. As a way to save Milanese independence, Stampa suggested that she marry the heir to the throne of Savoy, prince Louis of Piedmonte, but the plan failed because of his death shortly thereafter. Pope Paul III suggested that she marry the son of his niece Cecilia Farnese, who, though a few years older than her, was raised as her foster son in the court of Milan after the death of his mother. When the French king repeated his claims to the throne of Milan on behalf of his son, the duke of Orléans, a marriage was suggested to the youngest son of the French monarch, the duke of Angoulême, but Charles V refused the match unless Angoulême, instead of Orléans, was granted the Duchy of Milan, should he recognize the French claims on the Duchy. Christina welcomed duchess Beatrice of Savoy when Savoy was occupied by the French, and was present on the meeting between Beatrice and the Emperor in Pavia in May 1536. In December of that year, Milan was officially given over to the command of an Imperial official, and Christina was escorted to Pavia. Before she left, she took the title Lady of Tortona, and had a governor named to manage her dower city for her. \nOn October 1537, Christina went to live at the court of her aunt, the Governor of the Low Countries, Dowager Queen Mary of Hungary, by way of Innsbruck, visiting her sister at the palatinate before arriving in Brussels in December. Christina was a favorite of Mary.\n\nAfter Jane Seymour, the third wife of Henry VIII, died in 1537, Christina was considered as a possible bride for the English king. The German painter Hans Holbein was commissioned to paint portraits of noblewomen eligible to become the English queen. On 10 March 1538, Holbein arrived in Brussels with the diplomat Philip Hoby to meet Christina. Hoby arranged with Benedict, the Master of Christina's household, for a sitting the next day. Christina sat for the portrait for three hours wearing mourning dress. Her rooms in Brussels were hung with black velvet, black damask and a black cloth-of-estate. Christina, then only sixteen years old, made no secret of her opposition to marrying the English king, who by this time had a reputation around Europe for his mistreatment of wives: Henry had divorced his first wife Catherine of Aragon (Christina's great-aunt), and beheaded his second, Anne Boleyn. She supposedly said, \"If I had two heads, one should be at the King of England's disposal.\" It was also obvious that Mary of Hungary was less than enthused with the match, being no admirer of Henry VIII. Henry pursued the marriage until January 1539, when the attitude of Mary made it obvious that the match would never take place. Thomas Wriothesley, the English diplomat in Brussels, advised Thomas Cromwell that Henry should; \"fyxe his most noble stomacke in some such other place.\"\n\nWilliam, Duke of Cleves, proposed to Christina. William had been made duke of Guelders by will of the last childless duke of Guelders. This was contested by the Emperor, who wished to incorporate Guelders with the Netherlands. It was also contested by the Duchy of Lorraine, who regarded Guelders as their property through Philippa of Guelders, and the purpose of his proposal was to secure the Emperors support of his succession to Guelders against the claims of Lorraine. The other suitors were Francis, heir to the Duchy of Lorraine, and Antoine, Duke of Vendôme, later Antoine of Navarre. The proposal of William of Cleves was refused by Charles V because of the Guelders question.\n\nChristina herself was, in fact, in love with René of Chalon, Prince of Orange in 1539-40. It was noted in court that René was in love with Christina and courted her, and that she returned his feelings. An eventual love match was supported by Christina's sister Dorothea and by her brother-in-law Frederick, who stated that he would like his sister-in-law to marry for love if she could. The regent Mary condoned the courtship unofficially, but she gave no official comment because she wished for her brother the emperor to state whether he needed Christina for a political marriage before she allowed her to enter a love match. In October 1540, Charles V forced René of Orange to marry Anne of Lorraine, and then declared Christina engaged to Anne's brother, Francis of Lorraine, to strengthen the alliance between the Empire and Lorraine after it had been damaged in the Guelders affair.\n\nIn February 1540, Christina aided her sister Dorothea, who was sent to the Emperor on the commission of her spouse Frederick, to plead her father's cause with the Emperor, and prevent a renewal of the truce between the Netherlands and King Christian III of Denmark. After consulting Archbishop Carondelet, the President of the Council, and Nicolas Perrenot de Granvelle, Dorothea and Christina sent the following official petition to the Emperor: \n\"\"My sister and I, your humble and loving children, entreat you, as the fountain of all justice, to have compassion on us. Open the prison doors, which you alone are able to do, release my father, and give me advice as to how I may best obtain the kingdom which belongs to me by the laws of God and man.\"\" \nTheir appeal was, however, unsuccessful.\n\nOn 10 July 1541, Christina married Francis, Duke of Bar in Brussels. Francis had been betrothed to Anne of Cleves, who became the fourth wife of Henry VIII. In August, Christina and Francis reached Pont-à-Mousson, in Lorraine, where they visited the dowager duchess Philippa, and continued to the capital in Nancy escorted by the Guise family. In November 1541, Christina, her spouse, and father-in-law visited the French court in Fontainebleau, where they were forced to cede the fort of Stenay to France. Christina prevented this from creating a rift between Lorraine and the Emperor. During the war between France and the Emperor in 1542, she lived in the French court at several occasions visiting her aunt, Queen Eleanor. In February 1544, Christina and her sister Dorothea visited the Emperor at Spires, reportedly to implore him to make peace with France, though without success.\n\nOn 19 June 1544, Francis succeeded his father as Duke of Lorraine. In July, he and Christina hosted the Emperor in Lorraine, but failed to convince him to start peace negotiations. In August, the Emperor ordered that the residence of the Guise family in Joinville be spared by the Imperial army on Christina's request, as she had asked him for this favor out of consideration of Anne of Lorraine. The same month, Charles V asked Christina to prevent Francis from visiting the French court, as he would take this as a sign of peace negotiations, but she replied that he had already left. When the war was finally ended later the same year, Christina was present at the peace celebrations in Brussels. \nChristina acted as the political adviser of Francis. This was noted during the 1544 Council of Speyer. Their relationship was described as happy: they shared a common interest in music and architecture, and planned to redecorate the palace in Nancy. At one occasion during the marriage, Christina referred to herself as the happiest woman in the world.\n\nFrancis died on 12 June 1545, leaving Christina as Regent of Lorraine and the guardian of her minor son. His will was contested by a party headed by Jean de Salm, who regarded Christina as a puppet of the emperor, and so wished to place her brother-in-law as her co-regent. Christina, being pregnant at the time, postponed the funeral, withdrew to her dower estate, and sent word to Charles V. On 6 August, after mediation from the emperor, Christina and her brother-in-law were declared co-regents during the minority, with both of their seals necessary to issue orders, but with Christina as the main regent with sole custody of the minor monarch. In October 1546, she hosted the French king at Bar, who tried to convince her to marry the Count of Aumale. However, she refused to marry again. Christina was present at the Diet of Augsburg in 1547 with her aunt Mary of Hungary and dowager princess Anne of Orange. A marriage was discussed between Christina and king Sigismund of Poland during the diet. She was also courted by Marquis Albert of Brandenburg, Lord of Culmbach and Burgrave of Nuremberg, whose infatuation with her attracted attention. She opposed the marriage of her brother-in-law Nicolas of Vaudemont and Margaret of Egmont, because she feared it would displease France. In March 1549, she made an official visit to Brussels to be present at the welcome of Prince Philip of Spain to the Netherlands. On this occasion, Philip gave her so much attention that it caused discontent, and she left for Lorraine to avoid any complications. In Lorraine, Christina was careful to maintain good relations to the Guise family, who were closely affiliated with the French court, and she had Stenay, Nancy and several other strongholds fortified against an expected French attack. In September 1550, she had Charles the Bold reburied in Lorraine. The same year, she attended the Diet of Augsburg for the second time, and was much celebrated as a hostess for the attending princes. In May 1551, she hosted her sister and brother-in-law in Lorraine.\n\nIn September 1551, France prepared for war against the Empire. Being counted as an Imperial ally, Lorraine was in immediate danger. Christina tried to ally herself with the Guise family, sent warnings to the Emperor, and asked both him and Mary of Hungary for assistance in defending Lorraine, as she had noted French war preparations along the border. She warned that Lorraine had no army of its own, and that there was opposition to the Emperor among the local nobility, which would welcome a French invasion. On 5 February 1552, Henry II of France marched toward the German border, reaching Joinville on the 22nd. Christina failed to secure help from the Netherlands and the Emperor, and on 1 April, she traveled to the duchess Antoinette of Guise in Joinville, in the company of princess dowager Anne of Lorraine, to ask the French monarch to respect the neutrality of Lorraine. Her appeal was successful, and the king assured her that Lorraine was in no danger of being attacked.\n\nOn 13 April 1552, France invaded the Duchy of Lorraine, and the French king entered the capital of Nancy. The day after, Christina was informed that she was deprived of the custody of her son, whom the king was to take with him when he left and who was thereafter to be brought up at the French court, and that she and all other Imperial officials in Lorraine were deprived of any offices in the rule of Lorraine. All Imperial officials were to leave the duchy: Christina herself was not asked to leave, but she was deprived of any share in the regency, and Lorraine was to be ruled solely by her former co-regent, the duke of Vaudemont, who would be asked to make an oath of loyalty to France. On a famous occasion, Christina entered the hall Galerie des Cerfs, where the king and his court were gathered. Dressed in her widow's black and a white veil, begged him to take all he wished save her son. This scene was described as touching by the courtiers present, but the king merely replied that Lorraine was too close to the enemy border for him to leave her son, and escorted her out. \nChristina retired to her dower house in Denœuvre. In May 1552, her brother-in-law Vaudemont informed her of his wish to open the gates for the Imperial army, and letters from her were intercepted, after which Henry II of France ordered her to leave Lorraine. Because of the warlike state of the area, she could not reach the Netherlands, but took refuge in Schlettstadt, until she could reunite with her uncle the emperor when he reached the area with his army in September. She was then able to depart for the court of her sister in Heidelberg, in the Palatinate, with her daughters and former sister-in-law Anne, and from there, finally, to the court of her aunt Mary in Brussels in the Netherlands, where she settled.\n\nChristina received marriage proposals from King Henry of Navarre, Adolf of Holstein, the prince of Piedmont, and Albert of Brandenburg. The latter promised to recover the kingdom of her father for her. However, she refused to marry, and focused on negotiations with France to recover the custody of her son. She was present at the abdication of Emperor Charles V in Brussels in October 1555, followed by the ceremony when her aunt Mary of Hungary stepped down from the regency of the Netherlands. She took leave of them on their departure to Spain in October 1556. The emperor suggested that Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy should marry her, and in parallel be made governor of the Netherlands, but though he replaced Mary as governor that year, the match never took place.\n\nAfter the war between France and the Empire ended, she applied to the French for permission to return to Lorraine and reunite with her son there. This was not possible. The French monarch pointed out in 1556 that her son would be declared of legal majority, and her claim to regency moot in any case in another year. Furthermore, King Philip did not wish to give her permission to leave Brussels, because he enjoyed her company, and her popularity in the Netherlands was of use to him.\n\nShe visited England for the first time in April 1555, though not much information are recorded of this first visit. In February–May 1557, she and Margaret of Parma visited the court of Mary I of England. They were welcomed by Queen Mary with a grand banquet at Whitehall. The rumoured reason for their visit was that they planned to take the Princess Elizabeth with them to give her in marriage to the Duke of Savoy. This marriage plan was blocked by the Queen. Christina made a good impression in London during her visit, and reportedly made friends with the Lords Arundel and Pembroke, visited several Catholic shrines, and was shown the Tower of London. There was, however, some displeasure from the side of Queen Mary, because of the affection and attention she was given by Philip. She was also denied a visit to see Princess Elizabeth, who was kept in seclusion at Hatfield at the time. In May, she returned to the Netherlands.\n\nChristina was finally, through the negotiation of her former brother-in-law Nicolas de Vaudemont, given permission to meet her son. The meeting took place in the border village Marcoing in May 1558. She was invited to his wedding in Paris in 1559, but declined as she was by then in mourning for her foster-mother, Mary of Hungary, and because she had by then accepted the task of presiding at the peace conference between France and Spain.\n\nIn October–September 1558, Christina presided as a mediator in the peace negotiations at Cercamp, upon request. The negotiations were discontinued because of the death of Mary of Hungary. When the peace conference was opened again, she again resumed her post as the president of the conference, which took place in Le Cateau-Cambrésis, in February–April 1559. The peace treaty was regarded as a triumph of Christina's diplomacy skills.\n\nWhen the Duke of Savoy resigned from his post as governor of the Netherlands in May 1559, Christina was a popular choice to be his successor. She was popular in all classes in the Netherlands, where she had been raised and by whom she was regarded as Dutch. She had strong connections among the Dutch nobility, and her success during the peace conferences in Cercamp and Câteau-Cambrésis had given her a good reputation as a diplomat. She had already been suggested for the post as governor during the summer of 1558. However, her advantages did in fact not work in her favor in the eyes of King Philip of Spain, as he regarded her popularity with the Dutch and especially her friendship with Prince William of Orange with suspicion, and in June, Margaret of Parma was appointed instead. This caused a conflict between Christina and Margaret, and in October, Christina joined her son Charles and his wife in Lorraine.\nIn Lorraine, Christina served as adviser to her son, especially in repairing the finances of Lorraine after the war and winning the loyalty of the local nobility, and assisted her daughter-in-law as hostess. In March 1560, she was again appointed regent of Lorraine during the absence of her son and daughter-in-law at the French court. She was present at the coronation of Charles IX in Reims in May 1561, and of Emperor Maximilian in Frankfurt in 1562. Her son Charles made his state entry to Nancy in May 1562 and officially took over the regency. However, he continued to rely on Christina as his adviser in affairs of state. In 1564, she concluded an agreement with the Bishop of Toul, by which he granted his temporalities to the Duke of Lorraine with the consent of the Pope. As the political adviser of her son, who often preferred to delegate political tasks to her, she had a strong position in the Ducal court in Lorraine, in particular as her daughter-in-law Claude preferred to spend her time at the French court, which she often visited. However, she was worried over the influence of the French queen dowager Catherine de' Medici, whom she suspected of trying to influence Lorraine, and in trying to disturb her relationship to her son, in an attempt to deprive her of her influence in the affairs of state.\n\nAt the death of her father, in his prison in Denmark in 1559, her elder sister Dorothea assumed the title of Queen of Denmark. However, being a childless widow and no longer expected to be able to have children, Dorothea was no longer considered politically useful. The Danish loyalists, headed by the exiled Peder Oxe, therefore asked Christina to persuade Dorothea to surrender her claims to Christina and her son. Christina made Oxe a part of the Ducal council, and in 1561, she visited Dorothea, and reportedly followed his advice and convinced Dorothea to surrender her claim. After this, Christina styled herself the rightful Queen of Denmark, Norway and Sweden. In February 1563, she referred to herself as \"Christina, by the grace of God Queen of Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, Sovereign of the Goths, Vandals, and Slavonians, Duchess of Schleswig, Dittmarsch, Lorraine, Bar, and Milan, Countess of Oldenburg and Blamont, and Lady of Tortona.\"\n\nIn 1561, Christina planned to marry her daughter Renata to King Frederick II of Denmark. However, on the outbreak of the Nordic Seven Years' War between Denmark and Sweden in 1563, she interrupted these plans. She was aided by Peder Oxe, the adventurer Wilhelm von Grumbach and his allies, who attempted to dethrone her second cousin king Frederick II of Denmark in her favour, and advised her to raise an army an invade Jutland, by which she would be welcomed by the Danish nobility, at that time in opposition to the Danish monarch. From 1565 to 1567, Christina negotiated with king Eric XIV of Sweden to create an alliance between Sweden and Denmark through a marriage between Renata and Eric XIV. The plan was for Christina to conquer Denmark with the support of Sweden, a plan Eric agreed to, if she could secure the support from the Emperor and the Netherlands. In 1566, Christina struck a medal referring to herself with the title Queen of Denmark, with the motto: \"Me sine cuncta ruunt\" (Without me all things perish). However, Emperor Ferdinand was against the plan because the destructive effect it would have of the power balance in Germany, where Saxony, being strongly allied with Denmark, opposed Christina's claims. Nor did she manage to acquire the support of Philip of Spain. The planned marriage alliance between Lorraine and Sweden was finally terminated when Eric XIV married his non-noble lover Karin Månsdotter in 1567. In 1569, Christina still entertained hopes to press her claims to the Danish throne, but was met with the reply from Cardinal Granvelle, that the Netherlands would never turn against Denmark; that the Emperor would oppose it, and that Spain was occupied elsewhere. With the end of the Nordic Seven Years' War in 1570, Christina no longer worked actively in this matter.\n\nIn June 1568, Christina was among those who petitioned Philip of Spain for mercy on behalf of the Count of Egmont. The same year, her daughter Renata married Duke William of Bavaria. Reportedly, Christina spent some time in Bavaria, before returning to Lorraine in 1572.\n\nIn August 1578, she left for Tortona in Italy, a fief given to her by her first husband, where she lived to her death, styled as \"Madame of Tortona\". She had sovereign powers in Tortona for life, and actively participated in the rule of the city. Her rule over Tortona has a good reputation in history: she is said to have reformed abuses, put an end to a feud with Ravenna, obtained the restitution of lost privileges, and protected the rights of Tortona against the hated Spaniard rule. She was popular in Tortona, often receiving supplicants, and socializing with the local Milanese nobility. In June 1584, she was informed by the Spanish Viceroy that her rights as sovereign of Tortona was henceforth extinct, but she was allowed to remain in residence and live on the income of Tortona for life. She also continued to plead for Tortonese rights from the Spanish viceroy.\n\nHer son was Charles III, Duke of Lorraine, namesake of her uncle, Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. The current Belgian and Spanish royal families and the ruling family of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg descends from him, as do the former reigning families of Austria, Bavaria, Brazil, France, Naples, Parma, Portugal, Sardinia (Italy), and Saxony. Her daughter, Renata of Lorraine, married William V, Duke of Bavaria, and it is through her that the current Danish, Norwegian and Swedish royal families, and the former Greek royal, and Russian imperial families are descended.\n\nShe was portrayed by Sonya Cassidy in an episode of The Tudors.\n\n\nShe is seen as one of the paintings during the musical number “Haus Of Holbein” in the hit musical \"Six\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1883017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883017", "title": "Asahi Life", "text": "Asahi Life\n\nAsahi Mutal Life Insurance is a member of the Mizuho keiretsu.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883020", "title": "Black Hills Pioneer", "text": "Black Hills Pioneer\n\nThe Black Hills Pioneer (first published as the Black Hills Weekly Pioneer) is a daily newspaper published in Spearfish, South Dakota. Founded by A. W. Merrick and W. A. Laughlin, it was the first newspaper in Deadwood, located in what was then Dakota Territory.\n\nThe \"Black Hills Pioneer\" is the flagship publication of Seaton Publishing Company, Inc. South Dakota. It is part of a family owned newspaper and digital media company providing local journalism to western South Dakota. It is the official newspaper for Lawrence County, Meade County, and Butte County, including the towns of Spearfish, Lead, Deadwood, Whitewood, Sturgis, Vale, Newell, Nisland, and Belle Fourche, reaching nearly 5,000 subscribers Monday–Saturday.\n\nIn addition, Seaton publishes \"The Nation's Center News\", the official weekly newspaper for Harding County, including the communities of Buffalo and Camp Crook, with over 1,200 subscribers.\n\nThis group also publishes \"The Weekly Prospector\", a free weekly ad shopper publication. Over 23,000 copies of \"The Prospector\" are carrier delivered, direct-mailed, and in newsstands in Lawrence, Meade, Butte, and Harding counties in South Dakota, northeast Wyoming and southeast Montana.\n\nMerrick and the \"Black Hills Weekly Pioneer\" are portrayed in the HBO television series \"Deadwood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1883021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883021", "title": "Amargosa Range", "text": "Amargosa Range\n\nThe Amargosa Range is a mountain range in Inyo County, California and Nye County, Nevada. The range runs along most of the eastern side of California's Death Valley, separating it from Nevada's Amargosa Desert. The U-shaped Amargosa River flows clockwise around the perimeter of the range, ending below sea level in the Badwater Basin. \n\nThe mountain range is named after the Amargosa River, so-named for the Spanish word for bitter because of the bitter taste of the water.\n\nIn order from north to south, the Grapevine Mountains (including the range's highest point, Grapevine Peak), the Funeral Mountains, and the Black Mountains form distinct sections. Many of Death Valley National Park's most well-known features, such as Zabriskie Point and Artists Drive are located in or are part of the Amargosa Range.\n"}
{"id": "1883027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883027", "title": "1995 Portuguese legislative election", "text": "1995 Portuguese legislative election\n\nThe Portuguese legislative election of 1995 took place on 1 October. The Socialist Party defeated the Social Democratic Party under the lead of António Guterres, elected three years before, but missed the absolute majority by 4 MPs.\n\nThe Social Democratic party, under the lead of Fernando Nogueira, was weakened by the end of the 10-year cycle of governments led by Cavaco Silva. The two minor parties, the People's Party and the Democratic Unity Coalition achieved only 15 MPs each, a thing that marked the growing bi-polarization of the Portuguese political map. Although turnout, in percentage point, was lower than the previous election in 1991, almost 6 million voters cast a ballot on election day, the highest figure since 1980.\n\nVoter turnout stood at 66.3%, the lowest until then.\n\nThe Assembly of the Republic has 230 members elected to four-year terms. Governments do not require absolute majority support of the Assembly to hold office, as even if the number of opposers of government is larger than that of the supporters, the number of opposers still needs to be equal or greater than 116 (absolute majority) for both the Government's Programme to be rejected or for a motion of no confidence to be approved.\n\nThe number of seats assigned to each district depends on the district magnitude. The use of the d'Hondt method makes for a higher effective threshold than certain other allocation methods such as the Hare quota or Sainte-Laguë method, which are more generous to small parties.\n\nThe major parties involved were listed with their leaders:\n\n\nAntónio Guterres, leader of the Socialist Party, was nominated Prime Minister for the first time, becoming the first socialist Prime Minister in 10 years.\n\nThe 1995 debates, between PSD leader Fernando Nogueira and PS leader António Guterres, were the first general election debates since the 1985 elections.\n\nThe following table shows the opinion polls of voting intention of the Portuguese voters before the election. Those parties that are listed are currently represented in parliament. Included is also the result of the Portuguese general elections in 1991 and 1995 for reference.\n\nNote, until 2000, the publication of opinion polls in the last week of the campaign was forbidden. \n\n! rowspan=\"2\" colspan=2 style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=left|Parties\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Votes\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! colspan=\"5\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=\"center\"|MPs\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align:right;\" |MPs %/votes %\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1991\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1995\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n\n!rowspan=2|Constituency!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S\n!rowspan=2|TotalS\n!colspan=2 | PS\n!colspan=2 | PSD\n!colspan=2 | CDS–PP\n!colspan=2 | CDU\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883030", "title": "Epigonation", "text": "Epigonation\n\nThe epigonation (Greek: , literally meaning \"over the knee\"), or palitza (Russian: , \"club\"), is a vestment used in some Eastern Christian churches.\n\nIn Eastern Orthodoxy and Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite the palitza is worn by all bishops, and as an ecclesiastical award for some priests. Its origin is traced to the practice of Byzantine Emperors awarding ceremonial swords to their military commanders in recognition of their valour in defending the empire. Such swords were often accompanied by elaborate thigh-shields which were suspended from the belt and protected the leg from bruising caused by the constant bumping of the sword against the thigh. When the emperors began to give awards to the clergy, the thigh-shield alone was awarded.\nThe vestment is a stiff, lozenge shaped cloth that hangs on the right side of the body below the waist, suspended by one corner from a strap drawn over the left shoulder. In the Russian tradition it is an award for service; in the Greek tradition it is usually a sign that the priest has an advanced academic degree and a blessing to hear confessions. If a Russian priest has been awarded both the nabedrennik and the \"palitza\", he shifts the former to the left side. It is considered to symbolise the \"sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God\" (); that is to say, the wearer's defending of the faith by smiting all that is impure and vicious. \n\nUpon donning his palitza, the cleric prays: \"\"Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O Mighty One, in thy comeliness and thy beauty; and exert, and fare Thee well, and reign in the name of truth, and of meekness, and of justice; and Thy right hand shall guide Thee wondrously. Now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen\"\".\n\nThe epigonation's origin is uncertain. According to some authorities it was a decorated \"tablion\" or thigh-shield awarded to officials in the Byzantine Empire, originally military and later civilian. According to others it was originally an ornamental handkerchief, called at that date \"encheirion\", \"hand cloth\", which received its present form and name in the twelfth century. In the former case it has no Western Christian counterpart; in the latter it would correspond to the Sub-cinctorium, used by Roman popes in solemn masses.\n\nIt is also said that it was used to carry documents relating to one's position in the Church. Papers such as those certifying one's ordination and rank would be most relevant when travelling. Carrying them in the Liturgy would be symbolic of bearing one's authority to conduct the Holy things of the Liturgy.\n\nDuring the Mystery (Sacrament) of Ordination, a priest or deacon is taken in procession three times around the Holy Table (altar), after each circuit he bows down before the bishop and kisses his epigonation and his right hand. Also, in some liturgical traditions, when a bishop performs a lesser ordination, such as the setting-apart of a subdeacon, he lays his epigonation over the candidate's head as he says the prayer.\n\nThe \"gonker\" (epigonation) is used exclusively by the two Catholicoi of the Armenian Apostolic Church and is granted occasionally with special authorization to patriarchs. The Catholicos of the Armenian Catholic Church also wears it, although it does not appear to be exclusive to him. The recently ordained archbishop for the Armenian Catholic Archeparchy of Constantinople wore a gonker at his ordination.\n\nAn image of Saint Blaise of Sebaste in the Armenian Catholic parish of San Nicola da Tolentino in Rome depicts the saint wearing a gonker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883036", "title": "S. Robert Blair", "text": "S. Robert Blair\n\nSidney Robert \"Bob\" Blair, (13 August 1929 – 18 April 2009) was a Canadian engineer and businessman.\n\nBorn in Port of Spain, Trinidad, where his father Sidney Blair was managing an oil refinery, the young Sidney Robert Blair would be educated in various settings then begin his studies at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario at age 16. In 1951, he graduated from there in chemical engineering. He worked across North America in the construction and gas operations and in 1969 became President and Chief Executive Officer of NOVA Corporation.\n\nBlair has three sons and two daughters from his marriage to Lois which ended in divorce by the early 1970s.\n\nHe was Canada's Commissioner General at Expo 2000.\n\nIn 1980 he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1985.\n\nBlair died at North Vancouver's Lions Gate Hospital on 18 April 2009. His last residence was in North Vancouver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883037", "title": "Burned (image)", "text": "Burned (image)\n\nAn image is said to be burned or burnt when its original gamut considerably exceeds the target gamut, or when the result of processing considerably exceeds the image's gamut, resulting in clipping. Colloquially, an image is burned when it contains uniform blobs of color, black, or white where there should actually be detail.\n\nAll media for storing or capturing images, both analog and digital, are capable of storing only a limited number of color hues, and are bound to a certain gamut. Squeezing an image with a given gamut into a medium with a smaller gamut is done either by adapting the whole range of colors to the new gamut, or by \"trimming\" the colors out of gamut. Trimming colors at the extremes results in burning the image. While converting and capturing images is usually a \"smart\" process which tries to accommodate the entire gamut of the original into the target color space, extreme processing of an image usually results in burning, as defined above.\n\nThe most obvious case of burning is when an image's contrast is raised too much, and the result contains obvious black or white blobs, where there used to be detail in the shadows or the highlights. In this case, the brightness can be adjusted in parallel, and in this way the artist decides whether to preserve detail in the shadows (increase brightness) or in the highlights (decrease brightness), at the expense of detail in the opposite.\n\nA more subtle case of burning occurs when an image's saturation is increased too much. In this case, whichever color reaches its limits starts burning, and the resulting image contains blobs of that color where there used to be detail. In this case, avoiding the burn is much more difficult if the saturation needs to be increased to the respective level, because all other colors need to be adjusted proportionally, or discoloration will occur.\n\nWhile burned images in color are typically not pleasing and need to be avoided, black-and-white photographs can sometimes be enhanced artistically by burning them; the decision to burn, along with the degree of burning, is a subjective matter.\n\nTypically, as a rule of thumb, shadows are more \"forgiving\" with burning than highlights. \n\n"}
{"id": "1883040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883040", "title": "Kimo Leopoldo", "text": "Kimo Leopoldo\n\nKimo Leopoldo (born 4 January 1968), or simply Kimo, is an American retired mixed martial artist and actor. He made his MMA debut at \"UFC 3\" in 1994 losing to Royce Gracie by submission. A professional from 1994 until 2011, he also competed in the PRIDE Fighting Championships, Cage Rage, and the World Fighting Alliance.\n\nHe was credited with a black belt in taekwondo in his Ultimate Fighting Championship debut at \"UFC 3\".\n\nLeopoldo was born in Munich to an American father of Irish and Polynesian descent and a German mother of Jewish descent. Four months after he was born his family moved to Hawaii. Leopoldo was a natural athlete growing up, playing football, wrestling, and he also had an interest in surfing. Leopoldo was a dominant wrestler at Waianae High School and played on the team that won the Hawaii High School Athletic Association Championship. Leopoldo was also a very talented middle linebacker in football, and attended the University of Washington on a partial athletic scholarship, but he was unprepared for college, and returned to Hawaii shortly after.\n\nIn Huntington Beach, California, he sought to renew his career in football. Going under the name \"Kim Leopold\" he quickly became an NJCAA All-American and gained interest from many Division I colleges. However, he tore both of his ACLs, and his success only lasted until the middle of his sophomore year. Depressed and with seemingly no future, he met Joe Son and turned to mixed martial arts after studying films of fights including UFC 1, among other fights featuring Royce Gracie, who Leopoldo would later make his debut against.\n\nAt \"UFC 3\", billed as a taekwondo fighter, Kimo fought the reigning, defending \"UFC 1\" and \"UFC 2\" champion Royce Gracie in the first round. Although Gracie tried to take him down at all costs, Kimo stayed firmly on his feet, and even managed to capture his back in a failed trip. Royce reversed it and mounted him, but only briefly, as Kimo flipped Gracie over and landed multiple headbutts through his guard. The Brazilian fighter then grabbed Kimo's ponytail in an attempt to get the advantage, but it didn't stop Kimo from taking his back again standing. Finally, Royce pulled him down and locked an armbar, making Leopoldo submit. Even though Kimo lost, Royce was left so hurt he couldn't fight two other bouts he had that night, and had to forfeit his match against Harold Howard. Kimo and his cornermen Joe Son featured a controversial moment that very night, when they jumped on the cage after Royce's forfeiting and started celebrating among the audience's chants.\n\nAfter three straight wins in Japan, including a dominant win over UFC 2 finalist Pat Smith, Kimo returned at \"UFC 8\" and fought reigning UFC champion Ken Shamrock in a title match for the UFC Superfight Championship, but lost early in the fight via submission due to a kneebar.\n\nKimo then fought at the UFC's Ultimate Ultimate 1996. He won his first fight against UFC 7 finalist Paul Varelans, but withdrew from the tournament after the win due to exhaustion.\n\nHe then traveled to Japan and fought the former 3 time UFC champion Dan Severn in the inaugural Pride Fighting Championships. A controversial contest, it took place primarily standing with both fighters nullifying the other's ability to strike. At the end of the contest Severn attempted to take Kimo down, however was unable because Kimo held onto the ropes. At the 29th minute Severn landed a take down, however it was a matter of too little too late and the contest was deemed a draw. Upon the final bell, commentator Stephen 'The Fight Professor' Quadros said 'the best thing about this fight is Dan Severn's post fight look', and in response to the Japanese crowd uncharacteristically booing, he said 'they're booing because they're relieved it's over'.\n\nKimo then returned for UFC 16 at \"UFC: Battle in the Bayou\" and fought top Japanese fighter Tsuyoshi Kohsaka. Kimo began the contest aggressive, securing a strong takedown and controlling Kohsaka for the first six and a half minutes. Kimo then began to fatigue and Kohsaka took advantage, restoring the fight back to its feet, before landing a stiff right jab to the face of Kimo. Clearly stunned by the punch, momentum immediately swung in Kohsaka's favour. Although Kimo held on for the remainder of the bout, Kohsaka won via unanimous decision, out scoring Kimo in striking, grappling, and octagon control.\n\nAfter a four-year break from mixed martial arts, Kimo won a warm up fight against Tim Lajcik in the WFA in 2002. He then again returned to the UFC at \"UFC 43\", where he quickly defeated David \"Tank\" Abbott by arm triangle choke. Kimo went on to fight in the main event of \"UFC 48\", where he fought Ken Shamrock in a rematch. Kimo was knocked out in the first round from knees to the head. After the fight Kimo, tested positive for the steroid Stanozolol, also known as Winstrol, among other drugs. He was suspended for six months and fined $5,000 by the Nevada State Athletic Commission.\n\nKimo was to fight Bas Rutten at WFA: King of the Streets on July 22, 2006. However, he was forced off the card by the California State Athletic Commission, after testing positive for Stanozolol once again.\n\nIn his two most recent fights, Kimo lost to Dave Legeno by submission. He then lost to Wes Sims by TKO in X-1.\n\nKimo made his kickboxing debut on March 3, 1995 at the K-1 Grand Prix '95 Opening Battle event in Tokyo, where he fought former world champion Masaaki Satake for the opportunity to compete in the K-1 Grand Prix '95 tournament. Kimo started aggressively, keeping his opponent on the defensive with powerful hooks. He tired as the round went on, allowing Satake to strike back with kicks to his head and body. In the second round, Satake scored three knockdowns over Kimo and thus earned a TKO victory.\n\nLeopoldo competed again eight years later at the K-1 World Grand Prix 2003 in Las Vegas II event. He faced rising super heavyweight Bob Sapp in what turned out to be a brutal and controversial fight. As Sapp came forward with clubbing punches and knees, Kimo fought back with countering hooks, and the two fighters exchanged knockdowns in the first round. Sapp proved more dominant in the following round, swarming the UFC veteran before knocking him out with a rabbit punch. Despite Kimo's loss, the Las Vegas crowd cheered his name and booed Sapp in the aftermath. Referee Nobuaki Kakuda faced criticism for not penalizing Sapp's blatant foul and for allowing Sapp time to recover after failing to answer the bell for the second round.\n\nFighting his final kickboxing match to date at K-1 Burning 2004, Kimo endured a knockout loss to former amateur boxing champion Hiromi Amada. His current record stands at 0-3.\n\nLeopoldo has worked since 1996 as an actor in independent productions. He starred in the direct to video production \"\" and the films \"The Process\", \"The Dog Problem\", \"In the Closet\", \"Bullet\" and \"Avengers Grimm\".\n\nIn February 2009 Leopoldo was arrested in Tustin, California for possession of a controlled substance. In the police report Leopoldo was standing by his car, wearing sandals, playing with a yo-yo, and donning a Long Beach Police Department jumpsuit that can only be worn by the motor pool mechanics.\n\nVarious media outlets reported that Leopoldo had died from complications from a heart attack at age 41. Kevin Iole of Yahoo Sports reported on his Twitter that Leopoldo's publicist refuted reports that Leopoldo was in Costa Rica and instead was seen alive in Orange County the night before. At a July 21, 2009 press conference Leopoldo denied anyone close to him created the rumor, he also expressed his desire to return to fight one last time.\n\nKimo is well known for his Christian beliefs: he sports many religious tattoos, and entered the arena at UFC 3 carrying a large cross on his back.\n\nLegend: \n\n"}
{"id": "1883070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883070", "title": "Douglas Gageby", "text": "Douglas Gageby\n\n(Robert John) Douglas Gageby (29 September 1918 – 24 June 2004) was one of the pre-eminent Irish newspaper editors of his generation. His life is well documented and a book of essays about him, written by many of his colleagues, some of whom had attained fame for their literary achievements, was published in 2006 [\"Bright Brilliant Days: Douglas Gageby and the Irish Times\", ed. Andrew Whittaker, Dublin, A&A Farmar, 2006].\n\nGageby was born in Dublin, at 54 Upper Beechwood Avenue, Ranelagh, to Thomas Gageby, a Belfast-born civil servant. His mother, Ethel Elizabeth née Smith, was a schoolteacher from county of Cavan. The Gageby family moved to Belfast when Douglas was about three as his father went to work for the Northern Ireland Civil Service following partition. His paternal grandfather Robert Gageby had stood as a Labour parliamentary candidate in Belfast North in 1910, and was a Belfast City Councillor for 20 years, first elected in 1898 as a trade union candidate supported by the Independent Labour Party.\n\nHe was educated at Belfast Royal Academy and Trinity College Dublin, where he was elected a scholar in Modern Languages (French and German) in 1940. He was also actively involved with the student newspaper \"Trinity News\". He enlisted in the Irish Army as a private soldier at the outbreak of World War II. He was commissioned later, and he served as an intelligence officer. He reported from post-war Germany for \"The Irish Press\" and went on to work under Conor Cruise O'Brien in the Irish News Agency. In 1954 he was the first editor of the \"Evening Press\". In 1963 he became editor of \"The Irish Times\", a post he held until 1986, having been brought back from a short retirement in 1974. He is credited with moving the \"Irish Times\" from a Unionist organ into a successful Irish journal of record.\n\nIn 2003 it was revealed that a director (and later Chairman) of \"The Irish Times\", Major T. B. McDowell, had referred to Gageby as a 'white nigger' for his views and role in the paper during the Civil Rights Movements (CRM) campaign in the 1960s. The comment appeared in a letter from the British Ambassador to Dublin, Sir Andrew Gilchrist, to Kelvin White, head of the Irish Section of the British Foreign Office and is dated 2 October 1969. Gilchrist was referring to conversations which he had with McDowell where the latter professed himself to be fully behind the British government in the North and hostile to Gageby's coverage of the CRM. However, historian Mark O'Brien notes\n\"Despite his contacts with London, McDowell's actions did not interfere with Gageby's editorials on Northern Ireland\", due to the fact McDowell believed in editorial independence (even though McDowell strongly disagreed with Gageby's nationalist views), and because Gageby was making the newspaper commercially successful. Under the 30 year rule, this letter was made available to newspapers on 22 and 23 December 1999, but no newspaper published it at that time.\n\nThe communiqué was later discovered by the historian, Jack Lane, and published in the \"Irish Political Review\", a small magazine strongly antagonistic to \"The Irish Times\", in January 2003. He brought it to the attention of \"The Irish Times\" editor, Geraldine Kennedy, on 10 January 2003 and she replied on 15 January 2003 saying she was \"unable to confirm the veracity of it\" and did not publish it. When, on 26 January 2003, the \"Sunday Independent\" (Ireland) published the story, \"The Irish Times\" finally followed the next day, 27 January. Nonetheless, on 24 April 2004 Kennedy defended her position by saying, \"The contents of the letter in question were published on January 27, 2003, as soon as its existence was drawn to my attention.\" \n\nDouglas Gageby was married to Dorothy, daughter of Seán Lester (last Secretary General of the League of Nations). His daughter, Susan Denham was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ireland 2011-2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883071", "title": "Blackjack Mulligan", "text": "Blackjack Mulligan\n\nRobert Deroy Windham (November 25, 1942 – April 7, 2016), better known by his ring name Blackjack Mulligan, was an American professional wrestler, author, and American football player. He was the father of wrestlers Barry and Kendall Windham, father-in-law of Mike Rotunda, and the maternal grandfather of Bray Wyatt and Bo Dallas.\n\nAs a young man, Windham played football at Texas Western College, now known as the University of Texas at El Paso. Windham served a tour of duty in the United States Marine Corps. He then went on to play for the New York Jets during the 1966 pre-season and received tryouts with the New Orleans Saints and Denver Broncos.\n\nAfter football, at the urging of Wahoo McDaniel, Windham trained with Joe Blanchard in Corpus Christi, Texas and later with Verne Gagne and became a professional wrestler in the American Wrestling Association. Billed as being 6' 9\" and over 300 pounds, Windham was a rawboned cowboy in the vein of Bobby Duncum or Stan Hansen.\n\nHis training complete, he prepared to move on to the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) and was transformed into Blackjack Mulligan. Mulligan donned black trunks, black hat, a black fingerless glove, and used the iron claw submission hold.\n\nWhen he arrived in the WWWF, he was managed by The Grand Wizard. Early stills of the two actually identify him as Big Bob Windham. Mulligan went on to great success in the Northeast and was an early challenger to newly crowned champion Pedro Morales. His push was interrupted when he was slashed in the thigh by a fan at the Boston Garden and required hundreds of stitches to close the wound. The culprit was actually captured by Gorilla Monsoon, who threw him at the ringside police – who promptly let him go because they thought \"it was part of the show\".\n\nBefore he left to recover from his wound, Mulligan participated in a Madison Square Garden match against Bruno Sammartino, who was making his first appearance at the arena since the end of his nearly eight-year championship reign. Mulligan attacked Sammartino before the bell. Sammartino quickly recovered, slammed Mulligan twice and pinned him in 64 seconds. In wrestling terms, everybody \"got over\" – the building was sold out to the delight of promoter Vince McMahon the elder, Sammartino made a strong return to New York and Mulligan, who was in no condition to work an actual match, received a large pay-off to aid his recovery.\n\nOnce he healed, Mulligan returned to the Midwest and tagged with Blackjack Lanza to form The Blackjacks. Although Mulligan was the much bigger star, the duo went on to capture numerous tag team championships in various NWA affiliated promotions as well as the WWWF World Tag Team Championship in August 1975.\n\nBlackjack returned to singles wrestling in the Jim Crockett Promotions where he would go on to hold the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship and the Mid-Atlantic's version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship with Ric Flair.\n\nMulligan often battled André the Giant, feuding in many different regions in the early 1980s. When they brought their feud to the WWF (formerly the WWWF) in 1982, Windham was noted as saying Andre had no limit to his strength. Mulligan then wrestled in Florida. He often teamed with West Texas stars Dusty Rhodes, Dick Murdoch, and his son Barry Windham. Mulligan returned to the WWF as a full-time performer in 1984, hosting an interview segment titled \"Blackjack's Barbecue\" on \"WWF All-Star Wrestling\", the counterpart to Roddy Piper's \"Piper's Pit\".\n\nIn 1986, Mulligan wrestled under a mask as \"Big Machine\", part of a team with \"The Giant Machine\" (André the Giant) and \"Super Machine\" (Bill Eadie) collectively known as The Machines. They won several high-profile matches against the Heenan family, later recruiting members such as 'Hulk Machine' and 'Piper Machine'. After that angle ended, Mulligan wrestled for the WWF as himself, until he finally left in 1987. Later on, Jack traveled to Dallas and competed in World Class Championship Wrestling, wrestling against Bruiser Brody, Chris Adams and Kevin and Lance Von Erich. Mulligan also returned to Florida in 1987 to fight against the Funk brothers, teaming with Kevin Sullivan.\n\nMulligan worked as a match booker and promoter all around the South, eventually co-owning the Amarillo, Texas-based Western States Sports promotion with Dick Murdoch after purchasing it from Dory and Terry Funk. Mulligan and his Blackjacks partner, Jack Lanza were inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on April 1, 2006 by their manager, Bobby Heenan.\n\nIn 1990, Blackjack Mulligan and his son Kendall Windham were arrested by the US Secret Service in a joint investigation with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) for counterfeiting. The authorities found close to $500,000 in phony $20 bills. As a result of a plea agreement, both father and son spent 24 months in a federal prison and were released in 1992.\n\nIn 2007, Windham published his book titled \"True Lies and Alibis\", which tells about his personal life and his professional wrestling career.\n\nIn 2012, Windham, a born again Christian, was ordained a minister by Divine Hearts Ministry located in Lake Saint Louis, Missouri. He was very devoted to spending the time he had remaining to spreading the word of God. He felt his ordination could help him in this endeavor.\n\nIn July 2015, Windham was named as a defendant in a 2015 lawsuit filed by WWE after they received a letter from him indicating that he intended to sue them for concussion-based injuries sustained during his tenure with them. He was represented by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who is involved in several other lawsuits involving former WWE wrestlers. Over two years after his death, US District Judge Vanessa Lynne Bryant dismissed the lawsuit in September 2018.\n\nAfter dealing with health issues in recent years and being hospitalized with a heart attack several months earlier, Windham was hospitalized in Florida in October 2015. He died on April 7, 2016. He was buried at the Florida National Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883086", "title": "Visual Artists Rights Act", "text": "Visual Artists Rights Act\n\nThe Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990 (VARA), , is a United States law granting certain rights to artists.\n\nVARA was the first federal copyright legislation to grant protection to \"moral rights\". Under VARA, works of art that meet certain requirements afford their authors additional rights in the works, regardless of any subsequent physical ownership of the work itself, or regardless of who holds the copyright to the work. For instance, a painter may insist on proper attribution of his painting, and in some instances may sue the owner of the physical painting for destroying the painting even if the owner of the painting lawfully owned it.\n\nAlthough federal law had not acknowledged moral rights before this act, some state legislatures and judicial decisions created limited moral-rights protection. The Berne Convention required the protection of these rights by signatory states, and it was in response that the U.S. Congress passed the VARA.\n\nVARA exclusively grants authors of works that fall under the protection of the Act the following rights\n\nAdditionally, authors of works of \"recognized stature\" may prohibit intentional or grossly negligent destruction of a work. Exceptions to VARA require a waiver from the author in writing. To date, \"recognized stature\" has managed to elude a precise definition. VARA allows authors to waive their rights, something generally not permitted in France and many European countries whose laws were the originators of the moral rights of artists concept.\n\nIn most instances, the rights granted under VARA persist for the life of the author (or the last surviving author, for creators of joint works).\n\nVARA provides its protection only to paintings, drawings, prints, sculptures, still photographic images produced for exhibition only, and existing in single copies or in limited editions of 200 or fewer copies, signed and numbered by the artist. The requirements for protection do not implicate aesthetic taste or value.\n\nVARA's application is limited to visual works that fall within a narrowly defined category. However, for works that do fall within the category of protected works, VARA imposes substantial restrictions on any modification or removal of those works. Purchasers of the works must obtain written waivers from the author if they wish to exercise any of the exclusive rights under VARA.\n\nThis has particularly been an issue for those that commission public sculptures. Absent a waiver, artists could effectively veto decisions to remove their structures from their benefactor's land. In a 2006 decision involving public sculptures that were removed from the park for which they were created, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit ruled that VARA does not protect location as a component of site-specific work. VARA covered works can be moved as long as the move does not constitute \"destruction, distortion, or mutilation.\" However, one artist has claimed \"The moment that the sculpture is removed, it will be destroyed, because it cannot be what it is anywhere else.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883093", "title": "Baby blue", "text": "Baby blue\n\nBaby blue is a tint of azure, one of the pastel colors.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"baby blue\" as a color name in English was in 1892.\n\nBeau blue is a light tone of baby blue. \"Beau\" means \"beautiful\" in French.\n\nThe source of this color is the color that is called \"beau blue\" in the \"Plochere Color System\", a color system formulated in 1948 that is widely used by interior designers.\nBaby blue eyes is a rich tone of baby blue. \n\nThe source of this color is the color that is called \"baby blue eyes\" in the \"Plochere Color System\", a color system formulated in 1948 that is widely used by interior designers.\nLittle boy blue is a deep tone of baby blue. \n\nThe source of this color is the \"Pantone Textile Paper eXtended (TPX)\" color list, color #16-4132 TPX—Little Boy Blue.\n\nGender\n\nLaw enforcement\n\nFlags\n\n"}
{"id": "1883095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883095", "title": "Ken Berry", "text": "Ken Berry\n\nKenneth Ronald Berry (November 3, 1933 – December 1, 2018) was an American actor, dancer and singer. Berry starred on the television series \"F Troop\", \"The Andy Griffith Show\", \"Mayberry R.F.D.\" and \"Mama's Family\". He also appeared on Broadway in \"The Billy Barnes Revue\", headlined as George M. Cohan in the musical \"George M!\" and provided comic relief for the medical drama \"Dr. Kildare\", with Richard Chamberlain in the 1960s.\n\nBerry was born in Moline in Rock Island County in Northwestern Illinois, one of two children of an accountant, Darrell Berry, and his wife, Bernice. Berry was of Swedish-English descent.\n\nBerry realized he wanted to be a dancer and singer at age 12, as he watched a children's dance performance during a school assembly. He dreamed of starring in movie musicals and went to the movie theater to see Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly in some of his favorite films, including \"Easter Parade\", \"Royal Wedding\", \"On the Town\", and \"Summer Stock\".\n\nBerry immediately started tap dance class and, at age 15, won a local talent competition sponsored by radio and television big band leader Horace Heidt. Heidt asked Berry to join his traveling performance ensemble, \"The Horace Heidt Youth Opportunity Program\", a popular touring group. He toured the United States and Europe for 15 months with the program, dancing and singing for the public and at post-World War II United States Air Force bases overseas. Berry made lasting relationships with several of his co-cast members and Horace's son, Horace Heidt Jr., who later launched a big band and radio career.\n\nAfter high school graduation, Berry volunteered for the United States Army, and was assigned to Fort Bragg in Fayetteville, North Carolina.\n\nHis first year in the Army was spent in the artillery, where he entered a post talent contest; the winner went on Arlene Francis' \"Soldier Parade\" in New York City. Berry, who always carried his tap shoes with him, worked out a routine and a few hours later won the contest. He headed to New York for his television debut.\n\nBerry's second and final year in the Army was with Special Services, under Sergeant Leonard Nimoy, who encouraged Berry to go to Hollywood and pursue acting. As a part of Special Services, he toured Army posts and officers' clubs entertaining the troops, as well as visiting colleges for recruiting purposes. Soon, another talent competition was held, the All Army Talent Competition, looking to find service personnel to appear on Ed Sullivan's \"Toast of the Town\". Berry placed third in the \"Specialty Act\" category with the song \"There'll Be Some Changes Made\" and returned to New York City and television.\n\nThe Sullivan appearance was to take place shortly before Berry would muster out of the Army. Nimoy sent telegrams to several studios and talent agents asking them to watch Berry on the show. The performance led to an offer from 20th Century Fox and a screen test at Universal Studios. He signed with an agent as soon as he arrived in Hollywood.\n\nBerry accepted Universal's offer and began as a contract player. Soon he was being groomed to take over for Donald O'Connor in the \"Francis the Talking Mule\" movie series; however, Mickey Rooney became available and got the part. At Universal, Berry took full advantage of the studio's talent development program and later, under the G.I. Bill, he took jazz dance, ballet, vocal, and additional acting classes.\n\nThe movie musicals Berry admired had already seen their heyday; however, acting, which he once thought of as \"something I would do between song and dance routines\", became the basis of his career.\n\nBerry went on to star in the 1969 musical comedy \"Hello Down There\" — reissued as \"Sub a Dub Dub\" — as Mel Cheever, the nemesis of Tony Randall and Janet Leigh, and with Denver Pyle in 1976's \"Guardian of the Wilderness\", the story of Galen Clark, the man who created Yosemite National Park. Berry also earned broader success as a Disney star in the films \"Herbie Rides Again\" in 1974, with Helen Hayes and Stefanie Powers, and \"The Cat from Outer Space\" in 1978, with Sandy Duncan and McLean Stevenson.\n\nIn 1956, after being released from Universal, Berry ventured to Las Vegas where he opened for and joined Abbott and Costello in their stage act, performing sketches and song and dance routines at the Sahara Hotel and Casino. While working with Abbott and Costello, he met Dee Arlen, an actress whom he credited with getting him his first big break. This was Berry's first performance on the Las Vegas Strip.\n\nThen, in 1957, Berry was asked by Ken Murray, a well-known vaudeville performer, to join his stage variety show \"The Ken Murray Blackouts\". The Blackouts played to standing-room-only audiences, and Berry was asked to choreograph and perform the opening number for the show when it played the Riviera hotel and casino in Las Vegas.\n\nBerry eventually returned to Las Vegas again in the 1970s at the invitation of Andy Griffith. Griffith, with Berry and Jerry Van Dyke, played Caesars Palace, where Berry performed song and dance numbers sandwiched by Andy and Jerry's stand-up routines.\n\nActress Dee Arlen referred Berry for a role in the show \"In League with Ivy\" at the Cabaret Concert Theatre, a nightclub in Los Angeles. Here he met famed composer–impresario Billy Barnes, the play's composer. Barnes brought Berry into \"The Billy Barnes Revue\" ensemble, his next break, and he performed in many of Barnes' shows in the coming years.\n\nWhile with Barnes, Berry worked with other performers including his future wife, Jackie Joseph, as well as Joyce Jameson, Bert Convy, Patti Regan, Ann Morgan Guilbert, Lennie Weinrib, and sketch writer/director Bob Rodgers. Several cast albums were made.\n\nIn November 1959, the original cast of the Broadway show was replaced two weeks after a legal dispute with the producers over a canceled performance. The cast had missed their flight from Chicago after a promotional appearance on \"Playboy's Penthouse\" and refunds had to be made to the ticket holders. He performed in several stage shows in Los Angeles; the press dubbed him \"another Fred Astaire\" and \"the next Gene Kelly\". His talent was also compared to that of Flamenco Dancer José Greco, the legendary hoofer Donald O'Connor, Ray Bolger, and Jack Donahue.\n\n\"Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts\" was a prime time television talent contest, that ran from 1946 to 1958. The winner got a week's work on Godfrey's morning television program, which was simulcast on radio. Berry won in 1957, performed his week on the show, and was then asked back for six more weeks. He traveled with Godfrey and performed on remote broadcasts in an Omaha stock yard, in Seattle at a lumber camp, at the Boeing aircraft plant, and at the San Diego Zoo. Berry came up with a new routine for every show, which aired daily.\n\nThe Billy Barnes Review was popular with Hollywood, and one evening Carol Burnett was in Los Angeles and saw Berry in the show. She was appearing on \"The Garry Moore Show\" in New York and convinced the producers to sign Berry as a guest star. Burnett became a key ally for Berry, using him on her own special, which eventually became CBS's \"The Carol Burnett Show\". Ken was one of Burnett's most frequent guest stars along with Jim Nabors and Steve Lawrence. In 1972, Berry and Burnett appeared together in the color remake of Burnett's Broadway hit, \"Once Upon a Mattress\" for CBS.\n\nA notable dramatic performance by Berry was 1982's television movie \"Eunice\", which was based on \"The Carol Burnett Show\" sketch, \"The Family\". \"The Family\" was something of a pilot for \"Mama's Family\". Berry played Phillip, Eunice's brother, in the special; however he went on to play Vinton, a different brother, on \"Mama's Family\".\n\nHis collaboration with Carol Burnett continued with the 1993 Long Beach theatrical production of \"From the Top\".\n\n\"The Billy Barnes Review\" also led to another important connection in his career when he was spotted by Lucille Ball. Ball quickly asked him to join her new talent development program at Desilu, similar to the \"talent pools\" – known as talent \"programs\" – that the other studios had. He was under contract with Desilu for six months, performing for both Ball and Barnes at the same time. The reviews for \"The Billy Barnes Review\" were largely positive, and additional investors contributed the extra money needed to move the show from the York Playhouse to Broadway, which meant he had to take leave from Desilu.\n\nAfter returning from New York in 1960, Berry was brought back to Desilu to play Woody, a bell hop, in ten episodes of CBS's \"The Ann Sothern Show\" which was set in a New York hotel called the Bartley House. The character Woody served as a \"Greek chorus of one\" on the series.\n\nIn 1968, Ball asked Berry to guest star on \"The Lucy Show\", where he played a bank client needing a loan to start a dance studio. He performed a tribute to the Fred Astaire number \"Steppin' Out with My Baby\" and a duet with Ball for a rendition of \"Lucy's Back in Town\".\n\nAfter numerous smaller roles, Berry was cast as one of three comic relief characters on \"Dr. Kildare\", from 1961 to 1966. A regular on the series, Berry played Dr. Kapish. He also played a dance instructor several times on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\".\n\nBerry continued doing guest roles, but while performing a small part on the short-lived George Burns-Connie Stevens sitcom \"Wendy and Me\", both Burns and Stevens recommended him for the pilot of \"F Troop\" for ABC, a western spoof where he played the accident-prone Captain Parmenter—his first starring role in a weekly sitcom.\n\nBerry's co-stars were Forrest Tucker and Larry Storch. Berry called his time on \"F-Troop\" \"two years of recess\" as the entire cast spent time between takes trying to make each other laugh. His dancing ability allowed him to perform choreographed pratfalls over hitching posts, sabers, and trash cans.\n\nIn 1967, during the second year of \"F-Troop\", Dick Linke — who was Berry's manager, and also managed Andy Griffith and Jim Nabors — pitched an \"F Troop\" stage show to Bill Harrah, founder of Harrah's Entertainment, which included a casino and hotel in Reno, Nevada. Harrah went for it, and Berry, Larry Storch, Forrest Tucker, and James Hampton put together a show, hiring writers and a choreographer to assist. While performing the Reno show they received word that \"F Troop\" had been canceled due to a financial dispute between the production company and the studio.\n\nThe next year Berry was cast in the featured role of Sam Jones, a widowed farmer, on the last few episodes of \"The Andy Griffith Show\". He took a leading role on the spin-off \"Mayberry R.F.D.\". In September 1968, Berry led the cast of \"Mayberry R.F.D.\", as Griffith's character receded. Most of the regular characters stayed with the show. Andy and wife Helen left after a few episodes in season two. Series writers used Berry's \"trouper\" talents in stories about church revues and talent contests. On the 1970 \"Mayberry R.F.D.\" episode \"The Charity\", he and co-star Paul Hartman performed a soft shoe routine. Berry sometimes ended a show on the porch at dusk, serenading others with such songs as \"Carolina Moon\". In spite of finishing 15th place for season three, \"Mayberry R.F.D.\" was canceled in 1971 in what was called \"the rural purge\", where shows set in a bucolic locale (\"The Beverly Hillbillies\", \"Green Acres\", and \"Petticoat Junction\") were replaced with the more \"hip\" fare of Norman Lear (\"All in the Family\") and \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\".\n\nAfter \"Mayberry R.F.D.\", Berry starred in several made-for-TV movies, and his own summer replacement variety show on ABC called \"The Ken Berry 'Wow' Show\" in 1972, which ran for five episodes. This show was a launching pad for future stars Steve Martin, Cheryl Ladd, and Teri Garr.\n\nIn 1973 Sherwood Schwartz wrote a spin-off of \"The Brady Bunch\", called \"Kelly's Kids\", which featured Berry as the adoptive father of three diverse boys (black, white, and Asian). The pilot failed to interest ABC.\n\nOver the next two decades Berry guest starred on many shows, including \"The Bob Newhart Show\", \"The Julie Andrews Hour\", several Mitzi Gaynor specials, \"The Sonny & Cher Comedy Hour\", \"The Donny & Marie Show\", \"The Love Boat\", \"Fantasy Island\", \"Grizzly Adams\", \"CHiPs\", and \"The Golden Girls\". ‘’Little House on the Prairie’’\n\nIn 1983, Berry was cast as Vinton Harper in \"Mama's Family\", a spin-off from \"The Carol Burnett Show\" with comic actors including Vicki Lawrence, Dorothy Lyman, Rue McClanahan, Betty White, and Beverly Archer during six seasons of the show. \"Mama's Family\" aired on NBC from 1983 to 1984 and in repeats until 1985. It was then picked up for first run syndication from 1986 to 1990. The run totaled 130 episodes.\n\nDuring and after \"Mama's Family\", Berry toured the United States in various theatrical performances, including multiple performances of \"Sugar\" with co-stars such as Donald O'Connor, Mickey Rooney, Soupy Sales, and Bobby Morse, \"The Music Man\" with Susan Watson (Patrick Swayze and Lisa Niemi were in the chorus), \"I Do! I Do!\" with Loretta Swit, and Gene Kelly's \"A Salute to Broadway\" with Howard Keel and Mimi Hines. Kelly, who was Berry's idol, was set to direct the production, but fell ill.\n\nIn his younger years, Berry signed with a modeling agency that put him in a variety of spots, including advertisements for tissues, cigarettes, cereal, and a car commercial.\n\nYears later, after signing with a commercial agent, Berry was a spokesman in commercials for Kinney Shoes from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s, singing and dancing to the \"Great American Shoe Store\" jingle.\n\nBerry's first recording experience came with the Billy Barnes cast albums: one from the Broadway performance of \"The Billy Barnes Review\" and the second in \"Billy Barnes' L.A\".\n\nAfter an appearance on \"The Andy Williams Show\", Williams asked Berry to record a solo album on his new Barnaby label. Backed by a full orchestra, \"Ken Berry RFD\" was released in 1970.\n\nBerry married Jackie Joseph, a Billy Barnes castmate, on May 29, 1960. They adopted two children together — son John Kenneth in 1964 and daughter Jennifer Kate in 1965. They divorced in 1976. His son John, who later became a co-founder of the Indie rock band Idaho, died in 2016 of brain cancer at the age of 51. Berry's long time partner and companion, Susie Walsh, a stage manager, had been with him for the last 24 years.\n\nBerry \"loved cars and anything with wheels\" from the time he was a young child, particularly smaller cars, and maintained a 1966 Mini Moke. An avid motorcyclist, he camped and rode the local Los Angeles mountain ranges.\n\nBerry died of heart complications in Burbank, California on December 1, 2018 at the age of 85.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1883099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883099", "title": "Travelogue (Kashmir album)", "text": "Travelogue (Kashmir album)\n\nTravelogue is the debut album of Danish rock band Kashmir. It was released in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "1883103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883103", "title": "Mike Dietsch", "text": "Mike Dietsch\n\nMichael Murray Dietsch (February 2, 1942 – March 9, 2014) was a politician in Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1987 to 1990. He also served as mayor of Niagara-on-the-Lake from 1991 to 1997.\n\nDietsch was educated at Niagara District secondary school, and was a small farm operator and automotive worker in private life. He served as an alderman in Niagara-on-the-Lake from 1974 to 1982 and 1985 to 1987, and was a Regional Councillor from 1982 to 1987 and Deputy Lord Mayor from 1985 to 1987. He was also president of the Niagara-on-the-Lake Jaycees. He lived in Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario with his wife Gail. Together they raised six children.\n\nHe was elected to the Ontario legislature in the 1987 provincial election, defeating incumbent Progressive Conservative Peter Partington by 2001 votes in the constituency of St. Catharines—Brock. For the next three years, he served as a backbench supporter of David Peterson's government. During his tenure he sponsored and successfully passed three private member's bills - the allowance of credit card sales at wineries, the allowance of Sunday openings at wineries and an irrigation bill to allow farmers to use irrigation ditches to water their crops.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated by the Ontario New Democratic Party in the 1990 provincial election and Dietsch lost his seat to Christel Haeck of the NDP by 1,159 votes.\n\nDietsch returned to municipal politics in 1991 when he was elected Lord Mayor of Niagara-on-the-Lake. He was re-elected in 1994. He was elected as a Regional Councillor for Niagara-on-the-Lake in 1997. Later that year, he sought the Chairmanship of the Niagara Regional Municipality, but lost to Grimsby Regional Councillor Debbie Zimmerman. He did not seek re-election in 2000.\n\nHe ran a bed and breakfast inn in the town until 2007 when he retired. He died in 2014 after a long battle with cancer.\n"}
{"id": "1883110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883110", "title": "Starter ring gear", "text": "Starter ring gear\n\nA starter ring gear is a part attached to an internal combustion engine that is part of the assembly which transfers the torque from the starter motor to the engine's crankshaft, in order to start the engine. The starter ring gear is usually made from medium carbon steel. \n\nStarter ring gears are attached to either the flywheel or the flexplate of an engine. The teeth of the ring gear are driven by the smaller gear (known as the pinion) of the starter motor. The pinion engages the starter ring only during starting and once the engine is running the pinion withdraws.\n\nThe starter ring gear is most commonly made by forming a length of square or rectangular steel bar into a circle and welding the ends together. This ring is then machined to create flat surfaces of the required inner and outer diameters. The gear teeth are then created using a hobbing tool, followed by processes to chamfer, deburr and clean the gear teeth. Induction hardening is used to increase the surface hardness of the teeth for abrasion resistance and also increase the core strength of the tooth to resist the bending forces applied to the tooth during starting. This heat-treatment is usually followed by tempering to reduce internal stresses and increase the toughness of the teeth. The hardness at pitch circle diameter is typically in the range 45-55 HRc.\n\nIn cars with a manual transmission, the starter ring gear is fitted to the outer diameter of the flywheel. The ring gear is usually fixed to the flywheel through use of an interference fit, which is achieved by heating the ring gear and so that thermal expansion allows it to be placed around the flywheel.\n\nIn cars with an automatic transmission, the starter ring gear is usually welded to the outside of the flexplate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883121", "title": "Roger Blais", "text": "Roger Blais\n\nRoger A. Blais, (February 4, 1926 – September 25, 2009) was a Canadian geological engineer and academic. He helped develop a number of prospecting and exploration technologies.\n\nBorn in Shawinigan, Quebec, he graduated from Université Laval and from the University of Toronto. In 1970, he was appointed a professor in economic geology and the first director of research at École Polytechnique de Montréal. An exceptional human being, enthusiastic and positive, he promoted his students to give the best every day. He was the father of two children and a loving husband.\n\nIn 1975 he was awarded the Royal Society of Canada's Bancroft Award. In 1984 he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 2002. In 1995 he was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec. In 1997, he was awarded the Government of Quebec's Prix Armand-Frappier. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and of the Engineering Institute of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883135", "title": "Confédération nationale du travail", "text": "Confédération nationale du travail\n\nThe CNT-F (Confédération nationale du travail) or National Confederation of Labour is a French anarcho-syndicalist union.\n\nIt was founded in 1946 by Spanish anarcho-syndicalists in exile, and former members of Confédération Générale du Travail-Syndicaliste Révolutionnaire (CGT-SR), its name is derived from the Spanish CNT, the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo.\n\nNowadays, two French organisations share the name CNT:\n\n\nThey decline the term anarchist, preferring to call themselves \"revolutionary unionist\" (\"syndicalistes révolutionnaires\").\nThey accept the terms of the 1906 Charter of Amiens, the Charter of Lyon (1926) and the charter of Paris (1946).\n\nThey also accept participation in the professional elections and collaboration with others unions.\n\nThey define themselves as anarchosyndicalist, while they have clear influences from council communism, worker anarchism of the Federación Obrera Regional Argentina (FORA) and the Situationist International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883147", "title": "Siege of Damascus (1148)", "text": "Siege of Damascus (1148)\n\nThe Siege of Damascus took place between 24 and 28 July 1148, during the Second Crusade. It ended in a decisive crusader defeat and led to the disintegration of the crusade. The two main Christian forces that marched to the Holy Land in response to Pope Eugene III and Bernard of Clairvaux's call for the Second Crusade were led by Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany. Both faced disastrous marches across Anatolia in the months that followed, with most of their armies being destroyed. The original focus of the crusade was Edessa (Urfa), but in Jerusalem, the preferred target of King Baldwin III and the Knights Templar was Damascus. At the Council of Acre, magnates from France, Germany, and the Kingdom of Jerusalem decided to divert the crusade to Damascus.\n\nThe crusaders decided to attack Damascus from the west, where orchards of Ghouta would provide them with a constant food supply. Having arrived outside the walls of the city, they immediately put it to siege, using wood from the orchards. On 27 July, the crusaders decided to move to the plain on the eastern side of the city, which was less heavily fortified but had much less food and water. Nur ad-Din Zangi arrived with Muslim reinforcements and cut off the crusaders' route to their previous position. The local crusader lords refused to carry on with the siege, and the three kings had no choice but to abandon the city. The entire crusader army retreated back to Jerusalem by 28 July.\n\nThe two main Christian forces that marched to the Holy Land in response to Pope Eugene III and Bernard of Clairvaux's call for the Second Crusade were led by Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany. Conrad's force included Bolesław IV the Curly and Vladislaus II of Bohemia, as well as Frederick of Swabia, his nephew who would become Emperor Frederick I. The crusade had been called after the fall of the County of Edessa on 24 December 1144. The crusaders marched across Europe and arrived at Constantinople in September and October 1147.\n\nBoth faced disastrous marches across Anatolia in the months that followed, and most of their armies were destroyed. Louis abandoned his troops and travelled by ship to the Principality of Antioch, where his wife Eleanor of Aquitaine's uncle, Raymond, was prince. Raymond expected him to offer military assistance against the Seljuk Turks threatening the principality, but Louis refused and went to Jerusalem to fulfil his crusader vow. Conrad, stricken by illness, had earlier returned to Constantinople, but arrived in Jerusalem a few weeks later in early April 1148. The original focus of the crusade was Edessa, but in Jerusalem, the preferred target of King Baldwin III and the Knights Templar was Damascus.\n\nThe Council of Acre was called with the Haute Cour of Jerusalem at Acre on 24 June. This was the most spectacular meeting of the Cour in its existence: Conrad, Otto of Freising, Henry II, Duke of Austria, Welf VI, future emperor Frederick, and William V, Marquess of Montferrat represented the Holy Roman Empire. Louis, Thierry of Alsace, and various other ecclesiastical and secular lords represented the French. From Jerusalem King Baldwin, Queen Melisende, Patriarch Fulk, Robert de Craon (master of the Knights Templar), Raymond du Puy de Provence (master of the Knights Hospitaller), Manasses of Hierges (constable of Jerusalem), Humphrey II of Toron, Philip of Milly, Walter I Grenier, and Barisan of Ibelin were among those present. Notably, no one from Antioch, Tripoli, or the former County of Edessa attended. Both Louis and Conrad were persuaded to attack Damascus.\n\nSome of the barons native to Jerusalem pointed out that it would be unwise to attack Damascus, as the Burid dynasty, though Muslim, were their allies against the Zengid dynasty. Imad ad-Din Zengi had besieged the city in 1140, and Mu'in ad-Din Unur, a Mamluk acting as vizier for the young Mujir ad-Din Abaq, negotiated an alliance with Jerusalem through the chronicler Usama ibn Munqidh. Conrad, Louis, and Baldwin insisted, Damascus was a holy city for Christianity. Like Jerusalem and Antioch, it would be a noteworthy prize in the eyes of European Christians. In July their armies assembled at Tiberias and marched to Damascus, around the Sea of Galilee by way of Baniyas. There were perhaps 50,000 troops in total.\n\nThe general view now appears to be that the decision to attack Damascus was somewhat inevitable. Historians, such as Martin Hoch, regard the decision as the logical outcome of Damascene foreign policy shifting into alignment with the Zengid dynasty. King Baldwin III had previously launched a campaign with the sole objective of capturing the city. This damaged the Burid dynasty's relations with the Kingdom of Jerusalem.\n\nThe crusaders decided to attack Damascus from the west, where orchards of Ghouta would provide them with a constant food supply. They arrived at Darayya on 23 July, with the army of Jerusalem in the vanguard, followed by Louis and then Conrad in the rearguard. The densely cultivated gardens and orchards would prove to be a serious obstacle for the crusaders. According to William of Tyre, the crusader army was prepared for battle: At Daria [Darayya], since the city was now so near, the sovereigns drew up their forces in battle formation and assigned the legions to their proper places in the order of march...Because of its supposed familiarity with the country, the division led by the King of Jerusalem was, by common decision of the princes, directed to lead the way and open a path for the legions following. To the King of the Franks [Louis VII] and his army was assigned the second place or centre that they might aid those ahead if the need arose. By the same authority, the Emperor [Konrad III] was to hold the third or rear position, in readiness to resist the enemy if, perchance an attack should be made from behind. The Muslims were well prepared and constantly attacked the army advancing through the orchards outside Damascus on 24 July. These orchards were defended by towers and walls and the crusaders were constantly pelted with arrows and lances along the narrow paths.\nOn Saturday 24 July the crusaders began with an attack in the morning along the banks of the Barada river, as far as al-Rabweh. There was ferocious in the orchards and narrow roads at Mezzeh, between the Christian force and a mixture of professional troops of Damascus, the \"ahdath\" militia and Turkoman mercenaries. William of Tyre reported:\n\nThe historian David Nicolle wrote that William of Tyre did not explain how Conrad was able to bring his forces up from the rear to the front without totally disorganizing the Christian army\". According to Syrian chronicler Abu Shama:\n\nThanks to a charge by Conrad, the crusaders managed to fight their way through and chase the defenders back across the Barada river and into Damascus.\n\nHaving arrived outside the walls of the city, they immediately put it to siege, using wood from the orchards. The crusaders began to build their siege position opposite Bab al-Jabiya where the Barada did not run past Damascus. Inside the city the inhabitants barricaded the major streets, preparing for what they believed to be an inevitable assault. Unur had sought help from Saif ad-Din Ghazi I of Mosul and Nur ad-Din Zangi of Aleppo, and led an attack on the crusader camp; the crusaders were pushed back from the walls into the orchards, where they were prone to ambushes and guerrilla attacks. During the counter-attack on Sunday, 25 July, the Damascus forces took heavy losses which included the 71-year-old lawyer and well known scholar named Yusuf al-Findalawi, the Sufi mystic Al-Halhli and soldier Nur al-Dawlah Shahinshah. According to William of Tyre, on 27 July the crusaders decided to move to the plain on the eastern side of the city, opposite Bab Tuma and Bab Sharqi, which was less heavily fortified but had much less food and water. During a raid on the crusader camp on 26 July, according to Abu Shama: A large group of inhabitants and villagers...put to flight all the sentries, killed them, without fear of danger, taking the heads of all the enemy they killed and wanting to touch these trophies. The numbers of heads they gathered was considerable.\n\nThere were conflicts in both camps: Unur could not trust Saif ad-Din or Nur ad-Din not to conquer the city if their offer of help was accepted; and the crusaders could not agree about who would receive the city if they captured it. Guy Brisebarre, lord of Beirut, was the suggestion of the local barons, but Thierry of Alsace, Count of Flanders, wanted it for himself and was supported by Baldwin, Louis, and Conrad. It was recorded by some that Unur had bribed the leaders to move to a less defensible position, and that Unur had promised to break off his alliance with Nur ad-Din if the crusaders went home. Meanwhile, Nur ad-Din and Saif ad-Din had by now arrived at Homs and were negotiating with Unur for possession of Damascus, something that neither Unur nor the crusaders wanted. Saif ad-Din apparently also wrote to the crusaders, urging them to return home. With Nur ad-Din in the field it was impossible to return to their better position. The local crusader lords refused to carry on with the siege, and the three kings had no choice but to abandon the city. First Conrad, then the rest of the army, decided to retreat back to Jerusalem on 28 July, though throughout their retreat they were followed by Turkish archers who constantly harassed them.\n\nEach of the Christian forces felt betrayed by the other. A new plan was made to attack Ascalon but this was abandoned due to the lack of trust that had resulted from the failed siege. This mutual distrust would linger for a generation due to the defeat, to the ruin of the Christian kingdoms in the Holy Land. Following the battle, Conrad returned to Constantinople to further his alliance with Manuel I Komnenos. As a result of the attack, Damascus no longer trusted the crusaders, and the city was formally handed over to Nur ad-Din in 1154. Bernard of Clairvaux was also humiliated, and when his attempt to call a new crusade failed, he tried to disassociate himself from the fiasco of the Second Crusade altogether.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883150", "title": "Ken Berry (disambiguation)", "text": "Ken Berry (disambiguation)\n\nKen Berry (1933–2018) was an American actor, dancer, and singer.\n\nKen Berry or Kenneth Berry may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1883151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883151", "title": "Singin' in the Rain (song)", "text": "Singin' in the Rain (song)\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" is a song with lyrics by Arthur Freed and music by Nacio Herb Brown, published in 1929. It is unclear exactly when the song was written; it has been claimed that the song was performed as early as 1927.\n\nThe song is a centerpiece of the musical film of the same name, \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952), which was \"suggested by\" the song, according to the film's title credits. \n\nThe song is listed as No. 3 on the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Songs.\n\nThe song has an unusual form: the 32-bar chorus, rather than being preceded by a verse and containing an internal bridge as was becoming standard at the time, opens the song and then is followed by a 24-bar verse that has the feeling of a bridge before the chorus repeats.\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" was first performed by Doris Eaton Travis in the 1929 revue \"The Hollywood Music Box Revue\". The song became a hit and was recorded by a number of artists, notably Cliff Edwards, who also performed the number with the Brox Sisters in the early MGM musical \"The Hollywood Revue of 1929\". B.A. Rolfe and his Lucky Strike Orchestra recorded the song possibly as early as 1928 but perhaps 1929. The song was recorded by Annette Hanshaw (reissued on the 1999 CD \"Annette Hanshaw, Volume 6, 1929\"). It is performed on film by a nightclub band as dance music and sung in a Chinese dialect in \"The Ship from Shanghai\" (1930), by Jimmy Durante in \"Speak Easily\" (1932), by Judy Garland in \"Little Nellie Kelly\" (1940), and as background music at the beginning of MGM's \"The Divorcee\" (1930) starring Norma Shearer.\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" was remixed in 2005 by Mint Royale. It was released as a single in August 2005 after being featured in an advert for the VW Golf GTI, peaking at No. 20 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThree years later in 2008, due to the exposure of the song via the performance of then-unknown dancer George Sampson on the reality TV series \"Britain's Got Talent\", the track went to No. 1 on the iTunes Top 100 in the UK in 2008. It re-entered the UK Singles Chart at No. 28 on June 1, 2008 and climbed to No. 1 the next week, selling 45,987 copies, knocking Rihanna's \"Take a Bow\" down to the Number 2 spot.\n\nA 1978 disco version of \"Singin' in the Rain\" by the French pop singer Sheila B. Devotion made No. 3 in the Eurochart Hot 100 Singles and the Netherlands Top 100, No. 4 on the Nationale Hitparade, No. 11 on the German and UK Singles Chart, No. 2 on the Swedish Singles Chart, No. 3 on the Italian Singles Chart and No. 30 on the Hot Dance Club Songs.\n\nIn 1982, Dutch pop singer Taco released a version of it as his second single from After Eight, which peaked at No. 49 in Germany, No. 46 in Canada and No. 98 in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883157", "title": "Singin' in the Rain", "text": "Singin' in the Rain\n\nSingin' in the Rain is a 1952 American musical romantic comedy film directed and choreographed by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, starring Kelly, Donald O'Connor, and Debbie Reynolds. It offers a lighthearted depiction of Hollywood in the late 1920s, with the three stars portraying performers caught up in the transition from silent films to \"talkies\".\n\nThe film was only a modest hit when it was first released. O'Connor won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, and Betty Comden and Adolph Green won the Writers Guild of America Award for their screenplay, while Jean Hagen was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. However, it has since been accorded legendary status by contemporary critics, and is often regarded as the greatest musical film ever made, and the greatest film ever made in the \"Freed Unit\" at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It topped the AFI's Greatest Movie Musicals list and is ranked as the fifth-greatest American motion picture of all time in its updated list of the greatest American films in 2007. In 1989, \"Singin' in the Rain\" was one of the first 25 films selected by the United States Library of Congress for preservation in the National Film Registry for being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\". In 2005 the British Film Institute included it in its list of the 50 films to be seen by the age of 14. In 2008, Empire Magazine ranked it as the eighth best film of all time. In \"Sight & Sound\" magazine's 2012 list of the 50 greatest films of all time, \"Singin' in the Rain\" placed 20th.\n\nDon Lockwood (Gene Kelly) is a popular silent film star with humble roots as a singer, dancer, and stuntman. Don barely tolerates his vain, cunning, conniving, and shallow leading lady, Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), though their studio, Monumental Pictures, links them romantically to increase their popularity. Lina is convinced that they are in love, despite Don's protestations otherwise.\n\nAt the premiere of his latest film, \"The Royal Rascal,\" Don tells the gathered crowd a sarcastic, hyperbolic version of his life story, including his motto: \"Dignity, always dignity.\" His words are humorously contradicted by flashbacks showing him alongside his best friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor). (\"Fit as a Fiddle\") To escape from his fans after the premiere, Don jumps into a passing car driven by Kathy Selden (Debbie Reynolds). She drops him off, but not before claiming to be a stage actress and sneering at his \"undignified\" accomplishments as a movie star.\n\nLater, at an after party, the head of Don's studio, R.F. Simpson (Millard Mitchell), shows a short demonstration of a talking picture, but his guests are unimpressed. To Don's amusement, Kathy pops out of a mock cake right in front of him, revealing herself to be a chorus girl. (\"All I Do is Dream of You\"). Furious at Don's teasing, she throws a real cake at him, only to accidentally hit Lina in the face and flee. Don becomes smitten with Kathy and searches for her for weeks, with Cosmo trying to cheer him up. (\"Make 'Em Laugh\") While filming a romantic scene, a jealous Lina reveals that her influence is behind Kathy's loss of work and subsequent disappearance. On the studio lot, Cosmo finally finds Kathy quietly working in another Monumental Pictures production (\"Beautiful Girl\") and gets Don. Don sings her a love song, and she confesses to having been a fan of his all along.(\"You Were Meant for Me\")\n\nAfter rival studio Warner Bros. has an enormous hit with its first talking picture, the 1927 film \"The Jazz Singer\", R.F. decides he has no choice but to convert the next Lockwood and Lamont film, \"The Dueling Cavalier,\" into a talkie. The production is beset with difficulties, including Lina's grating voice and strong New York accent. Exasperated diction coaches try to teach her and Don how to speak properly, but to no avail (\"Moses\"). \"The Dueling Cavalier\"s preview screening is a disaster; the actors are barely audible thanks to the awkward placing of the microphones, Don repeats the line \"I love you\" to Lina over and over, to the audience's derisive laughter, and in the middle of the film, the sound goes out of synchronization, with hilarious results as Lina shakes her head while the villain's deep voice says, \"Yes! Yes! Yes!\" and the villain nods his head while Lina's squeaky soprano says, \"No! No! No!\"\n\nAfterwards, (\"Good Morning\") Don, Kathy, and Cosmo come up with the idea to turn \"The Dueling Cavalier\" into a musical called \"The Dancing Cavalier,\" complete with a modern musical number and backstory. The three are disheartened when they realize Lina's terrible voice remains a problem; but Cosmo, inspired by a scene in \"The Dueling Cavalier\" where Lina's voice was out of sync, suggests that they dub Lina's voice with Kathy's.(\"Singin' In the Rain\") After hearing Don and Cosmo pitch the idea, R.F. approves but tells them not to inform Lina that Kathy is doing the dubbing. (\"Broadway Melody\") When Lina barges in on a dubbing session and learns the truth (\"Would You\"), she is infuriated. She becomes even angrier when she discovers that R.F. intends to give Kathy a screen credit and a big publicity buildup afterward. Lina threatens to sue R.F. unless he makes sure no one ever hears of Kathy and that she keeps dubbing for the rest of her career. R.F. reluctantly agrees, as a clause in Lina's contract states that the studio is responsible for positive media coverage of her.\n\nThe premiere of \"The Dancing Cavalier\" is a tremendous success. When the audience clamors for Lina to sing live, Don, Cosmo, and R.F. tell her to lip sync into a microphone while Kathy, concealed behind the curtain, sings into a second one. While Lina is \"singing\"(\"Singin' in the Rain Reprise\"), Don, Cosmo, and R.F. gleefully raise the curtain, revealing the fakery. Lina, humiliated, flees. A distressed Kathy tries to run away as well, but Don proudly announces to the audience that she's \"the real star\" of the film. (\"You Are My Lucky Star\") Later, Kathy and Don kiss in front of a billboard for their new film, \"Singin' in the Rain.\"\n\n\nUncredited\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" was originally conceived by MGM producer Arthur Freed, the head of the \"Freed Unit\" responsible for turning out MGM's lavish musicals, as a vehicle for his catalog of songs written with Nacio Herb Brown for previous MGM musical films of the 1929–39 period. Screenwriters Betty Comden and Adolph Green wrote two entirely new songs, \"Make 'Em Laugh\" and \"Moses Supposes\", the latter with music director Roger Edens providing the music (see below).\n\nAll songs have lyrics by Freed and music by Brown unless otherwise indicated. Some of the songs, such as \"Broadway Rhythm,\" \"Should I?,\" and especially \"Singin' in the Rain\" itself, have been featured in numerous films. The films listed below mark the first time each song was presented on screen.\n\n\nArthur Freed, the head of the \"Freed Unit\" at MGM responsible for the studio's glossy and glamorous musicals, conceived the idea of a movie based on the back catalog of songs written by himself and Nacio Herb Brown, and called in Betty Comden and Adolph Green from New York to come up with a story to tie the songs together and to write the script. Comden and Green first refused the assignment, as their agent had assured them that their new contract with MGM called for them to write the lyrics to all songs unless the score was by Irving Berlin, Cole Porter, or Rodgers and Hammerstein. After a two-week hold-out, their new agent, Irving \"Swifty\" Lazar, having looked over the contract, told them that the clause had been entirely an invention of their previous agent, and that there was no such language in the contract. After hearing this, Comden and Green began working on the story and script.\n\nBecause many of the songs had originally been written during the time when silent films were giving way to \"talkies\", and musicals were popular with audiences, Comden and Green came up with the idea that the story should be set during that transitional period in Hollywood, an era they were intimately familiar with. When Howard Keel was mentioned as the possible lead, they tried to work up a story involving a star of Western films who makes a comeback as a singing cowboy, but they kept gravitating to a story about a swashbuckling romantic hero with a vaudeville background who survives the transition by falling back on his abilities as a song-and-dance man, a story which Gene Kelly was well-suited for.\n\nKelly could not be approached at the time, as he was deeply immersed in \"An American in Paris\" (1951), which he was starring in and co-choreographing with Stanley Donen. Comden and Green continued to work on the script, and had at that time three possible openings for the film: a silent movie premiere, a magazine interview with a Hollywood star, and a star-meets-girl, star-loses-girl sequence. Unable to decide which to use or how to proceed, they had just decided to return their advance to MGM and admit defeat, when Betty Comden's husband arrived from New York and suggested that they combine all three openings into one. The script with the re-written opening was approved by Freed and by MGM's head of production Dore Schary, who had recently replaced Louis B. Mayer.\n\nBy this time shooting on \"An American in Paris\" had completed, and Freed suggested that Kelly be given the script to read. Kelly and Donen responded enthusiastically, and immediately become involved in re-writes and adjustments to the script. Comden, Green, Kelly, and Donen were all old friends, and the process went smoothly. Besides the Freed-Brown songs, Comden and Green contributed the lyrics to \"Moses Supposes\", which was set to music by Roger Edens. Shortly before shooting began, \"The Wedding of the Painted Dolls\", which Comden and Green had \"painfully wedged into the script as a cheering-up song\" was replaced with a new Freed-Brown song, \"Make 'Em Laugh\".\n\nAfter Comden and Green had returned to New York to work on other projects, they received word that a new song was needed for a love-song sequence between Kelly and Debbie Reynolds. The original had been a song-and-dance medley involving different sets in different soundstages on the studio lot, but they were asked for a romantic love song set in an empty sound stage, and it was needed immediately. Comden and Green provided such a scene for \"You Are My Lucky Star\" and sent it off to Hollywood.\n\n\n\nIn the sequence in which Gene Kelly dances and sings the title song while spinning an umbrella, splashing through puddles and getting soaked with rain, Kelly was sick with a fever. The water used in the scene caused Kelly's wool suit to shrink during filming. A common myth is that Kelly managed to perform the entire song in one take, thanks to cameras placed at predetermined locations. However, this was not the case; filming the sequence took 2 to 3 days. Another myth is that the rain was mixed with milk in order for the drops to show up better on camera; but the desired visual effect was produced, albeit with difficulty, through backlighting.\n\nDebbie Reynolds was not a dancer when she made \"Singin' in the Rain\"; her background was as a gymnast. Kelly apparently insulted her for her lack of dance experience, upsetting her. In a subsequent encounter when Fred Astaire was in the studio, he found Reynolds crying under a piano. Hearing what had happened, Astaire volunteered to help her with her dancing. Kelly later admitted that he had not been kind to Reynolds and was surprised that she was still willing to talk to him afterwards. After shooting the \"Good Morning\" routine, which had taken from 8:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. to shoot, Reynolds' feet were bleeding. Years later, she was quoted as saying that \"\"Singin' in the Rain\" and childbirth were the two hardest things I ever had to do in my life.\"\n\nDonald O'Connor had to stay in bed in the hospital for several days after filming the \"Make 'Em Laugh\" sequence, due to his smoking up to four packs of cigarettes a day.\n\nMost of the costumes from this film were eventually acquired by Debbie Reynolds and held in her massive collection of original film costumes, sets, and props. Many of these items were sold at a 2011 auction in Hollywood. While most items were sold to private collectors, Donald O'Connor's green check \"Fit As a Fiddle\" suit and shoes were purchased by Costume World, Inc. They are now on permanent display at the Costume World Broadway Collection Museum in Pompano Beach, Florida.\n\nAccording to MGM records, during the film's initial theatrical release, it made $3,263,000 in the US and Canada and $2,367,000 internationally, earning the studio a profit of $666,000. It was the tenth highest-grossing movie of the year in the US and Canada.\n\nBosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"Compounded generously of music, dance, color spectacle and a riotous abundance of Gene Kelly, Jean Hagen and Donald O'Connor on the screen, all elements in this rainbow program are carefully contrived and guaranteed to lift the dolors of winter and put you in a buttercup mood.\" \"Variety\" was also positive, writing: \"Arthur Freed has produced another surefire grosser for Metro in \"Singin' in the Rain\". Musical has pace, humor, and good spirits a-plenty, in a breezy, good-natured spoof at the film industry itself ... Standout performances by Gene Kelly and Donald O'Connor, especially the latter, enhance the film's pull.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" called it \"top-notch entertainment in every department – music, dancing, singing, staging and story.\" Richard L. Coe of \"The Washington Post\" called it \"yet another fresh and breezy, colorful and funny musical\" from Gene Kelly, adding, \"Of the players there's not a dud in the lot, from Kelly's facile performing to the brief but electric dance appearance by Cyd Charisse, a swell partner for him.\"\n\nPauline Kael, the long-time film critic for \"The New Yorker\", said of the film \"This exhuberant and malicious satire of Hollywood in the late twenties is perhaps the most enjoyable of movie musicals – just about the best Hollywood musical of all time.\" Roger Ebert placed \"Singin' in the Rain\" on his Great Movies list, calling the film \"a transcendent experience, and no one who loves movies can afford to miss it.\"\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a perfect 100% \"Certified fresh\" approval rating based on 56 reviews with an average rating of 9.27/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"Clever, incisive, and funny, \"Singin' In The Rain\" is a masterpiece of the classical Hollywood musical.\"\n\nBetty Comden and Adolph Green report that when they met François Truffaut at a party in Paris, Truffaut was very excited to meet the authors of \"Chantons sous la pluie\". He told them that he had seen the film so many times that he knew it frame by frame, and that he and fellow director and screenwriter Alain Resnais, among others, went to see it regularly at a small Parisian movie theatre where it sometimes ran for months at a time.\n\nFor her role as Lina Lamont, Jean Hagen was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. The film was also nominated for Best Original Music Score for Lennie Hayton.\n\nDonald O'Connor won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for his portrayal of Cosmo Brown. Betty Comden and Adolph Green received the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Written American Musical.\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" has appeared twice on \"Sight & Sound\"s list of the ten best films of all time, in 1982 and 2002. Its position in 1982 was at number 4 on the critics list; on the 2002 critics' list, it was listed as number 10, and it tied for 19 on the directors' list.\n\nReview aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 100% of critics gave the film a positive review based on 49 reviews, with an average score of 9.2/10. The film is ranked as No. 14 on Rotten Tomatoes' list of best rated films. Rotten Tomatoes summarizes the critical consensus as, \"Clever, incisive, and funny, \"Singin' in the Rain\" is a masterpiece of the classical Hollywood musical.\" In 2008, \"Singin' in the Rain\" was placed on Empire's 500 Greatest Movies of All Time List, ranking at #8, the highest ranked G-rated movie on the list.\n\nIn 1989, \"Singin' in the Rain\" was among the first 25 films chosen for the newly established National Film Registry for films that are deemed \"culturally, historically or aesthetically significant\" by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation.\n\nThe film is recognized by the American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nThe film was inducted in 1989 into the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.\n\nThe 40th Anniversary Edition VHS version released in 1992 includes a documentary, the original trailer, and Reynolds's solo rendition of \"You Are My Lucky Star,\" which had been cut from the final film.\n\nAccording to the audio commentary on the 2002 Special Edition DVD, the original negative was destroyed in a fire. Despite this, the film was digitally restored for its DVD release. A Blu-ray Ultimate Collector's Edition was released in July 2012.\n\nComic book adaptation\n\nStage adaptation<br>The Broadway musical \"Singin' in the Rain\" was adapted from the motion picture, and the plot of the stage version closely adheres to the original. Directed and choreographed by post-modern choreographer Twyla Tharp, the opening night cast starred Don Correia as Don Lockwood, Mary D'Arcy as Kathy Selden, Richard Fancy as Roscoe Dexter, Faye Grant as Lina Lamont, and Peter Slutsker as Cosmo Brown. The musical opened on July 2, 1985 at the Gershwin Theatre after 39 previews, and ran for 367 performances, closing on May 18, 1986.\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1883162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883162", "title": "Friedrich Spitta", "text": "Friedrich Spitta\n\nFriedrich Spitta (11 January 1852 – 7 June 1924) was a German Protestant theologian.\n\nSpitta was born at Wittingen, Lower Saxony, the son of German hymn writer Karl Johann Philipp Spitta and brother of Philipp (music historian and musicologist best known for his biography of Johann Sebastian Bach). Friedrich studied at the universities of Göttingen and Erlangen, where he was a pupil of Johann Christian Konrad von Hofmann. In the course of time he became (1887) professor ordinarius and university preacher at St. Thomas, Strasbourg. In 1901 he was appointed university rector. In 1919 he was named a professor at the University of Göttingen.\n\nHe had a keen interest in church music and the revival of liturgical life in German Protestantism. He revised a communion song from the early Reformation, \"Im Frieden dein, o Herre mein\". Most of his books dealt with the Apostles and the early Christian church. In 1896 he became joint editor, with Julius Smend, of the \"Monatschrift für Gottesdienst und kirchliche Kunst\".\n\nSpitta is widely known as the author of a work on the Acts of the Apostles, \"Die Apostelgeschichte, ihre Quellen and deren geschichtlicher Wert\" (\"Acts of the Apostles, their sources and historical value\", 1891). His other works include:\n"}
{"id": "1883165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883165", "title": "Los Angeles Times Grand Prix", "text": "Los Angeles Times Grand Prix\n\nThe Los Angeles Times Grand Prix was a sports car race held at the Riverside International Raceway. The race was held throughout the track's existence, from 1957 until 1987. The race was sponsored by the \"Los Angeles Times\" to raise money for its charities. The Special Events director was Glenn Davis, the winner of the 1946 Heisman Trophy. During the early 1970s, the event was the season ending race for the Can-Am series.\n\n The 1981 event was also a part of the World Sportscar Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883181", "title": "Jakob Sprenger", "text": "Jakob Sprenger\n\nJakob Sprenger (24 July 1884 – 7 May 1945) was a Nazi politician.\n\nSprenger was born in Oberhausen near Bad Bergzabern in the Palatinate. In 1922, when employed as a postal inspector, Sprenger became a member of the Nazi Party. He was anti-Semitic, and rose quickly through the ranks, first to Gauleiter of Hesse-Nassau-South in 1927, and by September 1930 was an elected member of the Reichstag.\n\nOn 5 May 1933 Sprenger was appointed Reichsstatthalter of Hesse and leader (Gauleiter) of the new Gau formed from the Prussian province of Hesse-Nassau, which included the federated state of Hesse-Darmstadt. In the process of the Gleichschaltung, in particular due to the 'Reichsstatthaltergesetz' of 30 January 1935, he was able to take over leadership of the provincial government from Philipp Wilhelm Jung. Besides Martin Mutschmann of Saxony, he was the only governor charged with such a double function.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, SA-Obergruppenführer Sprenger became Reich Commissar of Defense District XII, and as of 1 December 1943 also in the Gau of Hesse-Nassau. Later Sprenger was appointed High President (Oberpräsident) of the Prussian province of Nassau in 1944, after Prince Philip of Hesse-Kassel had been removed. On the night of 25 to 26 March 1945, Sprenger fled from the advancing U.S. Army from Frankfurt to Kössen, Austria, where the Russians and US Army were subsequently in a pincer to cover the whole country. Trapped, he and his wife committed suicide on 7 May 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883182", "title": "Theli (album)", "text": "Theli (album)\n\nTheli is an album released by the symphonic metal band Therion. While \"Theli\" stays true to the band's roots in that it has a very dark sound, it is a major turning point in their history. Set, Egyptian god, is shown on the front cover. This was the last album on which Christofer Johnsson sang until 2004's \"Lemuria\". A music video was filmed for the song \"To Mega Therion\".\n\n\nJapanese edition contains three bonus tracks: \n\n\n\n\nCover was made by Peter Grøn.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883187", "title": "Jacopo da Bologna", "text": "Jacopo da Bologna\n\nJacopo da Bologna (fl. 1340 – c. 1386) was an Italian composer of the Trecento, the period sometimes known as the \"Italian ars nova\". He was one of the first composers of this group, making him a contemporary of Gherardello da Firenze and Giovanni da Firenze. He concentrated mainly on madrigals, including both canonic (caccia-madrigal) and non-canonic types, but also composed a single example each of a caccia, lauda-ballata, and motet (; ).\n\nHis setting of \"Non al suo amante\", written about 1350, is the only known contemporaneous setting of Petrarch's poetry (; ).\n\nJacopo's ideal was \"suave dolce melodia\" (sweet, gentle melody) . His style is marked by fully texted voice parts that never cross. The untexted passages which connect the textual lines in many of his madrigals are also noteworthy .\n\nHe is well represented in the Squarcialupi Codex, the large collection of 14th century music long owned by the Medici family; twenty-nine compositions of his are found in that source, the principal source for music of the Italian \"ars nova\", alongside music by Francesco Landini and others . A portrait of Jacopo is found in this manuscript, and another possible portrait is found in a north-Italian manuscript, Fulda, Landesbibliothek, Hs. D23, fol. 302 (; ). However, the identification of Jacopo as the subject of the painting in the latter source was made by a hand later than the manuscript copyist's, throwing some doubt on its reliability .\n\nIn addition to his compositions, Jacopo also wrote a short theoretical treatise, \"Questa è l'arte del biscanto misurato\" (; ), which is influenced by French notational theory . He may also have been active as a poet, to judge from the autobiographical texts of the madrigals \"Io me sun un che\", \"Oselleto salvazo\", and \"Vestìse la cornachia\" .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883188", "title": "Colorado Bend State Park", "text": "Colorado Bend State Park\n\nColorado Bend State Park is a Texas state park in the Hill Country region. It was purchased in 1984 and opened to public in 1987. It is representative of the karst features typically seen in the Hill Country, with many sinkholes, caves, and springs.\n\nThe Spicewood Springs trail is one of the hiking trails in the park with numerous creek crossings. The trail is one way, but hikers can take a slightly different hike back. It has numerous spring-fed swimming holes found along the trail.\n\nThe Gorman Creek trail is divided into a blue-marker loop and a yellow-marker loop, with dry chaparral terrain. The highlights of the park trails are a travertine creek on the east, and a large waterfall with caves on the west. A protected portion of the park is open by guided tour only. The Gorman Spring and a couple of other springs feed Gorman Creek, which then descends a spectacular feet forming what is known as Gorman Falls. The tour is a round trip trail leading to the spectacular waterfall, which is formed by fern covered Travertine. The self-guided Gorman Spring trail and the trail to the waterfall is now open to the public during regular park hours. There are also many wild cave tour opportunities, ranging in difficulties from walking to crawling.\n\nA variety of flowers could be found in Colorado Bend State Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883189", "title": "The Chromium Fence", "text": "The Chromium Fence\n\n\"The Chromium Fence\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in \"Imagination \"magazine in July 1955.\n\nThe story is set in a future where political differences have been reduced to trivialities, the \"purists\" are pitted against the \"naturalists\". The purists wish to make the adoption of cosmetic changes (sweat glands removed, teeth fixed and so on) compulsory. \nThe purist and naturalist mantra in this story is shown as one extreme manifestation of the brain-washing. The central character, Don Walsh, seems the only sane man left and refuses to join either side. Eventually, however, he is forced to act and pays the ultimate price.\n\nThis story was never reprinted anywhere after its single appearance in the bottom-market magazine \"Imagination\", until the appearance of Dick's collected stories in 1987.\n\nDick's agency attempted to sell the story to the \"New Yorker magazine\" by describing it as a 'New York story' set in the future.\n"}
{"id": "1883190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883190", "title": "Royal Army Dental Corps", "text": "Royal Army Dental Corps\n\nThe Royal Army Dental Corps (RADC) is a specialist corps in the British Army that provides oral hygiene services to British Army personnel and their families in war and in peace. The corps is a part of the British Army's Army Medical Services.\n\nWhile army regimental surgeons had been providing dental care services to soldiers since circa 1660, it was not until 1901 that a dental service branch was formally established under the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC), but in 1908 this was dissolved and the Army returned to contracting civilian dentists. It was re-established at the outbreak of the First World War in 1914. In January 1921, dentists of the RAMC were split off into a separate Army Dental Corps (ADC). The corps was awarded the \"royal\" prefix to become the Royal Army Dental Corps in November 1946 in recognition of its service in the Second World War.\n\nQualified dentists are all commissioned officers. Dental nurses are non-commissioned officers.\n\nBefore the Second World War, ADC recruits were required to be at least tall and could enlist up to 30 years of age. They initially enlisted for seven years with the colours and a further five years with the reserve. They trained at the Royal Army Medical Corps Depot, Crookham Camp, Aldershot, before proceedings to specialist trade training. The two trades available at that time were Clerk Orderly (who assisted in the operating room and in clerical work) and Dental Mechanic (who worked in dental workshops).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883191", "title": "Sakonnet River", "text": "Sakonnet River\n\nThe Sakonnet River is a tidal strait in the state of Rhode Island which flows approximately 14 miles between Mount Hope Bay and Rhode Island Sound. It separates Aquidneck Island from the eastern portion of Newport County.\n\nBelow is a list of all crossings over the Sakonnet River. The list begins at the headwaters and goes downstream.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883193", "title": "Grace Under Fire", "text": "Grace Under Fire\n\nGrace Under Fire is an American sitcom that aired on ABC from September 29, 1993, to February 17, 1998. The show starred Brett Butler as a single mother learning how to cope with raising her three children alone after finally divorcing her abusive husband. The series was created by Chuck Lorre and produced by Carsey-Werner Productions.\n\n\"Grace Under Fire\" was the highest-rated new comedy of the 1993–94 season.\n\n\"Grace Under Fire\", produced by Carsey-Werner, was part of a wave of shows in the late 1980s and 1990s that were built around a comedian (and in some cases, closely based on his or her comedy routine). Many of Carsey-Werner's shows were based on nontraditional, non-nuclear families.\n\n\"Grace Under Fire\" followed a similar formula; set in a small Missouri town, Butler starred as Grace Kelly, a divorced single mother and recovering alcoholic. The show begins after the main character divorces her abusive alcoholic husband of eight years in an attempt to start life anew and prevent her children from making the same mistakes she did. The show revolved around Grace; her children, mischievous Quentin (Noah Segan, pilot; Jon Paul Steuer, seasons 1–3; Sam Horrigan, seasons 4–5), happy-go-lucky Libby (Kaitlin Cullum), and infant Patrick (Dylan and Cole Sprouse); her happily married best friends and neighbors, Nadine and Wade Swoboda (Julie White and Casey Sander); and the town's bachelor pharmacist, Russell Norton (Dave Thomas). All of them helped Grace keep whatever shreds of sanity she had left.\n\nIn the first three seasons, the show had a very blue-collar appeal due to Grace's chosen line of work, post-divorce; she operated pipelines at the local oil refinery, and had a second family of fellow crew workers down at the plant. Among them were heavy-set Dougie Boudreau (Walter Olkewicz), friendly Vic (Dave Florek), and Carl (Louis Mandylor). Their gruff boss was Bill Davis (Charles Hallahan). Both Bill and Carl were dropped after the first season; while Carl had not had a permanent on-screen replacement, the crew's new boss was John Shirley (Paul Dooley) starting in the second season.\n\nRussell's friendship with Grace, and their on-and-off dating rituals, became a running theme in the series. Throughout their friendship, they often dated other people; for a time in 1994, Grace dated Ryan Sparks (William Fichtner), a quirky chemist who worked in the oil refinery's labs. In season three, Grace entered into a relationship with suave plant executive Rick Bradshaw (Alan Autry). As with Ryan, the affair between Grace and Rick occurred despite their radically different places in the company ladder. They broke up at the end of season three, although Rick returned in season four to see if their romance could be rekindled.\n\nIn season four, Grace began taking college classes at night, paid for by her workplace. When the plant decided to stop funding her education about halfway through the season, Grace decided to quit the oil refinery and return to school full-time, as she only needed a few months of concentrated classes to graduate. The remainder of season four featured Grace as a full-time student, and towards the end of the season, she did, in fact, graduate. In the season finale, Grace took an entry-level position with an ad agency, having worked her way up to being a white-collar professional.\n\nAt the beginning of the fifth season, however, Grace decided that the commute and long working hours at the St. Louis ad agency were forcing her to spend almost all of her time away from her family. She quit the agency job, and began working in the administrative/ business end for a local construction company owned by D.C. (Don \"D.C.\" Curry).\n\nAlso in the fifth season, Russell found some romantic interest in Dottie (Lauren Tom), a gossiping hairstylist who was also friends with Grace. Nadine, meanwhile, after having given birth to her and Wade's long-awaited child, abruptly decided to leave Wade and move to Colorado, and was never seen again. (Actress Julie White had left the show between seasons four and five.)\n\nThroughout the entire five-year run, Grace's ex-husband Jimmy Kelly (Geoff Pierson) showed up, sometimes causing problems and at others miraculously clean and sober, trying to win Grace back. A reconciliation never quite happened, but the two did settle on a good friendship for the sake of the kids. In the midst of Jimmy's attempts to get straight, his father Emmett (guest star Matt Clark) died. In the aftermath of his death, Emmett was revealed to be gay. At this time, Jimmy's mother Jean (Peggy Rea), Grace's disapproving and moralizing former mother-in-law, offered to move in and help Grace raise the kids (Rea had previously guest-starred as Jean a few times since the series premiered).\n\nRussell, meanwhile, reconciled with his estranged dad, Floyd (Tom Poston). Seen twice late in season two, by season three, Floyd ended up moving in with Russell and working with him in the pharmacy, and appeared on a regular basis. As far as Grace's own kin and past life went, she had a regular source of support from her sister Faith (Valri Bromfield) in the first two seasons. Another development came when Grace was contacted by her first child, Matthew (guest star Tom Everett Scott), whom she gave up for adoption before meeting Jimmy. Matthew had questions about his ancestry and ended up meeting his biological father.\n\nBy the fifth season, Dot had replaced Nadine as Grace's friend and confidant, but in early 1998, Dot stopped appearing on the show (though she was still mentioned). Instead, Grace's old friend Bev Henderson (Julia Duffy) came back to town and ended up moving in with the Kellys to get back in touch with her working-class roots. Grace and Bev's personal reunion was unexpectedly the last major storyline of the series. Although she was joining the cast full-time, Duffy only appeared in two episodes of \"Grace Under Fire\" before the series was abruptly cancelled in mid-February.\n\n\nThe episode \"Vega$\" is part of a crossover with \"Coach\", \"The Drew Carey Show\" and \"Ellen\" set in Las Vegas. It features Drew Carey as Drew Carey, Joely Fisher as Paige Clark, Jeremy Piven as Spence Kovak and Jerry Van Dyke as Luther Van Damme.\n\nThe show was the highest rated new show in its first season. In the month before \"Grace Under Fire\" first aired, Showtime broadcast the Carsey Werner-produced \"Brett Butler Special\", a half-hour comedy performance by Butler.\n\n\n\"Grace Under Fire\" was nominated for three Golden Globe awards: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series Comedy/Musical in 1995 and 1997 and Best TV Series Comedy/Musical in 1995.\n\nJean Stapleton was nominated for the 1995 Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy series Emmy Award for playing Aunt Vivian in the episode \"The Road to Paris Texas.\" Diane Ladd was nominated for the same award the previous year for playing Louise Burdett in the episode entitled \"Things Left Undone\" written by Brett Butler and Wayne Lemon.\n\nAs the third season concluded in the spring of 1996, Jon Paul Steuer left the series. Sources have speculated that Steuer's mother pulled him out of the show after an incident with Butler, who allegedly flashed her breasts at the 12-year-old actor. At the start of Season 4, Sam Horrigan became the third actor to play Quentin Kelly, and with him in the role, the character's age advanced to 16.\n\nIn the fourth and fifth seasons of the show, Butler was fighting a painkiller addiction, for which she eventually sought medical help. Cast member Julie White left the show after Season 4, also citing Butler's behavior as the reason. The show, which had been a Top 20 series for its first three seasons, began to take a significant drop in the ratings during season four, from 13th place to 45th.\n\nButler's first round of treatment and rehab delayed the start of the fifth season until November. After \"Grace Under Fire\" resumed production on season five, a newly clean Butler struggled to stay that way; the morale on the set was little better than in the previous season, due to the star's erratic behavior. Around the holidays, Butler relapsed again, and although the producers were as committed as ever to continuing the show, ABC was becoming concerned about Butler's overall health, and was less patient with her accelerated amount of missed tapings.\n\nThe show's ratings continued to fall dramatically, which may have well been attributed to Butler's reputation in the press, the longer-than-usual hiatus the series took between seasons four and five, and the fact that the character of Grace Kelly no longer went through the kinds of struggles that had made the show successful earlier on. The addition of Julia Duffy several episodes into the fifth season was a last-ditch attempt to improve the ratings, but with Butler in her current state, the network was not inspired to continue on. Rather abruptly, with the February 17, 1998 telecast, ABC canceled the series. The three-month-long final season averaged at #68 in the 1997–98 Nielsen ratings.\n\nThe series aired in syndication on the Oxygen Network in the United States, and TVtropolis in Canada. In the United Kingdom, the series was picked up by BBC2 where it aired from 1994 to 1999. The show was added to Hulu on March 1, 2014. The series is currently running on the Laff digital broadcast network that went on the air on April 15, 2015.\n\nOn May 4, 2015, it was announced that Visual Entertainment (VEI) had acquired the rights to the series in Region 1. \"Grace Under Fire: The Complete Collection\" was released on DVD on October 6, 2015.\n\nThe show was remade in Russia as \"Lyuba, Children and the Factory\" in 2005. A Polish adaptation, \"Hela w opałach\" (\"Hela Under Fire\"; \"Hela\" is short form from \"Helen\"), aired on TVN in September 2006.\n\nAlso there is another Russian adaptation as \"Ольга\" (\"Olga\"). The show premiered on TNT on September 5, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883194", "title": "Jean Sutherland Boggs", "text": "Jean Sutherland Boggs\n\nJean Sutherland Boggs, (June 11, 1922 – August 22, 2014) was a Canadian academic, art historian and civil servant. She was the first female Director of both the National Gallery of Canada and the Philadelphia Museum of Art. She was also a specialist in the work of Edgar Degas and Picasso.\n\nGrace Jean Sutherland Boggs was born in Negritos, Peru, on June 11, 1922 to Oliver Desmond and Humia Marguerite (née Sutherland). Boggs attended Alma College in St. Thomas, Ontario, graduating in 1938. Boggs would later receive a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Trinity College in 1942. She received a M.A. in 1946 and a Ph.D. in 1953 from Radcliffe College.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1944, she was an education secretary for the Art Association of Montreal (today known as the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts). In 1948, she joined the faculty of Skidmore College as an assistant professor. From 1949 to 1952, she was an assistant professor at Mount Holyoke College. From 1954 to 1962, she was an assistant and associate professor at the University of California. In 1962, she was appointed curator for the Art Gallery of Toronto. In 1964, she was appointed Steinberg Professor of Art History at Washington University in St. Louis.\n\nIn 1966, Boggs was appointed the first female and fifth director of the National Gallery of Canada and served in this position until 1976. During her tenure, the Gallery collection grew by more than 8,600 pieces, including works from Degas, van Gogh, Pollock, the Group of Seven, and the beginnings of the Gallery's photography collection. From 1976 to 1979, she was a Professor of Fine Arts at Harvard University.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1982, she was the director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. She succeeded Evan Turner, who had left following a dispute with the Board of Trustees. Under her leadership, the Museum purchased Edgar Degas's painting \"After the Bath\", which is now considered to be one of the Museum's most important acquisitions in the post-war period. She also presided over the Museum during art historian Stella Kramrisch's acclaimed 1981 exhibition of Indian art, \"Manifestations of Shiva\".\n\nShe was chair and chief executive officer of the Canada Museums Construction Corporation from 1982 to 1985, where she directed the construction of both a custom-built National Gallery building and the unique Canadian Museum of Civilization (today known as the Canadian Museum of History) in collaboration with the architects Moshe Safdie and Douglas Cardinal. From 1991 to 1993, she was a senior advisor for the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. As an art historian, she has written books about the life of Edgar Degas, including \"Portraits By Degas\" (1962).\n\nBoggs died on August 22, 2014 at the age of 92 in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\nIn 1973, Boggs was made an Officer of the Order of Canada \"in recognition of her scholarship and the vision and energy she has displayed in developing the collection and the services of the Gallery\". She was promoted to Companion in 1992. In 1979 she was awarded an honorary Doctor of Literature from the University of Saskatchewan. She was awarded honorary degrees from Mount Holyoke College in 1971, York University in 1976 and from Concordia University in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883195", "title": "York Region District School Board", "text": "York Region District School Board\n\nThe York Region District School Board (YRDSB) is the English-language public school board for York Regional Municipality in Ontario, Canada. The York Region District School Board is the province's third-largest school board, with an enrollment of over 122,000 students. It is in the fastest-growing census division in Ontario and the third-fastest growing in Canada.\n\nThe public francophone (\"Conseil scolaire Viamonde\"), English Catholic (York Catholic District School Board), and French Catholic (\"Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud\") communities of York Region also have their own publicly funded school boards and schools that operate in the same area.\n\nThe school board has been referred to as \"English-language Public District School Board No. 16\" in Ontario legislation prior to 1999. It was officially known as the York Region Board of Education until it changed its name in 1998 to York Region District School Board. Prior to 1971 it was called York County School Board.\n\nThe YRDSB is governed by an elected board of trustees, whose election coincides with the municipal elections in Ontario held throughout the province every four years. The Board consists of 12 trustees, divided amongst the constituent municipalities based on population. Two student trustees are elected by the York Region Presidents' Council every school year (since 2004), which is made up of the 33 Student Council Presidents of all the secondary schools in York Region. The student trustees facilitate communication between students and the school board. The Chair and Vice-Chair of the Board are chosen by secret ballot of the trustees at the inaugural meeting in December.\n\nFor day-to-day operations the most senior staff member of the board is the Director of Education, to whom the Associate Director and all of the Superintendents report. The Director of Education is Louise Sirisko (appointed January 2018).\n\nBesides the curriculum established by the Government of Ontario, the York Region District School Board places heavy emphasis on its Character Matters program. As well, due to the multicultural nature, and large immigrant population of students under the YRDSB, the Board established the Race Relations Advisory Committee, a standing committee of the board to advise the trustees on issues related to ethnocultural relations. The committee is made up of trustees, staff, community members and students.\n\nThe school board is divided into four Community Education Centres (North, Central, East and West). The centres represent communities as follows:\n\nThe school board teaches approximately 70,000 elementary and 40,000 secondary school students.\n\nThe school board currently manages 33 facilities that provide secondary education.\nThe school board currently manages 175 facilities which provides elementary education.\n\nAurora\n\nEast Gwillimbury\n\n\nGeorgina\n\nKing\n\nMarkham\n\nNewmarket\n\nRichmond Hill\n\nVaughan\n\nWhitchurch-Stouffville\n\nYRDSB provides assistance to Chippewas of Georgina Island First Nation and serves the schooling needs for students in grades 7 to 11.\n\nIn May 2017, the YRDSB was faced with a lawsuit. The board settled a human rights complaint with parent Charline Grant who had been called the \"N-word\" by Nancy Elgie, a former board trustee. A Ministry of Education review found a \"culture of fear\" and \"systemic discrimination\" at the school board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883196", "title": "ISO 843", "text": "ISO 843\n\nISO 843 is a system for the transliteration and/or transcription of Greek characters into Latin characters.\n\nExceptions:\n\nISO 843 also includes a system for transcription.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883202", "title": "Jamie O'Neal", "text": "Jamie O'Neal\n\nJamie O'Neal (born 3 June 1966) is an Australian country singer and songwriter.\n\nIn 2000, O'Neal released her first studio album, \"Shiver\". The album included the back-to-back number one singles \"There Is No Arizona\" and \"When I Think About Angels\". Two other singles were released: the title track, which reached No. 21 on the country charts, and \"Frantic\", which reached No. 41 in 2002. Since then, she has released her second studio album, \"Brave\", in 2005. Her third studio album, \"Eternal\", was released on 27 May 2014.\n\nShe was born Jamie Murphy in Sydney, Australia, to parents Jimmy and Julie Murphy, who were also professional musicians. She, her parents, and her younger sister, Samantha, sang in The Murphy Family band in the 1970s until her parents divorced. In the early part of her adult career she was a backing singer in Australia, appearing on Kylie Minogue's Enjoy Yourself Tour of Australia, UK, Europe and Far East Asia in 1990. She rejoined Minogue in 1991 for the Let's Get To It Tour of the UK and Ireland.\n\nO'Neal was signed to Mercury Nashville in 2000, and soon after she began to work on her first album. Her first single, \"There Is No Arizona\", debuted at No. 69 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) chart, reaching number one in February 2001. On 31 October 2000, \"Shiver\", was released. The album charted to No. 14 on the \"Billboard\" Top Country Albums chart, and No. 125 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nA second single, \"When I Think About Angels\", debuted at No. 45 on the country charts for the week of 31 March 2001. It spent several weeks on the charts, reaching number one in August 2001. Following the success of the album's first two singles, \"Shiver\" was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America. Two additional singles followed: \"Shiver\" (the title track) and \"Frantic\", which reached No. 21 and No. 41 on the charts, respectively.\n\nAlso in 2001, the motion picture Bridget Jones's Diary featured a cover version of All by Myself performed by Jamie O'Neal showing actress Renée Zellweger singing to it in the famous pajamas scene.\n\nIn 2002, she and the country singer Mark Wills recorded a duet together, titled \"I'm Not Gonna Do Anything Without You\". It was released as the second single from Wills' album \"Loving Every Minute\". The song only reached No. 31 on the Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart.\n\nO'Neal's fifth single, \"Every Little Thing\", was the first single from what was to be her second studio album, \"On My Way to You\". However, the song only managed to reach No. 34 on the Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart, and the album was never released. Shortly thereafter, O'Neal and Mercury parted ways.\n\nAfter leaving Mercury, O'Neal signed to Capitol Nashville. Her first single for the label, \"Trying to Find Atlantis\", was released on 27 September 2004. It reached No. 18 on the Hot Country Songs chart. The song was the lead-off to \"Brave\", which was released on 1 March 2005. It proved to be a bigger success on the albums chart, reaching No. 6 on the Top Country Albums chart.\n\n\"Somebody's Hero\" was released in 2005 as the second single and reached No. 3 on the Hot Country Songs chart, giving O'Neal her first Top 10 single since 2001. The final single, \"I Love My Life\", failed to make the Top 20, reaching only to No. 26.\n\nIn early 2007, a new single, \"God Don't Make Mistakes\", was released. The single failed to make an impact at country radio, where it only reached No. 47, her lowest chart single at the time. After the song was never included on an album, O'Neal and Capitol parted ways.\n\nIn early 2008, O'Neal signed with the Atlanta-Nashville based record label 1720 Entertainment.\n\nA new single, \"Like a Woman\", was released in November 2008; it debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs chart at No. 59. The song was initially intended to be the lead-off single to O'Neal's third studio album, \"Like a Woman\". The single only managed to peak at No. 43 on the country charts. A second single, \"A Soldier Comin' Home\", was released in June 2009 but failed to chart. No further singles were promoted to radio and \"Like a Woman\" was not released.\n\nO'Neal announced in early 2012 that she had established her own record label, Momentum Label Group. The label's flagship artist is Rachele Lynae, who released her first single, \"Party 'Til the Cows Come Home\", in March 2012.\n\nO'Neal signed to Shanachie Records in 2014 and released \"Eternal\" on 27 May 2014. Except for the original song \"Wide Awake\", the album is composed of cover songs.\n\nJamie toured North American in 2017 while recording a new album.\n\nSince 2000, Jamie O'Neal has been married to Rodney Good, who is a songwriter, record producer, engineer, and guitarist in O'Neal's road band. They have one daughter, Aliyah, born in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883204", "title": "Eviota sigillata", "text": "Eviota sigillata\n\nEviota sigillata, commonly called seven-figure pygmy goby or adorned dwarfgoby, is a species of marine fish in the family Gobiidae. They are widespread throughout the tropical waters of the Indo-West Pacific area, from the Seychelles to the Micronesia.\n\nIt inhabits reef habitats at depths from . This species has the shortest lifespan for a vertebrate, living for at most 59 days. About three weeks are as pelagic larvae, two weeks settling on the reef and three weeks as adults.\n\nThis pygmy goby can reach a length of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883209", "title": "Nandi bear", "text": "Nandi bear\n\nThe Nandi bear is an unconfirmed animal, reported to live in East Africa. It takes its name from the Nandi people who live in western Kenya, in the area the Nandi Bear is reported from. It is also known as Chemosit, Kerit, Koddoelo, Ngoloko, or Duba (which derives from the Arabic words \"dubb\" or \"d.abʕ\" / \"d.abuʕ\" for 'bear' and 'hyena' respectively). The Samburu \"Nkampit\" appears also to be a version of this creature.\n\nDescriptions of the Nandi bear are of a ferocious, powerfully built carnivore with high front shoulders (over four feet tall) and a sloping back. Stories of the Nandi bear state that it is fierce, nocturnal, stands on its hind legs and can kill animals. Charles William Hobley authored a diagram of its supposed foot in 1913.\n\nThe Nandi people call it \"kerit\". Local legend holds that the Nandi bear has reddish hair, long feet and is said to scalp people. In 1961, Gardner Soule noted that sightings were reported in Kenya throughout the 19th century and early 20th century but it has \"never has been caught or identified\". Sightings of the Nandi bear decreased over time. In 1983, Richard Meinertzhagen speculated that it may have been an \"anthropoid ape now extinct on account of decreased rainfall.\"\n\nThere is no scientific evidence that the Nandi bear exists. Alleged sightings are suggested to be misidentification of known species. \n\nIn 1923, Charles William Andrews suggested that the Nandi bear may be a surviving representative of the extinct Chalicothere. In the 1930s Louis Leakey suggested that Nandi Bear descriptions matched that of the Chalicothere, though chalicotheres were herbivores. The Chalicothere hypothesis was later abandoned. In 2000, paleontologist Louis L. Jacobs commented that \"if chalicotheres existed now, they would have been found out just like the giant forest hog was.\" He concluded that \"if there is anything to the Nandi-bear story besides imagination, I suspect it may be the word-of-mouth description of gorillas passed across the continent from areas where they live to areas where they do not.\"\n\nZoologist Reginald Innes Pocock claimed that reports of the Nandi bear were misidentified hyena, specifically the Spotted hyena. In 1932, the Natural History Museum stated that many reports of the Nandi Bear have \"proved to have been nothing more than a spotted hyena.\" Paleontologist George Gaylord Simpson attributed sightings of the Nandi bear to the honey badger or ratel. Simpson commented that the Nandi bear \"turned out to be in most if not all cases a ratel, an animal which had been known to scientific zoologists since 1776.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1883210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883210", "title": "James Ernest", "text": "James Ernest\n\nJames Ernest is an American game designer and juggler, best known as the owner and lead designer of Cheapass Games.\n\nPrior to founding Cheapass Games, Ernest worked as a juggler at various venues, including Camlann Medieval Village, and as a freelancer with Wizards of the Coast. He also worked for Carbonated Games. He has also created games for other publishers including Rio Grande Games and WizKids. In 2005, Paizo Publishing created Titanic Games with Ernest and Mike Selinker.\n\nErnest's games include \"Unexploded Cow\", \"Kill Doctor Lucky\", \"The Big Idea\" and the game originally known as \"Before I Kill You, Mr. Bond\" (that game was eventually renamed after complaints from the owners of the Bond franchise). He has had success with Kickstarter, successfully crowdfunding games like a new version of \"Unexploded Cow\" and \"Get Lucky\" (which takes the concept and core mechanics of \"Kill Doctor Lucky\" and adapts it as a card game), among others.\n\nErnest wrote, produced, directed, edited, and created music for the short film \"The Man Between\" (2003) and wrote the book \"Dealer's Choice: The Complete Handbook of Saturday Night Poker\". His first publication was the book \"Contact Juggling\" in 1990.\n\nIn 2014 James began collaborating with Patrick Rothfuss to create an abstract strategy game called \"Tak\", based on a game described in Rothfuss's 2011 book \"The Wise Man's Fear\". In April 2016 they launched a Kickstarter campaign to bring the game to actual publication. The campaign ended on May 20 to great success, with 12,187 backers pledging $1,351,142.\n"}
{"id": "1883213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883213", "title": "Luna Vachon", "text": "Luna Vachon\n\nGertrude Elizabeth Vachon (January 12, 1962 – August 27, 2010) was an American-Canadian professional wrestler, better known as Luna Vachon. Over the course of her 22-year career, she wrestled for promotions such as the World Wrestling Federation (now WWE), Extreme Championship Wrestling, the American Wrestling Association, and World Championship Wrestling. She was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2019.\n\nAs a child, Gertrude Vachon wanted to continue her family's wrestling legacy. Attending wrestling events she used to play in the ring, which often resulted in training with various World Wide Wrestling Federation stars. Her family objected to her entering the wrestling business and tried to dissuade her, as they considered a wrestler's life at that time too harsh for a female. André the Giant, with whom she was close and who took her on a trip to Paris in 1974, also tried to dissuade her. Around the age sixteen, she began training under her aunt Vivian and then The Fabulous Moolah.\n\nGertrude started her professional career wrestling for Moolah's all-women's promotion. She then moved to Florida and, competing under the ring name Angelle Vachon, became a member of a four-woman wrestling troupe led by Mad Maxine. While in Florida, she shared residence with wrestlers Scott Levy (later known as Raven), and Denny Brown.\n\nIn 1985, she debuted in Florida Championship Wrestling, as a young, soft-spoken reporter named Trudy Herd, who was giving Kendall Windham an award. A melee ensued and she was slapped twice by Kevin Sullivan. The angle had her driven mad by Sullivan's treatment and she ended up joining Sullivan's Army of Darkness stable under the new ring name, Luna Vachon. As part of her gimmick, she shaved one half of her head, which was the first step to her trademark Mohawk hairstyle, covered her face in bodypaint, and continuously sneered. Looking back, Vachon expressed her uneasiness about some elements of this angle.\n\nDuring her time in Florida, Luna first wrestled Madusa Miceli, beginning a long-lasting in-ring rivalry. Beginning in Florida, Luna teamed up with The Lock as the \"Daughters of Darkness\", a part of Sullivan's Army. The duo also provided back-up vocals for the thrash metal band Nasty Savage. In early 1987, Luna and Lock appeared in the Continental Wrestling Association. During the next three years, Luna also traveled to Japan, where her father Butcher Vachon acting as her manager, as well as Puerto Rico. She also wrestled in David McLane's Powerful Women of Wrestling (POWW) and, during POWW's alliance with the American Wrestling Association (AWA), participated in the latter's only pay-per-view event, SuperClash III in December 1988, competing in a Battle royal.\n\nIn the early nineties she took over management of The Blackhearts, a masked tag team coming out of Stu Hart's Stampede Wrestling. The team consisted of Tom Nash — a childhood friend of Luna and her then-husband — and David Heath, her future husband, under the names \"Apocalypse\" and \"Destruction\", respectively. Luna worked with them in Joel Goodhart's Tri-State Wrestling, in Herb Abrams' Universal Wrestling Federation, and finally Giant Baba's All-Japan, where the team split up. Luna also worked at \"Wild Women of Wrestling\", as a competitor, commentator, and booker.\n\nIn 1992, while wrestling in Puerto Rico, she tried to get David Heath a job with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), which resulted in the WWF developing an interest in her. They hired her, but not without some complications. No one actually knew exactly where she was; even her father only knew that she was staying in Florida. The WWF actually hired a private investigator to find her. When she was found, she was working as a waitress at a restaurant.\n\nLuna's first WWF appearance was in April 1993 at WrestleMania IX, accompanying Intercontinental Champion Shawn Michaels in his match against Tatanka, who was accompanied by Michaels' former valet Sensational Sherri. After the match, Luna attacked Sensational Sherri at ringside and later in the first aid area, starting a vicious feud between the two.\n\nAt the same time Luna and Sherri were at odds, Bam Bam Bigelow had a confrontation with Sherri. This led to him being attacked by Tatanka and the two of them feuding. Soon after, Bam Bam (kayfabe) announced that he had fallen in love and presented Luna as his \"main squeeze\". He also endearingly called her his \"Tick\", which fans combined with her name to the chant \"Luna-tic\". From then, Bam Bam was seen blowing kisses to Luna at the end of matches, and in her honor even included the Moonsault, redubbed \"Lunasault\", into his repertoire. A mixed tag team match between the two pairs was planned for SummerSlam in 1993, but had to be canceled because Luna legitimately injured her arm and then Sherri left the WWF. Instead, Bigelow and The Headshrinkers fought and lost to Tatanka and The Smokin' Gunns in a six-man tag team match. In the autumn of 1993, Bam Bam and Luna ran afoul of some practical jokes from Doink the Clown, leading to a Survivor Series style match at the 1993 event of the same name pitting Bam Bam, The Headshrinkers, and Bastion Booger against four Doinks (actually Men on a Mission and The Bushwhackers in clown makeup). During this time Luna was the cause of dissension between Bam Bam and his part-time tag team partner Bastion Booger, who had also (kayfabe) fallen in love with her. At WrestleMania X, Bam Bam and Luna finally got their revenge on Doink by beating the Clown and his midget side-kick Dink in a mixed tag team match.\n\nWhen the WWF's women's division was revived, Luna's old rival Madusa, who had entered the WWF under the name Alundra Blayze, won the Women's Championship. Luna set her eyes on the title and had a series of matches with Alundra, all resulting in victories for Blayze. It was during this time the relationship between Luna and Bam Bam first showed cracks after interference in a match backfired. In the summer, Luna sold Bam Bam's contract to Ted DiBiase, who was beginning to build his \"Million Dollar Corporation\". Luna then picked Japanese wrestler Bull Nakano to win the Women's title from Blayze, which she eventually did. Luna, however, left the WWF shortly after this title match.\n\nIn 1994, Luna was the first woman to appear in a WWF video game, when - despite objections - she was included in \"WWF Raw\".\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Luna wrestled on the independent circuit. Upon the recommendation of Kevin Sullivan's wife Nancy, she entered Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW). She was brought as Tommy Dreamer's new valet in his long running feud with Raven (Scott Levy). Dreamer announced Luna as \"someone out of your past\", as Luna had been housemate to Levy in her Florida days and both had simultaneously worked in the WWF. While in ECW, Luna would stand with Tommy, feuding with Raven and his lackeys, which included Stevie Richards, and even her husband The Vampire Warrior (who, in kayfabe, had become jealous of the time she was spending with Dreamer). She had more than a few physical confrontations with Richards, including a steel cage match, which she won.\n\nIn the same year, she was rated #306 in the PWI 500 - the second woman to be included in that list after Miss Texas.\n\nIn 1996/97, she competed in the in Puerto Rico for the World Wrestling Council and American Wrestling Federation, using the name \"Angel Baby', and the IWA Mid-South.\n\nIn early 1997, Luna had a short run with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), again going after her rival Madusa. Luna interfered in Madusa's matches against WCW Women's Champion Akira Hokuto, preventing a title win by Madusa. Luna and Madusa met each other in a series of matches, including a match at the 1997 Slamboree. Although Luna dominated the matches, Madusa managed to get the pinfall every time.\n\nLater in 1997, Luna returned to the WWF, first as Goldust's manager, helping him to reinvent himself as \"The Artist Formerly Known as Goldust\". The pair sported a variety of different outfits and roles, including a dominatrix, a slave, a \"New Year Baby\", and his nurse. Their first feud was against Vader. Luna's first appearance had her wheeling the allegedly paralyzed Goldust to the ring and then blinding Vader with some \"medical fluid\". Later when Goldust, dressed like a Christmas tree, recited poems in the ring, he was attacked by Santa Claus, who turned out to be Vader. Vader eventually defeated Goldust at the 1998 Royal Rumble. The Goldust/Luna pairing also took to imitating other wrestler's gimmicks, often those of Goldust's opponents. At one point Goldust and Luna impersonated European Champion Triple H and Chyna in a title match against Owen Hart. What Triple H had intended as a joke resulted in Owen beating Goldust and Commissioner Slaughter awarding the title to Hart, considering Goldust to be a legit replacement.\n\nAt this time, Goldust also teamed up with Marc Mero, which led to another feud, as Luna and Mero's valet Sable started to fight outside of the ring. The feud culminated in a mixed tag team match at WrestleMania XIV, pitting the two couples against each other. After this, Luna challenged Sable to an Evening Gown match at Unforgiven and scored the victory by stripping her opponent down to her underwear. The animosity between Luna and Sable was not entirely kayfabe. As Sable's popularity increased, she adopted a presumptuous attitude towards other competitors. According to Luna, as the two trained in the preparation for their WrestleMania match, Sable refused to learn how to \"take bumps\", while Luna was threatened by WWF officials that hurting her opponent in the ring would put her job in jeopardy. Sable also annoyed Luna with bragging about being promised the Women's Championship, a goal that had eluded the veteran Canadian. Luna was also hurt after she had carried Sable in their match, as Sable was universally congratulated while Luna was only consoled by Owen Hart. Still, Luna described the match as a highlight in her career.\n\nIn August 1998, Luna had apparently patched up her differences with Sable, as the latter, now split from Marc Mero, introduced her as the newest member of the Human Oddities stable. Luna attacked Marc Mero's new valet Jacqueline, the former Miss Texas. Luna scored a pinfall victory in August, but lost a rematch in September. In December, Sable, who had won the reinstated WWF Women's Championship, was attacked by the masked \"Spider Lady\", who turned out to be Luna. She justified her heel turn and attack towards her partner with the words: \"It's about me, it's about what I deserve.\" In this feud against Sable, Shane McMahon personally supported Luna's efforts to win the championship after taking personal offense to Sable's attitude towards him and booked a Leather Strap match at the Royal Rumble. Leading up to that event, in the storyline, Luna was repeatedly attacked by an obsessed Sable fan. At the Royal Rumble, Sable successfully retained the title thanks to the interference of that fan, who now entered WWF competition as Tori. During the weeks prior to the Royal Rumble, Luna also defeated Gillberg, a WWF parody of World Championship Wrestling's star Goldberg. Luna was due to challenge Sable for another title shot several weeks later at , but the match was canceled due to Luna's suspension for fighting with Sable backstage.\n\nSix months later, Luna returned at SummerSlam, chasing then Women's Champion Ivory backstage after a successful title defense against Tori. This started a feud between the two with Luna even scoring a pinfall victory during an impromptu, non-title match. At Unforgiven, however, she lost to Ivory in a Hardcore Rules match. During that feud, Luna also answered a challenge from then Intercontinental Champion Jeff Jarrett and defeated him via disqualification, thanks to Ivory's interference.\n\nFrom then on, Luna reassumed her role as manager for her husband, now working for the WWF under the name Gangrel, participating in several mixed tag team matches and helping Gangrel beat his opponents.\n\nAt Survivor Series in 1999, she joined forces with her former rivals Ivory, Jacqueline, and Terri Runnels, against Tori, Debra, The Fabulous Moolah, and Mae Young. Luna's team was defeated when Moolah pinned Ivory. At the Royal Rumble in 2000, she participated in the \"Swim Suit Contest\", though in protest against the whole event she refused to take off her gown. This angle reflected Luna's legit dissatisfaction with the \"sexualization\" of the WWF's women's division. Vachon then became involved in a brief feud with Jacqueline after the latter had pinned Harvey Wippleman to capture the Women's title. She was the first person to challenge Jacqueline on the February 7 edition of \"Raw\", but failed following a German Suplex. Gangrel, who accompanied her to ringside, responded by executing his Impaler DDT on the champion. This led to a mixed tag on the following episode of \"SmackDown\", in which Vachon and Gangrel defeated Moore and her partner Prince Albert. She was later released from the WWF in early 2000 due to another outburst backstage.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Luna continued to manage Gangrel during her independent tours all over the world, as well as wrestling on her own. Venues included the IWA Puerto Rico in 2000, the Australian World Wrestling All-Stars in 2001, the German EWP in 2003, the British ASW in 2006 and WSU in 2007.\n\nWhilst touring the UK with WWA in 2001 she was defeated by husband Gangrel in a Black Wedding Match.\n\nOn June 9, 2007, Luna became the first Great Lakes Championship Wrestling's Ladies champion defeating Traci Brooks. On December 5, 2007, Luna Vachon announced her retirement; her last match took place on December 7 for Great Lakes Championship Wrestling in Milwaukee. She successfully defended her GLCW Ladies Championship against Traci Brooks and then retired as champion.\n\nBorn in Atlanta, Georgia, to Charles Henry Wilkerson and Rebecca \"Van\" Pierce, Luna was adopted by Butcher Vachon in 1966, when he married her mother Van, his second wife, and continued to raise her as his daughter after the marriage split. By virtue of the adoption, Luna is also the niece of \"Mad Dog\" Vachon and Vivian Vachon. She was also close to André the Giant.\n\nLuna was married three times, first to Dan Hurd, with whom she had two sons, Joshua (born 1980) and Van (born 1982), who competed on the sixth and seventeenth seasons of Fox's reality cooking show \"Hell's Kitchen\". After breaking up, she dated Dick Slater for a while until Slater began physically abusing her. She then married childhood friend Tom Nash. After Nash and Vachon split, David Heath, Nash's tag team partner in \"The Blackhearts\", and Vachon married on October 31, 1994. During this marriage, she was stepmother to David's sons, David, Jr. and Donavan. The two divorced in 2006 but, according to Heath, remained best of friends. She had three grandchildren, Lauren, Austin and Neila.\nShe was featured in both \"Playboy\" and \"Hustler\".\n\nLuna was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. She became a born again Christian in 2004, after attending an Athletes International Ministry conference. She was baptized by fellow wrestler Nikita Koloff along with her then-husband David Heath. In 2007, she worked as a tow truck operator in Port Richey, Florida.\n\nLuna was honored in April 2009 at the 44th annual Cauliflower Alley Club reunion, given the \"Ladies Wrestling Award\" in Las Vegas, Nevada. One of her fondest memories about the wrestling business was being able to visit children as part of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. After her retirement, Luna took an interest in fellow Canadian wrestlers and especially monitored the career of Nattie Neidhart, the daughter of fellow wrestler and friend Jim Neidhart.\n\nAround Christmas 2009, Vachon's house was destroyed by a fire in which she lost her wrestling-related memorabilia and other possessions. After the fire, she stayed at her mother's home and joined her father and his third wife Dee on a cruise in February 2010. The fire prompted a call from fellow wrestler and friend Mick Foley (and others) to fans to send Luna-related memorabilia to Vachon's post office box. Foley also suggested that TNA bring her in to manage Tommy Dreamer at the \"Hardcore Justice\" pay-per-view in August 2010, but Vachon turned down the offer, stating that she had retired.\n\nOn the morning of August 27, 2010, she was found dead by her mother at her home in Pasco County, Florida. She was 48 years old. According to the District Six Medical Examiner's Office in Florida, she died from an \"overdose of oxycodone and benzodiazepine\". Investigators previously found crushed pill residue and snorting straws at multiple locations inside Vachon's house. Vachon became addicted to medication at some point and underwent rehabilitation, paid for by WWE, which she completed in June 2009.\n\nShe was cremated after her death and her ashes were scattered at the ranch formerly owned by her close friend André the Giant in Ellerbe, North Carolina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883215", "title": "Sweep (motorcycle)", "text": "Sweep (motorcycle)\n\nIn group motorcycle riding, the sweep is the rider last in line whose job is to ensure everyone else in the group ride arrives at the destination safely. The sweep is often the person with the most experience, not always the fastest, but certainly with a reliable motorcycle who is not going to be the person who breaks down or has a crash themselves. Having at least a basic amount of mechanical experience and tools is a plus, so field repairs may be made if necessary.\n\nSometimes, the sweep function is performed by a truck or other vehicle that may also have a trailer. This is usually for very long trips that cover many miles on the highway as on twisty backroads the pickup and trailer may not be able to maintain the same speeds as the motorcycles. When this is done, the term \"chase vehicle\" is usually the preferred term, though the function is essentially the same.\n\n\"Riding sweep\" is the act of performing the sweep function, as in, \"I'll be riding sweep for today's ride.\" In Australia and some other countries, the \"Sweep\" is instead called \"Tail End Charlie\" (TEC) which performs exactly the same job as a \"Sweep\". In some circles, \"Tail Gunner\" is also used.\n"}
{"id": "1883220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883220", "title": "Bruce Friedrich", "text": "Bruce Friedrich\n\nBruce Gregory Friedrich (born August 7, 1969) is co-founder and executive director of The Good Food Institute (GFI).\n\nFriedrich is a TED Fellow, Y Combinator alum, and public speaker on food innovation. He spoke at TED 2019, has appeared on NBC's Today Show, CBS This Morning, CNN, Fox News Channel, and MSNBC, and has presented at Harvard, Yale, Stanford, MIT, and more. Friedrich is the author of two books, including \"Clean Protein\" with Kathy Freston, as well as several book chapters and law review articles. He holds degrees from Georgetown Law, the London School of Economics, and Johns Hopkins University.\n\nFriedrich lives in Washington, D.C., with his wife, Alka Chandna, Ph.D.\n\nFrom September 2015 to the present, Friedrich has been Co-Founder and Executive Director of The Good Food Institute (GFI). He leads GFI's team of scientists, business analysts, and policy experts in accelerating the plant-based and cell-based meat industries.\n\nFriedrich is also an active contributor to the public discourse around meat production, climate change, and antibiotic resistance. He has penned opinion pieces for \"USA Today\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"New York Daily News\", and many other publications. \n\nFriedrich is a frequent lecturer and debater on college campuses, including Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University, Cornell University, Stanford University, and dozens of other colleges and universities across the country.\n\nHis April 2019 TED talk has been viewed more than 2 million times and translated into dozens of languages.\n\nFrom May 2011 to September 2015, Friedrich worked for Farm Sanctuary in the Washington, D.C. area. As Senior Policy Director, Friedrich led Farm Sanctuary's policy and litigation efforts and introduced the world to who farm animals are as individuals through the \"Someone, Not Something\" project, which he created.\n\nFrom August 2009 to May 2011, Friedrich was a teacher at the Baltimore Freedom Academy. He taught English, social justice, and government to 10th and 11th graders in the Baltimore inner city area.\n\nFriedrich worked for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) from May 1996 to August 2009 in the Washington D.C. area.\nFriedrich wrote and made an audio recording of \"Veganism in a Nutshell,\" a popular synopsis of the reasons some choose to go vegan. He appeared as a candidate on the 2004 Showtime reality series \"American Candidate\".\n\nAs Director of Vegan Campaigns, Friedrich was responsible for producing \"Meet Your Meat\", a video about factory farming narrated by Alec Baldwin.\n\nIn a 2010 essay, Friedrich explained his view of God's direction in working on behalf of animals:\n\nAs a result of my prayer over [Andrew] Linzey's work and conversations with my spiritual director at St. Aloysius Catholic Church, my focus turned to animal protection, where it's stayed for the last 15 years. Since that time, I've occasionally been asked why I focus my efforts on protecting animals, rather than humans. So, as this Advent season begins, I decided to offer some thoughts on why I view working on behalf of animals -- and especially farmed animals -- as God's work.\n\nIn promoting vegetarianism from a Christian perspective, Friedrich has said, \"The heart of this campaign is Jesus' call for mercy and compassion.\"\n\nPETA President Ingrid Newkirk gave Bruce the nickname \"Bruce Poppins\"(\"\"Mary Poppins\"\") due to his unrelentingly positive demeanor.\n\nFriedrich was born in West Lafayette, Indiana on August 7, 1969. Friedrich's father is Gustav William Friedrich, Ph.D. (b. March 2, 1941) and his mother was Erena Rae (February 15, 1941 - May 19, 2006). Gustav Friedrich is a Rutgers University distinguished professor and was Dean of the School of Communication, Information and Library Studies at Rutgers for ten years. Erena Rae was an art director, graphic designer, and commercial illustrator.\n\nBruce Friedrich graduated from Norman High School (Norman, Oklahoma) in 1987. He served as president of the Cleveland County Young Democrats during his last two years of high school and campaigned for the late Sen. Paul Simon (D-Ill.) in 1987 during his first year of college. From 1990 to 1996, he worked in a shelter for homeless families and a soup kitchen in Washington, D.C. as a part of the Catholic Worker Movement. While he was working in the homeless shelter, a friend gave him \"Christianity and the Rights of Animals\" by Andrew Linzey, an Anglican Priest and professor of theology at Oxford University. \"It changed my life,\" Friedrich later said.\n\nFriedrich graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Grinnell College with a B.A. in English, Economics, and Religion. He received an M.A. in Education from Johns Hopkins University. He received his J.D. degree from Georgetown University Law Center, graduating magna cum laude, Order of the Coif.\n\nFriedrich married Alka Chandna in October 2002.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883221", "title": "Naididae", "text": "Naididae\n\nThe Naididae (formerly known as Tubificidae) are a family of clitellate oligochaete worms like the sludge worm, \"Tubifex tubifex\". They are key components of the benthic communities of many freshwater and marine ecosystems. In freshwater aquaria they may be referred to as detritus worms.\n\nThese worms can vary in size, from centimeters to millimeters, depending on the subfamily. They are all hermaphroditic and lack a larval stage.\n\nAnalysis of 18S rDNA sequences has revealed that the family may not be monophyletic. However, the worst paraphyly was corrected with uniting the Naidinae with the other families. This necessitated a change of names under the \"International Code of Zoological Nomenclature\" rules, as Naididae was now the senior synonym of Tubificidae. It was proposed to the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature to suppress Naididae because the \"tubificids\" are the more well-known group of the two, but that was rejected.\n\nThe family Naididae is divided into six subfamilies, arranged here in the presumed phylogenetic sequence:\n\nIn an aquarium, numbers of naididae can increase rapidly. When their population becomes high, the worms migrate toward the surface of the water for access to higher concentrations of oxygen. Although detritus worms may not cause harm to aquarium fish, their appearance is an indication of poor water quality mainly due to overfeeding and lack of good water sanitation.\n\nImprovement of water quality, filtration, gravel cleaning, and the reduction of feeding, may be performed to bring detritus worm population back to normal. Detritus worms feed on excess food and waste, thereby contributing to the ecosystem of an aquarium.\n"}
{"id": "1883223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883223", "title": "Dokuz Eylül University", "text": "Dokuz Eylül University\n\nDokuz Eylül University () (DEÜ) is a university in Turkey. It is located in İzmir, Turkey. It was founded in 1982 and is organized in 15 faculties. DEU is the first university which applied the problem-based learning method in Turkey, beginning in the School of Medicine in 1997.\n\nSeveral components of Dokuz Eylül University have attained a goal of continuous development in education, research and practice through the ISO 9001 2000 Quality Management System certificate: Social Sciences Institute and School of Maritime Business and Management (2001), University Presidency (2003) and Medical Faculty and Health Sciences Institute (2004).\n\nFounded on 20 July 1982, the university's name (\"September 9th\") refers to 9 September 1922, the date of the Liberation of İzmir from the Greek occupation of the city, one of the final events of the Turkish War of Independence. Seventeen previously established schools, including some of the faculties of Ege University and other institutions of higher education, were affiliated with the university the same year. The university has fifteen faculties, five schools, six vocational schools, five graduate schools, and five research institutes.\n\nThere are 15 faculties into which the university is divided:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883225", "title": "Cool'n'Quiet", "text": "Cool'n'Quiet\n\nAMD Cool'n'Quiet is a CPU dynamic frequency scaling and power saving technology introduced by AMD with its Athlon XP processor line. It works by reducing the processor's clock rate and voltage when the processor is idle. The aim of this technology is to reduce overall power consumption and lower heat generation, allowing for slower (thus quieter) cooling fan operation. The objectives of cooler and quieter result in the name Cool'n'Quiet. The technology is similar to Intel's SpeedStep and AMD's own PowerNow!, which were developed with the aim of increasing laptop battery life by reducing power consumption.\n\nDue to their different usage, \"Cool'n'Quiet\" refers to desktop and server chips, while \"PowerNow!\" is used for mobile chips; the technologies are similar but not identical. This technology was also introduced on \"e-stepping\" Opterons, however it is called \"Optimized Power Management\", which is essentially a re-tooled Cool'n'Quiet scheme designed to work with registered memory.\n\n\"Cool'n'Quiet\" is fully supported in the Linux kernel from version 2.6.18 onward (using the powernow-k8 driver) and FreeBSD from 6.0-CURRENT onward.\n\nIn-order to take advantage of Cool'n'Quiet Technology in Microsoft's Operating Systems:\nAlso In Windows Vista and 7 the \"Power Saver\" power profile allows much lower power state (frequency and voltage) than in the \"High Performance\" power state.\n\nUnlike Windows XP, Windows Vista only supports Cool'n'Quiet on motherboards that support ACPI 2.0 or later.\n\nWith earlier versions of Windows, processor drivers along with Cool'n'Quiet software also need to be installed. The latest version is 1.3.2.0.\n\nIn addition to the CPU drivers offered by AMD, several motherboard manufacturers have released software to give the end user more control over the \"Cool 'n' Quiet\" feature, as well as the other new features of AMD processors and chipsets. Using these applications, one can even control the CPU voltage explicitly.\n\n\n\nPower Saving Technologies:\nPerformance Boosting Technologies:\n\n"}
{"id": "1883232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883232", "title": "Johann Gottfried Stallbaum", "text": "Johann Gottfried Stallbaum\n\nJohann Gottfried Stallbaum (September 25, 1793 - January 24, 1861), German classical scholar, was born at Zaasch, near Delitzsch in Saxony.\n\nFrom 1820 until his death Stallbaum was connected with Thomasschule zu Leipzig, from 1835 as rector. In 1840 he was also appointed extraordinary professor in the university.\n\nHis reputation rests upon his work on Plato, of which he published two complete editions: the one (1821-1825) a revised text with critical apparatus, the other (1827-1860) containing exhaustive prolegomena and commentary written in excellent Latin, a fundamental contribution to Platonic exegesis.\n\nA separate edition of the Parmenides (1839), with the commentary of Proclus, deserves mention. Stallbaum also edited the commentaries of Eustathius of Thessalonica on the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and the \"Grammaticae latinae institutiones\" of Thomas Ruddiman.\n\nSee CH Lipsius in the \"Osterprogramm\" of the Thomasschule (1861); R Hoche in \"Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie\", vol. xxxv.\n"}
{"id": "1883235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883235", "title": "Wiederbewaffnung", "text": "Wiederbewaffnung\n\nWiederbewaffnung (\"rearmament\") refers to the United States program to help rebuild the military of West Germany after World War II. Fears of another rise of German militarism necessitated the new military to operate within an alliance framework, under NATO command. The events led to the establishment of the \"Bundeswehr\", the West German military, in 1955. The name \"Bundeswehr\" was a compromise choice suggested by former general Hasso von Manteuffel. The older \"Wehrmacht\" term for the combined German forces of Nazi Germany had been vetoed by the American occupational authorities.\n\nThe 1945 Morgenthau Plan had called to occupy Germany and remove its ability to wage war by eliminating its arms industry and other key industries essential to military strength. This was in line with the Soviet Union's vision for a post-war Germany, reduced to a pastoral state without heavy industries. However, because of the cost of food imports to Germany, and the fear that poverty and hunger would drive desperate Germans toward communism, the US government signalled a moderation of this plan in September 1946 with Secretary of State James F. Byrnes's speech Restatement of Policy on Germany. While this gave Germans hope for the future, it also evidenced the emergence of the Cold War.\n\nThe vigorous disarmament program in Germany continued by the UK and US for the first three years of occupation. This dismantling of industry became increasingly unpopular and ran contrary to the 1948 Marshall Plan's mission to encourage industrial growth.\n\nOn August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated the atomic bomb RDS-1, which forced a reevaluation of the defense requirements of Western Europe. In June 1950, the Korean War began and raised fears in West Germany, with comparisons drawn between the actions of North Korea and the possible actions of East Germany. Both France and the United Kingdom were wary of the revival of German martial potential, having been severely tested in the world wars. American political figures, such as Senator Elmer Thomas, argued that West Germany needed to be included in a defensive system, stating \"several divisions of German troops should be armed by the United States without Germany herself being permitted to manufacture arms.\" German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was determined to use offers of rearmament to regain sovereignty for West Germany.\n\nDuring the September 1950 NATO meeting, France decided to become isolated for the rearmament operation because they did not want Germany to join NATO. West Germany wanted to join NATO because of Adenauer's desire to appease the fears of its neighbors and show a willingness to cooperate. Initial skepticism by the US was set aside after Dwight D Eisenhower endorsed the deal, and West Germany agreed to support the operation. One of the better-known attempts to win West Germany the right to re-arm was the European Defense Community (EDC). A modification of the 1950 Pleven Plan, it proposed the raising of West German forces integrated into a European Defense Force. When West Germany embraced an edited plan and the push for rearmament seemed to be assured, France vetoed the attempt in August 1954. In 1955, West Germany joined NATO.\n\nNeither East nor West Germany had any regular armed forces at the time, though they did have paramilitary police forces (the western Bundesgrenzschutz and eastern Kasernierte Volkspolizei). The Bundeswehr (West German military) was armed originally from Military Assistance Program funds from the US. Former Kriegsmarine ships, seized under the Tripartite Naval Commission, were returned by the US. Slowly, West German sailors were stationed on US Navy ships and West Germany helped to supply the navy. This operation was intended to ensure that West Germany possessed an effective military force. The US supplied the potential sailors with intensive training to help build up the navy for the future as West Germany set a goal to have up to 500,000 men in military service, partly due to Theodor Blank's desire for West Germany to have a more significant military than Italy in order to project power and increase its contributions. To get his point across, he used this chart:\n\nTo reach that goal, the West German border security force (Bundesgrenzschutz) was transformed into military personnel, utilizing both conscripts and volunteers. West Germany instituted a policy of conscription, despite apprehension that the new fighting force would be compared to the Nazi-era Wehrmacht. Erik Reger, the editor of the Berlin daily \"Tagesspiegel\", was noted as saying \"As soon as Germany has soldiers, there will be war\", arguing that military support could lead to a rightward shift in national politics. The Social Democrats argued that even though the military was expanded to a positive reception, it would not be enough to revive German militarism.\n\nAmong many former German officers, however, there was the conviction that no future German army could be possible without a rehabilitation of the Wehrmacht. To this end, a group of former senior officers gathered on 9 October 1950 at Himmerod Abbey to produce a memorandum for Adenauer, which included these key demands:\n\nAdenauer accepted these propositions and in turn advised the representatives of the three Western powers that a German military would not be possible as long as German soldiers remained in custody or were brought before courts. The willingness of the former Allies to commute a number of sentences for incarcerated officers undoubtedly tied back to that condition. In the early months of 1951, public declarations from Eisenhower and other US military officers followed, outlining \"a real difference between the German soldier and Hitler and his criminal group\".\n\nThe US established the Naval Historical Team (NHT) to help with the Anglo-American World War II naval historical project. Both countries recruited German naval veterans and naval activists to help expand the future West German navy by gaining a better perspective of the previous naval war. However, the NHT soon shifted focus to pursue information about Soviet naval forces. The initial goal was to study the landings and targets of the Soviet navy. This agency became the coordinating staff of the Bundesmarine, the West German navy. Another group of veterans of the former \"Kriegsmarine\", called \"labor service units\", were assigned to similar tasks of deciphering surveillance. Adenauer created the Blank Office (Amt Blank) to use West German defense contributions as leverage for increased sovereignty. With the different organizations working together, a naval proposal referred to as the Wagner Paper was adopted to use as a negotiation tool at the February 1951 conference of the EDC, held in Paris. However, France forced a deadlock, opposing the threat of naval rearmament. especially as it had perceived links to the Nazi regime. To resolve the issue, the Wagner Paper was sent to the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE), which was in favor of naval rearmament. France compromised, offering some escort ships and accepting the naval buildup. However, the West German military remained under the supreme allied NATO control, which diminished its command positions.\n\nThe growth of the German Bundeswehr proved a key element in the growth of West German influence in central Europe. This, along with the 1951 Treaty of Paris, cemented the elements of Western European economic cooperation, and helped to integrate post-war West Germany into the European community. At the same time, the Soviet Union used this as a foundational justification to implement the Warsaw Pact, which provided substantial military and political control over key Eastern European states.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883240", "title": "Debbie Combs", "text": "Debbie Combs\n\nDebbie Szostecki (born April 18, 1959) is a professional wrestler better known as Debbie Combs.\n\nHer mother, Cora Combs, was also a professional wrestler. Debbie Combs made her wrestling debut at Louisville Gardens for Angelo Poffo's International Championship Wrestling (ICW) at the age of 16 in a seven-women battle royal where she was the first eliminated. Combs dated Randy Savage for five years while they were both working for ICW.\n\nCombs worked for the World Wrestling Federation from 1986–1987, where she challenged for the WWF Women's Championship against The Fabulous Moolah and Sherri Martel\n\nShe also worked in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and is a former NWA World Women's Champion. She originally won the title by winning a battle royal in Honolulu, Hawaii in spring 1986. At some point, she was no longer recognized as the champion and defeated Penny Mitchell to become the champion again in Kansas City, Missouri on April 10, 1987. The Kansas City promotion withdrew from NWA in 1987 and closed in 1988. The NWA vacated Combs' title and awarded Misty Blue Simmes the reinstated NWA United States Women's Championship (a replacement of the prior NWA World Women's Championship held by Combs). Combs challenged Simmes to a title match at a Delta Tiger Lilies card in 1989, but Simmes was unable to accept due to an arm injury she had sustained.\n\nShe also competed in the American Wrestling Association (AWA) in the 1980s. Upon joining the promotion, Combs wrestled against Sherri Martel as a babyface, but later turned heel and became tag team partners with Madusa Miceli. The duo feuded with Heidi Lee Morgan and Brandi Mae.\n\nAfter leaving the promotion, she later returned to the WWF in 1994 to challenge Alundra Blayze. She wrestled Blayze once on an episode of \"Wrestling Challenge\" and was scheduled to face her at WrestleMania X, but was replaced by Leilani Kai.\n\nCombs briefly competed in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in the mid-1990s during their brief attempt at a women's division. On the March 31, 1997 edition of \"WCW Monday Nitro\", Combs lost to WCW Women's Champion Akira Hokuto.\n\nIn the early 1990s, she was also president and booker of Women's Pro Wrestling (WPW), an all-women's promotion that produced direct-to-video matches. Her organization featured \"Awesome\" Ondi Austin, Babyface Nellie, Bambi, Candi Devine, Denise Storm, Jackie Moore, Lady Justice, Lisa Starr, Malia Hosaka, Olympia Hartauer, Peggy Lee Leather, Penelope Paradise, Penny Mitchell, Sandy Partelow, Susan Green, and Velvet McIntyre.\n\nSince her retirement, Debbie Combs has worked as a booking processor with the Davidson County Sheriff's Office in Nashville, TN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883241", "title": "Hermann Giesler", "text": "Hermann Giesler\n\nHermann Giesler (2 April 1898, Siegen – 20 January 1987, Düsseldorf) was a German architect during the Nazi era, one of the two architects most favoured and rewarded by Adolf Hitler (the other being Albert Speer).\n\nHermann Giesler completed his architectural study at the Academy for Applied Arts in Munich. Starting from 1930 he worked as an independent architect. In 1933 he became master of building of districts in Sonthofen and 1937, became a professor.\n\nUp to 1938 he designed the \"Ordensburg\" in Sonthofen, planned Gau Forums in Weimar and Augsburg, and the \"university\" for the NSDAP at Chiemsee. Also, Giesler refurbished different buildings (such as the \"Hotel of the Elephant\" in Weimar). In addition, he was commissioned to build Hitler's house in Munich.\n\nIn 1938 he was ordered by Hitler to the \"General Building Inspector\" for the reorganization of the city of Munich. Later he became also a director in the Organisation Todt, then one of the directors of the Group of Works of VI (Bavaria, Donaugaue).\n\nStarting in 1941, after fellow architect Roderich Fick fell out of political favour, Giesler was entrusted by Hitler with the reorganization of the entire city of Linz. Beginning from 1942 he worked on plans and a large model for the Danube Development of the Banks. In August 1943, Giesler became a member of the Reichstag. Starting from 1944, he also worked on designs for the cultural center, which Hitler regarded with particular interest.\n\nGiesler joined the Nazi Party in 1941 in Organisation Todt (OT) as head of the \"Assembly for the Baltic States Giesler\", as head of the Einsatzgruppe Russia North of the OT (1942–1944), and as Director of the OT-Einsatzgruppe VI (Bayern und Danube gaue). Concentration camp prisoners built weapons in the underground factories (1944-1945).\n\nThroughout the war, Giesler and Speer had several heated arguments about architectural styles. In September 1944 Giesler was named one of the Reich's most important artists in the Gottbegnadeten list.\n\nIn 1945, Giesler was initially arrested by the U.S. military and interned as a Nazi, and charged in 1946. In 1947, he was indicted by a U.S. military court for war crimes in the concentration camp Mühldorf, a subcamp of Dachau. Giesler was sentenced to life imprisonment, but on 6 May 1948 his sentence was reduced to 25 years imprisonment. On 7 July 1951, it was lowered once again to twelve years. Giesler was freed on 18 October 1952. He settled in Düsseldorf, where he worked in 1953 as an independent architect and author. Giesler published his autobiographical writings, which appeared both in right-wing publishers (see below), as a commitment to Nazism and Adolf Hitler. Giesler wrote \"Ein anderer Hitler\" (\"Another Hitler\"), a personal memoir about his relationship with the dictator.\nHe died in 1987.\n\n\n^ https://www.flickr.com/photos/horizonte_weimar/4763792488\n"}
{"id": "1883244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883244", "title": "Willful blindness", "text": "Willful blindness\n\nWillful blindness (sometimes called ignorance of law, willful ignorance or contrived ignorance or Nelsonian knowledge) is a term used in law to describe a situation in which a person seeks to avoid civil or criminal liability for a wrongful act by intentionally keeping themself unaware of facts that would render him or her liable or implicated. In \"United States v. Jewell\", the court held that proof of willful ignorance satisfied the requirement of knowledge as to criminal possession and importation of drugs.\n\nAlthough the term was originally—and still is—used in legal contexts, the phrase \"willful ignorance\" has come to mean any situation in which people intentionally turn their attention away from an ethical problem that is believed to be important by those using the phrase (for instance, because the problem is too disturbing for people to want it dominating their thoughts, or from the knowledge that solving the problem would require extensive effort).\n\nIn \"United States v. Jewell\", the court held that proof of willful ignorance satisfied the requirement of knowledge as to criminal possession and importation of drugs. In a number of cases in the United States of America, persons transporting packages containing illegal drugs have asserted that they never asked what the contents of the packages were and so lacked the requisite intent to break the law. Such defenses have not succeeded, as courts have been quick to determine that the defendant \"should\" have known what was in the package and exercised criminal recklessness by failing to find out the package's contents. Notably, this rule has only ever been applied to independent couriers, and has never been used to hold larger services that qualify as common carriers (e.g., FedEx, United Parcel Service, or the U.S. Postal Service) liable for the contents of packages they deliver.\n\nA famous example of such a defense being denied occurred in \"In re Aimster Copyright Litigation\", in which the defendants argued that the file-swapping technology was designed in such a way that they had no way of monitoring the content of swapped files. They suggested that their inability to monitor the activities of users meant that they could not be contributing to copyright infringement by the users. The court held that this was willful blindness on the defendant’s part and would not constitute a defense to a claim of contributory infringement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883248", "title": "Sujata Massey", "text": "Sujata Massey\n\nSujata Massey is a British-American mystery writer and historical fiction novelist best known for her Rei Shimura mystery series. Her debut novel, \"The Salaryman's Wife\", won the Agatha Award for Best First Novel in 1997. In 2000, her novel \"The Flower Master\", won the Macavity Award for Best Mystery Novel. In 2019, her novel \"The Widows of Malabar Hill\" won the Mary Higgins Clark Award<ref>\n"}
{"id": "1883254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883254", "title": "Andrew Linzey", "text": "Andrew Linzey\n\nAndrew Linzey (born 2 February 1952) is an English Anglican priest, theologian, and prominent figure in Christian vegetarianism. He is a member of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oxford, and held the world's first academic post in Ethics, Theology and Animal Welfare, the Bede Jarret Senior Research Fellowship at Blackfriars Hall.\n\nLinzey is the founder and director of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics, an independent academic centre opened in November 2006 to promote the study and discussion of animal ethics. He is the author of a number of books on animal rights, including \"Animal Rights: A Christian Perspective\" (1976), \"Christianity and the Rights of Animals\" (1987), \"Animal Theology\" (1994), and \"Why Animal Suffering Matters: Philosophy, Theology, and Practical Ethics\" (2009). He is also the editor of an academic journal, the \"Journal of Animal Ethics\", which is published jointly by the Oxford Centre and the University of Illinois, and a series editor, with Priscilla Cohn, of the Palgrave Macmillan Animal Ethics Series.\n\nLinzey has written more than 180 articles, and authored or edited twenty books on theology and ethics. He has lectured and broadcast extensively in Europe and the United States. His \"Animal Theology\" has been translated into Italian, Spanish, Japanese, and French.\n\nHe is most often quoted as saying\n\nHe also said \"Christians haven't got much further than thinking that the whole world was made for us, with the result that animals are only seen in an instrumental way as objects, machines, tools, and commodities, rather than fellow creatures\", and it is claimed that he \"wants to see animal abusers placed on a register and forbidden from keeping an animal, or working with them.\"\n\nIn 1990, he was awarded the Peaceable Kingdom Medal for outstanding work in the field of theology and animals. In June 2001, he was awarded a Doctor of Divinity degree by George Carey, Archbishop of Canterbury, in recognition of his \"unique and massive pioneering work in the area of the theology of creation with particular reference to the rights and welfare of God’s sentient creatures\". This is the highest award that the Archbishop can bestow on a theologian and the first time it has been awarded for work involving animals. In 2006, in recognition of his role in the creation of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics, Linzey was named the Henry Bergh Professor of Animal Ethics at the Graduate Theological Foundation in the US, the first such professorship of its kind in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883265", "title": "Richard H. Schwartz", "text": "Richard H. Schwartz\n\nRichard H. Schwartz is a professor emeritus of mathematics at the College of Staten Island; president emeritus of the Jewish Vegetarians of North America (JVNA); and co-founder and coordinator of the Society of Ethical and Religious Vegetarians (SERV). He is best known as a Jewish vegetarian activist and advocate for animal rights in the United States and Israel.\n\nSchwartz was born in Arverne, New York in 1934. His father, Joseph (Zundel), was 31 at the time, and his mother, Rose, was 29. They were not vegetarians, nor was he a vegetarian as a youth. He describes his upbringing as being a \"meat and potatoes person\" whose favorite dish was pot roast. In 1975, he began teaching a course called \"Mathematics and the Environment\" at the College of Staten Island.\nSchwartz married Loretta Suskind on February 14, 1960 at the Utopia Jewish Center in Queens. He reports that he became vegetarian in 1977 and vegan in 2000.\n\nAs an Orthodox Jew, Schwartz began to explore what Judaism had to say about diet, ecology, and the proper treatment of animals. The result was his best-known book, \"Judaism and Vegetarianism\". It was first published in 1982, with later, expanded editions published in 1988 and 2001. It explores vegetarianism from the standpoint of biblical, Talmudic, and rabbinical references, and concludes that vegetarianism is the highest form of kosher and the best diet for Jews in the modern world. The second edition was a B'nai Brith Book Club Selection that same year.\n\nSchwartz argues that the realities of animal-based diets and agriculture conflict with basic Jewish mandates to preserve human health, treat animals with compassion, protect the environment, conserve natural resources, help hungry people, and pursue peace. He has been active in a variety of vegetarian and animal rights organizations, and on July 2005 was inducted into the Vegetarian Hall of Fame by the North American Vegetarian Society (NAVS). The ceremony was held at the 31st Annual NAVS Summerfest on the University of Pittsburgh campus. Schwartz also spoke at the Summerfest on \"Judaism and Vegetarianism\" and \"Ten Approaches to Obtain a Vegetarian-Conscious World by 2010.\"\n\nIn 2010, Schwartz served as a Green Zionist Alliance delegate to the World Zionist Congress.\n\nSchwartz was involved in the formation of the Jewish Vegetarians of North America. He became president of the organization in 2002 and continues to serve as president emeritus.\n\nSchwartz also reaches out to vegetarians from other religions, and his writings helped inspire the formation of the Christian Vegetarian Association, and their original campaign and literature, namely \"What Would Jesus Eat...Today?\" This campaign has more recently evolved into the broader \"Honoring God's Creation\" campaign and has strongly influenced the Christian vegetarian movement. He also is president of the interfaith group, \"Society of Ethical and religious Vegetarians (SERV).\n\nSchwartz's writings inspired the 2007 documentary film, \"A Sacred Duty: Applying Jewish Values to Heal the World\", directed by Lionel Friedberg. Schwartz and JVNA arranged to give away about 40,000 complimentary DVDs of the video and to have available online at aSacredDuty.com.\n\nSchwartz married Loretta Susskind early in 1960. He is a Modern Orthodox Jew and belongs to the Young Israel Congregation of Staten Island, New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883266", "title": "Archibald Pitcairne", "text": "Archibald Pitcairne\n\nArchibald Pitcairne or Pitcairn (25 December 165220 October 1713) was a Scottish physician.\n\nPitcairne was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. After obtaining some classical education at the school of Dalkeith, Pitcairne entered Edinburgh University in 1668, and took his degree of MA in 1671. Having been sent to France for the benefit of his health, he was induced at Paris to begin the study of medicine, and after courses at Edinburgh and Paris he obtained in 1680 the degree of MD at Reims University.\n\nHe began practice at Edinburgh, and was appointed one of three professors of medicine in Edinburgh in 1685. In a short time acquired so great a reputation that in 1692 he was appointed professor of medicine at Leiden. Among his pupils were Richard Mead and George Cheyne and both of them attributed much of their skill to what they had learned from Pitcairne. The great Dutch physician Herman Boerhaave was once thought to have been a student of Pitcairne's, but is now known not to have been.\n\nIn 1693 Pitcairne returned to Scotland to marry a daughter of Sir Archibald Stevenson, an eminent physician in Edinburgh. The family objected to her going abroad, so he did not return to Leiden, but settled once more in Edinburgh. He rose to be the first physician in Scotland, and was frequently called into consultation both in England and the Netherlands.\n\nSoon after his return to Edinburgh, feeling the great want of the means of anatomical study, he importuned the town council to permit himself and certain of his medical friends to treat without fee the sick paupers in Paul's Work, on condition of being allowed to dissect such of the bodies as were unclaimed by their relatives, and therefore had to be buried at the towns expense. Strangely enough this proposal was strongly opposed by the chief surgeons of the place, but ultimately the town council had the good sense to comply with Pitcairne's request, and in this way he may be said to have the credit of laying the foundation of the great Edinburgh school of medicine.\n\nPitcairne's medical opinions are chiefly contained in a volume of \"Dissertationes medicae\" which he published in 1701 (2nd ed. 1713). In these he discusses the application of geometry to physics, the circulation of the blood in the smaller vessels, the difference in the quantity of the blood contained in the lungs of animals in the womb and of the same animals after birth, the motions by which food becomes fit to supply the blood, the question as to inventors in medicine (in which he repels the idea of certain medical discoveries of modern times having been known to the ancients, especially vindicating for Harvey the discovery of the circulation of the blood, and refuting the view that it was known to Hippocrates), the cure of fevers by evacuating medicines, and the effects of acids and alkalis in medicine.\n\nPitcairne was a good classical scholar, and wrote Latin verses, occasionally with something more than mere imitative cleverness and skill. He was the joint author of a comedy, \"The Assembly, or Scotch Reformation\", originally entitled \"The Phanaticks\" (1691), and of a satirical poem \"Babel\", containing witty sketches of prominent Presbyterian divines of the time, whom, as a loudly avowed Jacobite, he strongly disliked.\n\nHe was prone to irreverent and ribald jests, and thus gained the reputation of being an unbeliever and an atheist, though he was a professed deist. The stories about his over-indulgence in drink are probably exaggerated. He was repeatedly involved in violent quarrels with his medical brethren and others, and once or twice got into scrapes with the government on account of his indiscreet political utterances.\n\nAmong his friends, however, he was evidently well liked, and he is known to have acted with great kindness and generosity to deserving men who needed his help. Thomas Ruddiman, the Scottish scholar, for example, was rescued from a life of obscurity by his encouragement and assistance, and by no one was his memory more gratefully cherished. Mead, too, appears never to have forgotten what he owed to his old teacher at Leiden.\n\nA son of Pitcairne's had gone out in the Jacobite rising of 1715, and, having been condemned to death, was saved by the earnest interposition of Mead with Sir Robert Walpole. He pleaded, very artfully, that if Walpole's health had been bettered by his skill, or if members of the royal family were preserved by his care, it was owing to the instruction he had received from Dr Pitcairne.\n\nPitcairne died in Edinburgh on 20 October 1713, aged 60. He had been a great collector of books, and his library, which is said to have been of considerable value, was, through the influence of Ruddiman, sold to Peter the Great of Russia.\n\nHe is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard with his wife Elizabeth Stevenson(d.1734) plus his daughters. The grave lies in the southern section known as the Covenanter's Prison and is generally closed to public view.\n\nA second (more public) faux grave exists in the northmost section of the graveyard, erected by Dr Andrew Duncan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883276", "title": "Same-origin policy", "text": "Same-origin policy\n\nIn computing, the same-origin policy (sometimes abbreviated as SOP) is an important concept in the web application security model. Under the policy, a web browser permits scripts contained in a first web page to access data in a second web page, but only if both web pages have the same \"origin\". An origin is defined as a combination of URI scheme, host name, and port number. This policy prevents a malicious script on one page from obtaining access to sensitive data on another web page through that page's Document Object Model.\n\nThis mechanism bears a particular significance for modern web applications that extensively depend on HTTP cookies to maintain authenticated user sessions, as servers act based on the HTTP cookie information to reveal sensitive information or take state-changing actions. A strict separation between content provided by unrelated sites must be maintained on the client-side to prevent the loss of data confidentiality or integrity.\n\nIt is very important to remember that the same-origin policy applies only to scripts. This means that resources such as images, CSS, and dynamically-loaded scripts can be accessed across origins via the corresponding HTML tags (with fonts being a notable exception). Attacks take advantage of the fact that the same origin policy does not apply to HTML tags. \n\nThe concept of same-origin policy was introduced by Netscape Navigator 2.02 in 1995, shortly after the introduction of JavaScript in Netscape 2.0. JavaScript enabled scripting on web pages, and in particular programmatic access to the Document Object Model (DOM). \n\nThe policy was originally designed to protect access to the DOM, but has since been broadened to protect sensitive parts of the global JavaScript object.\n\nAll modern browsers implement some form of the same-origin policy as it is an important security cornerstone. The policies are not required to match an exact specification but are often extended to define roughly compatible security boundaries for other web technologies, such as Microsoft Silverlight, Adobe Flash, or Adobe Acrobat, or for mechanisms other than direct DOM manipulation, such as XMLHttpRequest.\n\nThe algorithm used to calculate the \"origin\" of a URI is specified in RFC 6454, Section 4. For absolute URIs, the origin is the triple {scheme, host, port}. If the URI does not use a hierarchical element as a naming authority (see , Section 3.2) or if the URI is not an absolute URI, then a globally unique identifier is used. Two resources are considered to be of the same origin if and only if all these values are exactly the same.\n\nTo illustrate, the following table gives an overview of typical outcomes for checks against the URL \"<nowiki>http://www.example.com/dir/page.html</nowiki>\".\n\nUnlike other browsers, Internet Explorer does not include the port in the calculation of the origin, using the Security Zone in its place.\n\nThe same-origin policy helps protect sites that use authenticated sessions. The following example illustrates a potential security risk that could arise without the same-origin policy. Assume that a user is visiting a banking website and doesn't log out. Then, the user goes to another site that has some malicious JavaScript code running in the background that requests data from the banking site. Because the user is still logged in on the banking site, the malicious code could do anything the user could do on the banking site. For example, it could get a list of the user's last transactions, create a new transaction, etc. This is because the browser can send and receive session cookies to the banking site based on the domain of the banking site.\n\nThe user visiting the malicious site would expect that the site he or she is visiting has no access to the banking session cookie. While it is true that the JavaScript has no direct access to the banking session cookie, it could still send and receive requests to the banking site with the banking site's session cookie. Because the script can essentially do the same as the user would do, even CSRF protections by the banking site would not be effective.\n\nIn some circumstances, the same-origin policy is too restrictive, posing problems for large websites that use multiple subdomains. At first, a number of workarounds such as using the fragment identifier or the codice_1 property were used to pass data between documents residing in different domains. Modern browsers support multiple techniques for relaxing the same-origin policy in a controlled manner:\n\nNetscape Navigator briefly contained a taint checking feature. The feature was experimentally introduced in 1997 as part of Netscape 3. The feature was turned off by default, but if enabled by a user it would allow websites to attempt to read JavaScript properties of windows and frames belonging to a different domain. The browser would then ask the user whether to permit the access in question.\n\nIf two windows (or frames) contain scripts that set domain to the same value, the same-origin policy is relaxed for these two windows, and each window can interact with the other. For example, cooperating scripts in documents loaded from orders.example.com and catalog.example.com might set their codice_2 properties to “example.com”, thereby making the documents appear to have the same origin and enabling each document to read properties of the other. Setting this property implicitly sets the port to null, which most browsers will interpret differently from port 80 or even an unspecified port. To assure that access will be allowed by the browser, set the document.domain property of both pages.\n\nThe codice_2 concept was introduced as part of Netscape Navigator 3, released in 1996.\n\nThe other technique for relaxing the same-origin policy is standardized under the name Cross-Origin Resource Sharing. This standard extends HTTP with a new Origin request header and a new Access-Control-Allow-Origin response header. It allows servers to use a header to explicitly list origins that may request a file or to use a wildcard and allow a file to be requested by any site. Browsers such as Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Internet Explorer 10 use this header to allow the cross-origin HTTP requests with XMLHttpRequest that would otherwise have been forbidden by the same-origin policy.\n\nAnother technique, cross-document messaging allows a script from one page to pass textual messages to a script on another page regardless of the script origins. Calling the postMessage() method on a Window object asynchronously fires an \"onmessage\" event in that window, triggering any user-defined event handlers. A script in one page still cannot directly access methods or variables in the other page, but they can communicate safely through this message-passing technique.\n\nSince HTML <script> elements are allowed to retrieve and execute content from other domains, a page can bypass the same-origin policy and receive JSON data from a different domain by loading a resource that returns a JSONP payload. JSONP payloads consist of an internal JSON payload wrapped by a pre-defined function call. When the script resource is loaded by the browser, the designated callback function will be invoked to process the wrapped JSON payload.\n\nModern browsers will permit a script to connect to a WebSocket address without applying the same-origin policy. However, they recognize when a WebSocket URI is used, and insert an Origin: header into the request that indicates the origin of the script requesting the connection. To ensure cross-site security, the WebSocket server must compare the header data against a whitelist of origins permitted to receive a reply.\n\nThe behavior of same-origin checks and related mechanisms is not well-defined in a number of corner cases such as for pseudo-protocols that do not have a clearly defined host name or port associated with their URLs (file:, data:, etc.). This historically caused a fair number of security problems, such as the generally undesirable ability of any locally stored HTML file to access all other files on the disk, or communicate with any site on the Internet.\n\nLastly, certain types of attacks, such as DNS rebinding or server-side proxies, permit the host name check to be partly subverted, and make it possible for rogue web pages to directly interact with sites through addresses other than their \"true\", canonical origin. The impact of such attacks is limited to very specific scenarios, since the browser still believes that it is interacting with the attacker's site, and therefore does not disclose third-party cookies or other sensitive information to the attacker.\n\nEven when same-origin policy is in effect (without being relaxed by Cross-Origin Resource Sharing), certain cross-origin computer attacks can be performed. WebRTC can be used to find out the internal IP address of a victim. If attempting to connect to a cross-origin port, responses cannot be read in face of same-origin policy, but a JavaScript can still make inferences on whether the port is open or closed by checking if the onload/onerror event fires, or if we get a timeout. This gives opportunities for cross-origin portscanning. Further, a JavaScript can even fingerprint services cross-origin by taking advantage of default files. For example, if a JavaScript loaded from the site evil.com attempts to open the file http://127.0.0.1/images/jenkins.png, and the onload event fires, then it can be inferred that the victim runs Jenkins on his own computer. This way, the attacker can find potentially vulnerable services for example on the internal network, even in face of same-origin policy. Should any service be vulnerable to Cross-site Request Forgery, they can even be compromised.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883285", "title": "Ontronik Khachaturian", "text": "Ontronik Khachaturian\n\nOntronik \"Andy\" Khachaturian (born May 4, 1975) is an Armenian-American musician, producer and DJ. He is known for being the original drummer (1993–1997) of metal band System of a Down and founder/lead vocalist (1999–2002) of the alt-progressive rock band The Apex Theory, as well as the member of his band VoKee.\n\nKhachaturian was born to Armenian parents in Los Angeles, United States. He met Daron and Shavo in high school. Khachaturian then met Serj, when they decided in 1994 to form the band System of a Down. Together they recorded a demo titled \"Untitled 1995 Demo\" and \"Demo Tape 1\". In 1996 they recorded \"Demo Tape 2\" and in 1997 recorded \"Demo Tape 3\" and \"Demo Tape 4\". In 1997, after spending four years with System of a Down, Andy had to leave the band due to an injury inflicted while practicing Jeet Kune Do and was replaced by John Dolmayan, current drummer of System of a Down.\n\nIn 1998, Ontronik with Art Karamian, David Hakopyan and Sammy J. Watson decided to form the band The Apex Theory, bringing to market 2 music albums and 1 EP. Then they decided to rename the band Mt. Helium. In 2002 Ontronik left the band because of musical differences.\nAfter leaving The Apex Theory, Ontronik formed a rock band in 2004 with a group of friends, called VoKee. Currently Ontronik is working in Los Angeles, California in his \"OnTronik ™\" project as his solo project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883287", "title": "Salomé (singer)", "text": "Salomé (singer)\n\nMaria Rosa Marco Poquet (born June 21, 1939) better known by her stage name Salomé is a Spanish singer.\n\nSalomé was born in Barcelona, Spain. She was one of the four winners of the Eurovision Song Contest 1969 with the song \"Vivo Cantando\".\n\nShe began her career in Radio Barcelona. Since then, she has continued her musical career combining it with television appearances as hostess. She has performed as opening act for Frank Sinatra. By 1963 she had recorded more than forty songs for record companies Iberofón and Zafiro. In 1963 she won the 5th Festival de la Canción Mediterránea de Barcelona music contest with her song in Catalan, \"Se'n va anar\".\n\nFour years later, in 1967, she won the second prize on the 9th Festival de la Canción Mediterránea de Barcelona with her song in Catalan \"Com el vent\". She also competed in the Festival de Valencia and Festival del Duero where she won the best singer prize. In 1969 se married Sebastián García. She recorded many songs in both Catalan and Spanish, the most popular ones being \"Quinientas millas\", \"L'arbre\", \"Bésame mucho\", \"Com el vent\", \"L'emigrant\", \"Puedo morir mañana\", \"Isla del amor\" and \"Esperaré\".\n\nShe represented Spain at the Eurovision Song Contest 1969 in Madrid with the song \"Vivo cantando\", composed by María José Cerato and lyrics by Aniano Alcalde. She shared the first prize with Lulu (UK), Frida Boccara (France), and Lenny Kuhr (Netherlands), the only time in the history of the contest when the prize was won by four contestants. She received the prize from the previous Eurovision winner, Spanish singer Massiel. Her dress was designed by Manuel Pertegaz, it weighed 14 kg and it was made of small chalk blue porcelain cylinders wearing also three 1-kg necklaces. Salomé recorded \"Vivo cantando\" in eight languages (Spanish, Catalan, Basque, French, German, Italian, English and Serbo-Croatian).\n\n"}
{"id": "1883289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883289", "title": "James Anderson of Hermiston", "text": "James Anderson of Hermiston\n\nJames Anderson FRSE FSA(Scot) (1739 – 15 October 1808) was a Scottish agriculturist, journalist and economist. A member of the Edinburgh Philosophical Society, Anderson was a prominent figure in the Scottish Enlightenment. He invented the Scotch plough.\n\nAnderson was born at Hermiston, Midlothian and while still young attended lectures on chemistry by William Cullen, at the University of Edinburgh. At the age of 15, after the death of his parents, he took over the working of the family farm.\n\nIn 1777 Anderson published \"An Enquiry into the Nature of the Corn Laws\", in which he anticipated David Ricardo's theory of rent. Some historians believe Anderson was the root source for Marx's critique of capitalist agriculture.\n\nRent, Anderson argued, was a charge for the use of the more fertile soil. The least fertile soils in cultivation generated an income that simply covered the costs of production, while the more fertile soils received a \"certain premium for an exclusive privilege to cultivate them; which will be greater or smaller according to the more or less fertility of the soil. It is this premium which constitutes what we now call rent; a medium by means of which the expence () of cultivating soils of very different degrees of fertility may be reduced to a perfect quality.\" Anderson argued that improvement of the soil was possible; but also that humans could degrade the soil. He argued also that since where farm land in England was held by capitalists, the farmer would tend to avoid improvements the full return for which would not be received during the lease.\n\nMarx's critique of capitalist agriculture drew upon Anderson's analysis and he insisted that soil fertility was a historical issue, and that fertility could both improve or decline. The irrationality of capitalist agriculture, he argued, was bound up with the whole antagonism of town and country out of which bourgeois society had arisen.\n\nIn 1783 he settled in Edinburgh. In 1791 he started a weekly publication called \"The Bee\", which was largely written by himself, and of which 18 volumes were published. In 1797 he began to reside at Isleworth, and from 1799 to 1802 he produced a monthly publication, \"Recreations in Agriculture, Natural History, Arts and Miscellaneous Literature\". He was also the author of many pamphlets on agricultural and economical topics, under numerous aliases, including Agricola, Germanicus, and Timothy Hairbrain. One of his first publications was \"A Practical Treatise on Chimneys\" (1776). He was a friend of Jeremy Bentham, and involved in the latter's idea of an ideal prison or Panopticon. Anderson also corresponded with George Washington.\n\nThe engineer James Green, responsible for the building of some of the first canalboat lifts, credited their invention to Dr James Anderson.\n\nThe Scotch plough or Scots plough (not to be confused with the Scottish hand plough) was a wood and iron, animal draft, primary tillage implement (plough) for use on heavy ground invented in the 19th century by James Anderson.\n\nIn 1780 Anderson received an LLD (honorary doctorate in law) from the University of Aberdeen. He died in West Ham, Essex on 15 October 1808.\n\nIn 1768 Anderson married Margaret Seton (d. 1788), and took over the management of Monkshill farm in Aberdeenshire of . Together had 13 children, one daughter and five sons survived their father; their son, John, was apprenticed to Thomas Bewick. Their daughter, Margaret (1778–1863), married Benjamin Outram.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883308", "title": "James Anderson (lawyer)", "text": "James Anderson (lawyer)\n\nJames Anderson (5 August 1662 – 3 April 1728), Scottish antiquary and historian, was born at Edinburgh. His father was Patrick Anderson of Walston, a church minister, who was for some time imprisoned on the Bass Rock on the Firth of Forth in Haddingtonshire.\n\nHe was educated for the law, and became a writer to the signet (Scottish solicitor or attorney) in 1691. His profession gave him the opportunity of gratifying his taste for the study of ancient documents; and just before the Act of Union 1707 the Parliament of Scotland commissioned him to prepare for publication what remained of the public records of the Kingdom of Scotland, and in their last session voted a sum of £1940 pound Scots to defray his expenses.\n\nAt this work he laboured for several years with great judgment and perseverance; but it was not completed at his death in 1728. The book was published posthumously in 1739, edited by Thomas Ruddiman, under the title \"Selectus Diplomatum et Numismatum Scotiae Thesaurus\". Ruddiman also produced a translation into Scots. The preparation of this great national work involved the author in considerable pecuniary loss; and soon after his death, the numerous plates, engraved by John Sturt, were sold for £530. These plates are now lost, and the book has become exceedingly scarce.\n\nAnderson was appointed in 1715 Postmaster General for Scotland, as some compensation for his labours; but in the political struggles of 1717 he was deprived of this office, and never again obtained any reward for his services.\n\nHe published, during the controversy about whether Scotland was bound by the Act of Settlement 1701 or not, \"An Historical Essay showing that the Crown and Kingdom of Scotland is Imperial and Independent\" (Edinburgh, 1705), and later \"Collections relating to the History of Mary Queen of Scotland\" (in 4 vols, Edin., 1727–1728), both of which were later used extensively by his great-nephew, the historian William Robertson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883311", "title": "Terry Ellis", "text": "Terry Ellis\n\nTerry Lynn Ellis (born September 5, 1963) is an American singer–songwriter and actress. Ellis is best known as a founding member of the R&B/Pop vocal group En Vogue which formed in 1989.\nTerry Ellis was born in Houston, Texas. She is the daughter of Lennie James Ellis and the former Evelyn Marie Patton. Ellis graduated from Worthing High School in 1982. After high school, Ellis attended Prairie View A&M University where she later received a degree in Marketing in 1990. During her years at Prairie View A&M University, Ellis honed her vocal skills under the tutelage of Dr. Ruby Hebert and Professor George Edwards, Director of the Marching Storm Band, where she was lead vocalist. Additionally, through the auspices of the Office of Student Activities and guidance of its Director, Frederick V. Roberts, Terry participated in several talent showcases, performed on special programs including the Miss and Mr. Prairie View A&M University Pageants and also sang as an opening act for many major concerts on the campus. \nIn 1988, Ellis performed in a lecture/concert with singer Kashif which turned out to an onsight audition for a proposed singing group to be created by Kashif and friends. Ellis later auditioned to sing in a forthcoming female group. Initially producers Denzil Foster and Thomas McElroy had already selected singers Dawn Robinson, Maxine Jones, and Cindy Herron to be in a three-woman girl group, but added Ellis after hearing her sing. After adding Ellis to the line-up, the group became a quartet and originally chose the name \"For You, later changed to En Vogue. Ellis sang lead vocals on the intro of the group's first single \"Hold On\", which peaked at number 2 on \"Billboard\"'s Hot 100 chart, and sold over a million copies becoming platinum certified by the RIAA. Later that year, the group released their debut album \"Born to Sing\", which went platinum. Ellis also sang lead vocals on the singles \"Lies\" and \"Don't Go\", both of which charted in top-five positions on \"Billboard's\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.\n\nThe group released their second album \"Funky Divas\" in 1992, which sold over 3.5 million copies in the United States. Ellis shares lead vocals on one of the album's top-charting singles \"Free Your Mind\". \"Free Your Mind\" won two MTV Video Music Awards, for \"Best R&B Video\" and \"Best Dance Video\". En Vogue released an EP in the fall of 1993, entitled \"Runaway Love\". \n\nIn November 1995, Ellis departed from the group and release her debut solo album, \"Southern Gal\". The album spawn the singles \"Where Ever You Are\" and \"What Did I Do To You?\". Within a year of its release the album had sold over 142,000 copies. The album considered a commercial failure after sales failed to match the standard of En Vogue's success. She also released her own fragrance titled \"Southern Exposure\".\n\nIn 1996, En Vogue recorded \"Don't Let Go (Love)\" with Ellis singing the final verse of an extended version of the song. On the album's version, Ellis only sings background on \"Don't Let Go (Love)\". The song was featured on the soundtrack to the motion picture \"Set It Off\". Released in the autumn, it became the group's biggest hit to date going number one worldwide. It also sold over 1.8 million copies worldwide and became certified platinum by the RIAA. In response to the large commercial success of \"Don't Let Go (Love)\", the group steadfastly went to work on its third album. As the album was nearing completion, Robinson chose to leave the group in April 1997 after difficult contractual negotiations reached a stalemate. The ending result saw En Vogue re-recording their third album with Ellis singing lead vocals on more of the songs. In June 1997, the group released their third studio album \"EV3\", which went platinum.\n\nIn 1999, Ellis toured as a backup singer for Toni Braxton. She also appears one of Chanté Moore's friends in the music video \"Chanté's Got a Man\" in 1999. In 2000, she also released a song called \"Call on Me\" on the soundtrack for the romantic drama \"Disappearing Acts\". In 2005, Ellis was featured in the Stevie Wonder music video \"So What The Fuss\" with her original En Vogue group members Dawn Robinson, Maxine Jones and Cindy Herron. Throughout the years, Ellis continued to record on the group's album: \"Masterpiece Theatre\" (2000), \"The Gift of Christmas\" (2002), and \"Soul Flower\" (2004). \n\nIn 2012, Ellis and fellow member Cindy Herron sued now-former member Maxine Jones demanding $1 million for unauthorized use of the name, though the damages request was ultimately determined to be without merit, as Ellis and Herron could not demonstrate harm done to the company from Jones's use of the name (although Robinson was named in the suit, she was not directly involved in the dispute, as she had surrendered her rights to use the name herself when she departed from the LLC years earlier). However, the judge decided to award full rights of the \"En Vogue\" name to Herron and Ellis. \n\nIn July 2014, Ellis signed to Pyramid Records along with fellow member Herron and Rhona Bennett. In November 2014, they released \"An En Vogue Christmas\". In February 2015, Rufftown Entertainment filed a lawsuit against En Vogue, which names Herron and Ellis for breach of contract. Rufftown owner Rene Moore is seeking $310 million from the group.\n\nEllis is a mezzo-soprano and has a three-octave vocal range which was displayed in the En Vogue song, \"Don't Go\". By her groupmates, Terry was credited as the member with the \"ballad\" type of voice. With En Vogue, she often shared leads, or lead the group songs that were funky, and soulful. In group harmonies, Terry usually sings the alto arrangement, which is above Maxine Jones, but under Dawn Robinson, or Cindy Herron.\nEllis has never married or has children. Ellis cousin was Thomas Howard who played linebacker for the Cincinnati Bengals in the NFL. She is close friends with actress and model Holly Robinson Peete, whom she met on the set of the sitcom \"Hangin' with Mr. Cooper\" while recording the show's theme song, and they both share a striking physical resemblance to one another.\n"}
{"id": "1883314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883314", "title": "Frida Boccara", "text": "Frida Boccara\n\nDanielle Frida Hélène Boccara (29 October 1940 – 1 August 1996) was a French singer of Italian descent and born in Casablanca, who performed and recorded in a number of languages, including French, Spanish, English, Italian, German, Dutch and Russian.\n\nBoccara was born in Casablanca, Morocco, into a Jewish family of Italian origin that lived in Tunisia before they settled in Morocco. When she was 18, she moved from Casablanca to Paris, France, where she eventually started her artistic career as a singer. Boccara also had a brother and a sister in show business, composers Jean-Michel Braque (born Roger Boccara) and Lina Boccara. Her son, Tristan Boccara, was born in the mid-1970s and also became a singer (he is also a composer, pianist and arranger).\n\nIn 1964, Boccara had submitted the song \"Autrefois\" to the French Eurovision Song Contest selection panel, but she was unsuccessful. Five years later, at the Eurovision Song Contest 1969, held in Madrid, Spain, she represented France performing \"Un jour, un enfant\" (A Day, a Child) – music by Émile Stern and text by Eddy Marnay. Her song shared first place along with the entries from the Netherlands, the UK, and Spain.\n\nSongwriter Eddy Marnay was her professional partner (most of the songs performed by Boccara were written by him), but she also performed songs composed by Jacques Brel, Georges Brassens, Charles Aznavour, Émile Stern, Michel Legrand, Michel Magne, Nino Rota and Mikis Theodorakis.\n\n\"Cent mille chansons\" was recorded in 1968 and earned her a Gold disc, while \"Un jour, un enfant\" (1969) earned her a Platinum disc and \"Pour vivre ensemble\" (1971) earned her another Gold disc. Other of her famous songs include \"Cherbourg avait raison\" (1961), \"Aujourd'hui\" (1965), \"Le moulins de mon coeur\" (1969), \"L'enfant aux cymbales\" (1969), \"Belle du Luxembourg\" (1969), \"La croix, l'étoile et le croissant\" (1970), \"Venise va mourir\" (1970), \"Trop jeune ou trop vieux\" (1971), \"Valdemosa\" (1976), \"L'année où Piccolli... (Jouait \"Le choses de la vie\")\" (1978), \"Un monde en sarabande\" (1979) and \"La prière\" (1979). In the late 1960s, she also recorded \"Un pays pour nous\", a song that was a French version of \"Somewhere\" (from the musical \"West Side Story\"). Leonard Bernstein, who composed the original melody, declared that Boccara's version was his favorite.\n\nBoccara renewed her links with Eurovision by participating in the French national finals of 1980 – performing \"Un enfant de France\" – and 1981 – with \"Voilà comment je t'aime\". However, neither song won. She died in 1996 in Paris, France, aged 55, from a pulmonary infection, after some health problems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883315", "title": "Ian Campbell (Scottish politician)", "text": "Ian Campbell (Scottish politician)\n\nIan Campbell (26 April 1926 – 9 September 2007) was a Scottish politician who served as a backbench Labour Member of Parliament (MP) of the United Kingdom from 1970 to 1987.\n\nCampbell was born in Dumbarton, the second of the four children of William Campbell and his wife Helen (née Crockett). He was educated at Knoxland Primary School and Dumbarton Academy, and studied electrical engineering at the Royal College of Science and Technology in Glasgow (now Strathclyde University). After National Service in Germany with the Royal Engineers, he became a chartered engineer, and worked for the South of Scotland Electricity Board from 1948 to 1965. He married Mary Millar in 1950; they had two sons and three daughters.\n\nCampbell joined the Labour Party in 1953. He was elected to Dumbarton Burgh Council in 1958 and was first elected as Provost of Dumbarton in 1962. In 1968, was re-elected unopposed for an almost unprecedented third term. The Labour administration in Dumbarton during these years embarked on a significant programme of slum clearance, house building, and town centre redevelopment. The closure of the Denny Shipyard in 1963 was the most significant sign of a shift from heavy industry as the major source of employment in the town requiring a major investment of effort from the council and its leadership in economic development.\n\nWhen Tom Steele, the Labour MP for Dunbartonshire West, indicated that he would stand down at the 1970 general election, Campbell was selected by the Constituency Labour Party as their candidate. He was duly elected, serving as MP for Dunbartonshire West until 1983 and then for the successor seat, Dumbarton, until 1987.\n\nHe won at five general elections, although his seat was not always particularly safe, particularly in the two general elections of 1974: his majority was reduced to just over 1,800 votes by the Scottish National Party at the October 1974 general election. As a Member of Parliament, his focus was firmly on the interests of his constituency and constituents. Throughout his time in parliament, he took a keen interest in the Scotch whisky industry, which was the key employer in the constituency. The nuclear base at Faslane was also in his constituency, and his constituents were also affected by the decline of the shipbuilding industry on the Lower Clyde. Although a backbencher for all of his time in the Commons, he was Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Scotland, Bruce Millan, from 1976 until 1979, during the period when the Labour government was proposing to implement Scottish devolution. He also served for many years as a member of the Chairman's panel, and eventually as the regular Chairman of the Scottish Grand Committee. He was significantly, and controversially, involved in the campaign against abortion, co-sponsoring an ultimately unsuccessful private member's bill introduced by his friend and colleague, James White, MP for Glasgow Pollok, to tighten the requirements of the Abortion Act 1967. Campbell acted as an informal whip in the committees considering various bills aimed at tightening the law in this area. Early in the 1979 parliament, he successfully piloted a private member's bill through the House of Commons to enable Scottish local authorities to offer concessionary transport to people with mental disabilities.\n\nIn the run-up to the 1983 general election, he narrowly won a re-selection battle within his own Constituency Labour Party, against a challenge from a Leo Crawley, later a left-wing councillor in the constituency. In that election he was re-elected for the new Dumbarton constituency, which was practically the same as his old constituency, the only change was the addition of the villages of Bowling, and Milton. He retired at the 1987 general election and was replaced by John McFall.\n\nAfter he retired from Parliament, Campbell he was active as an elder at Riverside Church in Dumbarton. He was also a member of the Dumbarton District Enterprise Trust, a member of the Strathclyde Local Valuation Panel, and a magistrate.\n\nHe was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2000, and died in Dumbarton. He was survived by his wife and five children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883322", "title": "Hanging miniature", "text": "Hanging miniature\n\nHanging miniature is an in-camera special effect similar to a matte shot where a model, rather than a painting, is placed in foreground and the action takes place in the background. It is thus a specific form of forced perspective.\n\nThere are hundreds of instances where a hanging miniature has been used. This is a very old device and when produced correctly it is almost completely undetectable. The chariot race in the 1925 version of \"Ben-Hur\" is a good example. Only a very careful examination will reveal that above the wall surrounding the stadium and the first rows of bleachers, there hangs a miniature with moving 'puppet' people that can rise and fall with the human extras. Another cost saving effect was that of 'flopping' the negative so that only one side of the stadium miniature was built. The main reason for using a miniature in this way is that, unlike a painting, the light on the built set will always be the same as that on the miniature making it possible to shoot in a variety of different 'lights' during the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883328", "title": "Jacona, Michoacán", "text": "Jacona, Michoacán\n\nJacona de Plancarte (Jacona) is a city, and the county seat of Jacona in the state of Michoacán. Located in the northwest of the state, on the northern slope of the Sierra de Patamban, part of the Volcanic Belt, at 1,600 meters altitude. It was founded by Fray Sebastián de Trasierra in 1555, although they are located buildings and paintings of more than 3000 years old. Jacona was the symbolism of life and death, the symbol of humanity, and was one of the first pre-Hispanic peoples entrusted to the Spanish.\n\nJacona is word with origin in the tecuexes (one of the peoples of the Great Chichimeca, whose home language is Uto-Aztecan). Just as the Spanish transformed the writing of words such as Mexico to Mejico, Xalisco to Jalisco or Xallapan to Jalapa, the word was originally written Xacona. It derives from the original word Xucunan, which tecuexes meant \"place of flowers and vegetables.\" Xacona was established in a region chichimeca (tecuexes), bordering the kingdom purepecha (the misnamed \"Tarasco\"). This explains why other neighboring towns have names porhepeni. The main hill against Jacona, for example, is called Curutaran. Curutaran is a Purepecha word formed by the words: \"ku\" together, \"rhu\" projection, tip, \"tarha\", play ball, and \"an\", gods. Means then: \"Place where the gods gather to play ball\". This ball game was not a common game, but the \"celestial ball game.\"\n\nJacona in 1990 recorded a population of 12 years and over by employment status by sex of her 27 000 076, 44.5% were employed, 0.7% were registered as unemployed, 50.4% were economically inactive population and the remaining 4.4% listed as unspecified. Note that economic activity and income depend on the 44.5% of the total population. Official figures indicate that the percentage of the unemployed population is small, however people representative of the municipality and municipal authorities consider that unemployment is a major economic problems of the municipality. The economically active population is overwhelmingly concentrated in people aged 15 to 44 years, the age group with the highest number is 15–19 years. In 1990 Jacona economic structure was the following: employment in the primary sector accounted for 38.2%, secondary industry 26.2%, the tertiary sector 31.1% and was recorded as unspecified 4, 5%. If we consider that in the town the population employed in primary and secondary sectors was higher than in the state and employed in the tertiary sector was less than the same, one can conclude that the relative economic backwardness of the area is greater than in the state.\n\nAccording to the National Centre for Municipal Studies (ECMS), agriculture is the main economic activity taking place in the town, cultivated strawberry, corn, wheat, sorghum and vegetables, fruits and flowers. This ratify municipal authorities considering that agriculture is the main economic activity of the municipality. In 1990 Jacona had 4 ejidos and agrarian communities, which covered an area of 3 000 425 hectares, of which 1 000 were 556 parcels, and 1 000 869 parcels not, the working surface was of 987 ha, of which 115 were irrigation and 872 seasonal and irrigation. Only 4 units in technology employed work surface, 3 units with work surface used facilities; of the 4 units 1 used credit or insurance. In the 411 rural production units, with an area of 6 000 375 hectares, the land use is classified as follows: 307 ha are under agricultural use and forestry, irrigation 1 000 825, 982 in temporary grass 3 000 548 natural rangeland, forest or jungle, 20, 20 forest with natural grass rangeland and 1 without vegetation. Predominant use of natural pasture and rangeland. The land is classified as follows: 1 000 925 hectares are communal land and 4 000 450 are private. The use of technology as set out below: 35 units of rural production uses livestock and poultry facilities, units that use technology are 68 cattle, 15 pigs, 46 birds and 289 farm units, also used 263 animals shooting or tractors and 253 yoke, also in 235 units are used agricultural equipment and facilities and 2 are used forestry equipment and facilities. Of the 4 ejidos and agrarian communities in Jacona recorded in 1991, the 4 were principally engaged in agriculture. In 1991 the rural production units of the municipality amounted to 0.18% in relation to the state. Available 6 000 375 ha in total area 2 000 807 in labor, 3 000 548 in rangeland, 20 in forest or jungle and 1 without vegetation, it is clear the increased participation in rangeland area. In the 1996/1997 crop year in the municipality of Jacona total fertilized area was 3 000 223 ha, 3 000 198 were planted with improved seeds, 1 000 800 has benefited from technical assistance, 1 000 221 with plant health service and 1 000 341 has been machined. In 1996 the applicant producers in the municipality were 198, all of which were ratified and benefited. The amount paid for PROCAMPO was 250.8 thousand pesos.\n\nAccording to the ECMS, in the municipality are raised cattle, pigs, goats, sheep and horses, as well as birds and bees. In 1991 the rural production units and raising farm animals in relation to the state accounted for 0.13%, 0.06% in poultry, equines 0.17%, 0.08% and 0 cattle, 13% in pigs. In absolute numbers of production units were 203, 64 in poultry, 174 equines, 69 cattle and 16 goats. The livestock population of the town was as follows: 28 000 poultry, 3 000 521 2 000 564 cattle and pigs. As shown the population of poultry and cattle is the most important in the municipality. Livestock production in her municipality according to its value, this activity is small when compared with the state, because it represents less than 1%, however, within the municipal livestock production include the bovine and porcine, with 74.5% and 14.9% respectively. In Jacona the number of sacrifices was as follows: 28 000 birds, 461 cattle, 510 goats and far below is followed by sheep and pigs. The production of beef carcasses in the town was about: 38.7 tons of poultry, 20.3 and 74.3 tons of pork and veal, lacking the rest of importance. Depending on the value of production, the most important species in the municipality were the herds with 304 thousand dollars, the veal with 1 million 225 thousand and 697 thousand dollars in birds, the rest are recorded very low figures. Within the volume of production of other livestock products are considered the cow and goat milk, skins, wool, eggs, honey and beeswax. The municipality said the milk production of cattle with 587 thousand liters and honey production was 26.4 t, there was no egg production and the wax and wool are negligible.\n\nOfficial figures indicate that the municipality did not register forestry production.\n\nAccording to the ECMS, the municipality has 15 plants freezing and packing of fruit, mainly strawberries. 2 soft drink bottlers, and a power generating plant of the CFE, located in the tenure of the Pantanal. Agribusiness is considered by municipal authorities as one of the main activities of the municipality. In 1994 the main features of the manufacturing establishments were: 435 affordable units were surveyed, the average total employed persons was 7 000 952, the total compensation to persons employed were 89 thousand 787 thousand pesos, net fixed assets totaled the amount of 104 thousand 597.1 thousand pesos, gross fixed capital was 23 thousand 016 thousand pesos, the total gross output reached 316 000 382.0 thousand pesos, total inputs reached 195 000 573, 9 thousand dollars and the value added was 808.1 thousand 120 thousand pesos. Taking as criteria the number of affordable units, the average total employed persons, the total remuneration to employed persons and the total gross output, major sub-sectors were food products, beverages and snuff, wood industry and wood products ( including furniture), and chemicals, petroleum products and coal, rubber and plastic. In turn, within the subsector Food, beverages and snuff; include canning food (including concentrates for soups and excludes meat and milk only to the beverage.) As regards the sub-industry of wood and wood products (including furniture), highlight the manufacturing sawmill and woodworking products (excluding furniture), and the manufacturing of packaging and other wood and cork products (excluding furniture). As for the subsector Chemicals, petroleum products and coal, rubber and plastic products is the production of basic chemicals (excluding basic petrochemicals).\n\nAccording to the ECMS, Jacona municipality has a mall, clothing stores, furniture, shoes, food, hardware, construction materials, stationery, grocery stores, pharmacies, among others. According to municipal authorities and people representing the company, believe that trade is one of the main activities of the municipality. It also has a municipal public market and a flea market, several grocery stores. Is under construction supply market to the east of the city. According to statistics, in 1996 there were in Jacona 2 flea markets, public market and 1 1 trace machining. Because the overall rate of consumer price exists only for the country and major cities, we reproduce here the data at the national level and to Morelia, hoping to serve as baseline information, it is likely that the rate of rock around town Data presented here. In 1997 the annual percentage change in price index in January was 26.44 and 15.72 in December, in Morelia in January was 25.08 and 15.18 in December. As regards inflation rate and, for lack of data regarding the town, offered as a reference to national data and Morelia. At the national level was 24.74 cumulative inflation from January to December 1996, i.e. the sum of monthly percentage changes, the cumulative 8.38 from January to July 1997, i.e. the sum of the percentage changes 19.70 monthly and annualized to July 1997, i.e. the percentage change compared to the same month last year. In the city of Morelia was 23.56, 8.32 and 18.30, respectively. It is estimated that the inflation rate in the municipality oscillate around the data presented here.\n\nIn Jacona will have 7 retail banking offices and 94 employees. Raising funds to November 31, 1997, in thousands of dollars, were as follows: detection in domestic currency was 567 thousand 729, stressed fixed-term investments 111 000 756 high performance master account with 14 649 thousand, the uptake of foreign currency converted was 559, for what concerns the acquisition of bank brokerage that was 7 000 904, said an investment company with equity 7 000 078; the balance units investment was 7. The comprehensive collection totaled 176 000 198, representing 1.1% of the state total. As regards allocation of resources, in thousands of pesos, are recorded the following balances: current portfolio in local currency 4 000 520, which highlighted the commercial portfolio with a thousand rediscounted with 008 and 3 000 497; the nonperforming loans in domestic currency was 20 000 535, also highlighting the commercial portfolio and 13 000 196 2 000 955 rediscounted with, having a total portfolio in domestic currency for 25 000 056; as regards the portfolio foreign currency that was 4 000 089. The comprehensive portfolio totaled 29 000 145, which accounted for 0.9% of the state. In sum, to date we are considering, in Michoacan were recruited 16 000 077.2 million pesos and placed 3 000 176.7 million pesos, which indicates that the savings exceeded the credit 12 000 900.5 million pesos. Jacona were captured in 176.2 million dollars and placed 29.1 million pesos and as in the state savings credit exceeded 147.1 million pesos. Also, total performing loans in the state (national currency and foreign currency converted at the rate of exchange prevailing on the due date) was one thousand 722 million pesos, representing 54.2% of the total portfolio. In the town performing loans total was 20.5 million pesos, representing 70.4% of the total portfolio.\n\nJacona had in 1996 with 38.7 km of roads are classified as 8 km of paved federal trunk road, 26.2 km of paved state feeder and 4.5 km of paved roads. The town in 1996 had 25 post offices, internal service correspondence received was 186 thousand pieces and sent 19 thousand, in the referred international service was 31 thousand pieces and received 86 000 pieces. 1 also had a telegraph office which issued 525 telegrams and received 1 000 114. In 1997 were registered in 3011 Jacona cars, of which 42 are rented and 2 000 969 individuals, were reported 16 trucks for passengers, 14 of rent and 2 individuals, there were also 3 000 353 trucks and all as individuals, as well as the existence of 181 private motorcycles.\n\nThe Church and Convent of San Martin and the Church of St. Augustine, for its architectural value, the area in a place known as \"Old Town\", where there are paintings of archaeological importance, and City Hall.\n\nJacona has many parks, churches, monuments and historic center.\n\n• Balneario El Pedregal (3.5 km from Jacona)\n• Jacona Spa (3.5 km from Jacona)\n• Country resort (1 km of Jacona)\n• The Samanos spa (center Jacona)\n• Paradise spa (center Jacona)\n\n• Lake orandino\n• Lake of stay\n• Curutarán lake (dam of greenish)\n\nFebruary 14, the anniversary of the coronation of the Virgen de La Esperanza (1886), 15 February, beginning of the Strawberry Fair, September 8, Nativity of Our Lady of La Esperanza, and 5 November anniversary of the founding of Jacona.Las which give rise to thousands and thousands of visitors from many parts of the republic, as these parties are the most popular of Michoacan.\n\nThe term typically includes mariachi music and brass bands. In the field of art, is characterized by the production of wax sculptures prepared by Ms. Angela Gutiérrez Soto, who in turn learned from her mother Mrs. Sofia Soto Oseguera, and who in the months of December, January and February produced Birth of Baby Jesus (Bethlehem), with the wax figures that she makes herself.\n\nThe local cuisine includes huchepos with chile and/or sour cream, atole de grano, tacos al pastor and al vapor and pozole. Special mention to the very famous avocado popsicles and ice cream elaborated since 1944 by Don Antonio Vega González and family.\n\nSports\n\n"}
{"id": "1883337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883337", "title": "Jean-Paul Civeyrac", "text": "Jean-Paul Civeyrac\n\nJean-Paul Civeyrac (born 24 December 1964) is a French director whose films are usually characterized by close attention to music and actors' bodies. He has adapted a French novel by Anne Wiazemsky, \"Hymnes à l’amour\", with the title \"All the fine promises\" (2003). This movie was awarded by The Prix Jean Vigo 2003. Jean-Paul Civeyrac is professor at the French school, La Femis, and graduated from the University Lyon III (philosophy).\n\nJean-Paul Civeyrac has discovered many young talents :\n\nHis movie \"À travers la forêt \"was presented at Festival Paris Cinéma (2 July 2005) and at Toronto International Film Festival 2005 September.\n\nIn his survey of contemporary French cinema, Tim Palmer discusses Civeyrac's career in the context of his teaching at the major French film school, la Fémis; Civeyrac's status as an \"applied cinephile\" in which he carefully cites and revives the aesthetics of historical filmmakers like Mizoguchi and Cocteau; his neglected situation outside France; and his position as a remarkably uncompromising director, whose films often refuse to differentiate between fantasy and diegetic reality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883342", "title": "Jiquilpan, Michoacán", "text": "Jiquilpan, Michoacán\n\nJiquilpan (; also spelled Xiuquilpan, Xiquilpan, Xiquilpa, based on a Náhuatl word for \"place of tint plants\") is a municipality \"(municipio)\" in the Mexican state of Michoacán. Its municipal seat is Jiquilpan de Juárez. \n\nJiquilpan is the birthplace of two presidents of the republic: Anastasio Bustamante, who served as President of the Republic on three occasions in the mid-19th century; and also of one of the most popular presidents of Mexico, Lázaro Cárdenas. Jiquilpan is also the birthplace of Damián Alcázar, actor and movie director, who was in the films \"El crimen del padre Amaro\", \"La Ley de Herodes\", and , among others.\n\nIt has sister city exchange programs with Indio, California and Palmdale, California in the United States, where large numbers of residents from Jiquilpan relocated to in the 2000s. It is thought about half the population has relatives in Southern California. In the year 2000, the population was 25,778, but estimates can reach as high as 50,000 when seasonal migrant laborers come and stay there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883345", "title": "Mrs. Simpson", "text": "Mrs. Simpson\n\nMrs. Simpson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1883348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883348", "title": "Saputo Dairy UK", "text": "Saputo Dairy UK\n\nSaputo Dairy UK, a trading name of Dairy Crest Limited, is a leading British dairy products company. Its brands include Cathedral City Cheddar cheese, Country Life butter, Utterly Butterly, Vitalite and Clover. \n\nDairy Crest used to process and sell milk, wholesale and via doorstep deliveries, and owned the milkshake brand Frijj, until the sale of this part of the business to Germany's Müller in December 2015.\n\nThe company was listed on the London Stock Exchange as Dairy Crest plc, until it was acquired by Saputo in April 2019. Saputo rebranded the company under its own name later that year.\n\nDairy Crest was established in 1981, as the milk processing arm of the Milk Marketing Board. In 1983, the company launched \"Clover\", its dairy spread. In 1991, the company established a joint venture with French dairy company Yoplait called \"Yoplait Dairy Crest\" (often abbreviated to YDC) which is 51% owned by Yoplait and 49% by Dairy Crest and which distributes Yoplait brand products in the United Kingdom. In 1995, it bought the \"Cathedral City\" brand of cheese from Mendip Foods Ltd.\nThe business was privatised in August 1996, and Dairy Crest was listed on the London Stock Exchange. In July 2000, it acquired the dairy and cheese products division of Unigate in London and in November 2002, it acquired the St Ivel spreads company which had been based in Wootton Bassett in Wiltshire. In September 2004, it acquired the \"Country Life\" butter brand from the English Butter Marketing Company. \n\nIn July 2006, it acquired Express Dairies from Arla Foods for £33m. \n\nIn October 2006, it sold the majority of its own label cheese business to First Milk, its Scottish equivalent, along with the creameries and factory that produce most of the products concerned. In January 2007, Dairy Crest bought St Hubert for £248 million securing the \"Cholegram\", \"Le Fleurier\" and \"Omega 3\" brands, which are among the top selling spreads in France, and the \"Vallé\" brand which is the market leader in Italy.\n\nIn July 2013, Dairy Crest sold its doorstep milk delivery operations in the Northwest of England to Creamline Dairies, who now operate the milk rounds from the depots in Warrington, Flixton, Stockport and Macclesfield, and whose subsidiary, Mortons, operate all those in Wirral, Chester and Liverpool. On 6 November 2014, Dairy Crest announced a big slump in profits, down 95% to £900,000 in the six months to September. \n\nThe company agreed the sale of its entire legacy milk business, which processes and distributes milk, as well as the Frijj milkshake brand, to Germany's Müller for £80 million, to be combined with Müller's existing subsidiary Müller Wiseman Dairies. The sale was approved by the Competition and Markets Authority on 19 October 2015, and the sale was completed on 26 December 2015.\n\nOn 22 February 2019, it was announced that Canadian dairy company Saputo would be buying Dairy Crest. The company was valued at £975m, making each share worth 620p. The transaction was completed on 15 April 2019. Saputo renamed the business under its own brand in July 2019.\n\nThe company supplies cheese, spreads and drinks. Cheese brands include \"Cathedral City\", \"Davidstow Cheddar\" and \"Wexford\". Spread brands include \"Clover\", \"Country Life\", \"St Hubert\", \"Utterly Butterly\", \"Vitalite\" and \"Willow\". Drink brands include \"Country Life Milk\". Spread production is consolidated at Kirkby. \n\nCrudgington Creamery was closed in 2014, when production of spreads was concentrated at Kirkby, while its research and development facility was transferred to an innovation centre built by the company at Harper Adams University.\n"}
{"id": "1883352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883352", "title": "Trinidad, Bolivia", "text": "Trinidad, Bolivia\n\nTrinidad, officially La Santísima Trinidad (), is a city in Bolivia, capital of the department of Beni. The population is 130,000 (2010 official estimate).\n\nThe city was founded in 1686 by Father Cipriano Barace. In 1769 the town moved to its current location, 9 miles away, due to flooding. The original city was on the Mamoré River, but flooding and disease forced a move on the location of the city. It is located in the province of Cercado, one of Beni’s eight provinces.\n\nSited on the southern edge of the Amazon basin on the Llanos de Moxos/Mojos, the climate is hot and humid at all times.\nOne of the more notable features of the city is the open drains that surrounds every block of buildings. These are linked together by lidded ditches and thence to the local river. These are necessary due to the heavy rainfall that occurs between December and May.\n\nTrinidad, located in the Bolivian tropics, is hot and humid most of the year. This region of the country is heavily forested and many large rivers (all tributaries of the Amazon river) run through Beni. Like most cities in Bolivia, it is built around a central plaza with a large Catholic cathedral as its centerpiece. Trinidad was originally a small Jesuit town but is now a large city with over 100,000 inhabitants. Its mission-style church was demolished and rebuilt in 1923. Despite these changes, many of the original religious relics, paintings and statues are still housed in the cathedral, which faces the main plaza.\n\nThe City is surrounded by rivers, lakes and lagoons. There are many river tours and restaurants and resorts around the city’s main lagoons. Trinidad is also one of the first five Jesuit mission towns established and these are now part of the Misiones tour includes visits to San Javier, Loreto, San Pedro and San Ignacio de Moxos as well. Trinidad and San Ignacio de Moxos both take part in the International Baroque Music Festival every two years in Bolivia.\n\nIt is also home to Bolivian Navy flotilla.\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, Trinidad has a tropical monsoon climate with a lengthy rainy season and a short dry season.\n\nTrinidad has two singular museums. The Museo Itícola (Fish Fauna Museum) is the third largest of its kind in South America and houses over 400 specimens of fish species found in the region’s lakes and lagoons. It is located on the UAB University campus and is truly interesting. Here you can see tiny fish, piranhas, and a preserved pink river dolphin (full sized floating in formaldehyde). The Kenneth Lee Ethno-Archeological Museum is also a great place to visit. Here you can see exhibits of pottery, utensils and tools, textiles and other implements used by the Moxos culture.\n\nOf interest to ornithologists, the highly endangered blue-throated macaw (\"Ara glaucogularis\") in the surrounding countryside. Expeditions to see these can be locally arranged.\n\nAirport: Teniente Jorge Henrich Arauz\n\n"}
{"id": "1883360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883360", "title": "Computer-assisted personal interviewing", "text": "Computer-assisted personal interviewing\n\nComputer-assisted personal interviewing (CAPI) is an interviewing technique in which the respondent or interviewer uses an electronic device to answer the questions. It is similar to computer-assisted telephone interviewing, except that the interview takes place in person instead of over the telephone. This method is usually preferred over a telephone interview when the questionnaire is long and complex. It has been classified as a personal interviewing technique because an interviewer is usually present to serve as a host and to guide the respondent. If no interviewer is present, the term Computer-Assisted Self Interviewing (CASI) may be used. An example of a situation in which CAPI is used as the method of data collection is the British Crime Survey.\n\nCharacteristics of this interviewing technique are:\n\n\n\nThe big difference between a computer-assisted self interview (CASI) and a computer-assisted personal interview (CAPI) is that in the latter an interviewer is present, but not in the former. There are two kinds of computer-assisted self interviewing: a \"video-CASI\" and an \"audio-CASI\". Both types of computer-assisted self interviewing might have a big advantage over computer-assisted personal interviewing, because subjects could be more inclined to answer sensitive questions. The reason for this is that they feel that a CASI is more private due to the absence of an interviewer.\n\nThis form of interview is substantially cheaper when a large number of respondents is required, because:\n\n\nVideo-CASI are often used to make a complex questionnaire more understandable for the person that is being interviewed. With video-CASI, respondents read questions as they appear on the screen and enter their answers with the keyboard (or some other input device). The computer takes care of the \"housekeeping\" or administrative tasks for the respondent. The advantages of video-CASI are automated control of complex question routing, the ability to tailor questions based on previous responses, real-time control of out-of-range and inconsistent responses, and the general standardization of the interview.\n\nVideo-CASI possesses significant disadvantages, however. Most obviously, video-CASI demands that the respondent can read with some facility. A second, more subtle disadvantage is that, at least with the character-based displays of many video-CASI applications of today, the visual and reading burden imposed on the respondent appears to be much greater than with an attractively designed paper form. The size of the characters and other qualities of the computer user interface seem to demand more reading and computer screen experience than that possessed by many who might be competent readers of printed material. Graphical user interfaces (GUI) may reduce or eliminate this problem, but the present software used to developed video-CASI applications usually lacks this feature.\n\nAudio-CASI (sometimes called Telephone-CASI) asks respondents questions in an auditory fashion. Audio-CASI has the same advantage as Video-CASI in that it can make a complex questionnaire more understandable for the person that is being interviewed. It provides privacy (or anonymity) of response equivalent to that of paper self-administered questionnaires (SAQs). In contrast to Video-CASI, Audio-CASI proffers these potential advantages without limiting data collection to the literate segment of the population.\n\nBy adding simultaneous audio renditions of each question and instruction aloud, audio-CASI can remove the literacy barriers to self-administration of either Video-CASI or SAQ. In audio-CASI, an audio box is attached to the computer; respondents put on headphones and listen to the question and answer choices as they are displayed on the screen. Respondents have the option of turning off the screen so that people coming into the room cannot read the questions, turning off the sound if they can read faster than the questions are spoken, or keeping both the sound and video on as they answer the questions. Respondents can enter a response at any time and move to the next question without waiting for completion of the audio question and answer choices for a question.\n\nThe advantages of audio-CASI, then, are that the addition of audio makes CASI fully applicable to a very wide range of respondents. Persons with limited or no reading abilities are able to listen, understand, and respond to the full content of the survey instrument. Observers of audio-CASI interviews also often report that even with seemingly strong readers, audio-CASI interviews seem to more effectively and fully capture respondents’ concentration. This may be because wearing headphones increases the insulation of the respondent for external stimuli, and also may be explained by the fact that the recorded human voice in the audio component evokes a more personalized interaction between the respondent and the instrument.\n\nComputer-assisted interviewing methods such as CAPI, CATI, or CASI, have been the focus of systematic reviews on the effects of computer-assisted interviewing on data quality. Those reviews indicate that computer-assisted methods are accepted by both interviewers and respondents, and these methods tend to improve data quality.\n\nIn a study that compared Audio-CASI with paper SAQs and Video-CASI, researchers showed that both Audio- and Video-CASI systems work well even with subjects who do not have extensive familiarity with computers. Indeed, respondents preferred the Audio- and Video-CASI to paper SAQs. The computerized systems also eliminated errors in execution of “skip” instructions that occurred when subjects completed paper SAQs. In a number of instances, the computerized systems also appeared to encourage more complete reporting of sensitive behaviors such as use of illicit drugs. Among the two CASI systems, respondents rated Audio-CASI more favorably than Video-CASI in terms of interest, ease of use, and overall preference.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883362", "title": "Channel (digital image)", "text": "Channel (digital image)\n\nColor digital images are made of pixels, and pixels are made of combinations of primary colors represented by a series of code. A channel in this context is the grayscale image of the same size as a color image, made of just one of these primary colors. For instance, an image from a standard digital camera will have a red, green and blue channel. A grayscale image has just one channel.\n\nIn geographic information systems, channels are often referred to as raster bands. Another closely related concept is feature maps, which are used in convolutional neural networks.\n\nIn the digital realm, there can be any number of conventional primary colors making up an image; a channel in this case is extended to be the grayscale image based on any such conventional primary color. By extension, a channel is any grayscale image of the same dimension as and associated with the original image.\n\n\"Channel\" is a conventional term used to refer to a certain component of an image. In reality, any image format can use any algorithm internally to store images. For instance, GIF images actually refer to the color in each pixel by an index number, which refers to a table where three color components are stored. However, regardless of how a specific format stores the images, discrete color channels can always be determined, as long as a final color image can be rendered.\n\nThe concept of channels is extended beyond the visible spectrum in multispectral and hyperspectral imaging. In that context, each channel corresponds to a range of wavelengths and contains spectroscopic information. The channels can have multiple widths and ranges.\n\nThree main channel types (or color models) exist, and have respective strengths and weaknesses.\n\nAn RGB image has three channels: red, green, and blue. RGB channels roughly follow the color receptors in the human eye, and are used in computer displays and image scanners.\n\nIf the RGB image is 24-bit (the industry standard as of 2005), each channel has 8 bits, for red, green, and blue—in other words, the image is composed of three images (one for each channel), where each image can store discrete pixels with conventional brightness intensities between 0 and 255. If the RGB image is 48-bit (very high color-depth), each channel is made of 16-bit images.\n\nNotice how the grey trees have similar brightness in all channels, the red dress is much brighter in the red channel than in the other two, and how the green part of the picture is shown much brighter in the green channel.\n\nYUV images are an affine transformation of the RGB colorspace, originated in broadcasting. The Y channel correlates approximately with perceived intensity, whilst the U and V channels provide colour information.\n\nA CMYK image has four channels: cyan, magenta, yellow, and key (black). CMYK is the standard for print, where subtractive coloring is used.\n\nA 32-bit CMYK image (the industry standard as of 2005) is made of four 8-bit channels, one for cyan, one for magenta, one for yellow, and one for key color (typically is black). 64-bit storage for CMYK images (16-bit per channel) is not common, since CMYK is usually device-dependent, whereas RGB is the generic standard for device-independent storage.\n\nHSV, or hue saturation value, stores color information in three channels, just like RGB, but one channel is devoted to brightness (value), and the other two convey colour information. The value channel is similar to (but not exactly the same as) the CMYK black channel, or its negative.\n\nHSV is especially useful in lossy video compression, where loss of color information is less noticeable to the human eye.\n\nThe alpha channel stores transparency information—the higher the value, the more opaque that pixel is. No camera or scanner measures transparency, although physical objects certainly can possess transparency, but the alpha channel is extremely useful for compositing digital images together.\n\nBluescreen technology involves filming actors in front of a primary color background, then setting that color to transparent, and compositing it with a background.\n\nThe GIF and PNG image formats use alpha channels on the World Wide Web to merge images on web pages so that they appear to have an arbitrary shape even on a non-uniform background.\n\nIn 3D computer graphics, multiple channels are used for additional control over material rendering; e.g., controlling specularity and so on.\n\nIn digitizing images, the color channels are converted to numbers. Since images contain thousands of pixels, each with multiple channels, channels are usually encoded in as few bits as possible. Typical values are 8 bits per channel or 16 bits per channel. Indexed color effectively gets rid of channels altogether to get, for instance, 3 channels into 8 bits (GIF) or 16 bits.\n\nSince the brain doesn't necessarily perceive distinctions in each channel to the same degree as in other channels, it is possible that differing the number of bits allocated to each channel will result in more optimal storage; in particular, for RGB images, compressing the blue channel the most and the red channel the least may be better than giving equal space to each. This type of \"preferential\" compression is the result of studies which show that the human retina actually uses the red channel to distinguish detail, along with the green channel in a lesser measure, and uses the blue channel for background or environmental information.\n\nAmong other techniques, lossy video compression uses chroma subsampling to reduce the bit depth in color channels (hue and saturation), while keeping all brightness information (value in HSV).\n\n16-bit HiColor stores red and blue in 5 bits, and green in 6 bits.\n"}
{"id": "1883372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883372", "title": "Duke of Florence", "text": "Duke of Florence\n\nIl Duca di Firenze, rendered in English as The Duke of Florence, was a title created in 1532 by Pope Clement VII. There were effectively only two dukes, Alessandro de' Medici and Cosimo de' Medici, the second duke being elevated to The Grand Duke of Tuscany, causing the Florentine title to become subordinate to the greater Tuscan title.\n\nIn 1532, Pope Clement VII, who was born Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici, appointed Alessandro de' Medici as duke over the Republic of Florence, the de' Medici family having acted as \"de facto\" rulers over the city of Florence since 1434 when Cosimo \"Il Vecchio\" de Medici (also known by his supporters as \"Pater Patriae\", or \"Father of his country\"), returned to the city from his short-lived exile in the Republic of Venice by the Alberti and Strozzi families who were also political rivals of the Medici family. The duchy would bolster de' Medici power and influence in the region, which had just a few years prior been restored by Emperor Charles V after political upheaval against the de' Medici pope and de' Medici rulers of Florence in 1527. Alessandro is also believed by historians to have been the illegitimate son of either Pope Clement VII or Lorenzo II de' Medici, Duke of Urbino.\n\nIn 1535, a delegation of Florentine nobles, which included the Pazzi family who previously conspired to assassinate Lorenzo de' Medici and was headed by Alessandro’s cousin Ippolito de' Medici, sought to gain the assistance of Emperor Charles V & I to depose Alessandro. Charles rejected the delegations’ appeals, as Alessandro had been wedded to the emperor's daughter Margaret of Parma.\n\nAlessandro ruled as duke less than four years, being assassinated by Lorenzino de' Medici on 6 January 1537. With no legitimate issue, Cosimo de' Medici was chosen to succeed his distant relative by Florentine officials. Cosimo completely overhauled the bureaucracy and administration of Florence, and, in 1542, the Imperial Armed Forces stationed in Florence by Charles V & I were withdrawn.\n\nOn 17 April 1555, Florentine and Spanish forces occupied the Republic of Siena after a brief conflict. Philip II of Spain bestowed the territory on Cosimo as a hereditary fiefdom in July 1557. In 1548, Cosimo purchased Elba from the Republic of Genoa and based his new developing navy there. Cosimo founded the port city of Livorno and allowed the city’s inhabitants to enjoy freedom of religion. The ducal family moved into the Palazzo Pitti in 1560. Cosimo commissioned the architect Vasari to build the Uffizi as offices for the Medici bank. Finally, Cosimo was elevated to The Grand Duke of Tuscany in 1569 by Pope Pius V. This effectively ended the Duchy of Florence, which became subordinate to the more elevated grand ducal title. The de' Medici continued to rule over Florence and Tuscany until their extinction in 1737 after the death of Gian Gastone de' Medici, who had no children.\n\nAlessandro de' Medici\n\nCosimo de' Medici\n"}
{"id": "1883373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883373", "title": "Lego Star Wars: Revenge of the Brick", "text": "Lego Star Wars: Revenge of the Brick\n\nLego Star Wars: Revenge of the Brick is a brickfilm (Lego short film) loosely based on \"\". \"Revenge of the Brick\" premiered on the Cartoon Network on May 8, 2005, at 7:00 p.m. EST. The movie can now be seen in QuickTime format on the Lego website or directly downloaded. It was also released with the \"Clone Wars Volume Two\" DVD as one of its special features.\n\nThe spoof was produced by Treehouse Animation, which has since collaborated again with Lego on producing Batman short films similar to it. Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker in the original trilogy of Star Wars films, was involved in the creation of this project and narrates a \"making-of\" feature on the website. According to Hamill, \"as the original Luke Skywalker, I think I know something about making Star Wars movies. So the fit with Treehouse [Animations] made perfect sense.\"\n\nThe film also appeared on October 2, 2005, at the 2005 Woodstock Film Festival, in the \"Animation for Kids\" category.\n\nThe short is basically a very tongue-in-cheek look at the important happenings of \"Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith\", and is presented in a 3-D computer animation format, as is Treehouse's specialty.\n\nThe spoof features stylized versions of the Lego \"Star Wars Episode III\" building toys in fantasy situations, portraying the interactivity of Lego in various scenes. Lego's classic mini-figures are also made more 3-D in their detail, with more flexibility in movement portrayed to facilitate the film's action sequences.\n\n\"The following is a detailed overview of the mini-movie's plot, which is considered non-canonical.\"\n\nThe movie begins with a short opening crawl, detailing that droids belonging to the \"evil Separatists\" have amassed above the Wookiee planet of Kashyyyk, and that Jedi Knights have been sent to stop the invasion and restore peace.\n\nTwo Republic fighters appear above the planet and fly towards a Trade Federation control ship (from \"\"). Count Dooku watches from inside, and then, smiling, presses a button, which turns a revolving chair with General Grievous sitting on it.\n\nBack outside, Anakin Skywalker (along with a Clone Trooper pilot) is being chased in his ARC-170 by three enemy Droid Tri-fighters. Anakin leads them into a trench and has two of the enemy ships destroyed by laser cannons fired by their own side. The remaining craft launches a Buzz droid at the ARC-170, which lands near the Clone Trooper rear gunner, who uses a can of \"Buzz Spray\" to dislodge the robot. The Buzz droid moves over to Anakin's window, and after being removed by Anakin's windshield wipers, the droid lands on the craft's engine and begins to cut into it. Back inside the control ship, Count Dooku tries to watch the battle outside on his television, but only receives static or intermittent test patterns. The shot zooms out to reveal General Grievous balancing on top of the television, acting as a living antenna.\n\nMeanwhile, Obi-Wan Kenobi is being chased by another Vulture Droid, who launches two missiles at his Jedi interceptor. Obi-Wan uses the Force to dismantle his ship into individual LEGO pieces, and reassembles it after the missiles pass, which instead hits two other enemy ships, destroying them. Anakin's ship is hit by laser fire from the control ship and explodes into its component pieces, but Anakin uses the Force to reassemble it – into a biplane. Looking embarrassed, he again reassembles his craft into a new starfighter, and Force-pushes the Buzz droid into the Trade Federation control ship, creating a hole in the wall. Anakin's craft flies through the hole (with Anakin standing on top of the craft rather than sitting inside it), and encounters three droidekas standing on a platform. As his Clone Trooper pilot hangs onto the wing for dear life, Anakin throws his lightsaber like a Boomerang, which destroys the platform's support, sending it tumbling down.\n\nObi-Wan's Jedi interceptor is hit by enemy laser fire, and his right wing is destroyed. However, he uses the Force to disassemble several droid fighters to their individual pieces and attaches them to his craft. He pilots his y-wing towards the Trade Federation control ship and fires a few well-placed shots at it, causing a giant explosion. Anakin's ship escapes from an access tunnel just in time as the control ship spectacularly explodes, and Obi-Wan and Anakin head down to Kashyyyk.\n\nThe sequence shifts to Kashyyyk. Yoda spots some battle droids and uses his Force powers to destroy several of these droids and reassemble them in a higgledy-piggledy fashion, and then uses his lightsaber to destroy the remaining droids. An A5 Juggernaut arrives, and Mace Windu and the Clone troopers come out of the vehicle and attack, joined by the Wookiees under Chewbacca, Anakin and Obi-Wan.\n\nAs the battle commences, Chewbacca dodges an enemy droid tank, which skids to a halt and turns to charge again, determined to run him down. Chewbacca hastily assembles a rocket launcher out of spare Lego pieces and shoots a rocket at the enemy, hitting one of its tracks. The tank skids out of control and almost hits Chewbacca, who faints from shock.\n\nAlmost all the clones and Wookiees have been destroyed or have run away; Anakin, Obi-Wan, Yoda, Mace Windu and Chewbacca find themselves surrounded. But then Wookiee reinforcements arrive and beat the droids back. The remaining droids retreat in a demoralised rabble.\n\nThe next sequence takes place in a setting similar to the cantina in \"A New Hope\", including its famous soundtrack, with General Grievous acting as the bartender and several other \"Star Wars\" characters in attendance. R2-D2, carrying some drinks on a tray strapped to his back, passes Yoda, who uses his force powers to deliver the drinks to the next table. Obi-Wan and Anakin are drinking happily when Chewbacca takes a Polaroid picture of Anakin and Obi-Wan. Seeing that the picture is actually of Darth Vader and Old Ben Kenobi in a lightsaber battle (instead of Anakin and a younger Obi-Wan standing together happily), Chewbacca faints yet again, ending the movie.\n\nThe end credits show, accompanied by a clip of Darth Vader conducting, with his lightsaber as a baton, some clones in the famous Imperial March.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883376", "title": "Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics", "text": "Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics\n\nSociety for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) is an academic association dedicated to the use of mathematics in industry. SIAM is the world's largest professional association devoted to applied mathematics, and roughly two-thirds of its membership resides within the United States. Founded in 1951, the organization began holding annual national meetings in 1954, and now hosts conferences, publishes books and scholarly journals, and engages in lobbying in issues of interest to its membership. The focus for the society is applied, computational, and industrial mathematics, and the society often promotes its acronym as \"Science and Industry Advance with Mathematics\". Members include engineers, scientists, and mathematicians, both those employed in academia and those working in industry. The society supports educational institutions promoting applied mathematics.\n\nSIAM is one of the four member organizations of the Joint Policy Board for Mathematics.\n\nMembership is open to both individuals and organizations. By the end of its first full year of operation, SIAM had 130 members; by 1968, it had 3,700.\n\nStudent members can join SIAM chapters affiliated and run by students and faculty at universities. Most universities with SIAM chapters are in the United States (including Harvard and MIT), but SIAM chapters also exist in other countries, for example at Oxford, at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and at Peking University. SIAM publishes the \"SIAM Undergraduate Research Online\", a venue for undergraduate research in applied and computational mathematics. (SIAM also offers the SIAM Visiting Lecture Program, which helps arrange visits from industrial mathematicians to speak to student groups about applied mathematics and their own professional experiences.)\n\nIn 2009, SIAM instituted a Fellows program to recognize certain members who have made outstanding contributions to the fields that SIAM serves.\n\nThe society includes a number of activity groups (SIAGs) to allow for more focused group discussions and collaborations. Activity groups organize domain-specific conferences and minisymposia, and award prizes.\n\nUnlike special interest groups in similar academic associations like ACM, activity groups are chartered for a fixed period of time, typically for two years, and require submitting a petition to the SIAM Council and Board for renewal. Charter approval is largely based on group size, as topics that were considered hot at one time may have fewer active researchers later.\n\nCurrent Activity Groups:\n\nPhilosopher Ian Hacking notes that SIAM tends to focus on \"'hard' or 'dry' applications\", with less emphasis on the life sciences: \"There is a lot more applied mathematics in the life sciences, and that field is growing incredibly fast, but not within SIAM.\"\n\n, SIAM publishes 18 research journals:\n\nSIAM publishes roughly 20 books each year, including textbooks, conference proceedings and monographs. Many of these are issued in themed series, such as \"Advances in design and control\", \"Financial mathematics\" and \"Monographs on discrete mathematics and applications\". In particular, SIAM distributes books produced by Gilbert Strang's Wellesley-Cambridge Press, such as his \"Introduction to Linear Algebra\" (5th edition, 2016). Organizations such as libraries can obtain DRM-free access to SIAM books in eBook format for a subscription fee.\n\nSIAM organizes conferences and meetings throughout the year focused on various topics in applied math and computational science. For example, SIAM has hosted an annual conference on data mining since 2001. The establishment of the SIAM Conferences on Discrete Mathematics, held every two years, has been regarded as a sign of the growth of graph theory as a prominent topic of study.\n\nIn conjunction with the Association for Computing Machinery, SIAM also organizes the annual Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, using the format of a theoretical computer science conference rather than the mathematics conference format that SIAM typically uses for its conferences.\n\nSIAM recognizes applied mathematician and computational scientists for their contributions to the fields. Prizes include:\n\nThe John von Neumann Lecture prize was established in 1959 with funds from IBM and other industry corporations, and is awarded for \"outstanding and distinguished contributions to the field of applied mathematical sciences and for the effective communication of these ideas to the community\". The recipient receives a monetary award and presents a survey lecture at the Annual Meeting.\n\nThe Mathworks Mega Math Challenge is an applied mathematics modeling competition for high school students in the United States. Scholarship prizes totaled $60,000 in 2006, and have since been raised to $150,000. It is funded by Mathworks. Originally, the prize was sponsored by the financial services company Moody's and known as the \"Moody's Mega Math Challenge.\"\n\nThe chief elected officer of SIAM is the president, elected for a single two-year term. SIAM employs an executive director and staff.\n\nThe following people have been presidents of the society:\n\n"}
{"id": "1883381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883381", "title": "St. Louis Walk of Fame", "text": "St. Louis Walk of Fame\n\nThe St. Louis Walk of Fame honors notable people from St. Louis, Missouri, who made contributions to the culture of the United States. All inductees were either born in the Greater St. Louis area or spent their formative or creative years there. Contribution can be in any area; most of the current inductees made their achievements in acting, entertainment, music, sports, art/architecture, broadcasting, journalism, science/education and literature.\n\nAs of April 2019, the walk consisted of more than 150 brass stars and bronze plaques, each containing an inductee's name and a summary of his or her accomplishments. The stars and plaques are set into the sidewalks of Delmar Boulevard in the Delmar Loop area, which is mostly in University City, Missouri, an inner-ring suburb of St. Louis. The walk is about five miles (eight kilometers) west of the indoor Gateway Classic Walk of Fame, a recognition given by another organization, though some, including Dick Gregory, Jackie Joyner-Kersee, and Ozzie Smith, have received hall of fame recognition from both St. Louis groups.\n\nAnyone can submit a nomination by mail by supplying basic identification information as well as a description of the nominee's accomplishments and connection to St. Louis. About 30 to 40 finalists are culled from the nominees by the walk's founder and director; the finalists are sent to a selection committee of 120 St. Louisans. The selection committee has been variously described as:\nor\n\nPrior to 2007, the open-air induction ceremony was always been held the third week of May, though more recently it has depended on the availability of the latest inductees.\n\nThe walk was founded by developer Joe Edwards, owner of Blueberry Hill pub/restaurant and other establishments located along the walk. Its first stars and plaques were installed in 1989; the inductees that year were musician Chuck Berry, dancer and choreographer Katherine Dunham, bridge builder James B. Eads, poet T. S. Eliot, ragtime composer Scott Joplin, aviator Charles Lindbergh, baseball player Stan Musial, actor Vincent Price, newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer and playwright Tennessee Williams. Ten more were selected for each of the next four years (in order to get the walk established), but starting in 1994 no more than three have been awarded in any year.\n\nIn May 2008, Cedric the Entertainer received the first star and plaque located in the City of St. Louis portion of the loop. The walk (and the boundaries of the Delmar Loop in general) has been expanded eastward by Edwards in recent years as Edwards continues to invest in the area's redevelopment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883383", "title": "Michel Polnareff", "text": "Michel Polnareff\n\nMichel Polnareff (born 3 July 1944, Nérac, Lot-et-Garonne, France) is a French singer-songwriter, who was popular in France from the mid-1960s until the early 1990s with his penultimate original album, \"Kāma-Sūtra\". He is still critically acclaimed and occasionally tours in France, Belgium and Switzerland.\n\nMichel was born into an artistic family: his mother, Simone Lane, was a Breton dancer and his father, Leib Polnareff () or was a Russian Jewish immigrant from Odessa who worked with Édith Piaf. He learned piano by age five and was a very good music student. He attended the Cours Hattemer, a private school. He learned the guitar, and after his studies, military service, and a brief time in insurance, he began to play his guitar on the steps of the Sacré Cœur.\n\nIn 1965 Polnareff won a prize in Paris of recording at Barclay Records, but as part of the counterculture he turned down this opportunity. It was Lucien Morisse, then director at Europe 1, who made him sign with AZ. His first disc, \"La Poupée qui fait non\" (1966), was an unexpected success. Its new musical style and Polnareff's atypical image, crossed borders. During this period, he played concerts in Brussels for one week sharing the bill with Jeff Beck.\n\nPolnareff also played with his image: black glasses, fancy trousers, and ambiguous provocations. His song \"L'Amour avec Toi\" could not be played before 10 pm because it was considered \"pornographic\" at the time in France (the song is mild by today's standards). From 1969 on, Polnareff was hugely successful: tours, music videos, hits. He also became the target of scandalmongers.\n\nTragedy struck in September 1970, when his friend Lucien Morisse committed suicide. In the same time, he also suffered a relationship crisis. After a rest period in the Paris area, and long months in isolation healing from his depression, Polnareff gradually resumed touring. His health and his morale improved, but not his sight: he was forced to protect his eyes with thick, dark sunglasses. His problems didn't stop there. In 1972, a promotional poster for his 1972 Polnarevolution tour showed his naked buttocks. Although the scandal benefitted him commercially, it brought censorship and lawsuits.\n\nThen, during a world tour, he learned that Bernard Seneau, his manager, had run off with his money, leaving him broke. Unable to pay his debts, and crushed by the death of his mother, he left France for the United States, where he lived in anonymity. He was joined by his friend, Annie Fargue who became for many years his manager.\n\nThen, in 1975, his song \"Jesus for Tonight\" made it onto the American Billboard. He also created the soundtrack for the exploitation rape drama \"Lipstick\" (1976), which starred American model Margaux Hemingway and her sister Mariel. But his success in the United States was not as great as in France. Plus, Polnareff had left behind his fellow musicians and the musical community. He discovered a passion for computers. A tour in 1975 brought him to Belgium, where thousands of French fans came to see him. His forced exile did not prevent him from composing, and his albums had various success. But it was \"Bulles\" in 1981 that proved that France had not forgotten him.\n\nPolnareff made a surprise return to France in 1989. Without any promotion, \"Goodbye Marylou\" invaded the airwaves and became a hit. For a year and a half, Polnareff was locked up at Royal Monceau in Paris and recorded \"Kāma-Sūtra\", with Mike Oldfield adding some guitar parts. The album was released in February 1990, met with commercial success and marked Polnareff's true return with hits such as \"Kâma Sûtra\", \"LNA HO\" and \"Toi et moi\".\n\nRumors spread about his health, and in 1994, he finally decided to have a cataract surgically (and successfully) removed to prevent him from becoming blind.\n\nPolnareff returned to the United States and performed live (for the first time since ages) on 27 September 1995 at The Roxy in Sunset Boulevard with executive-producer / guitarist Dick Smith Dick Smith (Earth, Wind and Fire, Aretha Franklin) and Alex Acuña (Weather Report, Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson). The performance was released in 1996 as the ambitious live album \"Live at the Roxy\". The album achieved platinum certification in France. To mark this occasion, the channel Canal + devoted a special to him entitled \"\"À la Recherche de Polnareff\"\" (\"In Search of Polnareff\"), in which he appeared in military uniform (from whence his recent nickname \"The Admiral\" may come) and was interviewed in the desert by Michel Denisot. This was followed by an acoustic mini-concert in the middle of the California desert.\n\nFollowing the media attention in 1995 and 1996, Polnareff could have restarted his career as though nothing had happened. However, his fans still await, almost twenty years later, an album which may never come. However, some of his early songs became popular again, like \"La Poupée qui fait non\" covered by Mylène Farmer and Khaled (1996), and \"On Ira Tous au Paradis\", which became the theme song of Restaurants du Cœur in 1998. His 1977 hit \"Lettre à France\" enjoyed a new success in 2004 following its inclusion on the French version of the \"Star Academy\" talent contest.\n\nOn 22 November 2004, and again on 18 December 2005, France 3 broadcast a one and a half-hour documentary entitled \"\"Michel Polnareff Dévoilé\"\" (\"Michel Polnareff Revealed\"). It includes images from rare files mixed with interviews with media personalities like Marc-Olivier Fogiel, Jacques Séguéla, Jean-Luc Lahaye and Frédéric Beigbeder explaining to the televiewers what Michel Polnareff represented for them and for France. Polnareff also revealed that he was working on a new album.\n\nOn 12 May 2006, Michel Polnareff announced that he would be giving a series of concerts between 2 and 14 March 2007. Ticket sales rocketed, showing that Polnareff has not lost his gleam. On Bastille Day, 2007, Polnareff gave a free concert.\n\nIn 2001, death rapper Necro sampled Polnareff's \"Voyages\" for his song \"Light My Fire\". English band The Shortwave Set sampled this song as well for their single \"Is It Any Wonder?\" in 2005.\nMasher (L)SD sampled \"Sous Quelle E'toile Suis Je ne?\" for his tune\n\"Howards' Thinking Clearly\", on the CD \"That's CRAZY Music!\" (2005)\n\nThe 2004 Korean TV drama \"Sorry, I love You\" in Korean 미안하다, 사랑한다 (\"Mi'an'ha'da, Sa'rang'han'da\" or aka \"MiSa\") soundtrack largely drew from Polnareff songs like \"Qui a tué Grand-Maman ?\" and \"ça n'arrive qu'aux autres\". It was aired on channel KBS 2004/11/09~2004/12/28. The soundtrack was released in two commercial CDs.\n\nIn November 2013, Polnareff had sold in total 3,9 million albums and 4,9 million singles in France.\n\nIn 2014, a documentary, called \"Quand l'écran s'allume\" pictured Polnareff, his partner Danyellah and their son Louka, in theatres first, and on TV a few months later.\n\nAt the end of 2014, Polnareff started recording a new album. His long-awaiting fans are really impatient.\n\nOn 8 December 2015, Polnareff announced the release of his new album in the first half of 2016 (between January and April 2016) and a new tour of 50 dates, mostly in France but also in Belgium and Switzerland, split into two legs : a Summer leg due to start on 30 April 2016 in Epernay and to end on 26 July 2016 (including a four-date stay at the Paris-Bercy Arena in early May 2016 and many appearances at Summer Festivals) and an Autumn leg due to start on 4 November 2016 and to end on 10 December 2016 in Bordeaux.\n\nOn 18 December 2015, a week before Christmas, Polnareff released \"L'Homme en rouge\", the first single from his upcoming album and his first single since 2006 (only as a digital download and on streaming). \"L'Homme en rouge\" deals with Santa Claus.\n\nIn late April 2016, just before the beginning of the tour, Polnareff revealed that the new album was not finished yet, as he's still working on 3 of the 9 announced tracks due to appear on it, that he has planned to play live during the tour a new song from it entitled \"Sumi\" about his SM experience with a geisha in Fukuoka, Japan and that a song he wrote about his son Louka – simply entitled \"Louka's song\" – will appear on the new album.\n\nOn 3 October 2018, Polnareff announced the forthcoming release on 30 November 2018 of \"Enfin!\", his (28-year) long-awaited new studio album. The album received a lukewarm reception from the press and the fans.\n\nOn 28 December 2010, Polnareff's girlfriend Danyellah gave birth to a boy in Los Angeles. On 21 February 2011, Polnareff announced via a Facebook post that a DNA test had revealed that he was not the biological father of the child. A later post indicated that his girlfriend had disappeared with the baby.\nThey were separated for a few months, but are now reunited with their son, Louka.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883395", "title": "Phendimetrazine", "text": "Phendimetrazine\n\nPhendimetrazine (Bontril, Adipost, Anorex-SR, Appecon, Melfiat, Obezine, Phendiet, Plegine, Prelu-2, Statobex) is a stimulant drug of the morpholine chemical class used as an appetite suppressant.\n\nPhendimetrazine functions as a prodrug to phenmetrazine; approximately 30 percent of an oral dose is converted into it. Phendimetrazine can essentially be thought of as an extended-release formulation of phenmetrazine with less potential for abuse. Phendimetrazine is an anorectic drug which acts as a norepinephrine-dopamine releasing agent (NDRA).\n\nAs an amphetamine congener, its structure incorporates the backbone of methamphetamine, a potent CNS stimulant. While the addition of an N-methyl group to amphetamine significantly increases its potency and bioavailability, methylation of phenmetrazine renders the compound virtually inactive. However, phendimetrazine is a prodrug for phenmetrazine which acts as the active metabolite. Phendimetrazine possesses preferable pharmacokinetics over phenmetrazine as a therapeutic agent because its metabolization by demethylases produces a more steady and prolonged exposure of active drug within the body. This decreases abuse potential as the peak blood-concentration of active phenmetrazine that's produced from a single dose of phendimetrazine is lower than a single therapeutically equivalent dose of phenmetrazine. \n\nIndicated as a short-term secondary treatment for exogenous obesity, phendimetrazine immediate-release 35mg tablets are typically consumed one hour before meals, not to exceed three doses daily. Phendimetrazine is also manufactured as a 105mg extended-release capsule for once daily dosing, typically consumed 30 to 60 minutes before a morning meal. Whereas the immediate-release formulation has a maximum daily dosage of 210mg (6 tablets), the extended-release capsules have a maximum daily dosage of 105mg (one capsule).\n\nAccording to the List of Psychotropic Substances under International Control published by the International Narcotics Control Board, phendimetrazine is a Schedule III controlled substance under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883401", "title": "Jiquilpan de Juárez", "text": "Jiquilpan de Juárez\n\nJiquilpan de Juárez is a town of about 15,000 residents in northwest Michoacán, Mexico, near the border with the states of Colima and Jalisco. It is the seat of the municipio of Jiquilpan and the birthplace of President Lázaro Cárdenas (1934–40). The city is home to the \"Centro de Estudios de la Revolución Mexicana Lázaro Cárdenas\" and the Instituto Tecnológico de Jiquilpan.\n"}
{"id": "1883407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883407", "title": "Frederick E. Morgan", "text": "Frederick E. Morgan\n\nLieutenant General Sir Frederick Edgworth Morgan, (5 February 1894 – 19 March 1967) was a senior officer of the British Army who fought in both world wars. He is best known as the chief of staff to the Supreme Allied Commander (COSSAC), the original planner of Operation Overlord.\n\nA graduate of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, Morgan was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Royal Field Artillery in 1913. During the First World War he served on the Western Front as an artillery subaltern and staff officer. Afterwards he served two long tours with the British Army in India.\n\nShortly before the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, Morgan was promoted to brigadier and assumed command of the 1st Support Group of the 1st Armoured Division, which he led during the Battle of France. In May 1942 he became a lieutenant general and given command of I Corps. Morgan's headquarters was designated Force 125, and given the task of dealing with a German thrust through Spain to Gibraltar that never occurred. In March 1943 he was appointed chief of staff to the Supreme Allied Commander (Designate), or COSSAC. As COSSAC he directed the planning for Operation Overlord. When General Dwight D. Eisenhower became Supreme Allied Commander, Major General Bedell Smith became chief of staff at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF), while Morgan became deputy chief of staff.\n\nAfter the war, Morgan served as Chief of Operations for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) in Germany until his position in Germany was eliminated following publication of \"off the record\" comments concerning alleged incompetence and corruption within UNRRA, including the alleged diverting of UNRRA resources to support of Zionist ambitions in Palestine. In 1951, Morgan became Controller of Atomic Energy, and was present for Operation Hurricane, the first British atomic weapons tests at the Montebello Islands in 1952. His position was abolished in 1954 with the creation of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority but he remained as Controller of Nuclear Weapons until 1956.\n\nFrederick Morgan was born in Paddock Wood, Kent, on 5 February 1894, the eldest son among nine children of Frederick Beverley Morgan, a timber importer, and his wife Clare Elizabeth née Horrocks. He was raised at Mascall's Manor, Paddock Wood. He commenced his education at Hurstleigh, a private school in Tunbridge Wells in 1902. At an early age it was decided that Frederick would become a British Army officer, and in 1907 he entered Clifton College, a school noted for its connections with the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. At Clifton he played rugby and cricket, and served in the School Cadet Corps, which became the Officers' Training Corps (OTC) in 1908. As a cadet sergeant, he was one of many who lined the route to Buckingham Palace for the Coronation of George V of the United Kingdom in 1911. He eventually rose to the rank of second lieutenant. Morgan duly passed the entrance examination for Woolwich, which he entered in 1912.\n\nMorgan was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Royal Artillery on 17 July 1913, and joined the 41st Battery, 42nd Brigade, Royal Field Artillery at Aldershot. He volunteered for service in India, and in January 1914 departed on the British-India Steam Navigation Company troopship \"Rewa\", joining the 84th Battery, 11th Brigade, Royal Field Artillery, which was stationed in Jabalpur.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the First World War in August 1914, Morgan's battery departed for the Western Front in October 1914 as part of the 3rd (Lahore) Division. Morgan suffered a near-miss from a German 5.9-inch gun which blew him into the air and buried him in a shell hole, and he was evacuated to hospital in Boulogne with shell shock. He was granted a short sick leave in England only to be present when news reached his family that his brother had been killed in action. On returning to the front, Morgan became aide-de-camp (ADC) to Brigadier General Edward Spencer Hoare-Nairne, the commander of the Lahore Divisional Artillery. The artillery remained on the Western Front when the bulk of the division departed for the Mesopotamian campaign. As it took longer to train artillery than infantry, the Lahore divisional artillery acted in turn as the artillery of the 2nd Canadian Division, 3rd Canadian Division, 4th Australian Division and finally the 4th Canadian Division until their own artillery was sufficiently trained to take over.\n\nMorgan became a staff captain in February 1916, and was promoted to the temporary rank of captain in May 1916. The Lahore divisional artillery was broken up in mid-1917 and Morgan, promoted to captain on 18 July 1917, was posted to the 42nd (East Lancashire) Division as a staff captain. On 15 August 1917, he married Marjorie Cecile Whaite, the daughter of Colonel Thomas du Bédat Whaite of the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC). The couple had met on board the \"Rewa\" en route to India in 1914. Their marriage produced two daughters and a son. During the Hundred Days Offensive he served as brigade major of the 42nd Divisional Artillery. During the war Morgan was twice mentioned in dispatches, on 15 May 1917, and again on 5 July 1919.\n\nIn 1919, Morgan volunteered for a six-year tour of India and joined the 118th Field Battery, 26th Field Brigade, at Deepcut, where it was forming and training for service in the subcontinent. Later that year the brigade moved to its new station at Jhansi. After three years Morgan was posted to Attock, where he commanded the Divisional Ammunition Column. In 1924 he accepted a temporary staff posting as Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General (DAAG) of Major-General Herbert Uniacke's 1st (Peshawar) Division at Murree. This was followed in 1925 by a year's secondment to the headquarters of Lieutenant-General Sir Claud Jacob's Northern Command, where Morgan helped plan and direct large-scale manoeuvres.\n\nMorgan returned to England in 1926, and assumed command of the 22nd Heavy Battery. Equipped with a mixture of 9.2 inch guns, 6 inch guns, 12 pounders and 6 pounders, it was responsible for the coastal defences of Weymouth, Dorset. Still a captain, Morgan hoped that his next career move would be to attend the Staff College, Camberley, having narrowly passed the entrance examination. Instead, he was offered a place at the Staff College, Quetta, requiring a return trip to India. Morgan's classmates at Quetta in 1927 and 1928 included William Slim, John Crocker, Kenneth Anderson, David Cowan, George Alan Vasey and Tommy Burns. After graduation, Morgan was posted to the 70th Field Battery at Lucknow, and then was artillery staff officer at headquarters Western Command, under Brigadier Henry Karslake. When Karslake became major-general, Royal Artillery, at GHQ India in 1931, he brought Morgan to Delhi to serve with him as his General Staff Officer (Grade 2). Morgan, after receiving no promotion in rank for almost 15 years, was finally promoted to major on 22 June 1932 and brevet lieutenant colonel on 1 January 1934.\n\nReturning to England in 1934, Morgan assumed command of the 4th Anti-Aircraft Battery, which was deployed to Malta during the diplomatic crisis that accompanied the Italian invasion of Abyssinia in 1935. He then returned to England and served in the War Office from 1936 to 1938. Here he became increasingly disturbed at the lack of urgency that the British government displayed in the face of a war that Morgan and his fellow staff officers felt was inevitable and imminent. On 28 May 1938 he was promoted to colonel (with seniority backdated to 1 January 1934) and became GSO1 of the 3rd Infantry Division, in which Brigadier Bernard Montgomery commanded the 8th Infantry Brigade.\n\nOn 8 August 1939, just a few weeks before the outbreak of the Second World War, Morgan was promoted to the temporary rank of brigadier and assumed command of the 1st Support Group of Major-General Roger Evans's 1st Armoured Division. When the 1st Support Group was shipped to France shortly after the German invasion of France in mid-May 1940 it had already been stripped of its two field artillery regiments and two infantry battalions. As a result, Morgan's command included only a force of Royal Engineers and a Territorial Army (TA) battalion of the Royal Welch Fusiliers, which was in the process of converting to an anti-aircraft/anti-tank regiment and armed only with anti-tank guns. His group was, therefore, in no position to fulfil its normal role supporting the division's armoured brigades and so was sent to reinforce the 51st (Highland) Infantry Division south of the River Somme. During a confused retreat most of the 1st Support Group was captured along with the 51st Division at Saint-Valery-en-Caux but the remainder, including Morgan, got away and were evacuated to England.\n\nThe 1st Armoured Division was subsequently reformed, and became a mobile reserve in south eastern England. It was tasked with counter-attacking an invading German army, and Morgan's 1st Support Group was given two Canadian infantry battalions for this purpose. On 4 November 1940 Morgan was appointed Brigadier General Staff (BGS) at II Corps, based in Norfolk. Morgan was not there long, however, as on 28 February 1941 he was promoted to the acting rank of major-general and succeeded Major-General Charles Allfrey in command of the Devon and Cornwall County Division, a static formation created for coastal defence, lacking artillery, engineers and divisional troops. The division was serving in South West England in Devon and Cornwall under Lieutenant-General Harold Franklyn's VIII Corps. He was with the division for eight months before handing over to Major-General Godwin Michelmore on 30 October and succeeding Major-General William Morgan in command of the 55th (West Lancashire) Infantry Division, a first-line TA formation serving in Gloucestershire in Southern Command. The division, which moved to North Yorkshire under Northern Command in mid-December, was placed on the Lower Establishment the following month, losing much of its artillery, engineers and divisional troops and receiving a low priority for modern equipment. On 28 February, a year after being made an acting major-general, Morgan's rank of major-general was made temporary.\n\nHe was not to remain with the division for long, however, as on 14 May Morgan was promoted to the acting rank of lieutenant general and took command of I Corps District from Lieutenant-General Henry Willcox, which had responsibility for the defence of Lincolnshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire. In October of that year his headquarters became a mobile formation, was redesignated I Corps and placed under his American superior, Lieutenant General Dwight D. Eisenhower. On 12 November Morgan's permanent rank was advanced from colonel to major-general (with seniority backdating to 13 November 1941). Morgan's I Corps headquarters was later designated Force 125 and was given command of Walter Clutterbuck's 1st and John Hawkesworth's 4th Divisions, and the task of dealing with a German thrust through Spain to Gibraltar.\n\nThis operation proved unnecessary, and Morgan's two divisions were sent to North Africa, while he was directed to plan the invasion of Sardinia. In time this was abandoned in favour of the Allied invasion of Sicily (Operation Husky), which took place in July 1943. I Corps headquarters remained in the United Kingdom the whole time, located at 1 Cumberland near Marble Arch, with the headquarters mess in the Lyons Marble Arch Corner House. However, it gained considerable experience in operational planning. Morgan's rank of lieutenant-general was made temporary on 14 May 1943, and he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the Bath (CB) on 2 June.\n\nAt the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, the Combined Chiefs of Staff agreed to establish a staff to plan operations in north west Europe in 1944. It was envisaged that the Supreme Allied Commander would be British, and the usual practice was for the commander and the chief of staff to be of the same nationality, so it was decided to appoint a British officer for the role of chief of staff to the Supreme Allied Commander (Designate) (COSSAC), with an American deputy. In March 1943 Morgan became COSSAC. Brigadier General Ray Barker became his American deputy. Initially, Morgan's staff consisted of an aide, two batmen and a driver with a car purloined from I Corps headquarters. Morgan established his headquarters in Norfolk House at 31 St James's Square. However, by October 1943, it was clearly too small for COSSAC needs, which called for accommodation for a staff of 320 officers and 600 other ranks. In November and December part of the staff moved to the South Rotunda, a bombproof structure that had originally been fitted up as an anti-invasion base, which was connected to the various ministries by the Whitehall Tunnel. Other staff were accommodated at 80 Pall Mall.\n\nCOSSAC was charged with planning three operations: Operation Cockade, a deception operation to keep German forces pinned to the coast; Operation Rankin, a plan for measures to be taken in the case of a sudden German collapse; and Operation Overlord, a plan for a full-scale assault on north western Europe. Morgan and his staff worked on the Overlord plan throughout June and the first half of July 1943. He presented it to the Chiefs of Staff Committee on 15 July. The plan set forth in detail the conditions under which the assault could be made, the area where a landing would be feasible, and the means by which a lodgement on the continent would be developed.\n\nOn 28 July, a group of the COSSAC staff, headed by Barker, travelled to Washington D.C. to present the Overlord plan to the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, and to confer with the U.S. War Department about the troop basis for the operation and issues related to its civil affairs and logistics aspects. Missions were also exchanged with General Dwight D. Eisenhower's Allied Force Headquarters (AFHQ) in Algiers to coordinate the plans of offensive action in the Mediterranean and north western Europe in 1944. In October and November, Morgan went to Washington, to discuss the operation with the Combined Chiefs of Staff, accompanied only by Major-General Nevil Brownjohn and an aide. Morgan met with General George Marshall, the Chief of Staff of the United States Army, who instructed him to proceed with planning on the basis that Marshall would be the Supreme Allied Commander and Morgan his chief of staff. Morgan met with President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House. Roosevelt turned down Morgan's request for the services of Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle, Jr. to assist with civil affairs, and also cast doubt on whether Marshall could be spared to become Supreme Allied Commander. While in the United States Morgan visited the Gettysburg Battlefield and the training camps at Camp Carrabelle, Fort Benning, Camp Mackall and Fort Bragg.\n\nThe Combined Chiefs of Staff authorised Morgan to issue orders in the name of the Supreme Allied Commander to the Commanders in Chief of the Air, Naval and Land Forces, even though they outranked him. In December 1943, when General Sir Bernard Montgomery, who had just arrived in England after commanding the British Eighth Army on the Italian Front, was appointed C-in-C Land Forces for the invasion, he declared that Morgan's original plans were unworkable; they had originally been limited by the availability of landing craft, but Montgomery insisted it would require more men attacking over a wider front. Ultimately, more landing craft were obtained and the invasion was scaled up to Montgomery's satisfaction, at the cost of a month's delay and a reduction in the Southern France operation. However, all the key features of Morgan's plan remained; the choice of Normandy as the assault area, the use of Mulberry harbours, the deployment of American forces on the right and British on the left, the use of airborne troops to cover the flanks, and some form of diversionary operation in Southern France.\n\nWhen Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Allied Commander in January 1944 the COSSAC team was absorbed into SHAEF. Eisenhower brought his chief of staff for AFHQ, Major General Walter Bedell Smith, and moved the headquarters to Bushey Park. Morgan was offered command of XIII Corps in Italy but declined in favour of becoming one of Smith's three deputies. His responsibilities covered Intelligence and Operations. Morgan coordinated the work of various SHAEF divisions and deputised for Bedell Smith when he was absent.\n\nMorgan was also called upon on occasion to deal with Montgomery, with whom his professional relationship as deputy chief of staff was similar to that before the war when Montgomery was a brigade commander. On one occasion Morgan was summoned to Smith's office to find him white with rage at a telephone receiver. \"That's your bloody marshal on the other end of that,\" Smith explained. \"I can't talk to him any more. Now you go on.\" \"As the campaign progressed,\" Morgan later wrote, \"it became more difficult for us British at SHAEF to provide explanation, as we were continually called upon to do, for the attitude and behaviour of the British authorities as exemplified by their chosen representative in the field.\" Senior British officers at SHAEF, notably Morgan, Kenneth Strong and Jock Whiteley remained loyal to Eisenhower. This cast a pall over their careers after the war, when Montgomery became Chief of the Imperial General Staff (CIGS).\n\nAfter the war Smith described Morgan as his British alter ego, \"a man I wouldn't willingly have dispensed with\". Morgan served in this role until SHAEF was dissolved in June 1945. He was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB) in August 1944 \"in recognition of distinguished services in connection with the invasion of Normandy\". The United States government awarded him the Legion of Merit in April 1945, and the Army Distinguished Service Medal in 1948 for his services.\n\nIn September 1945 Morgan became the Chief of Operations for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) in Germany. He applied his energy and planning skills to the problem of providing relief to millions of refugees and displaced persons in Europe in the wake of the war. However he became frustrated with the inefficiency of the United Nations organisation.\n\nEvents in the British–Zionist conflict in the British Mandate for Palestine made Morgan feel conflicted between his role in assisting Jewish refugees at UNRRA, whom he regarded as special victims of the Nazis for being persecuted solely for their race, and supporting British policy as a British Army officer. In January 1946 he created an uproar by claiming at a press conference that there was a secret Zionist organisation that was attempting to facilitate an \"exodus\" of Jewish people from Europe to a new state in Palestine with Soviet encouragement. Morgan stated that he had witnessed an \"exodus of Jews from Poland on Russian trains on a regular route from Lodz to Berlin. All of them were well dressed, well fed, healthy and had pockets bulging with money. All of them told the same monotonous story of threats, pogroms, and atrocities in Poland as a reason for their leaving\". He later wrote: One reporter quoted Morgan as remarking that \"the Jews seem to have organised a plan enabling them to become a world power- a weak force numerically, but one which will have a generating power for getting what they want\".\n\nA correspondent reported that Morgan made \"casual observations based on what he saw ... but the controversial remarks were taken out of the context and put together by correspondents.\" UNRRA expected that Morgan would offer his resignation but he did not do so. An attempt to clarify his position \"off the record\" failed, and Morgan's position in Germany was eliminated by UNRRA Director Fiorello La Guardia.\n\nMorgan's statements caused a furore in the press, which portrayed them as anti-Semitic and distasteful. However, Morgan's comments were factual, based on military intelligence. It was reported at the time in \"Time\" magazine that: \"Observers here [in Berlin] ... are positive of [Morgan's] sincerity, and know he had no intention of feeding the fires of anti-Semitic propaganda.\" Archibald MacLeish, a former Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs, stated that when the press had finished with Sir Frederick, \"..the sum total effect was a lie and a disastrous and evil lie. This brings up the question of journalistic standards. In a world as closely integrated as this one is, the question must be asked: what is the standard of truth in journalism? When the journalist is dealing with an inflammatory subject and so reports it that verbally his story is true, but the overall effect is false, are the standards of truth satisfied?\"\n\nWith his military background, Morgan was appalled at the corruption, inefficiency and political diversion of UNRRA. A member of his staff said that \"to serve such an outfit is degradation beyond description. In fact, [Morgan wrote], to have been rejected for such service I have always felt to have been a high honour.\"\n\nMorgan was appointed Colonel Commandant of the Royal Artillery from 24 June 1948 until 24 June 1958 In 1951, he succeeded Lord Portal as Controller of Atomic Energy. The position had been created in January 1946 as \"Controller of Production, Atomic Energy\" when the Ministry of Supply had assumed responsibility for nuclear weapons. The job, the title of which was changed to \"Controller Atomic Energy\" in 1950, had no written terms of reference, but carried broad responsibility for the coordination of all aspects of nuclear weapons production. Although located within the Ministry of Supply, the controller had direct access to the Prime Minister; Portal rarely exercised this, however. It was widely believed that Morgan, who was, in the words of Margaret Gowing, \"amiable but not adequate to the task\", had been appointed by mistake, having been confused with his namesake, General Sir William Morgan. The latter had greatly impressed Prime Minister Clement Attlee as Army member of the Joint Staff Mission to the United States from 1947 to 1950. Morgan, therefore, relied heavily on his key subordinates, Sir John Cockcroft, William Penney, and Christopher Hinton.\n\nIn his role as Controller of Atomic Energy, Morgan was present for Operation Hurricane, the first British atomic weapons tests at the Montebello Islands in October 1952. His position was gradually reduced to a figurehead, with his authority largely supplanted by the Atomic Energy Board, which was chaired by Lord Cherwell, and was abolished in 1954 with the creation of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority. Morgan then became Controller of Nuclear Weapons. Nonetheless, he was still an important figure in the push for higher-yield weapons. He pressed for the testing of the Green Bamboo boosted fission weapon during Operation Mosaic. This resulted in Mosaic becoming a two-test series, although Green Bamboo could not be made available in time. A Green Bamboo assembly was subsequently taken to Christmas Island for Operation Grapple, but was deleted from the test series to save money. Morgan was also instrumental in putting the case for the development of the H-bomb on operational grounds.\n\nMorgan retired in 1956, although he remained Colonel Commandant of the Royal Artillery until 1958. He published his memoirs, entitled \"Peace and War: A Soldier's Life\" in 1961. He died at Mount Vernon Hospital on 19 March 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883413", "title": "Sope Creek", "text": "Sope Creek\n\nSope Creek is an stream located in Cobb County, Georgia, United States. It is a significant tributary of the Chattahoochee River. It was known as Soap Creek during the 19th century. A section of Sope Creek runs through the Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area.\n\nThe Sope Creek Ruins are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSope Creek starts within the city of Marietta proper, on the west side of Interstate 75, on the northeastern portion of State Route 120 Alternate (former northern half of State Route 120 Loop, now known as North Marietta Parkway. The creek begins as a spring, first evident emerging out of a culvert under Sessions Street, where it trickles southward and serves as the rear property line for the historic homes on lots facing Church Street (to the west), and Cherokee Street (to the east). The creek then travels in a culvert under the intersection of Cherokee Street and North Marietta Parkway, then under the parking lot of the Police Department/Cobb 911 Center at the southeast corner of the intersection. Thereafter, the creek travels east, parallel with SR 120 Alt., turning southeast around the same point as the road. It then separates from road, continuing southeast, as the road bends south. It crosses Roswell Road (the main Georgia 120), and travels in a sidewinder fashion to the east for the next . Along the way, Sewell Mill Creek and Bishop Creek empty into Sope Creek. At this point, the creek turns south-southeast and crosses Lower Roswell Road. It travels in this direction for the next , crossing Paper Mill Road and Columns Drive, before emptying into the Chattahoochee River. From beginning to end, Sope Creek falls nearly over the course of approximately . In the last two miles, Sope Creek cuts through the palisades that formed on both sides of the Chattahoochee, forming a small gorge based around the creek.\n\nThe most important feature of the creek is its name recognition. With one exception, Sope Creek is usually not treated as a major entity until the last two miles. The exception is an apartment complex close to the crossing of Roswell Road, near the mark. Near the end of the creek, the name of Sope Creek has more appeal to the public, and therefore, it is seen in names, such as Sope Creek Elementary School, Sope Creek Nature Trails, and Sope Creek Homes.\n\nThe stream gauge on Sope Creek (\"MARG1\") is mounted to the south side of the Lower Roswell Road bridge, at (NAD83). This is above sea level (NGVD29), and receives flow from a drainage area of .\n\nThe gauge on Sewell Mill Creek (\"SMCG1\") is located at Roswell Road (Georgia 120) at (NAD27), where it has an area of , and an elevation of above sea level (NGVD29).\n\nPaper Mill Road crosses the creek about one mile upstream from the point where the Sope empties into the Chattahoochee. Paper Mill Road has to wind down the gorge in order to cross over the creek. At the crossing, circa 1960, lay one of Cobb County's two remaining covered bridges; the other crossed Nickajack Creek near Smyrna. The Sope Creek Bridge was a state-declared historic structure and only had a weight capacity of 2000 pounds (one U.S. ton). In 1963, a grossly overweight truck crossed the bridge and damaged the support structure. That summer, the structure was reinforced with steel shanks. On March 29, 1964, the covered bridge burned to the ground, leaving behind only the steel shanks and masonry. Arson was suspected, as the Nickajack Covered Bridge (now known as Concord Covered Bridge) had been partially burned only a few weeks prior. The Paper Mill Road bridge was reconstructed in 1970 and the entire structure was replaced with an improved, widened bridge with sidewalks in 2013.\n\nThe origin of the creek's name is not documented. A false etymology has evolved. There are conflicting authorities supporting at least two versions:\n\nThe \"Atlanta Journal\" once said of the area, \"\"Sope Creek, particularly in the springtime, is a place of unusual beauty. A quaint old covered bridge spans the stream just below where the log dam used to be. The stream is strewn with great boulders and the water dashes over these in a series of cascades, causing such masses of foam that they look like soapsuds.\"\"\nThere are also 19th century references to Soap Creek, which may simply be misspellings of Sope.\n\nThe National Park Service lends some authority to a separate version of the name's origin. In an older brochure, the Park Service stated that the creek is named for \"...a Cherokee Indian called \"Old Sope\" who lived in the area perhaps even after the Removal.\"\" A more recent Park Service brochure has reduced that statement to \"\"Named for a Cherokee holdout from the Trail of Tears...\" No further authority or evidence is cited. There are conflicting records indicating that \"Old Sope\" may have lived on a different stream in a different part of Georgia.\n\nA 2012 statement in the \"Atlanta Journal\" favors the Park Service version, except that the Cherokee Indian's name is Soap and he did not live in the area after the Trail of Tears:\n\nThe name isn't misspelled; there's just an old and new way of spelling it. There's an interesting history behind Soap (or Sope) Creek, a tributary of the Chattahoochee River that has lent its name to housing developments and buildings in east Cobb County, including an elementary school. It was originally called Soap Creek and was named after a Cherokee named Soap or \"Old Soap,\" according to Jeff Bishop, president of the Georgia chapter of the Trail of Tears Association, which works with the Cherokee Nation, the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and the National Park Service to preserve Trail of Tears related sites in Georgia. Bishop wrote in an email that it was called Soap Creek on the 1832 Georgia Land Lottery maps. Old Soap was highly regarded by the whites in the area, according to \"The First Hundred Years: A Short History of Cobb County,\" which states that \"he had lived there so long that a creek and its branch were named for him.\" However, there was a dispute, and he and his family were forced to move to Cherokee County, where they lived until they were relocated on the Trail of Tears, wrote Bishop, who contributes to www.trailofthetrail.com. \"There are descendants of Soap who now live in Oklahoma, in the Cherokee Nation,\" Bishop wrote in an email. \"Chris Soap serves on the Cherokee Nation tribal council, and his father, Charley Soap, is a respected elder who is the widower of former Cherokee Nation Chief Wilma Mankiller.\" The spelling of Sope Creek apparently was changed sometime in the 19th century, but it was still spelled Soap in 1849's \"Statistics of the State of Georgia.\" Historical markers use both Soap and Sope.\n\nLocated at the intersection of Paper Mill Road and Sope Creek are old industrial ruins. These ruins are the remnants of a larger manufacturing complex which drew on the waterpower that the creek produced. During the period 1850 to 1940, a succession of enterprises, from a (fully integrated) paper mill, twine plant, flour mill and hydroelectric power plant occupied an area of about one mile along the creek.\n\nThe paper mill at Sope Creek was run by Marietta Paper Mills and incorporated on December 19, 1859, possibly by Andrew Schofield Edmondston and Saxon A. Anderson. Facilities at the paper mill included a mill, oil room, office, mill sluice (raceway), storeroom, dam, machine shop, pulp-grinding mill, and two shelters.\n\nThe ruins were added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nIn 1851, James Isom founded a ferry that crossed the Chattahoochee at the mouth of Sope Creek, and came to own a great deal of land and three slaves, and to be considered wealthy. He died in 1866, and his son-in-law John Heard took over the operations, running the ferry as Heard's Ferry until 1890.\n\nDuring Sherman's Atlanta Campaign, troops first crossed the Chattahoochee at Sope Creek.\n\nOn May 4, 1864, Major-General William T. Sherman took control of the Military Division of the Mississippi and began to engage Confederate General Joseph Johnston and his Army of Tennessee. From the beginning, Johnston was persistent in his effort to fight a defensive battle, rather than offensive. Rightly so, as Sherman had a two-to-one advantage on Johnston. Additionally, Johnston claimed he was waiting for the right opportunity when Sherman would leave himself exposed. Sherman, unwilling to charge headlong against Johnston, decided to outmaneuver Johnston. Thus, every time Johnston found a superior defensive position, Sherman would maneuver around Johnston, forcing Johnston to retreat to a tactically superior position. The two engaged in this 'dance' for nearly two months, with one exception, the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain, in which Sherman lost his nerve, attacked head on, and suffered a bloody defeat.\n\nAuthor David Conyngham best described it in his book \"Sherman's March Through the South\", when he wrote \"True, such movements would not break up Johnston's Army, but it gave us a victory; besides, Sherman and Johnston were watching each other's movements, like two expert wrestlers, to know who would make a slip, for they knew that to attack an intrenched [sic] position was likely to prove a defeat.\"\n\nEven though this was the strategically sound theory, this was a personal gamble for Johnston, for every time he retreated, despite the fact that he was outmanned by Sherman, he aggravated Confederate President Jefferson Davis.\n\nSherman's troops were divided into three armies. These were the Army of the Cumberland, the Army of the Ohio, and the Army of the Tennessee, commanded by Major Generals George H. Thomas, John M. Schofield, and James B. McPherson, respectively. Johnston was waiting for one of these three armies to be exposed. While they all moved together, they were in fact, three separate units.\n\nThe largest body of water between Chattanooga, where Sherman started, and Atlanta, was the Chattahoochee River. If there was any time in which the one portion of the Army of the Mississippi could become separated, and therefore vulnerable, crossing the Chattahoochee was it.\n\nAs the Union Army approached the Chattahoochee, they moved in from the west and took up positions at Vinings Station. Johnston held the bridgehead on the west side of the river, and had a majority of his troops just across the railroad bridge. On the night of July 7, Sherman gave orders to Schofield to move his troops around and to the left, bypassing Johnston. Sherman had given Schofield orders to find a location between Roswell and Sope Creek in which to ford the Chattahoochee. Sherman said, \"I wish you to make an examination thereabouts and secure a foothold, fortified on the other side, anywhere about Roswell or mouth of Soap Creek. I also know that Johnston's cavalry has moved to the south flank. It is important to do this at once, for the fords are very important to us.\" Schofield located a ford on the Chattahoochee one half mile upstream of the mouth of Sope Creek.\n\nHe then sent to Sherman the following:\n\nI have not been able to reconnoiter as far as Roswell to-day. I find a pretty good crossing near mouth of Soap Creek. Half a mile above the creek is a shallow ford where infantry can cross easily, but there is no road leading to it and it would be difficult to make one. Isham's [sic] Ferry just below mouth of the creek is a good place for a bridge. About 400 yards from the river on east side is a commanding ridge very favorable for a bridge-head. The crossing would be very difficult if that ridge were held in force; but there appears at present only a squad of cavalry and one or two pieces of artillery. If there be no greater force to oppose it, the crossing can be effected very easily by crossing infantry at the ford above, to clear the ridge and cover the construction of the bridge. The ground on this side is favorable for our artillery. Johnston's cavalry being gone, I take it for granted that I can cross at Roswell without difficulty. The higher up the river the less probability of serious opposition; therefore I think we may choose whichever point you deem it most desirable to have. I propose to move at daylight and cross the river with as little delay as possible, and believe there is very little chance of failure, no matter which point you select. \n\nSherman decided that McPherson would hold his position across from Johnston, and at the last moment, swing around in the same fashion as Schofield and cross the Chattahoochee at Shallow Ford, what is today known as Shallowford Road. Sherman wrote to Schofield saying:\nYou may move to the neighborhood of the mouth of Soap Creek. Mask well your command and make a lodgment across the Chattahoochee, but do not attempt it until you have a ford nearby by which to reinforce the party first sent, or by which it may be necessary to retire. We can, after lodgement [sic], make roads to the crossing and may add pontoon bridges, of which we have enough for four bridges. After securing a point opposite Soap Creek, Roswell will follow as a matter of course, and will be additional. The moment I hear that General Garrard has made a lodgment at Roswell, I will send a division of General McPherson to hold fast all he makes. With Roswell and mouth of Soap Creek, we have plenty of room, with Marietta as the depot. I will go down to General McPherson's and stir them up in the morning by way of diversion.\n\nSchofield advanced a division across the river at the ford and instructed them to take up positions opposite of the mouth of Sope Creek. There, they would support bridge-building operations and provide cover while the engineers constructed a pontoon bridge at Isom's Ferry.\n\nFor nearly thirty-six hours, Schofield's troops were isolated on the other side of the Chattahoochee. Even at the end of that time, when McPherson was on the east bank of the river, he was still miles away from Schofield in Roswell. The opportunity for a counter-offensive that Johnston had been waiting for the previous two months presented itself in those thirty-six hours. Instead of a counter-offensive, Johnston was caught complete by surprise and therefore out of position. The majority of his forces were still in defensive positions at Vinings Station on the east side of the Chattahoochee. Schofield reported to Sherman:\n\nI have a division (General Cox's) [Author's note: General Cox's 23rd Army Corps consisted of four divisions, at the time of this letter, only one was known to be across the river at this place). It has a good position, and is rapidly intrenching [sic]. Colonel Buell has laid one bridge and will have another across to-night. I spent most of the day in reconnoitering and perfecting arrangements to make success sure. All was done so quietly that they enemy was taken entirely by surprise, so that when my artillery and infantry opened from the west bank the enemy fled, leaving a piece of artillery, which fell into our hands. My men crossed by the ford and in boats at the same time without losing a single man. The enemy used his artillery upon our officers while reconnoitering during the day, but when we opened upon them they fired but a single shot and fled. I presume they were Brown's militia. We have gained the desired point, captured one piece of artillery and nobody hurt. I will give you information concerning roads, etc., beyond the river as soon as possible.\n\nBy 8:30p.m. on the night of July 8, Schofield had laid a bridge crossing the Chattahoochee at Isom's Ferry and had relocated four divisions to the east bank. Fearing a flanking maneuver by Sherman, Johnston had no alternative but to abandon the west side of the river. He withdrew into Atlanta, burning the railroad bridge behind him.\n\nIt was after this debacle that Jefferson Davis decided to replace Johnston with General John B. Hood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883421", "title": "Adeno-associated virus", "text": "Adeno-associated virus\n\nAdeno-associated viruses (AAV) are small viruses that infect humans and some other primate species. They belong to the genus \"Dependoparvovirus\", which in turn belongs to the family \"Parvoviridae\". They are small (20 nm) replication-defective, nonenveloped viruses. \n\nAAV are not currently known to cause disease. The viruses cause a very mild immune response. Several additional features make AAV an attractive candidate for creating viral vectors for gene therapy, and for the creation of isogenic human disease models. Gene therapy vectors using AAV can infect both dividing and quiescent cells and persist in an extrachromosomal state without integrating into the genome of the host cell, although in the native virus integration of virally carried genes into the host genome does occur. Integration can be important for certain applications, but can also have unwanted consequences. Recent human clinical trials using AAV for gene therapy in the retina have shown promise.\n\nThe adeno-associated virus (AAV), previously thought to be a contaminant in adenovirus preparations, was first identified as a dependoparvovirus in the 1960s in the laboratories of Bob Atchison at Pittsburgh and Wallace Rowe at NIH. Serological studies in humans subsequently indicated that, despite being present in people infected by helper viruses such as adenovirus or herpes virus, AAV itself did not cause any disease.\n\nWild-type AAV has attracted considerable interest from gene therapy researchers due to a number of features. Chief amongst these is the virus's apparent lack of pathogenicity. It can also infect non-dividing cells and has the ability to stably integrate into the host cell genome at a specific site (designated AAVS1) in the human chromosome 19. This feature makes it somewhat more predictable than retroviruses, which present the threat of a random insertion and of mutagenesis, which is sometimes followed by development of a cancer. The AAV genome integrates most frequently into the site mentioned, while random incorporations into the genome take place with a negligible frequency. Development of AAVs as gene therapy vectors, however, has eliminated this integrative capacity by removal of the \"rep\" and \"cap\" from the DNA of the vector. The desired gene together with a promoter to drive transcription of the gene is inserted between the inverted terminal repeats (ITRs) that aid in concatemer formation in the nucleus after the single-stranded vector DNA is converted by host cell DNA polymerase complexes into double-stranded DNA. AAV-based gene therapy vectors form episomal concatemers in the host cell nucleus. In non-dividing cells, these concatemers remain intact for the life of the host cell. In dividing cells, AAV DNA is lost through cell division, since the episomal DNA is not replicated along with the host cell DNA. Random integration of AAV DNA into the host genome is detectable but occurs at very low frequency. AAVs also present very low immunogenicity, seemingly restricted to generation of neutralizing antibodies, while they induce no clearly defined cytotoxic response. This feature, along with the ability to infect quiescent cells present their dominance over adenoviruses as vectors for human gene therapy.\n\nUse of the virus does present some disadvantages. The cloning capacity of the vector is relatively limited and most therapeutic genes require the complete replacement of the virus's 4.8 kilobase genome. Large genes are, therefore, not suitable for use in a standard AAV vector. Options are currently being explored to overcome the limited coding capacity. The AAV ITRs of two genomes can anneal to form head-to-tail concatemers, almost doubling the capacity of the vector. Insertion of splice sites allows for the removal of the ITRs from the transcript.\n\nBecause of AAV's specialized gene therapy advantages, researchers have created an altered version of AAV termed self-complementary adeno-associated virus (scAAV). Whereas AAV packages a single strand of DNA and must wait for its second strand to be synthesized, scAAV packages two shorter strands that are complementary to each other. By avoiding second-strand synthesis, scAAV can express more quickly, although as a caveat, scAAV can only encode half of the already limited capacity of AAV. Recent reports suggest that scAAV vectors are more immunogenic than single stranded adenovirus vectors, inducing a stronger activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes.\n\nHumoral immunity instigated by infection with the wild type is thought to be common. The associated neutralising activity limits the usefulness of the most commonly used serotype AAV2 in certain applications. Accordingly, the majority of clinical trials under way involve delivery of AAV2 into the brain, a relatively immunologically privileged organ. In the brain, AAV2 is strongly neuron-specific.\n\nTo date, AAV vectors have been used in over 117 clinical trials worldwide, approximately 5.6% of virus-vectored gene-therapy trials. Recently, promising results have been obtained from Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials for a number of diseases, including Leber's congenital amaurosis, hemophilia, congestive heart failure, spinal muscular atrophy, lipoprotein lipase deficiency\n, and Parkinson's disease.\n\nThe AAV genome is built of single-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (ssDNA), either positive- or negative-sensed, which is about 4.7 kilobase long. The genome comprises ITRs at both ends of the DNA strand, and two open reading frames (ORFs): \"rep\" and \"cap\". The former is composed of four overlapping genes encoding Rep proteins required for the AAV life cycle, and the latter contains overlapping nucleotide sequences of capsid proteins: VP1, VP2 and VP3, which interact to form a capsid with icosahedral symmetry.\n\nThe inverted terminal repeat (ITR) sequences comprise 145 bases each. They were named so because of their symmetry, which was shown to be required for efficient multiplication of the AAV genome. The feature of these sequences that gives them this property is their ability to form a hairpin, which contributes to so-called self-priming that allows primase-independent synthesis of the second DNA strand. The ITRs were also shown to be required for both integration of the AAV DNA into the host cell genome (19th chromosome in humans) and rescue from it, as well as for efficient encapsidation of the AAV DNA combined with generation of a fully assembled, deoxyribonuclease-resistant AAV particles.\n\nWith regard to gene therapy, ITRs seem to be the only sequences required \"in cis\" next to the therapeutic gene: structural (\"cap\") and packaging (\"rep\") proteins can be delivered \"in trans\". With this assumption many methods were established for efficient production of recombinant AAV (rAAV) vectors containing a reporter or therapeutic gene. However, it was also published that the ITRs are not the only elements required \"in cis\" for the effective replication and encapsidation. A few research groups have identified a sequence designated \"cis-acting Rep-dependent element\" (CARE) inside the coding sequence of the \"rep\" gene. CARE was shown to augment the replication and encapsidation when present \"in cis\".\n\nOn the \"left side\" of the genome there are two promoters called p5 and p19, from which two overlapping messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) of different length can be produced. Each of these contains an intron which can be either spliced out or not. Given these possibilities, four various mRNAs, and consequently four various Rep proteins with overlapping sequence can be synthesized. Their names depict their sizes in kilodaltons (kDa): Rep78, Rep68, Rep52 and Rep40. Rep78 and 68 can specifically bind the hairpin formed by the ITR in the self-priming act and cleave at a specific region, designated terminal resolution site, within the hairpin. They were also shown to be necessary for the AAVS1-specific integration of the AAV genome. All four Rep proteins were shown to bind ATP and to possess helicase activity. It was also shown that they upregulate the transcription from the p40 promoter (mentioned below), but downregulate both p5 and p19 promoters.\n\nThe right side of a positive-sensed AAV genome encodes overlapping sequences of three capsid proteins, VP1, VP2 and VP3, which start from one promoter, designated p40. The molecular weights of these proteins are 87, 72 and 62 kiloDaltons, respectively. The AAV capsid is composed of a mixture of VP1, VP2, and VP3 totaling 60 monomers arranged in icosahedral symmetry in a ratio of 1:1:10, with an estimated size of 3.9 MegaDaltons.\nThe crystal structure of the VP3 protein was determined by Xie, Bue, \"et al.\"\nThe \"cap\" gene produces an additional, non-structural protein called the Assembly-Activating Protein (AAP). This protein is produced from ORF2 and is essential for the capsid-assembly process. The exact function of this protein in the assembly process and its structure have not been solved to date.\n\nAll three VPs are translated from one mRNA. After this mRNA is synthesized, it can be spliced in two different manners: either a longer or shorter intron can be excised resulting in the formation of two pools of mRNAs: a 2.3 kb- and a 2.6 kb-long mRNA pool. Usually, especially in the presence of adenovirus, the longer intron is preferred, so the 2.3-kb-long mRNA represents the so-called \"major splice\". In this form the first AUG codon, from which the synthesis of VP1 protein starts, is cut out, resulting in a reduced overall level of VP1 protein synthesis. The first AUG codon that remains in the major splice is the initiation codon for VP3 protein. However, upstream of that codon in the same open reading frame lies an ACG sequence (encoding threonine) which is surrounded by an optimal Kozak context. This contributes to a low level of synthesis of VP2 protein, which is actually VP3 protein with additional N terminal residues, as is VP1.\n\nSince the bigger intron is preferred to be spliced out, and since in the major splice the ACG codon is a much weaker translation initiation signal, the ratio at which the AAV structural proteins are synthesized \"in vivo\" is about 1:1:20, which is the same as in the mature virus particle. The unique fragment at the N terminus of VP1 protein was shown to possess the phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity, which is probably required for the releasing of AAV particles from late endosomes. Muralidhar \"et al.\" reported that VP2 and VP3 are crucial for correct virion assembly. More recently, however, Warrington \"et al.\" showed VP2 to be unnecessary for the complete virus particle formation and an efficient infectivity, and also presented that VP2 can tolerate large insertions in its N terminus, while VP1 can not, probably because of the PLA2 domain presence.\n\nTwo species of AAV were recognised by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses in 2013: \"adeno-associated dependoparvovirus A\" (formerly AAV-1, -2, -3 and -4) and \"adeno-associated dependoparvovirus B\" (formerly AAV-5).\n\nUntil the 1990s, virtually all AAV biology was studied using AAV serotype 2. However, AAV is highly prevalent in humans and other primates and several serotypes have been isolated from various tissue samples. Serotypes 2, 3, 5, and 6 were discovered in human cells, AAV serotypes 1, 4, and 7–11 in nonhuman primate samples. As of 2006 there have been 11 AAV serotypes described, the 11th in 2004. AAV capsid proteins contain 12 hypervariable surface regions, with most variability occurring in the threefold proximal peaks, but the parvovirus genome in general presents highly conserved replication and structural genes across serotypes. All of the known serotypes can infect cells from multiple diverse tissue types. Tissue specificity is determined by the capsid serotype and pseudotyping of AAV vectors to alter their tropism range will likely be important to their use in therapy.\n\nSerotype 2 (AAV2) has been the most extensively examined so far. AAV2 presents natural tropism towards skeletal muscles, neurons, vascular smooth muscle cells and hepatocytes.\n\nThree cell receptors have been described for AAV2: heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG), aβ integrin and fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR-1). The first functions as a primary receptor, while the latter two have a co-receptor activity and enable AAV to enter the cell by receptor-mediated endocytosis. These study results have been disputed by Qiu, Handa, \"et al.\" HSPG functions as the primary receptor, though its abundance in the extracellular matrix can scavenge AAV particles and impair the infection efficiency.\n\nStudies have shown that serotype 2 of the virus (AAV-2) apparently kills cancer cells without harming healthy ones. \"Our results suggest that adeno-associated virus type 2, which infects the majority of the population but has no known ill effects, kills multiple types of cancer cells yet has no effect on healthy cells,\" said Craig Meyers, a professor of immunology and microbiology at the Penn State College of Medicine in Pennsylvania in 2005. This could lead to a new anti-cancer agent.\n\nAlthough AAV2 is the most popular serotype in various AAV-based research, it has been shown that other serotypes can be more effective as gene delivery vectors. For instance AAV6 appears much better in infecting airway epithelial cells, AAV7 presents very high transduction rate of murine skeletal muscle cells (similar to AAV1 and AAV5), AAV8 is superb in transducing hepatocytes and AAV1 and 5 were shown to be very efficient in gene delivery to vascular endothelial cells. In the brain, most AAV serotypes show neuronal tropism, while AAV5 also transduces astrocytes. AAV6, a hybrid of AAV1 and AAV2, also shows lower immunogenicity than AAV2.\n\nSerotypes can differ with the respect to the receptors they are bound to. For example, AAV4 and AAV5 transduction can be inhibited by soluble sialic acids (of different form for each of these serotypes), and AAV5 was shown to enter cells via the platelet-derived growth factor receptor.\n\nThere have been many efforts to engineer and improve new AAV variants for both clinical and research purposes. Such modifications include new tropisms to target specific tissues, and modified surface residues to evade detection by the immune system. Beyond opting for particular strains of recombinant AAV (rAAV) to target particular cells, researchers have also explored AAV pseudotyping, the practice of creating hybrids of certain AAV strains to approach an even more refined target. The hybrid is created by taking a capsid from one strain and the genome from another strain. For example, research involving AAV2/5, a hybrid with the genome of AAV2 and the capsid of AAV5, was able to achieve more accuracy and range in brain cells than AAV2 would be able to achieve unhybridized. Researchers have continued to experiment with pseudotyping by creating strains with hybrid capsids. AAV-DJ has a hybrid capsid from eight different strains of AAV; as such, it can infect different cells throughout many areas of the body, a property which a single strain of AAV with a limited tropism would not have. Other efforts to engineer and improve new AAV variants have involved the ancestral reconstruction of virus variants to generate new vectors with enhanced properties for clinical applications and the study of AAV biology.\n\nAAV is of particular interest to gene therapists due to its apparent limited capacity to induce immune responses in humans, a factor which should positively influence vector transduction efficiency while reducing the risk of any immune-associated pathology.\n\nAAV is not considered to have any known role in disease.\n\nThe innate immune response to the AAV vectors has been characterised in animal models. Intravenous administration in mice causes transient production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and some infiltration of neutrophils and other leukocytes into the liver, which seems to sequester a large percentage of the injected viral particles. Both soluble factor levels and cell infiltration appear to return to baseline within six hours. By contrast, more aggressive viruses produce innate responses lasting 24 hours or longer.\n\nThe virus is known to instigate robust humoral immunity in animal models and in the human population, where up to 80% of individuals are thought to be seropositive for AAV2. Antibodies are known to be neutralising, and for gene therapy applications these do impact on vector transduction efficiency via some routes of administration. As well as persistent AAV specific antibody levels, it appears from both prime-boost studies in animals and from clinical trials that the B-cell memory is also strong. In seropositive humans, circulating IgG antibodies for AAV2 appear to be primarily composed of the IgG1 and IgG2 subclasses, with little or no IgG3 or IgG4 present.\n\nThe cell-mediated response to the virus and to vectors is poorly characterised, and has been largely ignored in the literature as recently as 2005. Clinical trials using an AAV2-based vector to treat haemophilia B seem to indicate that targeted destruction of transduced cells may be occurring. Combined with data that shows that CD8+ T-cells can recognise elements of the AAV capsid \"in vitro\", it appears that there may be a cytotoxic T lymphocyte response to AAV vectors. Cytotoxic responses would imply the involvement of CD4+ T helper cells in the response to AAV and \"in vitro\" data from human studies suggests that the virus may indeed induce such responses, including both Th1 and Th2 memory responses. A number of candidate T cell stimulating epitopes have been identified within the AAV capsid protein VP1, which may be attractive targets for modification of the capsid if the virus is to be used as a vector for gene therapy.\n\nThere are several steps in the AAV infection cycle, from infecting a cell to producing new infectious particles:\n\nSome of these steps may look different in various types of cells, which, in part, contributes to the defined and quite limited native tropism of AAV. Replication of the virus can also vary in one cell type, depending on the cell's current cell cycle phase.\n\nThe characteristic feature of the adeno-associated virus is a deficiency in replication and thus its inability to multiply in unaffected cells. Adeno-associated virus spreads by co-infecting a cell with a helper virus. The first helper virus that was described as providing successful generation of new AAV particles, was the adenovirus, from which the AAV name originated. It was then shown that AAV replication can be facilitated by selected proteins derived from the adenovirus genome, by other viruses such as HSV or vaccinia, or by genotoxic agents, such as UV irradiation or hydroxyurea. Depending on the presence or absence of a helper virus, the life cycle of AAV follows either a lytic or lysogenic pathway, respectively. If there is a helper virus, AAV's gene expression activates, allowing the virus to replicate using the host cell's polymerase. When the helper virus kills the host cell, the new AAV virions are released. If there is not a helper virus present, AAV exhibits lysogenic behavior. When AAV infects a cell alone, its gene expression is repressed (AAV does not replicate), and its genome is incorporated into the host genome (into human chromosome 19). In rare cases, lysis can occur without a helper virus, but usually AAV can not replicate and kill a cell on its own.\n\nThe minimal set of the adenoviral genes required for efficient generation, of progeny AAV particles, was discovered by Matsushita, Ellinger \"et al.\" This discovery allowed for new production methods of recombinant AAV, which do not require adenoviral co-infection of the AAV-producing cells. In the absence of helper virus or genotoxic factors, AAV DNA can either integrate into the host genome or persist in episomal form. In the former case integration is mediated by Rep78 and Rep68 proteins and requires the presence of ITRs flanking the region being integrated. In mice, the AAV genome has been observed persisting for long periods of time in quiescent tissues, such as skeletal muscles, in episomal form (a circular head-to-tail conformation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883422", "title": "Powell Geographic Expedition of 1869", "text": "Powell Geographic Expedition of 1869\n\nThe Powell Geographic Expedition of 1869, led by American naturalist John Wesley Powell, was the first thorough cartographic and scientific investigation of long segments of the Green and Colorado rivers in the southwestern United States, including the first recorded passage of white men through the entirety of the Grand Canyon. The expedition, which lasted approximately three months during the summer of 1869, embarked from Green River Station, Wyoming Territory and traveled downstream through parts of the present-day states of Colorado, Utah, and Arizona before reaching the confluence of the Colorado and Virgin rivers in present-day Nevada. Despite a series of hardships, including losses of boats and supplies, near-drownings, and the eventual departures of several crew members, the voyage produced the first detailed descriptions of much of the previously unexplored canyon country of the Colorado Plateau.\n\nPowell retraced part of the 1869 route on a second expedition in the winter of 1871–72. In 1875, he published a classic account of the first expedition (interspersed with elements from the second) called \"Report on the Exploration of the Colorado River of the West and Its Tributaries\", which was revised and reissued in 1895 as \"The Exploration of the Colorado River and Its Canyons\".\n\nPowell had spent much of his youth rafting the Mississippi River and its tributaries in the Upper Midwest. A Union major during the American Civil War, he lost his right arm to amputation in 1862 after he was hit by an unspent minie ball at the Battle of Shiloh. Prior to coming west, Powell had been a professor of geology at the Illinois State Normal School and a curator of the Illinois Museum of Natural History.\n\nThe expedition set out from Green River Station (now Green River, Wyoming) on May 24, 1869, with a company of ten men including Powell. Green River Station's convenient location on the Transcontinental Railroad, which had been completed in Utah Territory just two weeks earlier, allowed Powell to ship the expedition's four boats directly from Chicago to the launching point. The company included Powell's brother Walter, as well as a group of seasoned mountain men and war veterans that Powell had recruited on his way to Wyoming. The complete roster included:\n\n\nAll of the expedition members had considerable wilderness know-how, and seven were veterans of the Civil War, all of whom had fought for the Union. None of them, however, had any significant whitewater experience on the rivers of the West. Only four of the men were paid for their participation; three at a wage of $25 per man per month for making maps and using scientific instruments, and Billy Hawkins at $1.50 per day for his services as camp cook.\n\nPowell purchased four modified, round-bottomed Whitehall rowboats for the expedition. The three \"freight boats\" - the \"Maid of the Cañon\", the \"Kitty Clyde's Sister\", and the \"No Name\" - were identical in design: twenty-one feet long and four feet wide, built of sturdy but heavy oak, with a decked-over bulkhead at each end for storage space. Nearly seven thousand pounds of food and supplies, enough to last ten months, were divided equally between these three boats. The fourth boat, the \"Emma Dean\", was smaller and lighter, only sixteen feet long and built of pine. This was Powell's personal boat, and was rigged with a strap that Powell could clutch with his left hand to keep his balance while standing on deck. Each boat would be rowed by two oarsmen, with only Powell and Oramel Howland, the expedition's official mapmaker, excused from rowing duties.\n\nEarly on the Green River, the Powell Expedition lost one of their large freight boats, the \"No Name\", at a rapids they named Disaster Falls, washing up on Disaster Island. No one was killed, but many crucial supplies were lost, including all of the expedition's barometers. Powell and his men managed to recover some of the barometers - they were the only means Powell had at his disposal to determine altitude. Knowing the altitude was essential for producing good maps, and it allowed Powell to estimate how much vertical drop remained before the journey's endpoint, which had a known elevation. The Powell expedition named many of the landmarks and geological features along the Green and Colorado rivers, including the Flaming Gorge, the Gates of Lodore (in what is now Dinosaur National Monument), and Glen Canyon.\n\nOf the ten men that started out from Green River Station, six completed the entire journey. Frank Goodman left the expedition on July 6 during the resupply at the Uinta River Indian Agency, claiming he’d had more than enough adventure. He walked away and lived for some years with the Paiutes of eastern Utah. Eventually, he settled in Vernal, Utah, where he married and raised a family. The other three adventurers to leave the expedition fared worse. On August 28, just two days from the expedition's intended destination at the mouth of the Virgin River, Oramel Howland, his brother Seneca, and Bill Dunn left the company, fearing they could not survive the dangers of the river much longer. They hiked out of the canyon and were never seen again. Historians still dispute their fate, but it is often proposed that they were killed by local Shivwits Indians in a case of mistaken identity. Another story suggests that they were executed by Mormons who mistook them for \"spies.\" On August 30, Powell and the five others reached safety at the Mormon settlement of St. Thomas near the mouth of the Virgin River.\n\nThe expedition was dramatized in the 1960 Disney film \"Ten Who Dared\" and the 2015 play \"Men on Boats\" by Jaclyn Backhaus. The graphic novel, \"Major Impossible\" by author Nathan Hale also dramatizes the expedition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883426", "title": "General Dynamics F-16XL", "text": "General Dynamics F-16XL\n\nThe General Dynamics F-16XL is a derivative of the F-16 Fighting Falcon, with a cranked-arrow delta wing. It was originally conceived as a technology demonstrator, later entered in the United States Air Force's (USAF) Enhanced Tactical Fighter (ETF) competition but lost to the F-15E Strike Eagle. Several years after the prototypes were shelved, they were turned over to NASA for additional aeronautical research. Both aircraft are currently stored at Edwards AFB.\n\nIn 1977, the F-16XL started out as the F-16 SCAMP (Supersonic Cruise And Maneuver Prototype) at General Dynamics Fort Worth. Under the leadership of Harry Hillaker (father of the original F-16), the original goal of the program was to be a quick project to demonstrate the applicability of supersonic transport technologies to military aircraft. The big wing generated a lot of lift, and typical aerodynamic limitations of delta wings were overcome by the F-16's relaxed static stability. The F-16's electronic flight control system was tweaked to allow control at high angles of attack. The wing was also a big fuel tank which greatly increased range. The study went on for two years. The goal of the cranked arrow was to have a high sweep inboard panel for low drag at supersonic speeds, and a low sweep outboard panel to provide better handling and maneuverability at subsonic speeds.\n\nWorking closely with NASA's Langley Research Center, the company invested significant Internal Research and Development (IRAD) funds for wind tunnel testing and that led to the Model 400. It featured all moving wing tips for roll control and an all moving vertical tail. These surfaces were actually the horizontal tail surfaces from the F-16A. These surfaces were later dropped as they did not provide adequate control at low speed, high angle of attack. Also, there would have been no provision for wing-tip mounted missiles. The main wing incorporated forebody strakes to enhance vortex generation for high angle of attack maneuverability, negative stability for improved subsonic lift and reduced supersonic drag. It was built around a 40-inch fuselage stretch. Both the large wing and fuselage stretch yielded a dramatic increase in range at all speeds. In 1979, with a strong positive response by the USAF, GD released the Model 400 for a company funded preliminary design effort.\n\nIn 1980, the USAF signed on as a partner, providing the third and fifth production F-16 airframes for conversion. These two airframes became the only examples of the F-16XL.\n\nIn March 1981, the USAF announced the Enhanced Tactical Fighter program to procure a replacement for the F-111 Aardvark. The concept envisioned an aircraft capable of launching deep interdiction missions without requiring additional support in the form of fighter escort or jamming support. Under the leadership of program director Randy Kent , General Dynamics submitted the F-16XL, while McDonnell Douglas submitted a variant of the F-15 Eagle. Though the two aircraft were competing for the same role, they were fairly different in design approach. The F-15E is basically an F-15D two-seat trainer with the back-seat station modified to support ground-attack instruments, while the F-16XL has major structural and aerodynamic differences from the original F-16. As such, the XL would have required much more effort, time and money to put into full production. Additionally, the Strike Eagle has two engines, which gives it more thrust and capacity to carry more weapons and/or armor. Furthermore, engine redundancy can be very useful for an aircraft whose mission involves operating within the reach of anti-aircraft artillery and surface-to-air missiles, in addition to the standard threats of fighter aircraft and interceptors.\n\nIn February 1984, the USAF awarded the ETF contract to McDonnell Douglas. The two F-16XLs were returned to the Air Force and placed in storage at Edwards Air Force Base, Mojave, California.\n\nThe wing and rear horizontal control surfaces were replaced with a cranked-arrow delta wing 120% larger than the original wing. Extensive use of carbon fiber composites allowed the savings of 600 lb (270 kg) of weight but the F-16XL was still 2,800 lb (1,300 kg) heavier than the original F-16A.\n\nLess noticeable is that the fuselage was lengthened by 56 in (1.4 m) by the addition of two sections at the joints of the main fuselage sub-assemblies. With the new wing design, the tail section had to be canted up 3°, and the ventral fins removed, to prevent them from striking the pavement during takeoff and landing. However, as the F-16XL exhibits greater stability than the native F-16, these changes were not detrimental to the handling of the aircraft.\n\nThese changes resulted in a 25% improvement in maximum lift-to-drag ratio in supersonic flight and 11% in subsonic flight, and a plane that reportedly handled much more smoothly at high speeds and low altitudes. The enlargements increased fuel capacity by 82%. The F-16XL could carry twice the ordnance of the F-16 and deliver it 40% farther. The enlarged wing allowed a total of 27 hardpoints:\n\n\nHowever, the \"heavy/wet\" stations interfered with up to four wing stations.\n\nIn 1988, the two aircraft were taken out of storage and turned over to NASA for research. The first aircraft was fitted with an active suction titanium glove encasing the left wing and delivered to the Ames-Dryden Flight Research Facility at Edwards AFB. Designed and built by North American Aviation (a division of Rockwell International), the glove had laser-cut holes that were nominally 0.0025 in (0.0635 mm) diameter. Distance between holes varied between 0.010 and 0.055 in (0.25 and 1.40 mm) depending on the suction. The glove covered over 5 ft² (0.5 m²) of the wing. It was intended to suck away turbulent airflow over the wing, restoring laminar flow and reducing drag. The aircraft was also involved in testing sonic boom characteristics, takeoff performance, and engine noise, for NASA's civil transport program.\n\nThe second aircraft (a two-seater) had its experimental engine replaced with a General Electric F110-129. It accidentally achieved supercruise, a design goal of the F-16XL that was never attained in ETF testing, when it reached Mach 1.1 at 20,000 ft (6,096 m) on full military power. It was mounted with a passive fiberglass and foam glove on the right wing to examine supersonic flow, and an active glove on the left wing. This second glove was composed of fiberglass and foam over a titanium skin, and covers 75% of the wing's surface and 60% of its leading edge. The active portion consists the middle two-thirds of the glove, with laser-drilled holes leading to cavities beneath the wing. It was designed collaboratively by Langley research center, Dryden, Rockwell, Boeing, and McDonnell Douglas. The glove is intended as a testbed for supersonic laminar flow.\n\nThe F-16XL flight project office was located at the NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, Edwards AFB, CA. The NASA Langley Research Center, developed and coordinated F-16XL experiments.\n\nAt the conclusion of their test programs in 1999, both F-16XLs were placed into storage at NASA Dryden. In 2007, NASA approached Lockheed Martin to request a study into the feasibility and cost of returning F-16XL #1 to flight status and upgrading it with many of the improvements found in the USAF's F-16 Block 40. This was studied while F-16XL #1 was taxi tested at Dryden and given systems checks. However, both F-16XLs were retired in 2009 and stored at Edwards AFB.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883438", "title": "George Rock", "text": "George Rock\n\nGeorge Rock (October 11, 1919 – April 12, 1988) was a trumpet player and singer with various bands before starring with Spike Jones and His City Slickers.\n\nA large man, he attended Illinois Wesleyan University in Bloomington, Illinois on a football scholarship, before turning pro as a musician at the age of 20. His first national exposure was in the Freddie Fisher's Schnickelfritz Band. Working in Hollywood in 1944 he signed up with the Spike Jones Band.\n\nWith Spike Jones and His Slickers he played lead trumpet, and also sang with the group, using a voice characterization that sounded remarkably like a child. He sang \"All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth\" and \"I'm Forever Blowing Bubble Gum,\" during the recording of which Jones addressed him as \"George\".\n\nRock also performed on several other recordings by Spike Jones and the City Slickers including \"I'm the Captain of the Space Ship\", \"You Wanna Buy a Bunny?\", \"I'm the Angel in the Christmas Play\", and \"Happy New Year\" (the flip side of \"All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth\").\n\nRock also played trumpet on \"The Spike Jones Show\" on television in the late 1950s, including the 1958 NBC series \"Club Oasis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883440", "title": "Technology High School (Rohnert Park, California)", "text": "Technology High School (Rohnert Park, California)\n\nTechnology High School is a magnet school for science, math and technology located in Sonoma County, California. It was initiated in 1995 by the Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District, Sonoma State University, Hewlett Packard and the Autodesk foundation. The school opened its doors in 1999.\n\nInitially the school was a program of Rancho Cotate High School. The students involved split their time between the two schools. Technology High School's program included Integrated Science, Engineering and Math curriculum as required courses and the students took the remainder of their classes from Rancho Cotate High School. This environment created a school focused heavily on the math and sciences with the larger high school environment providing everything else expected from a traditional high school.\n\nIn 2002, Tech High became a separate and independent school, starting with the class of 2006. The former \"program students\" continued to be part-time students and split their time, while all new students came in as full-time. This called for new, undeveloped humanities, physical education, foreign language, and elective programs to be created and implemented. These have since become more developed.\n\nRelations with the school district became strained when during the planning of the 2004-2005 district budget a proposal was put forth to relocate Technology High School. This caused a strong backlash of support from the community around Technology High School. Students, parents and staff felt that this would severely compromise the integrity of the program. Students and parents pulled together in an attempt to halt this measure. In a special session in January 2004 the school board voted 5–0 to keep the school in its facilities on the Sonoma State University campus.\n\nRelations with the school district have improved considerably, partly due to Technology High School being announced as a Distinguished School in April 2005 as part of California's Distinguished School Program. Relations have also been improved due Technology High School's high testing scores. The district has now publicly stated that they feel that the proposal to relocate Technology High School was a mistake.\n\n\nTechnology High School at one time occupied one hallway in the Ruben Salazar Building on the Sonoma State University campus in Rohnert Park, California. The Salazar Building is near the center of campus, right off the quad. This location offers access to Rancho Cotate High School which allows Technology High School students to participate in its PE classes. Technology High School moved into their new location in August 2019. In 2019, the District remodeled a former elementary school site (Waldo Rohnert Elementary School) to become the new location for Technology High School.\n\nTechnology High School uses the Sonoma State library. Technology High School students patronize the University's dining facilities and bookstores; Technology High School has no dining facilities of its own. Technology High School students can take up to 6 credits worth of classes at Sonoma State University in addition to their curriculum at Technology High School. The on-campus location is intended to increase the students' comfort with university settings. In terms of athletics, Sonoma State University does not allow Technology High School to utilize their athletic facilities. However, the original agreement, signed in 1999, states that Sonoma State University and Technology High School were to share athletic facilities.\n\nThere are 1.3 students per computer, compared to the California statewide average of 5 students per computer. Many students go on to a higher educational institution while less than 20% go directly into the workforce.\n\nThere is an average of 27 students per teacher. Full credentials are possessed by 83% of teachers, while the remaining teachers have emergency credentials or waivers. Faculty retention has been an issue over the school's history. Retention rates were below 50% during the first several years of operation but current retention rates hover around 75%.\n\nDue to the small-school environment that Technology High School maintains there are at most 3 teachers in one department. This encourages teachers to work together on cross-curricular projects. Staff meetings happen at least once a week where the entire staff of the school gathers together to discuss any outstanding school wide issues. Another purpose of these meetings is to attempt to ensure consistency through the entire school.\n\nTechnology High School's curriculum is designed to be project-based as well as cross-curricular. Teachers work closely together to create projects that span more than one curricular area. Teachers also try to time the curriculum so that students can take advantage of what they learn in one class in another. The curriculum is also designed and graded based on the Schoolwide Learning Outcomes.\n\nTech High was named a California Distinguished School in 2005, 2009, and again in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883447", "title": "Bobbi Eden", "text": "Bobbi Eden\n\nBobbi Eden (born 4 January 1980) is a Dutch pornographic actress and international magazine model. She was the runner-up for the Dutch \"Penthouse\" Pet of the Year. She had also modeled for magazines including \"Club, Men Only\", and \"Soho\".\n\nShe appeared with Dutch DJ Ferry Corsten in the video for his single \"Watch Out\". In the video, a tiny Corsten races around in a model racing car while Bobbi looms overhead with the remote control. She has written columns for the magazines \"Passie\" and \"Chick\", and currently writes for the magazine \"Panorama\".\n\nDuring the 2010 World Cup, Eden attracted media attention after her 28 June Twitter announcement, in which she promised to provide oral sex for all of her Twitter followers if the Netherlands team won the World Cup. The promise led to a large increase in the number of her followers. The Netherlands reached the final, subsequently losing 1–0.\n\nIn May 2012, Eden signed a deal to be the first Dutch adult star to have a Fleshlight. In September 2012, she premiered a Dutch Reality TV Show called 'Bobbi in the USA' on Dutch Cable Network Meiden Van Holland. Eden signed a cam deal with IsLive.com in September 2012.\n\nShe signed a contract to release an autobiography in 2014. In December 2016, she appeared on the Roast of Gordon Heuckeroth, the first Dutch edition of the Comedy Central Roast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883448", "title": "The Brain Busters", "text": "The Brain Busters\n\nThe Brain Busters was the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) name for the professional wrestling tag team of Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard. Anderson and Blanchard adopted this name after joining the WWF in 1988 from Jim Crockett Promotions, where the two men had wrestled as part of The Four Horsemen stable and had won the NWA World Tag Team Championship twice. As a team, Anderson and Blanchard are regarded by WWE as three-time world tag team champions, having won the WWF Tag Team Championship during their time in the WWF.\n\nArn Anderson and Tully Blanchard were founding members of the Four Horsemen, and often teamed up for six and eight man tag team matches with Ric Flair and Ole Anderson. Blanchard was the number two heel in the NWA, behind only NWA World Heavyweight Champion Ric Flair, winning the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship, the NWA National Heavyweight Championship and the NWA World Television Championship. Meanwhile, Anderson was designated as the \"Enforcer\" of the stable, and teamed with Ole Anderson as the final version of The Minnesota Wrecking Crew. In the spring of 1987, Ole was kicked out of the Four Horsemen, and was replaced with associate member Lex Luger. Shortly after losing the Television Title, Blanchard quickly began teaming with Arn and targeted the NWA World Tag Team titles.\n\nTully and Arn won the NWA World Tag Team Championship on September 29, 1987 by defeating The Rock 'n' Roll Express after The Midnight Express attacked Ricky Morton prior to the match. They were immediately challenged by The Road Warriors to a title match at Starrcade '87 in the LOD hometown of Chicago. Despite a hostile pro LOD crowd, the Horsemen retained the titles on a reverse decision. The Horseman would next receive a stiff challenge from ex-Horsemen Lex Luger, and longtime Horseman rival Barry Windham, who were dubbed the Twin Towers. The teams met at Clash of the Champions I live on TBS and the challengers upset the Horsemen, when heel miscommunication caused Anderson to get hit by a chair from Horsemen manager J.J. Dillon, and pinned by Luger.\n\nArn and Tully regained the titles less than a month later on April 20, 1988 when Barry Windham turned on his tag-team partner and joined the Four Horsemen. The duo would mainly defend the titles against various combinations of teams between the trio of Sting, Nikita Koloff and \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams. Things began to sour behind the scenes for the champions, as the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) launched its first-ever uninterrupted pay-per-view, The Great American Bash, promoters were attempting to draw a large gate and, according to the DVD \"Ric Flair and The Four Horsemen\", Blanchard had suggested a rematch with the Road Warriors, but instead they were booked against Sting and Koloff, (whom they wrestled to a time limit draw), and when the PPV payouts were given out, it was discovered that Dillon who was their manager received 3 times the payout of the 2-time World Tag Team Champions. This was the last straw for Blanchard, who saw this as an insult and immediately prepared to give his notice. Meanwhile, on camera, the champions had begun a feud with NWA United States Tag Team champions The Midnight Express, with the storyline being that Anderson and Blanchard considered the Midnight Express to be ungrateful punks who weren't on their level. The Midnight Express won the titles from the Horsemen on September 10, 1988, as both Blanchard and Anderson gave their notices to Jim Crockett Promotions, ending the original Four Horsemen and according to Blanchard, it was the end of an era.\n\nThe duo made their debut late in October 1988, as \"The Brain Busters\", due to being under management of Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan (and, by default, members of the Heenan Family). It was commonplace for the WWF at this time to assign wrestlers to some sort of gimmick, or new identity. Aside from the Brain Busters team name, Anderson and Blanchard were allowed to keep their names and ring persona. The only changes Arn and Tully made to their style were pointing to their heads to show they were smarter than everyone else and the use of a spike piledriver as a finishing move.\n\nThe Brain Busters made their pay-per-view (PPV) debut at the 1988 Survivor Series in the 10 team tag match, where they eliminated the Hart Foundation, before being eliminated via double disqualification with the Rockers. This led to a match with the Rockers on \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" where both teams were again disqualified before the match could even get started. This kicked off a red hot series of house show matches. One match in particular on January 23, 1989 was rated as one of the 50 greatest matches in the Pro Wrestling Illustrated (PWI) 10th anniversary issue, where the Brain Busters narrowly defeated the Rockers as Anderson held down Marty Jannetty's leg as Blanchard pinned him. The teams wrestled to a double countout on the March 11, 1989 \"Saturday Night's Main Event XX\".\n\nThe Brain Busters made their first and only WrestleMania appearance at WrestleMania V against former WWF Tag Team Champions Strike Force. After an even start, the Brain Busters dominated the ex-champions as Rick Martel walked out on Tito Santana and he was brutalized and beaten after a spike piledriver and eventually pinned.\n\nAfter their WrestleMania win, the Brain Busters finally got to face the WWF World Tag Team Champions Demolition and defeated them by disqualification on the May 27, 1989 \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXI\". The Brain Busters defeated Demolition for the titles in a rematch on July 18, 1989 in a two out of three falls match. After losing the first fall, by pinfall, the Busters won the second fall, via disqualification, and won the third fall, with a distraction from Bobby Heenan and a steel chair thrown in from André the Giant, the Brain Busters ended Demolition's then-record-breaking 478-day title reign and became the first team to win both the WWF and NWA World Tag Team Championship. It also was the first time a title changed hands in a two-out-of-three falls match where one of the decisions ended in a disqualification. After then defeating The Hart Foundation in a non-title match at SummerSlam, they then lost the titles back to Demolition on October 2, 1989, in an equally controversial fashion as Blanchard, who was the illegal man, was pinned after receiving the Demolition Decapitation finisher. As was customary at the time, the Busters continued to defend the titles on house shows until the title change was acknowledged on television on November 4, 1989.\n\nTheir last match was a best-of-three-falls contest against The Rockers on \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXIV\". The Brain Busters lost the first fall after not following directions from an enraged Heenan, who left the ringside area. The Brain Busters won the second fall, after which Heenan fired them during a backstage interview. The Rockers would go on to win the third and final fall of the match. On the day of the 1989 Survivor Series, Tully Blanchard failed a drug test and the lack of a suitable replacement saw him replaced by Heenan who would wrestle for the first time since WrestleMania V. Arn Anderson left the federation more or less immediately after the pay-per-view and returned to the NWA in December. However, the NWA refused to rehire Blanchard when news of his failed drug test became known, thus ending the Brain Busters for good. Tully Blanchard would renegotiate a new contract with NWA a few months later, but ultimately declined what he considered to be a very low offer (reportedly half of a previous verbal agreement), and instead signed with the American Wrestling Association (AWA).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883455", "title": "All Things New (Steven Curtis Chapman album)", "text": "All Things New (Steven Curtis Chapman album)\n\nAll Things New is the thirteenth studio album by Steven Curtis Chapman. It was released on September 21, 2004, by Sparrow Records.\n\nIn 2005, the album won the Grammy Award for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album; unusually for Chapman, however, the album did not win the corresponding Dove Award that year (2005), although it had been nominated.\n\nThe \"All Thing New\" concert tour in support of this album included Casting Crowns and the worship leader Chris Tomlin.\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "1883459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883459", "title": "Black Flag Army", "text": "Black Flag Army\n\nThe Black Flag Army (; ) was a splinter remnant of a bandit group recruited largely from soldiers of ethnic Zhuang background, who crossed the border in 1865 from Guangxi, China into northern Vietnam, then during the Nguyen dynasty. Although brigands, they were known mainly for their fights against the invading French forces, who were then moving into Tonkin (northern Vietnam). With the sanction of both Vietnamese and Chinese authorities, the Black Flags joined the Vietnamese regular forces, stemming French encroachment beyond the Red River Delta. The Black Flag Army is so named because of the preference of its commander, Liu Yongfu, for using black command flags. The army was officially disbanded in 1885 as a result of the Treaty of Tientsin between the French and the Qing. However, remnants of the army continued to wage a guerilla war against French colonial authorities for years.\n\nIn 1857, Liu Yongfu (Vietnamese: Lưu Vĩnh Phúc), a Hakka soldier of fortune, commanded a group of about 200 men within a larger bandit group in Guangxi province headed by Huang Sihong (黃思宏). He defected with his men to the band of Wu Yuanqing (Wu Yuan-ch'ing, 吳元清) under his own – black – flag. Liu organized a ceremony reminiscent of the tiandihui (天地会) rituals and what became known as the Black Flag Army was born. The \"army\" operated as an independent unit under Wu Yuanqing and under his son and successor, Wu Yazhong (Wu Ya-chung, 吳亞終) or Wu Hezhong. Although not part of the Taiping forces, both Wu Yuanqing and Wu Yazhong laid claim to be Taiping \"princes\".\n\nAfter Qing forces crushed the Taiping Rebellion in 1864 in Nanking, the Qing army proceeded to destroy systematically the many armed bands of south-eastern provinces. Hotly pursued, the desperate Wu Yazhong, with Liu and his Black Flag Army, crossed into Upper Tonkin in 1865.\n\nThe Black Flags demonstrated their usefulness to the Vietnamese court by helping the suppression of the indigenous tribes populating the mountainous terrain between the Red and Black Rivers, and for this Liu was rewarded with an official military title.\n\nSecured with the backing of the Vietnamese court, Liu Yongfu established a profitable extortion network along the course of the Red River, \"taxing\" river commerce between Sơn Tây and Lào Cai at a rate of 10%. The profits accrued from this venture were so great that Liu's army swelled in numbers in the 1870s, attracting to its ranks adventurers from all over the world. Although most of the Black Flag soldiers were Chinese, the junior officers included American and European soldiers of fortune, some of whom had seen action in the Taiping Rebellion. Liu used their expertise to transform the Black Flag Army into a formidable fighting force. Under his command in Tonkin he had 7,000 soldiers from Guangdong and Guangxi.\n\nThe harassment of European vessels trading on the Red River triggered the dispatch of the French expeditionary force to Tonkin under Commandant Henri Rivière in 1882. The resulting clashes between the French and the Black Flag Army (the latter abetted by the regular Vietnamese and Chinese forces) escalated, resulting eventually in the Sino-French War (August 1884–April 1885). The Black Flags assisted the Chinese forces during this war, best known for the fierce Siege of Tuyên Quang when the joint Black Flags-Chinese armies holed up a battalion of the French Foreign Legion defending the citadel. The Black Flag Army formally disbanded at the end of the Sino-French War, though many of its members continued to harass the French for years afterwards as freelance bandits.\n\nRemarkably, Liu Yongfu revived the Black Flag Army again in 1895 in response to the Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895). Liu Yongfu crossed to Taiwan at the appeal of his old friend Tang Jingsong, the island's former governor-general and now president of the short-lived Republic of Formosa. Liu was to command the Formosan resistance forces against the Japanese. Liu took a number of aging Black Flag veterans back into service to join the fight against the Japanese, but the reconstituted Black Flag Army was swept aside with ease by the Japanese Imperial Guards Division. Liu himself was obliged to disguise himself as an old woman to escape capture.\n\nAn entry on the Black Flags in \"Appletons' Annual Cyclopaedia and Register of Important Events, Volume 8; Volume 23\" \"\"The Black Flags-More formidable than the Anamese army were the irregular soldiers known as the Black and the Yellow Flags. These troops were not Anamese. but Chinese, and it is not known to what extent they were augmented by volunteers from the neighboring Chinese provinces. They are survivors of the valorous Taeping rebels who held the military power of the Chinese Empire at bay for many years. In 1865 the rebels, who had retired before the Chinese troops into the province of Kwangsi, were finally driven across the border into Tonquin, and found a secure retreat in the mountains on both sides of the Red river valley. This band of exiles, numbering about 5,000, were accompanied by -their wives and families. Their chief was Watsong, one of Taeping Wang’s principal lieutenants, and many of them continued the freebooting practices into which the rebellion degenerated in its latter period. They offered no further hostility to the Chinese Government, but rather became the supporters and instruments of Chinese policy and influence in Anam. The Anamese troops were sent against them several times, but were invariably defeated. In 1868 they held undisputed possession of the whole right bank of the Red river above the capital. With the assistance of the Chinese Viceroy of Canton, or Governor-General of the two Kwang, they were finally expelled from the low country and confined to the upper course of the river.\"\n\n\"Soon after Watsong died, and his followers divided into two bands. The main body of the original Taeping rebels were disposed to settle down to peaceful pursuits, and to make their submission to the Chinese and Anamese authorities. They adopted the yellow flag for their ensign, and chose for their chief llwang Tsoug 1n, who had been a soldier in the Chinese territorial army of Kwangsi. The smaller band. which retained the black flag, was composed of criminals and desperate characters who had joined the band of Watsong in the hope of plunder or to escape from justice, and their new leader was formerly the most famous brigand in the province of Kwangsi. The 1principal settlement of the Black Flags is at aokai, on Red river; that of the Yellow Flags at Hagiung, farther in the interior and east. of that place. The Anamese subsidized the Yellow Flags. partly to act as a check upon the troublesome Black Flags, and were glad to avail themselves of both in their conflicts with the French. It was through a want of precaution against the skill aud courage of the Black Flags that Garnier lost his life in 1873, and through a repetition of the same blunder Riviera sufiered defeat and death in 1883. Both the Black and Yellow Flags have greatly increased in number since they were expelled from Chinese territory, the former numbering in 1883 probably not fewer than 5,000 warriors, and the latter perhaps twice as many.\"\"\n\nIn 1873 the Vietnamese government enlisted the help of the Black Flag Army to defeat the first French attempt to conquer Tonkin, led by the naval lieutenant Francis Garnier. On 21 December 1873 Liu Yongfu and around 600 Black Flags (), marching beneath an enormous black banner, approached the west gate of the Hanoi Citadel. A large Vietnamese army followed in their wake. Garnier ordered the shelling of the Black Flags with a field piece mounted above the gate, and when they were repulsed, he led a party of 18 French marine infantrymen out of the gate in pursuit. Garnier and three of his men charged uphill in a bayonet attack on a party of Black Flags but was speared to death after stumbling in a watercourse. The youthful \"enseigne de vaisseau\" Adrien-Paul Balny d’Avricourt led a similar small column to reinforce Garnier but was also killed in front of his men. Three other French soldiers were killed in these sorties, and the others fled back to the citadel after their officers fell. Garnier's death shocked the French public and ended the first French adventure in Tonkin.\n\nTen years later, with France again pushing into Tonkin, undeclared hostilities broke out in 1883 and the first half of 1884 as a prelude to the Sino-French War. The Black Flags fought several engagements against French forces in Tonkin. The first major clash was at the Battle of Paper Bridge (19 May 1883), in which the French naval captain Henri Rivière was ambushed and killed. It was a swift and striking victory for the Black Flag Army.\n\nIn the Battle of Phủ Hoài (15 August 1883), the Black Flag Army successfully defended its positions against a French attack launched by General Alexandre-Eugène Bouët, though it took considerably higher casualties than the French. In the Battle of Palan (1 September 1883) the Black Flags did less well, being driven from a key position on the River Đáy.\n\nIn December 1883 the Black Flag Army suffered a major defeat at the hands of Admiral Amédée Courbet in the Sơn Tây Campaign. Despite fighting with fanatical courage in the engagements at Phu Sa on 14 December and Son Tay on 16 December, the Black Flags were unable to prevent the French from storming Sơn Tây. Even with large Chinese and Vietnamese regular contingents at Son Tay, the Black Flag Army bore the brunt of the fighting, and took very heavy casualties. In the opinion of the British observer William Mesny, a senior officer in the Chinese army, the fighting at Sơn Tây broke the power of the Black Flag Army, though the stubborn defence put up by the Black Flags in the Battle of Hòa Mộc fifteen months later does not bear out this assessment.\n\nThe Black Flag Army took no part in the Bắc Ninh Campaign (March 1884). After the French capture of Bac Ninh, the Black Flags retreated to Hưng Hóa. In April 1884 the French advanced on Hưng Hóa with both brigades of the Tonkin Expeditionary Corps. The Black Flags had thrown up an impressive series of fortifications around the town, but General Charles-Théodore Millot, the French commander-in-chief, took it without a single French casualty. While General François de Négrier's 2nd Brigade pinned the Black Flags frontally from the east and subjected Hung Hoa to a ferocious artillery bombardment from the Trung Xa heights, General Louis Brière de l'Isle's 1st Brigade made a flank march to the south to cut Liu's line of retreat. On the evening of 11 April, seeing Brière de l'Isle's Turcos and marine infantry emerging behind their flank at Xuan Dong, the Black Flags evacuated Hung Hoa before they were trapped inside it. They set alight the remaining buildings before they left, and on the following morning the French found the town completely abandoned.\n\nThe Black Flag Army retreated up the Red River to Thanh Quan, only a few days march from the frontier town of Lào Cai. Several hundred Black Flag soldiers, demoralised by the ease with which Courbet and Millot had defeated the Black Flag Army, surrendered to the French in the summer of 1884. One of Millot's final achievements was to advance up the Clear River and throw the Black Flag Army out of Tuyên Quang in the first week of June, again without a single French casualty. If the French had seriously pursued Liu Yongfu after the capture of Tuyên Quang, the Black Flags would probably have been driven from Tonkin there and then. But French attention was diverted by the sudden crisis with China provoked by the Bắc Lệ ambush (23 June 1884), and during the eventful summer of 1884 the Black Flags were left to lick their wounds.\n\nThe fortunes of the Black Flag Army were transformed by the outbreak of the Sino-French War in August 1884. The Empress Dowager Cixi responded to the news of the destruction of China's Fujian Fleet at the Battle of Fuzhou (23 August 1884) by ordering her generals to invade Tonkin to throw the French out of Hanoi. Tang Jingsong, the commander of the Yunnan Army, knew that Liu's services would be invaluable in the war with France, and Liu agreed to take part with the Black Flag Army in the forthcoming campaign. The Black Flags helped the Chinese forces put pressure on Hung Hoa and the isolated French posts of Phu Doan and Tuyen Quang during the autumn of 1884.\n\nIn the winter and spring of 1885 3,000 soldiers of the Black Flag Army served during the Siege of Tuyên Quang. At the Battle of Hòa Mộc (2 March 1885), the Black Flag Army inflicted heavy casualties on a French column marching to the relief of Tuyên Quang. French casualties at Hòa Mộc were 76 dead and 408 wounded, the highest casualty rate and the heaviest loss in a single day's fighting sustained by the French during the Sino-French War. Many French officers at Hòa Mộc said that the carnage was even worse than at Sơn Tây fifteen months earlier.\n\nOne of the conditions of the peace treaty between France and China that ended the Sino-French War was that Liu Yongfu should leave Tonkin. By the end of the war Liu had only around 2,000 troops under his command and was in no position to resist pressure from Tang Jingsong and the other commanders of the Yunnan Army to remove the Black Flag Army. Liu crossed into China with some of his most loyal followers, but the bulk of the Black Flag Army was disbanded on Tonkinese soil in the summer of 1885. Unpaid for months and still in possession of their rifles, most of the unwanted Black Flag soldiers immediately took to banditry, under cover of the Cần Vương resistance movement against the French. It took months for the French to reduce them, and the route between Hung Hoa and the border town of Lao Cai was only secured in February 1886. In 1887, Black Flag bandits remained sufficiently powerful to ransack and pillage Luang Prabang.\n\nLiu Yongfu evidently had a personal preference for the colour black, having dreamt in his youth that he would one day become a 'general of the black tiger'. The Black Flag Army is named from the colour of Liu's command flags.\n\nFrench sources invariably mention that Liu Yongfu's personal command flags were very large, black in colour, and rectangular. In December, 1873, when Liu Yongfu confronted Francis Garnier outside Hanoi, the Black Flag Army was described as marching under enormous black flags. At the Battle of Palan (September 1, 1883), Liu Yongfu's headquarters was marked with seven identical black flags that were bordered in silver. In the Sơn Tây Campaign (December, 1883), Liu Yongfu ordered three large black flags to be flown above the main gate of the citadel of Sơn Tây, bearing Chinese characters in white.\n\nIndividual Black Flag units flew a variety of flags, some rectangular and others triangular. In the afternoon of August 15, 1883, during the Battle of Phủ Hoài, several units of the Black Flag Army emerged from their defences and advanced across open ground to attack the French left wing; according to a French eyewitness, the advancing Black Flag units bore numerous black banners decorated with Chinese characters in either red or white.\n\nSurviving Black Flag banners include a black triangular banner with a representation in white of the seven stars of the Great Bear. The reconstruction shown here displays the Chinese character 令, which translate to English currently means \"order\" or \"command\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883460", "title": "Nos Lowen", "text": "Nos Lowen\n\nNos Lowen (former spelling Noze looan) is a style of Cornish-Celtic dance, and associated music and events similar in style to the Breton Fest Noz but featuring only Cornish dances. Nos Lowen is Cornish for \"happy night\".\n\nNos lowen is a relatively recent development in Cornish music and dance, which started in the 1990s, some twenty years after the beginning of the revival of Cornish dancing generally. It may be a reaction to the more formal approaches of the earlier revival, in which the social dance nights, known as troyls, present the Cornish dances in the style of a Scottish or Irish ceilidh. The nos lowen approach on the other hand was inspired by the Breton fest noz format, which itself had emerged in the 1960s. With both nos lowen and fest noz they were new ways of celebrating what were often quite ancient dances from their respective regions. Nos lowen was initially spearheaded by the Cornish group Sowena, and traditional dancers. It places greater emphasis on simpler dances, which are also often the oldest ones, such as snake dances and furry dances, in order to increase participation and remove the need for a caller. The nos lowen movement continues to enjoy much success in Cornwall as does the troyl/ceilidh approach.\n\nWhile nos lowen is essentially a dance style, an associated style of music has grown around it which is generally more progressive than many folk bands, possibly to appeal to a younger audience. It also places more emphasis on rhythms and longer songs in order to produce the tribal trance-like state associated with the repetitive dances. Exponents include Tredanek, Dalla, Davey&Dyer, Heb Mar.\n\nThe plural of Nos Lowen should technically be 'Nosow Lowen' if you're speaking Cornish, but people often simply say 'Nos Lowens' when speaking English In the same way people might pluralise 'Ceilidhs' in English. 'Nos lowen' is sometimes abbreviated by 'Nsl' online or in event listings. The earlier spelling 'Noze looan' was based on the late Cornish orthography; with the introduction of the standard written form of Cornish, the spelling 'nos lowen' is now used.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883461", "title": "Front kick", "text": "Front kick\n\nThe front kick in martial arts is a kick executed by lifting the knee straight forward, while keeping the foot and shin either hanging freely or pulled to the hip, and then straightening the leg in front of the practitioner and striking the target area. It is desirable to retract the leg immediately after delivering the kick, to avoid the opponent trying to grapple the leg and (unless a combination is in process) to return to stable fighting stance.\n\nThe front Kick described is the typical basic front kick of Karate or Tae Kwon Do (TKD). But Front Kick can also be defined more broadly as a straight forward kick directly to the front, and then include several variations from many different styles. A front kick can be delivered forward in a penetrating way (hip thrust), or upwards to attack the head.\n\nIn martial arts implying either barefooted combat or very light footwear, the strike is usually delivered by using ball of the foot (while pointing the foot toward the target area and keeping toes up to prevent injury) or by heel. When heavier footwear is used, there is an option using whole sole as a striking surface. It is also possible to kick with the top of your foot (the instep) in cases of striking at the groin or under the arm which can be very damaging.\n\nUsing ball of a foot is preferred in Karate. This method demands more control of one's movement, but allows for narrow, penetrating strike. TKD practitioners utilise both heel and ball of the foot for striking. It is common to perform tempering exercises to strengthen ball of the foot, as many new practitioners are unable to exercise full-power front kicks on training gear, such as body bag.\n\nThe impact point of the Front Kick can, with specific techniques and in certain styles, be more exotic. Certain Japanese styles have a Front Kick generally used as a stop-kick where the blade of the foot is used to connect, like for a side kick (The Foot Blade Front Kick). The heel is often used straight (Mae Kakato Geri) or with the foot tilted (Tilted Heel Front Kick), especially in stop-kicks, close kicks or high front kicks. Japanese Nin-Jitsu has variations using the straightened and hardened toes. Front Kicks to the groin (Kin Geri) like the lift kick or the upward front kick (Mae Geri Keage), use the top of the foot. The phantom Groin Kick uses the whole of the in-side of the foot to connect very effectively. Stop Kicks often use the whole plant of the foot to push away the opponent.\n\nVarious combat systems teach 'general' front kick using heel or whole foot when footwear is on. For example, martial art systems employed by military assume that a fighter wears heavy footwear, is generally less mobile than typically assumed in competition martial arts, and may have his/hers leg muscles severely fatigued. Properly executing fast 'snap' front kick while controlling one's foot direction may be difficult in said conditions. Less technically demanding kick utilizing sole of heavy footwear as a striking surface is easier to execute.\n\nThe front kick is typically performed with the straight and balanced upper body, but it allows for variety in motion of hips and body overall. Martial arts systems exploit this ability in different fashions. For example, a karateka may perform \"mae geri\" while standing upright, or lean somewhat back during the attack, intending to increase the reach of the kick. If a simple 'kick-punch' combination is executed, this slight lean allows for more momentum placed into the movement of upper body, thus the karateka will end with a more powerful body movement behind the punch. The opposite situation is exploited in some variations of Wing Chun, where stiff forward motion of both hands blocking/striking in upper area could be accompanied with a slight leaning forward and simultaneous front kick into groin/thigh, etc. Hips movement may be used to increase the reach and to thrust one's leg into the target, resulting in more powerful strike (a common practice in Taekwondo and some styles of karate).\n\nFront kicks are typically aimed at targets below the chest: stomach, thighs, groin, knees or lower. Highly skilled martial artists are often capable of striking head-level targets with front kick (albeit rarely use it this way). Front kick is fast to do and involves little body motion betraying the technique's nature prior to actual execution. This makes a well-developed front kick an excellent asset in both offence and defense.\n\nWhen defending, front kick could be used to severely damage the lower area of the opponent who has started an attack, but has overconcentrated on guarding head/upper body, and as a good tool to keep enemy from punch range. In offense, front kick could serve as an excellent opener for combination attacks, as it is fast, dangerous enough for opponent to switch attention to block/deflecting/evading the kick, but requires little deviation from the upright fighting stance, which is good to start punch attack from. Overall, there is a wide variety of situations where this kick could be exploited by a creative martial arts practitioner.\n\nCommon ways to counter front kick are deflecting it with hand, shin, etc., stepping away/sideways, or, given the kick is visibly pointed into abdomen/thighs area, shifting a body so it passes along. The last method is somewhat risky, as it relies heavily on defender's agility, with front kick being one of the fastest kicks possible. More exotic techniques of countering front kicks exist, like one incorporated in Wado ryu kihon kumite (referred to as yakusoku, or prearranged, kumite, in some schools). Said technique involves simultaneously pushing opponents leg away from one's centerline and attacking the leg with a downward elbow strike into the hip. However, this method is not recommended to beginners and as a general purpose one.\n\nAlso, although well-executed front kick is very fast, a careless execution present a defender with excellent opportunity for grappling, which could be disastrous for an attacker. Once the leg is grappled, a variety of attacks is available to defender, such as wrestling techniques resulting in pain compliance hold, immediate counterattack with punches, throws, kicks into lower area and combinations of all above. For this reason, 'recocking' the leg after the kick is truly important, especially in real-life situations, where artificial rules common to many competition martial arts do not apply. However, executing front kicks to the waist and below is relatively safe and effective, given the leg is immediately retracted.\n\nIn Taekwondo, the front kick bears name \"ap chagi\". It is distinct from the push kick (\"mireo chagi\") in that the power should be delivered instantaneously. Since the leg moves forward while the shin and foot naturally swing upwards, the easiest application of this kick is that of directing one's energy upwards, perhaps considering it a \"kick to the groin\". However, one can deliver massive force forward with this kick as well, which is considered its main application by most instructors. Directed forward, this is actually one of the most powerful kicks in Taekwondo, and it is quite often used in exhibitions and board-breaking competitions where power is demonstrated.\n\nIn order to not injure ones toes while executing this kick, it is usually delivered through the front base of the foot (\"ap chook\"), if not with the flat upperside of the foot (\"bal deung\"). If performed with the bare foot then the ball of the foot is used on impact with the toes drawn up to prevent injury. To strike with \"ap chook\" one has to raise one's toes so that their tips will not be the first contact point. Even when directed forward, this is not a kick where the first contact point should be the base of the heel, as is considered beneficial in some other martial arts having a similar kick. In Taekwondo, one would strike forward with the ankle extended, so that the upperside of the foot forms a straight line with the shin, and with the toes bent back (pointing up). In other words, an \"ap chook ap chagi\". Having the foot in any other position when directing this kick strictly forward would be considered highly unorthodox, and is a common error among beginners.\n\nIn addition to being a kick in itself, the front kick is an exercise used by many instructors to teach the principle of lifting ones knee before the rest of the kick commences, something which is considered important in Taekwondo, where it is somewhat literally translated from the Korean \"ap chagi\" (앞차기), (and many kicking arts with the notable exception of Capoeira). In competition fights (known as \"sparring\" or \"kyorugi\") this kick sees little actual use, except possibly as a component in an improvised kick which is perhaps intended as an \"an chagi\" or \"naeryo chagi\".\n\nIt is common to slightly bend the knee of the leg one is standing on when executing this kick, and pointing the foot one is standing on somewhat outwards. As in all Taekwondo kicks, one will also try to get ones \"hip into the kick\", resulting perhaps in a slight shift of weight forward. In any case, this is a linear kick, and as such one that one can get ones weight behind.\n\nThere exist countless variations of this kick, and it can be used along with other kicks without one having to put ones kicking foot down in between kicks. A very common variation is \"ttwimyeo ap chagi\", a flying front kick which can reach impressively high.\n\nSome instructors refer to this kick as the \"flash kick\". This is in tune with the line of thought which seems prevalent in the various Taekwondo forms, where the ap chagi is used very extensively in combination with relatively short range hand strikes and blocks, mimicking situations in which it would have to be performed quite quickly.\n\nThe Front Kick, called Mae Geri in Japanese, is certainly the main kick in traditional karate of all styles. It is the most used kick in traditional kata forms and the most practiced kick in traditional ki-hon practice. The kick is a very strong and fast strike, and easier to master than less “natural” kicks. The kick generally connects with the ball of the foot, under the toes, but other points of impact are sometimes used in the many variants existing in Japanese Karate, and other styles. It can be thrusting (kekomi) or snapping (keage), or somewhere in between. In its thrusting or kekomi form the kicker pushes the foot into the target powerfully leveraging the momentum of his own body weight in order to propel the opponent or target backwards. In its snapping or keage form the kicker emphasizes the extremely quick retraction or recoil or re-chamber of the foot and the lower leg immediately after impact (thereby making it difficult to catch or grab the leg by the opponent); The keage kick exhibits less pushing force but more breaking impact than the kekomi form of the kick. It can be delivered with hopping (surikonde) or jumping (tobikonde), and sometimes with a straight leg all-the-way (Mae Keage). It can be executed with the front leg, defensively or hopping forward, or the rear leg. It can be executed with nearly square hips, or with hips lined sideways like the Yoko Geri of Wado-ryu Karate. There are many other variations, as the kick can also be feinted, angled or delivered from the ground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883477", "title": "Astronomical constant", "text": "Astronomical constant\n\nAn astronomical constant is any of several physical constants used in astronomy. Formal sets of constants, along with recommended values, have been defined by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) several times: in 1964 and in 1976 (with an update in 1994). In 2009 the IAU adopted a new current set, and recognizing that new observations and techniques continuously provide better values for these constants, they decided to not fix these values, but have the Working Group on Numerical Standards continuously maintain a set of Current Best Estimates. The set of constants is widely reproduced in publications such as the \"Astronomical Almanac\" of the United States Naval Observatory and HM Nautical Almanac Office.\n\nBesides the IAU list of units and constants, also the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service defines constants relevant to the orientation and rotation of the Earth, in its technical notes.\n\nThe IAU system of constants defines a system of astronomical units for length, mass and time (in fact, several such systems), and also includes constants such as the speed of light and the constant of gravitation which allow transformations between astronomical units and SI units. Slightly different values for the constants are obtained depending on the frame of reference used. Values quoted in barycentric dynamical time (TDB) or equivalent time scales such as the \"T\" of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory ephemerides represent the mean values that would be measured by an observer on the Earth's surface (strictly, on the surface of the geoid) over a long period of time. The IAU also recommends values in SI units, which are the values which would be measured (in proper length and proper time) by an observer at the barycentre of the Solar System: these are obtained by the following transformations:\n\nThe astronomical unit of time is a time interval of one day (\"D\") of 86400 seconds. The astronomical unit of mass is the mass of the Sun (\"S\"). The astronomical unit of length is that length (\"A\") for which the Gaussian gravitational constant (\"k\") takes the value when the units of measurement are the astronomical units of length, mass and time.\n\n\n† The definitions of these derived constants have been taken from the references cited, but the values have been recalculated to take account of the more precise values of the primary constants cited in the table.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883482", "title": "Euphrasian Basilica", "text": "Euphrasian Basilica\n\nThe Euphrasian Basilica (, ) or the Cathedral Basilica of the Assumption of Mary is a Roman Catholic basilica in the Istrian town of Poreč, Croatia. The episcopal complex, which comprises the basilica itself, a sacristy, a baptistery and the bell tower of the nearby archbishop's palace, is an excellent example of early Byzantine architecture in the Mediterranean region.\n\nThe Euphrasian basilica has for the most part retained its original shape, but accidents, fires and earthquakes have altered a few details. Since it is the third church to be built on the same site, it conceals previous buildings, for example the great floor mosaic of the previous basilica from the 5th century. Because of its exceptional value, it has been inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1997. The Basilica is also the Cathedral of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Poreč-Pula.\n\nThe earliest basilica was dedicated to Saint Maurus of Parentium and dates back to the second half of the 4th century. The floor mosaic from its oratory, originally part of a large Roman house, is still preserved in the church garden. This oratorium was already expanded in the same century into a church composed of a nave and one aisle (\"basilicae geminae\"). The fish on the floor mosaic dates from this period. Coins with the portrayal of emperor Valens (365–378), found in the same spot, confirm these dates.\n\nThe present basilica, dedicated to Mary, was built in the sixth century during the period of Bishop Euphrasius. It was built from 553 on the site of the older basilica that had become dilapidated. For the construction, parts of the former church were used and the marble blocks were imported from the coast of the Sea of Marmara. The wall mosaics were executed by Byzantian masters and the floor mosaics by local experts. The construction took about ten years. Euphrasius, holding the church in his arms, is represented on one of the mosaics on the apse, next to St. Maurus.\n\nFollowing the earthquake of 1440 the southern wall of the central nave of the basilica was restored, so that in place of the windows which were destroyed, other were built in the Gothic style.\n\nThe basilica is part of a complex composed of:\n\nThe two aisles are separated from the nave by 18 elegant Greek marble colonnades with richly sculpted Byzantine and Romanesque capitals, decorated with depictions of animals. They all carry the monogram of Saint Euphrasius. The arches between the capitals are decorated with stucco work.\n\nA novelty of the Euphrasian basilica is that rather than being enclosed by a straight wall, as all sacred buildings were up to that time, it makes use of the breadth and length of the apse of the central nave, built in the shape of a polygon from the outside, whilst the two aisles end in smaller semicircular apses, hollowed into the wall. Thus the Euphrasian basilica is the earliest example of a triple-apsed church in Western Europe. The atrium is a typical example of Byzantine architecture, as are the columns, the tiles on the altar rail and all the abundant mosaics. Most impressive is the representation of Christ with the apostles, and beneath it a frieze of 13 medallions with a picture of Christ as the Lamb in the centre, surrounded by 12 medallions depicting various martyrs.\n\nThe church houses also holy objects and other artworks from the Palaeo-Christian, Byzantine and Middle Ages periods. A votive chapel, next to the sacristy, holds the relics of Saint Maurus and Saint Eleutherius.\n\nThe most striking feature of the basilica are its mosaics, dating from the 6th century. \n\nThe mosaics in the triumphal arch over the apse represent Christ; holding an opened book with the Latin text \"\"Ego sum lux vera\"\" (\"I am the true light\") with the Apostles, each with their attribute, The arch below contains mosaic medallions with the Lamb of God and portraits of twelve female martyrs. The vault over the apse is decorated with mosaics with Mary and Child, sitting on the Heavenly throne, under a wreath held by a hand - symbol of God the Father. This is the only surviving depiction of the Mother of God in an early-Christian western basilica. She is flanked by angels, Bishop Euphrasius, holding the model of the church; also local saints are depicted, including St. Maurus, the first bishop of Poreč and the Istrian diocese, and the archdeacon Claudius . The child between Euphrasius and Claudius is accompanied by the inscription \"Euphrasius, son of the archdeacon\". All figures stand on a meadow covered with flowers.\nThe central mosaics between the windows of the apse represent the \"Annunciation \" and the \"Visitation\". In the Annunciation mosaic an angel raises his hand to indicate a message. In his left hand he holds the staff of a messenger. Mary wears a purplish blue dress and a veil. She holds yarn in her left hand. On the other side the mosaics depicts the visitation of Mary to Elisabeth. Both wear contemporary sacerdotal vestments with a cape full of ribbons. A small female figure is looking from behind the curtain of a house. The three small medallions depict St. John the Baptist, Zacharias and an angel. Between these two large mosaics are smaller mosaics depicting the Young Christ with halo, and two martyrs with their martyr crown. In the northern apse these are probably Cosmas and Damian, in the south apse Ursus (or another bishop of Ravenna), and Severus.\n\nThe front wall of the apse is framed with a narrow decorated band filled with praise of Euphrasius and his works. The lower part of the apse is decorated with stone slabs encrusted with mother-of-pearl. Part of these came from an earlier wainscotting. They consist of 21 fields with 11 different decorations. In the middle stands the bishop's throne, flanked by candlesticks.\n\nThe apsis is dominated by the marble ciborium, modelled after the one in St. Mark's in Venice, it was built in 1277 on the orders of Otto, Bishop of Poreč. The canopy, decorated with mosaics, is carried by four marble columns that belonged to the previous 6th-century ciborium. The front side of the canopy depicts representations of scenes from Mary's life, the Annunciation. In the 15th century Bishop Johann Porečanin ordered in Italy a Renaissance relief for the antependium of the altar, made of gilded silver. The polyptych of the Venetian painter Antonio Vivarini dates from the same period. The \"Last Supper\", painted by Palma the Younger is a Baroque work.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1883485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883485", "title": "Alive in Athens", "text": "Alive in Athens\n\nAlive in Athens is a live album by American heavy metal band Iced Earth. It was recorded on the nights of January 23 and January 24, 1999, in front of sold-out crowds of approximately 2000 people (on both nights) at the Rodon Club in Athens, Greece. Iced Earth was supporting the \"Something Wicked This Way Comes\" album and were on tour. It was turned into a single DVD, and released in October 2006. The album features the return of former drummer Brent Smedley, who did not record on the band's previous album.\n\nAt the conclusion of \"Violate\", the band plays the opening riff of \"The Trooper\" by Iron Maiden. \"Colors\" was also played at this concert, but was not included on the CD due to a track listing mix-up. It is, however, included on the reissue of \"The Melancholy E.P.\".\n\nNext to the CD version, there also exists a vinyl box version. It was released in 1999 and contained five pictures of the band's albums. One had the Alive in Athens artwork, the other ones had the Night of The Stormrider, Dark Saga, Days of Purgatory and Something Wicked This Way Comes artwork. It came originally with an Alive in Athens poster signed by Jon Schaffer. This box had the same track list as the three-disc version.\n\nIn 2008, Century Media reissued the three-CD release in a limited mini-LP gatefold sleeve. It included \"Colors\" as a bonus track on disc two.\n\nAccording to a 2003 post by Jon Schaffer, the album was certified Platinum in Greece.\n\nOn October 30, 2006, Century Media released a DVD version featuring live footage of the concert.\n\nShortly before the DVD was publicly released, Iced Earth rhythm guitarist and founder Jon Schaffer offered a statement which voiced dissatisfaction with Century Media (with whom Iced Earth was no longer signed at the time). A portion of this statement reads:\n\n\"I want you all to be aware of what it is that they [Century Media] are releasing. This is a very low-budget, badly edited video of an amazing concert and an awesome period in the history of Iced Earth. They promised me that they are going to keep the price down and that they are not going to market it as something it's not. But I feel it's my responsibility to let you know the reality of the situation.\"\n\nSchaffer did not, however, go so far as to call for a boycott of the product, saying, \"The decision to purchase the 'Alive in Athens' DVD is up to you. I just want you to be aware of what it is you're getting should you choose to do so.\"\n\nThe song order is not identical to that featured on the album version. A few songs are also missing, including \"Slave to the Dark\", \"A Question of Heaven\", and \"Iced Earth\". \"Colors\" was played at this concert as well, but was not included on the CD or DVD due to a track listing mix up. It is however included on \"The Melancholy E.P.\" and the 2008 re-release of \"Alive in Athens\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883496", "title": "Crispin Sartwell", "text": "Crispin Sartwell\n\nCrispin Gallagher Sartwell (born 1958) is an American philosopher, self-professed anarchist and journalist. and is a faculty member of the philosophy department at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.\n\nBorn in Washington, D.C., Sartwell is the son of Franklin Gallagher Sartwell, a reporter, editor, and photographer. His grandfather, also Franklin Gallagher Sartwell, was a columnist and editorial page editor at the \"Washington Times-Herald\". His great-grandfather, Herman Bernstein broke the story of a secret correspondence between Kaiser Wilhelm and Czar Nicholas during World War I in \"The New York Times\". Sartwell worked as a freelance rock critic for publications, including \"Record\" and \"Melody Maker\".\n\nHis mother, Joyce Abell, and stepfather, Richard Abell, were teachers in Montgomery County, Maryland and organic vegetable farmers in Rappahannock County, Virginia.\n\nSartwell received a B.A. from the University of Maryland, College Park, a M.A. from Johns Hopkins University and a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia—where his dissertation supervisor was Richard Rorty. He has taught philosophy, communication and political science at a number of schools, including Vanderbilt University, The University of Alabama, Penn State, Millersville, the Maryland Institute College of Art, and Dickinson College.\n\nA journalist since he was 20, Sartwell's syndicated column, distributed by Creators Syndicate, appeared in numerous newspapers through the 1990s and 2000s, including \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" and \"Los Angeles Times\". He has continued to write for the popular press, with work appearing in the New York Times as a contributing writer to the Times's philosophy section, The Stone. He has been published in The Atlantic, Harpers, The Washington Post, All Things Considered and other venues. He has appeared on C-Span's Washington Journal, discussing political philosophy and ethics. Sartwell remains actively involved in music criticism, including writing a country music column for the NY Press.\n\nAfter receiving his BA from the University of Maryland in 1980, Sartwell received his MA in Philosophy from The Johns Hopkins University in 1985. He pursued his doctorate at the University of Virginia, supervised by Richard Rorty, writing his dissertation on Art and Articulation, discussing pictorial representation in Dewey, Heidegger, Goodman and Gadamer.\n\nFrom 1989 through 1993, Sartwell was an Andrew W, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow at Vanderbilt University. From 1995 to 1996, Sartwell was an Annenberg Scholar in the Annenberg School for Communication, University of Pennsylvania.\n\nSartwell is best known as a political philosopher, with significant interests in Analytic Philosophy, Aesthetics and Theory of Knowledge. As a political philosopher, he has been an articulate advocate of Anarchism and individual rights as opposed to the rights of the State. In his 2008 work, \"Against the State: an Introduction to Anarchist Political Philosophy,\" he refuted the traditional justifications for the state from Hobbes through Nozick. This was followed by his 2010 work, \"Political Aesthetics,\" where he evaluated various systems based on the assumption that political systems are in part aesthetic systems.\n\nSartwell's interest in language as a system and its constraints and problems has been a constant in his career. Perhaps his clearest expression of this was in his 2000 publication, \"End of Story: Toward an Annihilation of Language and History,\" which posited an academic obsession with language qua language and narrative at the expense of a better conceptual and open dialogue.\n\nAs a Philosopher of Aesthetics as of language, Sartwell has seen the issues of beauty as being a constant in the search for meaning. His most recent work \"How to Escape: Magic, Madness, Beauty and Cynicism\", published in 2014, looked at a wide variety of artistic expression and experience from an aesthetics perspective. This followed his previous work, 2004's \"Six Names of Beauty\", where he used different words for beauty in a variety of languages including Greek, Sanskrit, Japanese and Navajo as a gateway to understanding the cultural diversity and similarities between ideas and manifestations of beauty.\n\nSartwell acquired a reputation as an epistemologist whose basic ideas on knowledge involve \"three central claims: (1) knowledge is the ultimate goal--the telos--of inquiry; (2) knowledge is true belief; and (3) justification is merely a means for arriving at true belief\". Particularly the claim that knowledge equates to true belief has garnered some attention.\n\nOn March 3, 2016, Sartwell was placed on leave from his faculty position at Dickinson College in response to posts on his blog in which he accused other philosophy professors of plagiarism. According to Sartwell, the action is related to a video, embedded in the blog post, of Miranda Lambert singing \"Time to Get a Gun.\" In September, 2016, the college's student newspaper reported that Sartwell had returned to his position and would resume teaching in the spring of 2017.\n\nIn addition to his major publications, Sartwell has published over 40 professional articles in a variety of academic journals including the \"British Journal of Aesthetics\", \"Philosophy Today\", \"American Philosophical Quarterly\" and others.\n\n\n\nAudio/video media\n"}
{"id": "1883497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883497", "title": "Oorlams Creole", "text": "Oorlams Creole\n\nOorlams (also: \"Oorlands\", \"Oorlans\") is a dialect of Afrikaans spoken in the Republic of South Africa and Namibia, by the Oorlam people. \n\nIt is considered to be either an Afrikaans-based creole language or a dialect of Afrikaans proper. \n\nOorlams has many elements from Khoi languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883501", "title": "The Legacy (album)", "text": "The Legacy (album)\n\nThe Legacy is the 1987 debut studio album by American thrash metal band Testament. It was released on April 21, 1987.\n\nPrior to the album's recording in 1986, Testament was known as Legacy. Their lineup consisted of singer Steve \"Zetro\" Souza, guitarists Alex Skolnick and Eric Peterson, bassist Greg Christian and drummer Louie Clemente. Singer Chuck Billy was a member of another local band named Guilt. He had performed with Legacy on a few occasions and was asked to become the new singer after Souza left to join Exodus. In 1986, the band changed their name to Testament after finding out that there was a jazz band named Legacy. The Testament name was suggested by Billy Milano (from S.O.D. and M.O.D.), who was a friend of the band in the early days.\n\nThis was the only Testament album to feature songwriting contributions from Souza, who was credited as the co-writer of all the songs, except for \"C.O.T.L.O.D.\" and \"Do or Die\", which were co-written by original Legacy singer Derrick Ramirez and Billy respectively. The closing track, \"Apocalyptic City\", was written by Skolnick and Peterson.\n\nThe album was recorded and mixed at Pyramid Sound Studios in Ithaca, New York, and mastered at Frankford Wayne Mastering Labs in New York City.\n\nIn support of \"The Legacy\", Testament went on a worldwide tour from June 1987 to April 1988. During the American leg of their tour, they were the opening act for Anthrax on the \"Among the Living\" tour, toured through the south and the East Coast with Overkill and played two shows in Northern California with Megadeth. After an appearance at Dynamo Open Air in June 1987 (recorded for the live EP \"Live at Eindhoven\"), Testament embarked on their first tour of Europe as the opening act for Anthrax. Touring for \"The Legacy\" ended in April 1988, shortly before the release of \"The New Order\".\n\n\"The Legacy\" received favorable reviews by music critics. AllMusic's Alex Henderson rated the album four-and-a-half stars out of five, and said that it saw Testament earn respect in \"thrash circles\" and called it \"a relentlessly heavy and promising effort focusing on such subjects as the occult, witchcraft, nuclear war, and global destruction.\" Henderson also praised Alex Perialas' production on \"The Legacy\" as \"superb -- well respected in metal circles\", and added that Perialas had \"obviously encouraged Testament to play hard and let it rip.\"\n\nWithin three years after its release in 1987, \"The Legacy\" had sold over 150,000 copies in the U.S. The album was also included on 'Frank's Favorite Records of 1987' on Metal Injection, and was ranked at number three on \"Loudwire\"'s top ten list of \"Thrash Albums NOT Released by the Big 4\".\n\nWriting, performance and production credits are adapted from the album liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883502", "title": "Count Gustav Kálnoky", "text": "Count Gustav Kálnoky\n\nCount Gustav Siegmund Kálnoky (Hungarian: \"gróf Kálnoky Gusztáv Zsigmond\") (December 29, 1832February 13, 1898), was an Austro-Hungarian diplomat and statesman.\n\nKálnoky was born in Letovice (Lettowitz), Moravia to an old Transylvanian family which had held comital rank in Hungary from the 17th century. After spending some years in a hussar regiment, in 1854 he entered the diplomatic service without giving up his connection with the army, in which he reached the rank of general in 1879. He was for the ten years (1860–1870) secretary of embassy at London, and then, after serving at Rome and Copenhagen, was in 1880 appointed ambassador at St. Petersburg. His success in Russia procured for him, on the death of Baron Heinrich Karl von Haymerle in 1881, the appointment of minister of foreign affairs for Austria-Hungary, a post which he held for fourteen years.\n\nEssentially a diplomatist, he took little or no part in the vexed internal affairs of the Dual Monarchy, and he came little before the public except at the annual statement on foreign affairs before the Delegations. His management of the affairs of his department was, however, very successful; he confirmed and maintained the alliance with Germany, which had been formed by his predecessors, and co-operated with Bismarck in the arrangements by which Italy joined the alliance. Kálnoky's special influence was seen in the improvement of Austrian relations with Russia, following on the meeting of the three emperors in September 1884 at Skierniewice, at which he was present. His Russophile policy caused some adverse criticism in Hungary. His friendliness for Russia did not, however, prevent him from strengthening the position of Austria as against Russia in the Balkan Peninsula by the establishment later of a closer political and commercial understanding with Serbia and Romania. In 1885 he interfered after the battle of Slivnitsa to arrest the advance of the Bulgarians on Belgrade, but he lost influence in Serbia after the abdication of King Milan.\n\nThough he kept aloof from the Clerical party, Kálnoky was a strong Catholic; and his sympathy for the difficulties of the Church caused adverse comment in Italy, when, in 1891, he stated in a speech before the Delegations that the question of the position of the Pope was still unsettled. He subsequently explained that by this he did not refer to the Roman question, which was permanently settled, but to the possibility of the Pope leaving Rome. The jealousy felt in Hungary against the Ultramontanes led to his fall. In 1895 a case of clerical interference in the internal affairs of Hungary by the nuncio Antonio Agliardi aroused a strong protest in the Hungarian parliament, and consequent differences between Dezső Bánffy, the Hungarian minister, and the minister for foreign affairs led to Kálnoky's resignation. He died in Brodek u Prostějova (Prödlitz).\n\nHe was awarded the Serbian order of Order of the Cross of Takovo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883516", "title": "Pancytopenia", "text": "Pancytopenia\n\nPancytopenia is a medical condition in which there is a reduction in the number of red and white blood cells, as well as platelets.\n\nIf only two parameters from the complete blood count are low, the term bicytopenia can be used. The diagnostic approach is the same as for pancytopenia.\n\nIatrogenic causes of pancytopenia include chemotherapy for malignancies if the drug or drugs used cause bone marrow suppression. Rarely, drugs (antibiotics, blood pressure medication, heart medication) can cause pancytopenia.\nThe antibiotics Linezolid and Chloramphenicol can cause pancytopenia in some individuals.\n\nRarely, pancytopenia may have other causes, such as mononucleosis or other viral diseases. Increasingly, HIV is itself a cause of pancytopenia.\n\nThe mechanisms for pancytopenia differ according to the etiology. For example, in hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) there is marked inappropriate and ineffective T cell activation that leads to an increased hemophagocytic activity. The T cell activated macrophages engulf erythrocytes, leukocytes, platelets, as well as their progenitor cells. Along with pancytopenia, HLH is characterized by fever, splenomegaly, and hemophagocytosis in bone marrow, liver, or lymph nodes.\n\nPancytopenia usually requires a bone marrow biopsy in order to distinguish among different causes.\nTreatment is done to address the underlying cause. Blood transfusion with packed red blood cells (PRBC) may be indicated according to need.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883519", "title": "Jõelähtme Parish", "text": "Jõelähtme Parish\n\nJõelähtme Parish () is a rural municipality in Harju County, north-western Estonia. It had a population of 5,351 (as of 1 January 2012) and an area of , the population density is \n\nThe administrative centre of Jõelähtme Parish is Jõelähtme village. It is located 20 km east from the centre of Estonia's capital, Tallinn.\n\nEstablished in 1816.\n\nDuring World War II, 6,000 Jews and Roma were murdered by Estonian Nazi collaborators under German supervision. Mass executions were carried out on sand dunes called Kalevi-Liiva where a memorial has been erected.\n\nCurrent mayor (') is Andrus Umboja and chairman of the council (') is Art Kuum.\n\nThere are 2 small boroughs (est: \"alevikud\", sg. - \"alevik\") and 34 villages (est: \"külad\", sg. - \"küla\") in Jõelähtme Parish.\n\nSmall boroughs: Kostivere, Loo.\n\nVillages: Aruaru, Haapse, Haljava, Ihasalu, Iru, Jägala, Jägala-Joa, Jõelähtme, Jõesuu, Kaberneeme, Kallavere, Koila, Koipsi, Koogi, Kostiranna, Kullamäe, Liivamäe, Loo, Maardu, Manniva, Neeme, Nehatu, Parasmäe, Rammu, Rebala, Rohusi, Ruu, Saha, Sambu, Saviranna, Ülgase, Uusküla, Vandjala, Võerdla.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883528", "title": "Helsinki International Film Festival", "text": "Helsinki International Film Festival\n\nThe Helsinki International Film Festival – Love & Anarchy () is a non-competitive film festival held since 1988 in Helsinki, Finland, yearly in September. The festival promotes the artistry of filmmaking, the inventive, visually stunning and controversial new films, revealing the promising talents of tomorrow. The festival was named after the 1973 Lina Wertmüller film \"Love and Anarchy\".\n\nIn 2015 the festival attracted over 61,000 visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883529", "title": "Cultural landscape", "text": "Cultural landscape\n\nA cultural landscape, as defined by the World Heritage Committee, is the \"cultural properties [that] represent the combined works of nature and of man\".\n\n\nThe concept of 'cultural landscapes' can be found in the European tradition of landscape painting. From the 16th century onwards, many European artists painted landscapes in favor of people, diminishing the people in their paintings to figures subsumed within broader, regionally specific landscapes.\n\nThe word \"landscape\" itself combines \"land\" with a verb of Germanic origin, \"scapjan/schaffen\" to mean, literally, \"shaped lands\". Lands were then considered shaped by natural forces, and the unique details of such \"landshaffen\" (shaped lands) became themselves the subject of 'landscape' paintings.\n\nThe geographer Otto Schlüter is credited with having first formally used “cultural landscape” as an academic term in the early 20th century. In 1908, Schlüter argued that by defining geography as a \"Landschaftskunde\" (landscape science) this would give geography a logical subject matter shared by no other discipline. He defined two forms of landscape: the \"Urlandschaft\" (transl. original landscape) or landscape that existed before major human induced changes and the \"Kulturlandschaft\" (transl. 'cultural landscape') a landscape created by human culture. The major task of geography was to trace the changes in these two landscapes.\n\nIt was Carl O. Sauer, a human geographer, who was probably the most influential in promoting and developing the idea of cultural landscapes. Sauer was determined to stress the agency of culture as a force in shaping the visible features of the Earth's surface in delimited areas. Within his definition, the physical environment retains a central significance, as the medium with and through which human cultures act. His classic definition of a 'cultural landscape' reads as follows:\n\n\"The cultural landscape is fashioned from a natural landscape by a cultural group. Culture is the agent, the natural area is the medium, the cultural landscape is the result\"\n\nSince Schlüter's first formal use of the term, and Sauer's effective promotion of the idea, the concept of 'cultural landscapes has been variously used, applied, debated, developed and refined within academia. In the 1950s, for instance, J.B. Jackson and his publication 'Landscape' influenced a generation of particularly American scholars, including architectural historians Denise Scott Brown, and Gwendolyn Wright. \n\nBy 1992, the World Heritage Committee elected to convene a meeting of the 'specialists' to advise and assist redraft the Committee's Operational Guidelines to include 'cultural landscapes' as an option for heritage listing properties that were neither purely natural nor purely cultural in form (i.e. 'mixed' heritage).\n\nThe World Heritage Committee's adoption and use of the concept of 'cultural landscapes' has seen multiple specialists around the world, and many nations identifying 'cultural landscapes', assessing 'cultural landscapes', heritage listing 'cultural landscapes', managing 'cultural landscapes', and effectively making 'cultural landscapes' known and visible to the world, with very practical ramifications and challenges.\n\nA 2006 academic review of the combined efforts of the World Heritage Committee, multiple specialists around the world, and nations to apply the concept of 'cultural landscapes', observed and concluded that:\n\"Although the concept of landscape has been unhooked for some time from its original art associations ... there is still a dominant view of landscapes as an inscribed surface, akin to a map or a text, from which cultural meaning and social forms can simply be read.\"\n\nWithin academia, any system of interaction between human activity and natural habitat is regarded as a cultural landscape. In a sense this understanding is broader than the definition applied within UNESCO, including, as it does, almost the whole of the world's occupied surface, plus almost all the uses, ecologies, interactions, practices, beliefs, concepts, and traditions of people living within cultural landscapes. Following on this, geographer Xoán Paredes defines cultural landscape as:\n\"... the environment modified by the human being in the course of time, the long-term combination between anthropic action on this environment and the physical constraints limiting or conditioning human activity. It is a geographical area – including natural and cultural resources – associated to historical evolution, which gives way to a recognizable landscape for a particular human group, up to the point of being identifiable as such by others.\"\n\nSome universities now offer specialist degrees in the study of cultural landscapes, including, for instance, the Universities of Naples, St.-Étienne, and Stuttgart who offer a Master of Cultural Landscapes diploma.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee has identified and listed a number of areas or properties as cultural landscapes of universal value to humankind, including the following:\n\n\"In 1993 Tongariro National Park, became the first property to be inscribed on the World Heritage List under the revised criteria describing cultural landscapes. The mountains at the heart of the park have cultural and religious significance for the Maori people and symbolize the spiritual links between this community and its environment. The park has active and extinct volcanoes, a diverse range of ecosystems and some spectacular landscapes.\"\n\n\"This park, formerly called Uluru (Ayers Rock – Mount Olga) National Park, features spectacular geological formations that dominate the vast red sandy plain of central Australia. Uluru, an immense monolith, and Kata Tjuta, the rock domes located west of Uluru, form part of the traditional belief system of one of the oldest human societies in the world. The traditional owners of Uluru-Kata Tjuta are the Anangu Aboriginal people.\"\n\n\"For 2,000 years, the high rice fields of the Ifugao have followed the contours of the mountains. The fruit of knowledge handed down from one generation to the next, and the expression of sacred traditions and a delicate social balance, they have helped to create a landscape of great beauty that expresses the harmony between humankind and the environment.\"\n\n\"In the 19th century Sintra became the first centre of European Romantic architecture. Ferdinand II turned a ruined monastery into a castle where this new sensitivity was displayed in the use of Gothic, Egyptian, Moorish and Renaissance elements and in the creation of a park blending local and exotic species of trees. Other fine dwellings, built along the same lines in the surrounding serra, created a unique combination of parks and gardens which influenced the development of landscape architecture throughout Europe\". \n\n\"The Ligurian coast between Cinque Terre and Portovenere is a cultural landscape of great scenic and cultural value. The layout and disposition of the small towns and the shaping of the surrounding landscape, overcoming the disadvantages of a steep, uneven terrain, encapsulate the continuous history of human settlement in this region over the past millennium.\"\n\nHortobágy National Park is the largest continuous natural grassland in Europe, which means that it was not formed as a result of deforestation or river control. The first Hungarian national park (established in 1973), it is the country's largest protected area (82 thousand hectares). A significant part of it is Biosphere Reserve and a quarter of its area enjoys international protection under the Ramsar Convention on the conservation of wetlands.\n\nThe Matobo Hills area exhibits a profusion of distinctive rock landforms rising above the granite shield that covers much of Zimbabwe. The large boulders provide abundant natural shelters and have been associated with human occupation from the early Stone Age right through to early historical times, and intermittently since. They also feature an outstanding collection of rock paintings. The Matopo Hills continue to provide a strong focus for the local community, which still uses shrines and sacred places closely linked to traditional, social and economic activities.\n\n\"The 18th- and 19th-century cultural landscape of Dresden Elbe Valley ... features low meadows, and is crowned by the Pillnitz Palace and the centre of Dresden with its numerous monuments and parks from the 16th to 20th centuries. The landscape also features 19th- and 20th-century suburban villas and gardens and valuable natural features.\"\n\nThis landscape was struck from the World Heritage list in 2009, due to the construction of a four lane highway across the Elbe\n\n\"The Lavaux vineyard landscape demonstrates in a highly visible way its evolution and development over almost a millennium, through the well preserved landscape and buildings that demonstrate a continuation and evolution of longstanding cultural traditions, specific to its locality.\"\n\n\"The West Lake Cultural Landscape of Hangzhou, comprising the West Lake and the hills surrounding its three sides, has inspired famous poets, scholars and artists since the 9th century. It comprises numerous temples, pagodas, pavilions, gardens and ornamental trees, as well as causeways and artificial islands.\"\n\nQhapaq Ñan is an extensive Inca communication, trade and defense network of roads covering 30,000  km. Constructed by the Incas over several centuries and partly based on pre-Inca infrastructure, this extraordinary network through one of the world's most extreme geographical terrains linked the snow-capped peaks of the Andes – at an altitude of more than 6,000 m – to the coast, running through hot rainforests, fertile valleys, and absolute deserts. It reached its maximum expansion in the 15th century when it spread across the length and breadth of the Andes. The Qhapac Ñan, Andean Road System includes 273 component sites spread over more than 6,000  km that were selected to highlight the social, political, architectural and engineering achievements of the network, along with its associated infrastructure for trade, accommodation, and storage, as well as sites of religious significance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883536", "title": "Exit (command)", "text": "Exit (command)\n\nIn computing, codice_1 is a command used in many operating system command-line shells and scripting languages.\n\nThe command causes the shell or program to terminate. If performed within an interactive command shell, the user is logged out of their current session, and/or user's current console or terminal connection is disconnected. Typically an optional exit code can be specified, which is typically a simple integer value that is then returned to the parent process.\n\nOperating systems, shells and scripting languages providing this command include Microsoft MSX-DOS version 2, IBM OS/2, DR FlexOS, HP MPE/iX, KolibriOS, SymbOS, cmd.exe, sh, ksh, Perl, AWK, PHP, TCL, PowerShell and others.\n\nOn MS-DOS, the command is available in versions 2 and later. DR DOS 6.0 and Datalight ROM-DOS also include an implementation of the command. It is also available in the open source MS-DOS emulator DOSBox.\n\nThe numerical computing environment MATLAB includes an codice_1 function with similar functionality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883538", "title": "Generality Lands", "text": "Generality Lands\n\nThe Generality Lands, Lands of the Generality or Common Lands () were about one fifth of the territories of the United Provinces of the Netherlands, that were directly governed by the States-General. Unlike the seven provinces Holland, Zeeland, Utrecht, Guelders, Overijssel, Friesland and Groningen, these territories had no States-Provincial and were not represented in the central government. From an economic point of view, they were exploited with heavy taxes and levies. As one author puts it: \"Back in the Dutch lap, these so-called Generality countries were for a long time governed as a sort of internal colonies, in which Catholics were seen as second-class citizens.\"\n\nDuring the Eighty Years' War the Generality Lands came under control of the Dutch Republic, and this situation was consolidated by the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648. Most of the territories had no provincial government because they were cut off from their original governments, which remained under Spanish rule. The prefix \"Staats-\" indicates that this part of the province was under general \"States rule\", as a dependent territory. For both the Generality Lands and the Dutch colonies, sovereignty was claimed by the Generality on the basis right of conquest.\n\n\nAfter the French occupation of the Southern Netherlands and the proclamation of the Batavian Republic in 1795 the Generality Lands ceased to exist. Staats-Brabant became a département in the Batavian Republic (Bataafs-Brabant). Staats-Vlaanderen became part of the French département Escaut. Staats-Overmaas and Staats-Opper-Gelre became parts of the Frenchs départements Roer and Meuse-Inférieure.\n\nWhen French rule ended and the United Kingdom of the Netherlands began, none of the Generality lands returned. Bataafs-Brabant was merged with a number of formerly semi-independent Holy Roman fiefs and part of the province of Holland to become the province of Noord-Brabant; Staats-Vlaanderen was incorporated into the province of Zeeland; and most parts of Staats-Opper-Gelre and Staats-Overmaas were merged with territories gained from Prussia to form the province of Limburg, with the rest going to Prussia.\n\nTerritories of the Dutch Republic outside Europe were also under general \"States rule\", for example Staten Island in present-day New York City. New Zealand was also originally called \"Staten Landt\" after its Dutch discovery.\n\n(including ¶ History of the Low Countries)\n"}
{"id": "1883539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883539", "title": "Wolnzach", "text": "Wolnzach\n\nWolnzach (, ) is a municipality in the district of Pfaffenhofen in Bavaria, Germany. It is also a \"seal district\" (\"\"Siegelbezirk\"\") of the hop-planting area Hallertau, and home of important hops-related institutions such as the German Hops Museum (\"\"Deutsches Hopfenmuseum\"\") and the Hop Research Center Hüll.\n\nWolnzach was first mentioned in the foundation document of Wessobrunn Abbey in 756, by the name of \"Wolamotesaha\". In 1150 there occurs the first documentary reference to Wolnzach as the site of a market.\n\nIn 1926, the German Hop Research Society established a research site in Hüll near Wolnzach, which would develop into the Hop Research Center Hüll in 1962.\n\nThe German Hops Museum was founded in 2002.\n\nAlois Dallmayr, former owner of the famous Dallmayr food store in Munich originated from Wolnzach.\n\nWolnzach is twinned with Poperinge in Belgium since 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883542", "title": "Live at Eindhoven", "text": "Live at Eindhoven\n\nLive at Eindhoven is a live EP by Testament, released in 1987 on Megaforce Records for Europe in 1987 and the US in 1990. It was recorded at the Dynamo Open Air Festival in Eindhoven, Netherlands on June 8 of that year. A remastered version of the album, featuring the band's entire performance and new cover artwork, was released on April 14, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883547", "title": "Wilbur Zelinsky", "text": "Wilbur Zelinsky\n\nWilbur Zelinsky (21 December 1921 – 4 May 2013) was an American cultural geographer. He was most recently a professor emeritus at Pennsylvania State University. He also created the Zelinsky Model of Demographic Transition.\n\nAn Illinoisan by birth, but a \"northeasterner by choice and conviction\", Zelinsky received his education at University of California, Berkeley, where he was a student of Carl Sauer. He received his doctorate in 1953.\n\nZelinsky made numerous geographical studies of American popular culture, ranging from the diffusion of classical place-names to spatial patterns of personal given names and to the spatial patterning of religious denominations. One of his most ambitious and imaginative projects was a provocative assessment of the impact of increasingly powerful personal preference on the spatial character of American society.\n\nDuring the 1960s, along with Gordon DeJong, Warren Robinson, and Paul Baker, Zelinsky helped launch a population research center and coordinate an interdisciplinary graduate instructional program in population studies at Penn State and thus helped lay the foundation for what would become the dual-title Graduate Program in Demography. During 1972–1973 Zelinsky served as the first Director of the Population Issues Research Center (what would become the Population Research Institute at Penn State).\n\nIn 1973, Zelinsky published \"The Cultural Geography of the United States\". In addition to his research in popular culture, Zelinsky made substantial contributions in the fields of \"population\" and \"folk geography\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883549", "title": "Hike Ontario", "text": "Hike Ontario\n\nHike Ontario is an organization devoted to promote hiking and walking activities in Ontario, Canada. Its headquarters are in Mississauga, and it was previously based at \"The Gate House\" of the Seneca College King Campus in King City.\n\nIt is a member of the Ontario Trails Council, which coordinates all trail associations throughout Ontario, including equestrian trails, snowmobile trails, and bicycle trails.\n\nHike Ontario accepts individual and club memberships for a fee. It publishes an electronic newsletter, \"Trail Mail\" and a quarterly print newsletter, \"Hike Ontario\".\n\nHike Ontario also offers a hike leader education program for persons interested in taking groups on hikes. Hike Ontario also is one of the main proponents of Ontario Hike Week. As a provincial organization it is made up of a number of community-based clubs which support both hiking and walking in those communities in which they are based.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883552", "title": "Lists of films based on location", "text": "Lists of films based on location\n\nThe following Lists of films based on location are classified by the geographic area in which the films were set or shot:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883585", "title": "Jim McCahill", "text": "Jim McCahill\n\nJim McCahill (born c. 1939) is the former chairman of Leicester City F.C. He first took the post in May 2003, and was succeeded by Andrew Taylor on 1 June 2006. When Taylor resigned on 1 February 2007, McCahill resumed the chairmanship on a temporary basis until Milan Mandarić's takeover of the club was formally completed in March 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1883587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883587", "title": "Doctor and the Medics", "text": "Doctor and the Medics\n\nDoctor and the Medics is a British glam rock band formed in London in 1981. The group was most successful during the 1980s and is best known for their cover of Norman Greenbaum's \"Spirit in the Sky\" which reached No. 1 in the UK Singles Chart. The band currently performs with a newer and established line-up. As well as previously being classed a tribute act to various artists, they are including many of their original songs in their live set. The group's musical style includes neo-psychedelia, glam rock, new wave and pop rock.\n\nThe Doctor (Clive Jackson, born 7 July 1961 in Knotty Ash, Liverpool), a former London-based DJ, formed the group in 1981 with guitarist Steve McGuire, drummer Vom (aka Steve Ritchie), and bassist Richard Searle and female dancers and singers The Anadin Brothers. The group adopted a look inspired by both 1960s psychedelia and kabuki make-up similar to that of Kiss.\n\nTheir first single was \"The Druids Are Here\" which was released on Whaam Records in 1982. They released no further records until 1985, although a four track EP recorded live at Alice in Wonderland, a Soho nightclub where The Doctor was house DJ, was available direct from the band. The band's female backing singers, known as The Anadin Brothers, were originally three in number, but reduced to two members - Wendi West and Colette Appleby.\nIn 1985, they signed to IRS Records and released \"Happy but Twisted\", a five track 12\" EP including a cover of Hawkwind's \"Silver Machine\". This reached number 2 on the indie charts. It was followed by \"The Miracle of the Age\", produced by Andy Partridge of XTC. Around this time the band performed a concert in a television studio in Limehouse, London was recorded for television broadcast, although it was not shown at the time. At this concert the line-up was augmented by Roman Jugg of The Damned on keyboards and second guitar.\n\nIn 1986 the band had an international hit with their next single, a cover of Norman Greenbaum's \"Spirit in the Sky\". The single reached number one in the UK. Their subsequent singles were less successful; \"Burn\" and \"Waterloo\" (the latter of which was a cover of the ABBA hit, with Roy Wood on saxophone, backing vocals and in the video). \"Burn\" reached number 29 in the UK Singles Chart and \"Waterloo\" reached number 45. The band released their final studio album \"Instant Heaven\", in 1996 on their own 'Madman' record label.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the band's current line-up appeared on retro-themed British TV shows such as ITV1's \"Hit Me Baby One More Time\", and a \"Top of the Pops\" Christmas special celebrating 50 years of the UK Singles Chart. In June 2006, the band appeared, with a new line-up, on Channel 4's \"Bring Back One Hit Wonders\". Around this time they released an EP called \"Timewarped\". They continue to perform live.\n\n1981 line-up\n\n1986 line-up\n\n2003 reunion line-up\n\nCurrent line-up\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883588", "title": "Fore (golf)", "text": "Fore (golf)\n\n\"Fore!\", originally a Scots interjection, is used to warn anyone standing or moving in the flight of a golf ball. The mention of the term in an 1881 British Golf Museum indicates that the term was in use at least as early as that period. \n\nIt is believed to come from the military \"beware before\", which an artilleryman who was about to fire would yell, alerting nearby infantrymen to drop to the ground to avoid the shells overhead. (\"Before\" may mean \"in front of (the gun being fired)\"; \"fore\" may mean \"(look) ahead\".)\n\nOther possible origins include the term being derived from the term \"fore-caddie\", a caddie waiting down range from the golfer to find where the ball lands. These caddies were often warned about oncoming golf balls by a shout of the term \"fore-caddie\" which was eventually shortened to just \"fore!\". The Colonel Bogey March is based on the descending minor third which the original Colonel Bogey whistled instead of yelling \"fore\" around 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883593", "title": "Bell, book, and candle", "text": "Bell, book, and candle\n\nThe phrase \"bell, book, and candle\" refers to a Latin Christian method of excommunication by anathema, imposed on a person who had committed an exceptionally grievous sin. Evidently introduced by Pope Zachary around the middle of the 8th century, the rite was once used by the Roman Catholic Church. In current practice, a simple pronouncement is made to anathematize formally.\n\nThe ceremony was described in the Pontificale Romanum until the time of the Second Vatican Council. Subsequent post-conciliar editions of the Pontificale omitted mention of any particular solemnities associated with excommunication.\n\nThe ceremony traditionally involved a bishop, with 12 priests bearing candles, and would solemnly be pronounced in some suitably conspicuous place. The bishop would then pronounce the formula of the anathema, which ends with the following words:\n\nIn English:\nAfter this recitation the priests would respond: \"Fiat, fiat, fiat\" (\"So be it! So be it! So be it!\") The bishop would then ring a bell, close a holy book, and he and the assisting priests would snuff out their candles by dashing them to the ground. However, the rite of anathema as described in the \"Pontificale Romanum\" only prescribes that the candles be dashed to the ground. After the ritual, written notices would be sent to the neighbouring bishops and priests to report that the target had been anathematized and why, so that they and their constituents would hold no communication with the target. The frightful pronouncements of the ritual were calculated so as to strike terror into the ones so excommunicated and bring them to repentance.\n\nThis form of excommunication was inflicted on Robert II of France by Pope Gregory V for his marriage to Bertha of Burgundy in the year 996, because Bertha was his cousin. He was later reconciled with the Church after negotiations with Gregory's successor Pope Silvester II.\n\nThe dramatic nature of the ritual has lent itself to frequent depictions in culture and media. It is referenced directly in the title of the 1958 film \"Bell, Book and Candle\", based on the play by John Van Druten. Bell, Book & Candle is the name of an antiquities store in the West Village section of New York City.\n\nThe ceremony was also dramatised and popularised in the 1964 film, \"Becket\", in which Archbishop Thomas Becket (played by Richard Burton) excommunicates Lord Gilbert.\n\nIn The Rolling Stones song Winter from their 1973 album Goats Head Soup is the lyric \"But I been burnin' my bell, book and candle\".\n\nThe store owned by the main character in \"The Good Witch\" film and television series is named Bell, Book, & Candle.\n\nA similar ceremony is featured in the roguelike computer game \"NetHack\".\n\nThe board game \"Betrayal at House on the Hill\", where a group of adventurers explore a haunted house, features items the explorers can use. Three of which are the Bell, Book, and Candle, and when one owns the three simultaneously they confer a significant benefit to the player.\n\nIn the 2019 TV series Good Omens, the witch finder Newton Pulsifer is presented with a bell, a book, and a candle (along with other objects), before he goes off to face the witch Anathema Device.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883597", "title": "You Always Hurt the One You Love", "text": "You Always Hurt the One You Love\n\n\"You Always Hurt the One You Love\" is a pop standard, with words by Allan Roberts and music by Doris Fisher. It has been performed by many artists over the years, including Moon Mullican with Cliff Bruner, The Mills Brothers, Connie Francis (number 13 on the UK Singles Chart in 1959, where it had been released as a special \"A\" side to cater for huge demand for her product), Fats Domino, The Impressions, Molly Nilsson, George Maharis, Frankie Laine, Richard Chamberlain (as the B-side of his single \"Rome Will Never Leave You\"), Peggy Lee, Maureen Evans, Michael Bublé, Kay Starr, Hank Thompson, Ringo Starr (in his 1970 album \"Sentimental Journey\"), Molly Nilsson, and Clarence \"Frogman\" Henry, whose version became a top 20 hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1961. It was also popular in a parody version by Spike Jones. The song was performed by Ryan Gosling and featured prominently in the 2010 film \"Blue Valentine\". \n\n\nThe recording by The Mills Brothers was released by Decca Records as catalog number 18599. It first reached the \"Billboard\" Best Seller chart on June 22, 1944, and lasted 20 weeks on the chart, peaking at number one. The Mills Brothers version also reached number five on the Harlem Hit Parade.\n\nThe flip side, \"Till Then\", also charted in the top 10, making the record a two-sided hit.\n\nSpike Jones' parody of the song is essentially the straight song with most of the parody being in the way the song is presented, in three parts:\n\nHarry Mills of the Mills Brothers reported not being bothered by the parody, since they were under the same management as Jones and were good friends.\n\nSome artists have covered \"this\" version of the song (albeit fewer than have recorded the original standard). Those artists include:\n"}
{"id": "1883600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883600", "title": "Artillery brigade", "text": "Artillery brigade\n\nAn artillery brigade is a specialised form of military brigade dedicated to providing artillery support. Other brigades might have an artillery component, but an artillery brigade is a brigade dedicated to artillery and relying on other units for infantry support, especially when attacking.\n\nInitially, a brigade was normally formed for either offence or defence, but in the 20th century, as warfare became generally more mobile and fixed fortifications became less useful, artillery brigades were formed for either purpose, the main exception being coastal defence. During the Second World War, the use and formation of artillery brigades (normally having between 3,000 and 4,000 personnel, with between 24 and 70 guns) gained prominence, as they could be attached to divisions that needed them, then detached and re-attached elsewhere as the need arose.\n\nA specialised type of artillery brigade is the anti-aircraft brigade. During the Second World War, many anti-aircraft brigades served both to defend from air attack and as offensive units against armoured vehicles - this was especially true with the effective German artillery.\n\nModern artillery brigades tend to be smaller and even more specialised than in the past, often specifically trained to handle just one or two types of artillery. In tactical terms, the use of helicopters has taken over much of the historic advantage of the artillery brigade.\n\nFrom 1859 to 1938, \"brigade\" (\"brigade-division\" 1885–1903) was also the term used for a battalion-sized unit of the British Army's Royal Artillery. This was because, unlike infantry battalions and cavalry regiments, which were organic, artillery units consisted of individually numbered batteries which were \"brigaded\" together. The commanding officer of such a brigade was a lieutenant colonel. In 1938 the Royal Artillery adopted the term \"regiment\" for this size of unit, and \"brigade\" became used in its normal sense, particularly for groups of anti-aircraft artillery regiments commanded by a brigadier.\n\nSpecialised artillery divisions came in vogue in the Soviet Army during the later stages of the Second World War, and it is mostly used by large armies with large territories to defend and with a large manpower base. Examples include 34th Artillery Division and 51st Guards Artillery Division. Artillery Divisions are usually tasked with providing concentrated firepower support to higher combined arms formations such as Corps, Combatant Commands or Theaters. Artillery divisions have later been taken up by the Indian Army since 1988 (two Artillery Divisions), the Iraqi Army for a short time between 1985 and 1998, and by the PAVN between 1971 and 2006. The concept of the Artillery Division is deeply rooted in Soviet military doctrine relies on treating artillery as a unique combat arm in its own right capable of achieving large results with its resources. It is a means to concentrate overwhelming firepower in a small geographical area to achieve a strategic breach in the enemy defences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883613", "title": "Grand Mesa", "text": "Grand Mesa\n\nThe Grand Mesa is a large mesa in western Colorado in the United States. It is the largest flat-topped mountain in the world. It has an area of about and stretches for about east of Grand Junction between the Colorado River and the Gunnison River, its tributary to the south. The north side of the mesa is drained largely by Plateau Creek, a smaller tributary of the Colorado. The west side is drained largely by Kannah Creek, which is received to the west by the lower Gunnison River. The mesa rises about above the surrounding river valleys, including the Grand Valley to the west, reaching an elevation of about . Much of the mesa is within Grand Mesa National Forest. Over 300 lakes, including many reservoirs created and used for drinking and irrigation water, are scattered along the top of the formation. The Grand Mesa is flat in some areas, but quite rugged in others.\n\nThe mesa is topped by a hard volcanic basalt. This layer, formed approximately 10 million years ago by basalt flows, suppressed erosion compared to the surrounding sedimentary rock layers, which suffered rapid downcutting from the action of the Colorado and the Gunnison rivers. The top layer rests on a thick sequence of Eocene shale and sandstone known as the Green River and Wasatch Formations. These layers in turn rest on a Cretaceous layer known as the Mesaverde Group that forms a cliff about halfway up the side of the mesa. The lowest layers are yellow and gray Mancos Shale of late Cretaceous age. The shale continues outward into the surrounding valleys in the vicinity of the mesa, providing a soil base that is fertile for various kinds of agriculture, especially in the Gunnison Valley to the south.\n\nClimate on Grand Mesa varies by elevation. Higher elevations tend to be cooler and receive more precipitation. The top of the mesa is more than two miles above sea level, and experiences an alpine climate with substantial amounts of precipitation throughout the year. Because of the high altitude, summer days are mild, and temperatures drop sharply after sunset. Winter temperatures rarely rise above freezing, and can be extremely cold, often falling far below zero, especially at night. The top of the mesa is usually snow-free from late June through early October; however, the mesa receives heavy snowfall in the winter, rendering the forest service roads impassable. Accumulations of 20 or 30 inches of snow in the winter are typical. Surrounding areas with lower elevation are warmer and more arid throughout the year.\n\nThe following climate data is for Mesa Lakes Resort, located on the north slopes of the mesa at 9,800 feet above sea level, which experiences a subalpine climate (Köppen \"Dfc\").\n\nThe mesa is traversed by the Grand Mesa Scenic and Historic Byway, which includes SH 65, between the town of Mesa on the north and the town of Cedaredge on the south. The route over the mesa provides a dramatic contrast in landscape, climate and vegetation. On the north side, the road climbs the steep terrain near the Powderhorn Resort ski area. The forested top of the mesa remains snowbound much later in the spring than the surrounding valleys, and is a popular location for cross-country skiing and snowmobiling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883614", "title": "Suffolk Downs", "text": "Suffolk Downs\n\nSuffolk Downs is a former Thoroughbred race track in East Boston, Massachusetts, United States. The track opened in 1935 after being built by Joseph A. Tomasello for a cost of $2 million. It was sold in May 2017 to a developer who plans to create housing and a shopping district. The final day of live racing at the track was June 30, 2019, with the facility hosting simulcast race wagering thereafter. The only remaining live horse racing in Massachusetts is at Plainridge Park Casino, which has harness racing.\n\nA number of famous horses raced at Suffolk Downs, including Seabiscuit, Whirlaway, Funny Cide, and Cigar. The Massachusetts Handicap (or MassCap) was the track's most significant annual event, last held in 2008. The track is a dirt oval with a seven-furlong inner turf track. Non-race functions at the venue included the Hot Dog Safari. The track provides the name of the nearby MBTA Suffolk Downs subway station.\n\nAfter parimutuel betting was legalized in Massachusetts, the Eastern Racing Association, Inc. was formed to open a thoroughbred race track in East Boston. Businessman, politician, and former steeplechase jockey Bayard Tuckerman, Jr. was the corporation's first president. Harness racing promoter Allan J. Wilson was named vice president. Walter E. O'Hara, promoter of the Narragansett Park was named managing director of the track, however he backed out after a few months because he felt East Boston was not a suitable site for a race track and instead wanted to build a track in Framingham or Natick. Richard Danielson, Charles Adams, and John R. Macomber were also members of the track's first board of directors.\n\nEastern Racing Association applied for a track charter and license on January 11, 1935 and on April 9, the Massachusetts Racing Commission granted the corporation a license to race in East Boston. Construction did not begin until April 29 due to legal entanglements.\n\nThe track opened on July 10, 1935. The first card consisted of eight races, with the Commonwealth Stakes, a six-furlong race for 3-year-olds, serving as the feature race. The Commonwealth Stakes featured twenty-two horses from eighteen stables, including horses owned by Edward R. Bradley, Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt Jr., and Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney. The race was won by Bradley's Boxthorn, which had been a starter in that year's Kentucky Derby. 35,000 spectators watched the first day of racing. Later that month, Seabiscuit would make his Suffolk Downs debut, finishing fourth in the Mayflower Stakes.\n\nThe first MassCap was held on October 16, 1935 with Top Row taking first ever victory in the event.\n\nOn May 7, 1936, Tuckerman stepped down as president. He was succeeded by Charles Adams. Adams himself would step aside in favor of James H. Connors in December 1937. Although Adams stated that he decided to give up the position to focus on his other interests, he would later say that Connors was elected at the behest of Governor Charles F. Hurley. In 1939, Connors resigned as Suffolk Downs president amid allegations that he, his brother-in-law (State Racing Commissioner Thomas R. Foley), and Outdoor Amusements, Inc. (a company applying for a license to open a track in Westport, Massachusetts) attempted to gain control of horse racing in eastern Massachusetts. According to the Eastern Racing Association, Foley secretly worked to acquire a license for Outdoor Amusements, Inc. while Connors demanded that his fellow Eastern Racing Association shareholders sell him their stake in Suffolk Downs or they would not get any favorable racing dates. The racing commission voted to revoke Outdoor Amusements' license due to misleading information in their application, but found that there was not enough evidence to establish a conspiracy between Outdoor Amusements, Connors, and Foley.\nOn June 29, 1936, Seabiscuit won an allowance race at Suffolk Downs. This was the first time trainer Tom Smith saw Seabiscuit race and he would later recommend that Charles S. Howard purchase the horse. Smith and Howard would go on to make\nSeabiscuit a national hero. Seabiscuit would return to the track in 1937 to race in the Massachusetts Handicap. The race was attended by 40,000 people. Seabiscuit won the race in 1:49, which broke the track record for 1 1/8 miles. The victory was Seabiscuit's seventh consecutive win, a career high. The winner's purse of $51,780 was the largest of Seabiscuit's career up to that point and would only be surpassed by his final victory, the 1940 Santa Anita Handicap. In 1938, 60,000 people turned out to watch Seabiscuit defend his MassCap title against War Admiral. However, Seabiscuit was scratched due to an injury minutes before post time. The race was won by Menow. War Admiral finished fourth, breaking his streak of eleven-consecutive victories and marking the only time in his career that he would finish out of the money.\n\nOn July 15, 1942, Whirlaway succeeded Seabiscuit as the all-time leading money-earner by winning the MassCap.\n\nDuring World War II, the track continued to hold races. On August 8, 1942 Suffolk Downs donated $625,000 to the National War Fund. This contribution was the single largest donation to the war effort by any sports venue.\n\nOn February 20, 1944, the Aldred Investment Trust purchased a majority of the voting stock in the Eastern Racing Association. Gordon B. Hanlon was elected president of Suffolk Downs. Three months later the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced that it had filed a complaint in federal court accusing Hanlon his fellow directors of the Aldred Investment Trust of gross abuse of the trust, including drastically changing the investment policy of the trust without giving adequate notice to security holders by purchasing stock in the Eastern Racing Association. On January 19, 1945, Judge George Clinton Sweeney found Hanlon and five other Aldred officials guilty of gross abuse of the trust and control of the track was given to the trust's receivers, Edward O. Proctor and Edward F. Goode. On April 24, 1945, the receivers selected Allan J. Wilson to succeed Hanlon as track president.\n\nOn May 1, 1946, a group led by Boston importer John C. Pappas acquired control of Suffolk Downs at a Federal Court-directed public auction. Pappas' $3.6 million bid exceeded offers made by Joseph F. Timilty, Henry Simberg (represented at the auction by Paul A. Dever), and Bay Meadows Racetrack general manager Bill Kyne.\n\nOn July 30, 1947, Stymie became the first horse to eclipse the $700,000 career earnings mark by winning the MassCap. From 1959 to 1970, Suffolk Downs hosted harness racing during the fall. On August 18, 1966, The Beatles played a concert before 24,000 fans on the track's infield. On June 19, 1968, Dancer's Image made his final public appearance. He was escorted onto the track by his owner Peter Fuller, son of former Massachusetts Governor Alvan T. Fuller, and his wife Jane.\n\nThe track was acquired by Realty Equities Corp. On January 6, 1969, former baseball team owner Bill Veeck became president. During Veeck's tenure as president, Suffolk Downs hosted a number of promotions including chariot races, livestock giveaways and mock Indian battles. Veeck also won a number of legal victories, including one which allowed children to attend the races.\nIn 1971 Realty Equities sold Suffolk Downs to National Raceways Inc., a subsidiary of the National Mattress Company. A year later the track was sold to Ogden Corporation.\n\nOn February 14, 1976, the inbound platform of the Suffolk Downs MBTA station was destroyed by fire, which hurt track attendance. The outbound side of the station remained open The station was rebuilt in 1983 and reopened in January 1984 after the project received a $1.9 million grant from the Urban Mass Transportation Administration. The station was rebuilt again from 1994-95 as part of a larger improvement project on the line.\n\nOn May 21, 1983, Preakness Day, Suffolk Downs aired its first simulcast race after the Massachusetts General Court passed last-minute bill that allowed the track to air and accept bets on races from other tracks. Suffolk Downs handled $161,456 in simulcast bets that day.\n\nIn 1986, Odgen Corporation sold the track to Belle Isle Ltd., led by Buddy LeRoux. In 1987, LeRoux threatened to close Suffolk Downs unless the state granted financial concessions to the track. In January 1988, the state Legislature gave LeRoux the concessions he asked for, which allowed racing to continue through the 1989 season. LeRoux made it known that he would allow the track's license to expire after the concessions expired, under the premise that racing was no longer profitable. The track closed after racing on December 30, 1989. Races were scheduled for the next day, however, track management canceled them out of fears of vandalism. Between 1990 and 1991, there was no racing at Suffolk Downs.\n\nIn May 1991, Sterling Suffolk Racecourse LLC., headed by James B. Moseley and John L. Hall II, leased the track from Belle Isle for $8.5 million. The group spent seven months upgrading and remodeling the track. On January 1, 1992 racing resumed at Suffolk Downs in front of a crowd of 15,212. The track underwent further renovations in 1993, including a new AmTote Spectrum 2000 mutuel system, a newly constructed Clubhouse video lounge, a tribute to MassCap winners in the Grandstand, and a new racing strip. In 1995, the track saw the opening of a redesigned Legends Bar & Grill, improvements to the lighting, upgrades to the backstretch and racetrack, and a remodeled paddock and winner's circle. Also that year, the MassCap returned from a six-year hiatus. Cigar won the race. It was his eighth consecutive victory in his Horse of the Year season. Cigar won the race the following year to earn his 15th consecutive win. The race was attended by 22,000 spectators.\n\nOn May 31, 1997 Suffolk Downs hosted New England's first million racing day, with six stakes races including the MassCap.\n\nOn July 7, 1997, Sterling Suffolk Racecourse LLC purchased the track from Bell Isle.\n\nOn April 9, 1998, James B. Moseley, Suffolk Downs' Chairman of the Board and the man credited with reopening the track, died at the age of 66. He was succeeded on the board by his wife Patricia.\n\nOn June 8, 1998, Suffolk Downs hosted Eddie Andelman's Hot Dog Safari to benefit the Joey Fund/Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. The event was attended by 35,000 people.\n\nOn June 19, 1999, Suffolk Downs held its first concert in decades when it hosted the Guinness Fleadh music festival. Thirty acts performed during twelve-hour festival, including Elvis Costello, Hootie and the Blowfish, and John Lee Hooker. Van Morrison was scheduled to appear but cancelled citing \"exhaustion\".\n\nOn March 30, 2007, Coastal Development LLC, a New York-based real estate development company headed by Richard Fields, purchased a majority stake in Sterling Suffolk Racecourse LLC by buying the shares of Patricia Moseley and a number of smaller shareholders. Fields purchased the track with the intent to turn it into a Racino. After casino gambling was legalized in Massachusetts in 2011, the track made a bid for a casino license. The track's owners partnered with Caesars Entertainment Corporation on a plan to build a $1 billion resort casino on the site. In October 2013, Suffolk Downs and Caesars terminated their partnership after the Massachusetts Gaming Commission raised concerns over Caesars' financial state and a business relationship with company allegedly connected to Russian mobsters.\n\nOn November 5, 2013, East Boston voters rejected Suffolk Downs' casino proposal with 4,281 votes to 3,353. The track partnered with Mohegan Sun on a project entirely located in Revere, Massachusetts, where Suffolk Downs has 53 acres of property. Suffolk Downs competed with Wynn Resorts plan for a resort in Everett, Massachusetts, that was approved by voters in June. Following the approval of Wynn's proposal in September 2014, it was announced that Suffolk Downs would close.\n\nLimited live racing returned in 2015 and on June 9, 2016, the Massachusetts Gaming Commission approved funding for the track to run on 6 days in 2016. The track was open on July 9–10, August 6–7 and September 3–4. In March 2017, the track's owners agreed to sell it to HYM Investment Group, a Boston real estate developer. The owners at the time stated that they were going to lease back the track and operate live racing in 2017 and 2018, and hoped to continue operating as a simulcast facility after the redevelopment of the property. In October 2017, Suffolk Sterling Racecourse announced that plans were underway to open up a new full-time racetrack in Massachusetts to replace Suffolk Downs.\n\nThe final season of live racing was May 18–19, June 8–9, and June 29–30, 2019. The last horse to cross the finish line in the final live race at Suffolk Downs was Colonial Front on June 30, 2019. The facility remains open for simulcasting year-round.\n\nIn May 2017, Suffolk Downs was sold to HYM Investment Group for $155 million to be used as developments. The track will be turned into a housing and shopping district similar to the Boston Landing and Assembly Square developments in the Greater Boston area. On October 20, 2017, it was revealed that Suffolk Downs would be used in a bid to bring Amazon's second headquarters to Massachusetts. In 2018, it was revealed that the Suffolk Downs development would move forward despite Amazon opting to move its second headquarters to Virginia and New York City.\n\nAlso, in September 2019, a proposed innovation center has been proposed to be built on the Beachmont, Revere side of the site.\n\n\n\n40. Curbed Boston: Suffolk Downs developer: Big first phase poised to start near Beachmont T stop\n\n41.Sue Woodcock (September 09, 2019). Revere Journal: Suffolk Downs Talks Continue. Retrieved Friday, February 07, 2020\n\n"}
{"id": "1883621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883621", "title": "Button (poker)", "text": "Button (poker)\n\nIn poker, the buck or dealer button is a marker used to indicate the player who is dealing or, in casino games with a house dealer, the player who acts last on that deal (who would be the dealer in a home game). The term button is also used for a variety of plastic discs, or lammers, used by casinos to mark the status of players.\n\nWhen poker became a popular saloon game in the United States in the middle of the nineteenth century, the integrity of the players was unreliable and the honor codes that had regulated gambling for centuries became inadequate. Because the dealer has the greatest opportunity to cheat (by manipulating the specific cards that players receive, or by inspecting the dealt cards), the players would take turns in this role. To avoid arguments about whose turn it was to deal, the person who was next due to deal would be given a marker. This marker moves clockwise around the table after each hand. A knife was commonly used as a marker, and the marker became generally known as a \"buck\", as an abbreviated reference to the buck's horn that formed the handle of many knives at that time.\n\nWhen the dealer had finished dealing the cards he \"passed the buck\". According to Martin, the earliest use of the phrase in print is in the July 1865 edition of \"Weekly New Mexican\": \"They draw at the commissary, and at poker after they have passed the buck.\" The phrase then appears frequently in many sources so it probably originated at about this time. However, Mark Twain cited it as common slang in Virginia City when he was a reporter there in 1862.\n\n\"Passing the buck\" soon became a metaphor for dodging responsibility. U.S. President Harry S. Truman was noted for a sign in his office reading \"The buck stops here.\" It was a gift from Fred Canfil, who found a similar sign in the warden's office at the Federal Reformatory at El Reno, Oklahoma.\n\nThe use of other small disks as such markers led to the alternative term \"button\". Silver dollars were later used as markers and it has been suggested that this is the origin of \"buck\" as a slang term for \"dollar,\" though by no means is there universal agreement on this subject. The marker is also referred to as \"the hat\". The origin of this term is believed to stem from the wearing of a hat having been used to denote dealership.\n\nToday, a dealer button is typically a white plastic disc with the word \"Dealer\" on each side. While in most home games, the player holding the dealer button deals the cards, in a casino or cardroom, an employee handles this responsibility.\n\nThe dealer button is sometimes modified to indicate a secondary detail about the hand being played—for example, a kill game may use a button with the word \"Kill\" on one side to show that the current hand is a kill pot, and turn the \"Dealer\" side up to show that the kill is off, or a dealer's choice game might replace the dealer button with a placard indicating the chosen game.\n\nThe term \"button\" is often used to refer to the dealer position, which is the position whose turn to bet comes last. Being \"on the button\" is therefore the most advantageous and most profitable position in poker.\n\nIn casino and card room cash games, the dealer's well may contain an assortment of laminated discs that the dealer may place in front of a player's seat under certain conditions. Properly called lammers (rhymes with 'spammers'), but also referred to as buttons, they are separate from and used differently from a Dealer Button.\n\nThe following table lists the most common lammers and their significance:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883625", "title": "Pyramid Club (New York City)", "text": "Pyramid Club (New York City)\n\nThe Pyramid Club is a nightclub in the East Village of Manhattan, New York City. After opening in 1979, the Pyramid helped define the East Village drag and gay scenes of the 1980s. The club is located at 101 Avenue A in Manhattan.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early '80s, when mega-clubs like Studio 54 and The Limelight, dominated New York nightlife, the struggling artists, actors, musicians, and drag queens who lived in the East Village created their own, more intimately-scaled scene. They began taking over some of the local dive bars, such as the Holiday on St. Mark's Place, and created new clubs where there previously were none, as was the case with Club 57 (in the basement of a church), and 8BC, on a block of abandoned tenements.\n\nThe club became a hangout for \"a new breed of politicized drag performers\" like Lypsinka, Lady Bunny, and RuPaul, whose first New York City show was at the Pyramid Club in 1982. On Labor Day 1985, Pyramid performer Lady Bunny hosted the Wigstock Festival in Tompkins Square Park. Andy Warhol and Debbie Harry dropped in the Pyramid to do a feature on the club for MTV, and Madonna appeared at her first AIDS benefit at the club. Both Nirvana and Red Hot Chili Peppers played their first New York City concerts there. From 1992–95, Blacklips Performance Cult, a collective founded by Antony Hegarty, presented plays at Pyramid every Monday at midnight.\n\nIn 2007, it was proposed that 101 Avenue A, the Pyramid Club's building, be landmarked. The proposal, described as the first \"drag landmark\", was not adopted by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission (LPC). However, in the spring of 2011 the LPC proposed a new historic district in the East Village focused around lower Second Avenue and encompassing 15 blocks and 330 buildings. The original proposal excluded buildings such as the Pyramid Club, but because of efforts made by local community groups, the proposed district was expanded to 101 Avenue A as well as other similar buildings. The LPC designated the club as part of the East Village/Lower East Side Historic District on October 9, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883627", "title": "Dynamic Delegation Discovery System", "text": "Dynamic Delegation Discovery System\n\nDefined in RFC 3401, RFC 3402, RFC 3403, RFC 3404, and RFC 3405. The primary container used to hold DDDS information is the NAPTR record.\n\nFrom RFC 3401:\n\nThe Dynamic Delegation Discovery System is used to implement lazy binding of strings to data, in order to support dynamically configured delegation systems. The DDDS functions by mapping some unique string to data stored within a DDDS Database by iteratively applying string transformation rules until a terminal condition is reached.\nDDDS defines a mechanism for using DNS as the database for arbitrary identifier schemes.\n\nENUM (RFC 6116) is defined as a DDDS application to resolve phone numbers into data stored in DNS.\n"}
{"id": "1883631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883631", "title": "El Panecillo", "text": "El Panecillo\n\nEl Panecillo (from Spanish \"panecillo\" small piece of bread, diminutive of \"pan\" bread) is a 200-metre-high hill of volcanic-origin, with loess soil, located between southern and central Quito. Its peak is at an elevation of 3,016 metres (9,895ft) above sea level. The original name used by the aboriginal inhabitants of Quito was Yavirac. According to Juan de Velasco, a Jesuit historian, there was a temple on top of Yavirac where the Indians worshiped the sun until it was destroyed by the Spanish conquistadores. The street that leads up to El Panecillo is named after Melchor Aymerich.\n\nIn 1976, the Spanish artist Agustín de la Herrán Matorras was commissioned by the religious order of the Oblates to build a 45-meter-tall stone monument of a madonna which was assembled on a high pedestal on the top of Panecillo. Called \"Virgin of El Panecillo\", it is made of seven thousand pieces of aluminium. The monument was inaugurated on March 28, 1976, by the 11th archbishop of Quito, Pablo Muñoz Vega. The statue was engineered and erected by Anibal Lopez of Quito.\n\nThe virgin stands on top of a globe and is stepping on a snake, which is a classic madonna iconography. Less traditional are the wings. Locals claim that she is the only one in the world with wings like an angel. The monument was inspired by the famous \"Virgen de Quito\" (Quito's Madonna) also known as \"the dancer\" sculpted by Bernardo de Legarda in 1734, which now decorates the main altar at the Church of St. Francis. This madonna represents a turning point of the Quito School of Art (one of the most renowned of the Americas) because it shows a virgin in movement that is practically dancing in contrast with the traditional static Madonnas that were produced during the 18th century.\n\nAccording to a bronze placard affixed to the monument, the woman represented by the statue is the Woman of the Apocalypse, as described in the \"Book of Revelation\" (12:1–18).\n"}
{"id": "1883636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883636", "title": "ALP", "text": "ALP\n\nALP or AlP may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883639", "title": "Type 98 20 mm AA half-track vehicle", "text": "Type 98 20 mm AA half-track vehicle\n\nThe Type 98 20 mm AA half-track vehicle was an experimental Japanese self-propelled anti-aircraft gun. It had a single 20 mm Type 98 AA cannon mounted on the back section of a Type 98 4-ton half-track. The modified vehicle used was designated the Type 98 Half-tracked Prime Mover Ko-Hi. The Type 98 Ko-Hi was first manufactured in 1938 by Isuzu.\n\nThe Type 98 4-tonners were \"high speed\" prime movers, capable of 25 mph when loaded. Average transport time was 10 hours road time for 125 miles. It had a diesel engine and was manned by a crew of 15 men. The rear mounted Type 98 20 mm AA autocannon was the most common light anti-aircraft gun of the Imperial Japanese Army. It had a range of 5,500 meters, altitude of 3,500 meters and could fire up to 300 rounds per minute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883647", "title": "Edward Bennett Williams", "text": "Edward Bennett Williams\n\nEdward Bennett Williams (May 31, 1920 – August 13, 1988) was a Washington, D.C. trial attorney who founded the law firm of Williams & Connolly and owned several professional sports teams. He was born in Hartford, Connecticut and studied law at Georgetown University.\n\nHe represented many high-profile clients, including Sam Giancana, John Hinckley, Jr., Frank Sinatra, former Governor of Texas & Secretary of Treasury John B. Connally, Jr., financier Robert Vesco, Playboy publisher Hugh Hefner, spy Igor Melekh, Jimmy Hoffa, organized crime figure Frank Costello, oil commodity trader Marc Rich, U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy, corporate raider Victor Posner, Michael Milken, \"The Washington Post\" newspaper and the Reverend Sun Myung Moon.\n\nWilliams, who was a graduate of the College of the Holy Cross and Georgetown University Law Center, successfully defended – among others – Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., the Teamsters Union, John Connally and, as one of his last clients, Michael Milken.\n\nTwo of Williams' closest friends were \"The Washington Post\"'s Art Buchwald and Ben Bradlee. His debating team partner at Holy Cross was Robert Maheu, Howard Hughes's right-hand man for many years.\n\nBefore establishing Williams & Connolly in 1967 with his friend and student Paul Connolly, he worked at the prominent, D.C.-based law firm of Hogan & Hartson from 1945 to 1949.\n\nIn one of the definitive biographies on Williams, author Evan Thomas wrote: \"Because of his connections and his vast store of inside knowledge, some observers speculated that he was Deep Throat, the legendary source for Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, the resourceful Post reporters who broke the story tying the White House to the break-in.\" It was later revealed that the anonymous source known as Deep Throat was FBI associate director Mark Felt.\n\nWilliams entered the world of professional sports as a lawyer for Washington Redskins founding owner George Preston Marshall in the late-1950s. He ascended the administrative ranks by purchasing a five percent share in the franchise in March 1962 and succeeding the ailing Marshall as team president in charge of daily operations three years later in 1965. Williams spent heavily on appointing high-profile coaches and general managers, beginning with Otto Graham in 1966 and continuing with Vince Lombardi in 1969, George Allen in 1971 and Bobby Beathard in 1978. A defeat in Super Bowl VII was the farthest the Redskins ever advanced in any of the seasons under Williams' watch. He relinquished control of the ballclub in 1980 and sold his minority ownership interest five years later in 1985, in both cases to Jack Kent Cooke who had been the team's majority owner since 1974.\n\nWhen Williams purchased the Orioles from Jerold Hoffberger for $12 million on August 2, 1979, many feared he would move the team to Washington. Baltimore had previously lost the Baltimore Bullets to Washington. The fear of Williams moving the team increased with the 1984 departure of the Baltimore Colts. However, Williams never moved the team. More importantly, Williams signed a new long term lease with Baltimore that would pay for a new stadium, which would become Oriole Park at Camden Yards. He would not live to see the new ballpark (it opened in 1992, four years after his death). The Orioles were sold by Williams' wife Agnes to Eli Jacobs, Larry Lucchino and Sargent and Bobby Shriver for $70 million on December 5, 1988, just under four months after his death.\n\nAmong Williams' many real estate holdings was the Jefferson Hotel, a 98-room luxury hotel located near the White House and favored by many sport and political figures in the 1980s/1990s.\n\nWilliams died at age 68 at Georgetown University Hospital on August 13, 1988 after a 12-year battle with colon cancer. His funeral was attended by most of Washington's power elite, including then-Vice President George H. W. Bush. He is buried in St. Gabriel Cemetery in Potomac, Maryland.\n\nIn a final testament to Williams’ reach and influence, his funeral was attended by an incredible range of the famous and infamous. Some of those present were Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, baseball legend Joe DiMaggio, boxing champion Sugar Ray Leonard, NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle, Eunice Kennedy and Sargent Shriver, and Michael Milken (of the famous 1980’s junk-bond scandal). In the words of biographer Evan Thomas, “over two thousand mourners had gathered, filling the immense nave and spilling out onto the street which was lined with black limousines. Senators and Supreme Court justices, felons and bookmakers, waiters and doormen, billionaires, professional ball players, and Georgetown society jammed under the domed ceiling to sit before the plain mahogany casket.”\n\nThe Edward Bennett Williams Law Library at Georgetown University Law Center is named in his honor. The senior apartments residence hall at the College of the Holy Cross is also named in his honor.\n\nEdward Bennett Williams married Dorothy Guider in 1949. They had three children: Joseph, Ellen, and Bennett. Guider died in 1959. In June 1960, Williams married Agnes Neill and had four children: Edward, Dana, Anthony, and Kimberly. Agnes Neill Williams worked as an attorney for the Williams & Connolly law firm and served on the Board of Advisors of the Georgetown Center for Liturgy. She died on March 4, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883682", "title": "Rimland", "text": "Rimland\n\nThe Rimland is a concept championed by Nicholas John Spykman, professor of international relations at Yale University. To him geopolitics is the planning of the security policy of a country in terms of its geographical factors. He described the maritime fringe of a country or continent; in particular the densely populated western, southern, and eastern edges of the Eurasian continent.\n\nHe criticized Mackinder for overrating the Heartland as being of immense strategic importance due to its vast size, central geographical location and supremacy of land power rather than sea power. He assumed that the Heartland will not be a potential hub of Europe, because:\n\n\nSpykman thought that the Rimland, the strip of coastal land that encircles Eurasia, is more important than the central Asian zone (the so-called Heartland) for the control of the Eurasian continent. Spykman's vision is at the base of the \"containment politics\" put into effect by the United States in its relation/position to the Soviet Union during the post-World War II period.\n\nThus, 'Heartland' appeared to him to be less important in comparison to 'Rimland.'\n\nAccording to Spykman, \"Who controls the Rimland rules Eurasia, who rules Eurasia controls the destinies of the world.\"\n\nThe Rimland, Halford Mackinder's \"Inner or Marginal Crescent\", was divided into three sections:\nRimland or inner crescent contains most of world's people as well as large share of world's resources. Rimland is in between Heartland and marginal seas, so it was more important than Heartland. It included Asia minor, Arabia, Iran, Afghanistan, South East Asia, China, Korea and East Siberia except Russia.\n\nAll the aforesaid countries lie in the buffer zone that is between sea power and land power.\n\nRimland countries were amphibian states, surrounding the Eurasian continents.\n\nWhile Spykman accepts the first two as defined, he rejects the simple grouping of the Asian countries into one \"monsoon land.\" India, the Indian Ocean littoral, and Indian culture were geographically and civilizationally separate from the Chinese lands.\n\nThe Rimland's defining characteristic is that it is an intermediate region, lying between the heartland and the marginal sea powers. As the amphibious buffer zone between the land powers and sea powers, it must defend itself from both sides, and therein lies its fundamental security problems. Spykman's conception of the Rimland bears greater resemblance to Alfred Thayer Mahan's \"debated and debatable zone\" than to Mackinder's inner or marginal crescent.\n\nThe Rimland has great importance coming from its demographic weight, natural resources, and industrial development. Spykman sees this importance as the reason that the Rimland will be crucial to containing the Heartland (whereas Mackinder had believed that the Outer or Insular Crescent would be the most important factor in the Heartland's containment).\n\nHe called for the consolidation of the Rimland countries to ensure their survival during World War II. With the defeat of Germany and the emergence of the USSR, Spykman's views were embraced during the formulation of the Cold War American policy of containing communist influence.\n\nBut as the states within the Rimland had varying degree of independence, and a variety of races, and culture, it did not come under the control of any single power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883683", "title": "Indolence", "text": "Indolence\n\nIndolence means lack of activity and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1883685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883685", "title": "Silanus", "text": "Silanus\n\nSilanus was the cognomen of a branch of the \"Junia gens\", a noble family of ancient Rome which came to prominence during the Second Punic War, and remained important into imperial times. Some notable members include:\n\n\nSilanus may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883692", "title": "George Luther Stearns", "text": "George Luther Stearns\n\nGeorge Luther Stearns (January 8, 1809 – April 9, 1867) was an American industrialist and merchant in Medford, Massachusetts, as well as an abolitionist and a noted recruiter of black soldiers for the Union Army during the American Civil War.\n\nGeorge L. Stearns was born in Medford, Massachusetts on January 8, 1809, the eldest son and second child of Luther and Mary (Hall) Stearns. His paternal immigrant ancestor, Isaac Sterne, arrived in Salem on June 12, 1630, from Suffolk, England. He had sailed to the new colony with John Winthrop, a future governor, and Sir Richard Saltonstall, among others. Isaac Sterne moved to Watertown, located along the Charles River, where he died in 1671. What became known as the American Stearns family (note spelling variation) grew, with branches moving northward and westward. For decades men typically worked as farmers, teachers, and clergymen.\n\nStearns' father, Luther Stearns, was born on February 17, 1770, the eldest of five children born to Captain Josiah Stearns, a soldier in the American Revolutionary War. He commanded a company of 50 men from Lunenburg, Massachusetts. Luther Stearns had entered Dartmouth College at age seventeen but transferred, graduating from Harvard in 1791. He worked as a tutor at Harvard and eventually studied medicine. He later became an obstetrician. He was honored in 1811 by an honorary degree from Harvard. \n\nAfter getting his practice started, Luther married Mary Hall of Brattleboro, Vermont, on December 29, 1799; she was 16 years old, not an uncommon marrying age for women. They settled in Medford, Massachusetts to be closer to her relatives. They had three children together: Elizabeth Hall, George Luther, and Henry Laurens Stearns (named after the American Ambassador of that name, a distant relative). The senior Stearns later opened a private preparatory school for boys in Medford; many students came from the American South and the West Indies.\n\nStearns died of pneumonia on April 27, 1820, when son George was eleven years old. To earn money, young George sometimes tended the locks on the Middlesex Canal in town. At the age of 15, he entered the workforce to support his mother and sisters.\n\nIn early life, Stearns was engaged in the business of ship-chandlery. After a prosperous career, he began the manufacture of sheet and pipe-lead, doing business in Boston and residing in Medford.\n\nHe married Mary Elizabeth Preston on October 12, 1843. They met through acquaintances, including her father Warren Preston, a probate judge in Norridgewock, Maine; and Lydia Maria Child, an American abolitionist and women's rights activist. \n\nBefore voting in the Missouri and Kansas territories about the future of slavery in each jurisdiction, Stearns was one of the chief financiers of the Emigrant Aid Company. It supported the settlement of Kansas by antislavery homesteaders. He identified with the antislavery cause, and became a Free-soiler in 1848. \n\nHe also established the Medford station of the Underground Railroad to help escaped refugee slaves to gain freedom (some continued to Canada, which had abolished slavery). Stearns was one of the \"Secret Six\" who aided John Brown in Kansas, and financially supported him for the raid on Harpers Ferry; Brown was executed for this attack. Stearns had owned the pikes and 200 Sharps rifles taken to Harpers Ferry by Brown and his followers. Following Brown's arrest, Stearns briefly fled to Canada but returned to Medford to face inquiry following Brown's execution.\n\nSoon after the opening of the Civil War, Stearns advocated the enlistment of African Americans in the Union Army. Massachusetts Governor John Andrew asked Stearns to recruit the first two Northern state-sponsored black infantry regiments. He contributed strongly to recruiting the enlistees of the 54th and 55th Massachusetts regiments and the 5th cavalry. \n\nStearns was commissioned as major through the recommendation of Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton. Later he also enlisted black soldiers for the U.S. Colored TroopsUS Colored Troops from Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Tennessee. He is credited with recruiting more than 13,000 African Americans. He also established schools for their children and found work for their families while the men served in the army.\n\nStearns founded the \"Nation\", \"Commonwealth\", and \"Right Way\" newspapers for the dissemination of his ideas. \n\nAfter President Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation in January 1863, Stearns worked tirelessly for the civil rights of African Americans. Among his many admirers and friends were Louisa May Alcott, Henry David Thoreau, Charles Sumner, Frederick Douglass, and President Andrew Johnson. He also helped to found the Freedmen's Bureau, a federal organization designed to support emancipated African Americans (freedmen) in the South after the end of the war.\nStearns died of pneumonia in New York City, New York on April 9, 1867. Ralph Waldo Emerson gave the eulogy at his funeral at the First Parish Church in Medford (Unitarian). \n\nWriter John Greenleaf Whittier published a poem in honor of Stearns in the May 1867 edition of the \"Atlantic Monthly\", entitled \"G.L.S.\" It read, in part: \n\n\"No duty could overtask him;\nNo need his will outrun;\nOr ever our lips could ask him;\nHis hands the work had done.\"\n\n\"A man who asked not to be great;\nBut as he served and saved the state.\"\n\nIn 1897, a monument was erected on Boston Common to commemorate Colonel Robert Gould Shaw and the 54th Massachusetts regiment he commanded. Together with 20 of his men, he was killed in July 1863 in the Second Battle of Fort Wagner. At the dedication of the monument, Booker T. Washington, President of Tuskegee Institute, made an address. He attributed the organization and recruiting of the US Colored Troops to be the work \"of John A. Andrew ... and that of George L. Stearns, who, with hidden generosity and a great sweet heart, helped to turn the darkest hour into day, and in doing so freely gave service, fortune and life itself to the cause which this day commemorates.\" \n\nFollowing this commemoration, Joseph H. Smith, a veteran of the 54th, started a movement to have a commemorative tablet placed in the Statehouse at Boston, to honor Major Stearns' services. The resolution was passed in 1897 to place a tablet in Memorial Hall or other establishments in Boston and signed by Governor Wolcott. It was not enacted at the time, but a second resolution was passed in 1901 by the Massachusetts legislature to authorize it. \n\nThe tablet is entitled: \"In Memoriam George Luther Stearns\" and says, in part:\n\nA merchant of Boston\nWho illustrated in his life and character\nThe nobility and generosity of \n\"Citizenship\"\nGiving his life and fortune for \nThe overthrow of slavery and the \nPreservation of \"free\" institutions\nTo his unresting devotion and unfailing hope\nMassachusetts owes\nThe fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth regiments \nof colored infantry, \nAnd the federal government ten thousand\ncolored troops, \nAt a critical moment in the great war. \nIn the darkest hour of the republic\nHis faith in the \"people\" never wavered.\n\nAttribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883693", "title": "Sting Ray (torpedo)", "text": "Sting Ray (torpedo)\n\nThe Sting Ray is a British acoustic homing lightweight torpedo (LWT) manufactured by GEC-Marconi, who were later bought out by BAE Systems. It entered service in 1983.\n\nIn the 1950s the Royal Navy was equipped with British designed and built Mk 30 air-dropped torpedoes. These were passive homing weapons which relied on detecting the noise from submarine targets. However, as submarine noise levels decreased these weapons became ineffective. A design for a British Mk 31 torpedo which would have used active echo-location sonar failed to receive Government approval for production. US Mk 44 torpedoes were purchased for the Royal Navy in the 1960s to fill this role, and later replaced by US Mk 46 torpedoes.\n\nA desire to not be dependent on US torpedo purchases led to a research programme starting in 1964 to develop a British torpedo. Initially designated Naval and Air Staff Requirement (NASR) 7511, it was (much later in the late 1970s) designated the Sting Ray torpedo.\n\nDesign studies in the mid-1960s proposed that a tank of polyethylene oxide be carried behind the warhead. This polymer would be exuded at the nose to reduce the drag coefficient. Experiments using buoyancy-propelled torpedoes in 1969 had shown reductions in the drag coefficient up to 25%. However, by 1969 this scheme had been rejected in favour of carrying a larger battery.\n\nThe homing system developed in the mid-1960s incorporated a spinning magnetic disc onto which the acoustic correlation algorithms were etched but this was replaced by integrated circuit technology when the disc sometimes failed to survive the impact of the weapon with the sea from high altitude launches.\n\nThe original warhead concept was for a simple omnidirectional blast charge. However, studies in the 1970s showed that this would be inadequate against the large double-hulled submarines then entering service. A directed energy (shaped charge) warhead was used in the production weapon.\n\nIn 1976 the designs had to be completely revised. Swapping the project for buying a ready-made US torpedo was not considered because the torpedo was expected to be better, and was all-British. The project manager was Eric Risness CBE.\n\nThe torpedo was built at the MSDS (later MUSL) plants at Neston (in Cheshire) and MUSL in Farlington and Waterlooville near Portsmouth. Guidance systems were made by Sperry Gyroscope Company.\n\nThe original in-service version (Sting Ray Mod 0) is officially documented as entering service in 1983, although Mark Higgitt's book \"Through Fire and Water\" (2013), which tells the story of HMS Ardent during the Falklands conflict, states that operational Stingray torpedoes were transferred to the ship immediately prior to its sailing date of 19 April 1982 under conditions of great secrecy (pp. 56, 61). It is propelled by a pump jet driven by an electric motor. Power is supplied by a magnesium/silver-chloride sea water battery. The propulsion method combines high speed, deep diving, agility and low noise levels. The weapon is provided with target and environmental information by the launching platform. Once launched it operates autonomously, with tactical software searching for the target using active sonar and then homing in without any further assistance. The software is designed to deal with the employment of countermeasures by the target. The weapon is designed to be launched from fixed wing or rotary winged aircraft and surface ships against submarine targets.\n\nThe development of the torpedo cost £920 million. The Mark 24 Tigerfish submarine-launched torpedo had also overshot its initial budget.\n\n\n\nSting Ray has a diameter of and a length of around . It has a launch weight of , and carries a Torpex warhead. It has a speed of 45 knots (83 km/h) over a range of 8,000 metres (4.3 nautical miles).\n\nSting Ray Mod 1 is intended for use against the same targets as Sting Ray Mod 0 but with an enhanced capability against small clad conventional submarines via a shaped-charge insensitive explosive warhead from TDW, and an improved shallow-water performance. It shares many hull components with the original weapon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883694", "title": "Will Ryan", "text": "Will Ryan\n\nWilliam Frank Ryan (born November 13, 1939) is an American voice actor, singer and musician. He achieved his breakthrough as a voice actor throughout the 80s leading into the 90s when he provided the voice of Petrie in the 1988 animated classic \"The Land Before Time\".\nHe is also known for his voice work in the Christian radio drama \"Adventures in Odyssey\" and \"Adventures of Teddy Ruxpin\".\n\nAfter growing up in Cleveland, Ryan is well known for singing about the American West. In summer 1966, Will's earlier band, Wead, played a gig in Wellington, Ohio.\n\nIn late 1970s he teamed up with Phil Baron as Willio and Phillio. They had regular gigs on television, radio and comedy clubs and universities throughout the U.S.. They later paired up again voicing characters of best friends Teddy Ruxpin (Baron) and Grubby the Octopede (Ryan) in the Teddy Ruxpin book and tape series as well as the 1986–87 television show \"The Adventures of Teddy Ruxpin\". In August 2002, Willio and Phillio returned to Cleveland for two performances at historic Cain Park and another at the famed Beachland Ballroom. At the Cain Park show, friend Alec Nordstrom of Hudson was invited onstage. Cleveland's revered rock critic and \"world's oldest teenager,\" Jane Scott, attended and reviewed the Beachland performance for the Cleveland Plain Dealer. The Willio and Phillio act brought Ryan back into music and after moving to California, he began to write and record songs for The Walt Disney Company.\n\nWillio and Phillio performed \"I Wish it Could Be Christmas All Year Long\" on a Disney Christmas album in a voice similar to Micky Dolenz of The Monkees.\n\nHe provided the voices of Rabbit and Tigger, and the singing voice of Eeyore, in the Disney Channel's long-running series \"Welcome to Pooh Corner\" and in many other Pooh cartoons. He also provided the voice of Barnaby the Dog on the popular series \"Dumbo's Circus\".\n\nIn 1987, Ryan became a fixture of the radio drama \"Adventures in Odyssey\", as Eugene Meltsner, Harlow Doyle, David Harley, Patrick O'Ryan and over 100 individual characters. He voiced Rabbit in \"Winnie the Pooh and a Day for Eeyore\", Digit in \"An American Tail\", Petrie in \"The Land Before Time\", and Willie the Giant in \"Mickey's Christmas Carol\". He continues to do voice work. In 2009, he was working on the third season of \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\", the 21st season of \"Adventures in Odyssey\", and the new radio series of Will Ryan's Cactus County Round-Up which featured his band The Cactus County Cowboys. In the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Road to the North Pole\", he provided the voice for Winnie-the-Pooh. As a side project, with Andrew J. Lederer and Michael Rosenberg (Jackie Diamond),\n\nWill Ryan briefly performed in the '20s-style music and comedy trio The Merry Metronomes. He and Lederer also appeared from time to time as a duo, usually under the name The Natty Nabobs. He and Nick Santa Maria also perform occasionally as a vaudeville-era comedy team, Biffle & Shooster (Ryan plays the latter); and in 2013 they made their first film, a faux 1930s comedy short titled \"It's a Frame-Up!\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883700", "title": "Saddleback High School", "text": "Saddleback High School\n\nSaddleback High School is a four-year secondary school located in Santa Ana, California, United States, and is part of the Santa Ana Unified School District. The school was established in 1967. Its mascot is the roadrunner, and its colors are green, gold, and white. \n\nThe school principal from 2009 to June 2015 was Dr. Robert Laxton. The current principal is Edward Bustamante. \n\nSaddleback High School has adopted the nickname \"The College Majors School\".\n\nThe very first CIF Champions in school history was under the leadership of Coach Jim Knapp (Track and Field) 1973 The Track athletes were all sophomores, John Peterson,Scott Brooklyn Ruvolo,Danny and Sammy Murrietta\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883708", "title": "Colectomy", "text": "Colectomy\n\nColectomy (\"col-\" + \"-ectomy\") is bowel resection of the large bowel (colon). It consists of the surgical removal of any extent of the colon, usually segmental resection (partial colectomy). In extreme cases where the entire large intestine is removed, it is called total colectomy, and proctocolectomy (\"procto-\" + \"colectomy\") denotes that the rectum is included.\n\nSome of the most common indications for colectomy are:\n\n\nTraditionally, colectomy is performed via an abdominal incision (laparotomy), though minimally invasive colectomy, by means of laparoscopy, is growing both in scope of indications and popularity, and is a well-established procedure in many medical centers. Recent experience has shown the feasibility of single port access colectomy.\n\nResection of any part of the colon entails mobilization and ligation of the corresponding blood vessels. Lymphadenectomy is usually performed through excision of the fatty tissue adjacent to these vessels (\"mesocolon\"), in operations for colon cancer.\n\nWhen the resection is complete, the surgeon has the option of immediately restoring the bowel, by stitching or stapling together both the cut ends (primary anastomosis), or creating a colostomy. Several factors are taken into account, including:\n\n\nAn anastomosis carries the risk of dehiscence (breakdown of the stitches), which can lead to contamination of the peritoneal cavity, peritonitis, sepsis and death. A number of factors may increase the risk of anastomotic dehiscence, either partial ('leak') or complete. Basic surgical principles include ensuring a good blood supply to the opposing ends, and a lack of tension at the join. The use of NSAIDS for analgesia following gastrointestinal surgery remains controversial, given mixed evidence of an increased risk of leakage from any bowel anastomosis created. This risk may vary according to the class of NSAID prescribed.\n\nColostomy is always safer, but places a societal, psychological and physical burden on the patient. The choice is by no means an easy one and is rife with controversy, being a frequent topic of heated debate among surgeons all over the world.\n\n\nAs of 2012, more than 40% of colon resections in United States are performed via laparoscopic approach.\n\nSir William Arbuthnot-Lane was one of the early proponents of the usefulness of total colectomies, although his overuse of the procedure called the wisdom of the surgery into question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883713", "title": "Senator of the College of Justice", "text": "Senator of the College of Justice\n\nThe Senators of the College of Justice are judges of the College of Justice, a set of legal institutions involved in the administration of justice in Scotland. There are three types of senator: Lords of Session (judges of the Court of Session); Lords Commissioners of Justiciary (judges of the High Court of Justiciary); and the Chairman of the Scottish Land Court. Whilst the High Court and Court of Session historically maintained separate judiciary, these are now one and the same, and the term, \"Senator\", is almost exclusively used in referring to the judges of these courts.\n\nSenators of the college use the title \"Lord\" or \"Lady\" along with a surname or a territorial name. Note, however, that some senators have a peerage title, which would be used instead of the senatorial title. All senators of the college have the honorific, \"The Honourable\", before their titles, while those who are also privy counsellors or peers have the honorific, \"The Right Honourable\". Senators are made privy counsellors upon promotion to the Inner House.\n\nUnder section 11 of the Treason Act 1708, it is treason to kill a Senator of the College of Justice \"sitting in Judgment in the Exercise of their Office within Scotland\".\n\nIn the past other officers of state were included as senators, including the Lord Advocate, Lord Clerk Register, Master of Requests and the Secretary of State.\n\nThe Court of Session Act 1988, when enacted, limited the number of Senators of the College of Justice (aside from the chairman of the Scottish Land Court, who ranks as a senator) to 34. This was subsequently increased to 35 by The Maximum Number of Judges (Scotland) Order 2016, enacted by the Scottish Ministers.\n\nThe Lord President is the president of the First Division, and the Lord Justice Clerk is the president of the Second Division. The puisne judges are limited to five assigned to each of those two divisions.\n\nThere are also some retired judges who still sit occasionally in the Court of Session or the Court of Criminal Appeal to hear cases if needed when there is a shortage of available judges. They are also called Senators of the College of Justice. As of 2019, nine retired judges are available to sit as judges:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883734", "title": "Scotch-Irish Americans", "text": "Scotch-Irish Americans\n\nScotch-Irish (or Scots-Irish) Americans are American descendants of Ulster Protestants who migrated during the 18th and 19th centuries. In the 2017 American Community Survey, 5.39 million (1.7% of the population) reported Scottish ancestry, an additional 3 million (0.9% of the population) identified more specifically with Scotch-Irish ancestry, and many people who claim \"American ancestry\" may actually be of Scotch-Irish ancestry. The term \"Scotch-Irish\" is used primarily in the United States, with people in Great Britain or Ireland who are of a similar ancestry identifying as Ulster Scots people. These included 200,000 Scottish Presbyterians who settled in Ireland between 1608 and 1697. Many English-born settlers of this period were also Presbyterians, although the denomination is today most strongly identified with Scotland. When King Charles I attempted to force these Presbyterians into the Church of England in the 1630s, many chose to re-emigrate to North America where religious liberty was greater. Later attempts to force the Church of England's control over dissident Protestants in Ireland led to further waves of emigration to the trans-Atlantic colonies.\n\nThe term is first known to have been used to refer to a people living in northeastern Ireland. In a letter of April 14, 1573, in reference to descendants of \"gallowglass\" mercenaries from Scotland who had settled in Ireland, Elizabeth I of England wrote:\n\nWe are given to understand that a nobleman named 'Sorley Boy' [MacDonnel] and others, who be of the Scotch-Irish race ...\n\nThis term continued in usage for over a century before the earliest known American reference appeared in a Maryland affidavit in 1689/90.\n\n\"Scotch-Irish,\" according to James Leyburn, \"is an Americanism, generally unknown in Scotland and Ireland, and rarely used by British historians\". It became common in the United States after 1850. The term is somewhat ambiguous because some of the Scotch-Irish have little or no Scottish ancestry at all: numerous dissenter families had also been transplanted to Ulster from northern England, in particular the border counties of Northumberland and Cumberland. Smaller numbers of migrants also came from Wales, the Isle of Man, and the southeast of England, and others were Protestant religious refugees from Flanders, the German Palatinate, and France (such as the French Huguenot ancestors of Davy Crockett). What united these different national groups was a base of Calvinist religious beliefs, and their separation from the established church (the Church of England and Church of Ireland in this case). That said, the large ethnic Scottish element in the Plantation of Ulster gave the settlements a Scottish character.\n\nUpon arrival in North America, these migrants at first usually identified simply as Irish, without the qualifier \"Scotch\". It was not until a century later, following the surge in Irish immigration after the Great Irish Famine of the 1840s, that the descendants of the earlier arrivals began to commonly call themselves Scotch-Irish to distinguish themselves from the newer, poor, predominantly Catholic immigrants; these largely had no Scottish ancestry. At first, the two groups had little interaction in America, as the Scots-Irish had become settled many decades earlier, primarily in the backcountry of the Appalachian region. The new wave of Catholic Irish settled primarily in port cities such as Boston, New York, Charleston, Chicago, Memphis and New Orleans, where large immigrant communities formed and there were an increasing number of jobs. Many of the new Irish migrants also went to the interior in the 19th century, attracted to jobs on large-scale infrastructure projects such as canals and railroads.\n\nThe usage \"Scots-Irish\" developed in the late 19th century as a relatively recent version of the term. Two early citations include: 1) \"a grave, elderly man of the race known in America as 'Scots-Irish (1870); and 2) \"Dr. Cochran was of stately presence, of fair and florid complexion, features which testified his Scots-Irish descent\" (1884). In Ulster-Scots (or \"Ullans\"), Scotch-Irish Americans are referred to as the \"Scotch Airish o' Amerikey\".\n\nTwentieth-century English author Kingsley Amis endorsed the traditional \"Scotch-Irish\" usage implicitly in noting that \"nobody talks about \"butterscottish\" or \"hopscots\", ... or \"Scottish pine\"\", and that while \"Scots\" or \"Scottish\" is how people of Scots origin refer to themselves in Scotland, the traditional English usage \"Scotch\" continues to be appropriate in \"compounds and set phrases\".\n\nThe word \"Scotch\" was the favored adjective for things \"\"of Scotland\"\", including people, until the early 19th century, when it was replaced by the word \"Scottish\". People in Scotland refer to themselves as Scots, as a noun, or adjectivally/collectively as Scots or Scottish. The use of \"Scotch\" as an adjective for anything but whisky has been out of favor in the U.K. for 200 years, but remains in use in the U.S. in place names, names of plants, breeds of dog, a type of tape, etc., and in the term Scotch-Irish.\n\nAlthough referenced by Merriam-Webster dictionaries as having first appeared in 1744, the American term \"Scotch-Irish\" is undoubtedly older. An affidavit of William Patent, dated March 15, 1689, in a case against a Mr. Matthew Scarbrough in Somerset County, Maryland, quotes Mr. Patent as saying he was told by Scarbrough that \"it was no more sin to kill me then to kill a dogg, or any Scotch Irish dogg\".\n\nLeyburn cites the following as early American uses of the term before 1744.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" says the first use of the term \"Scotch-Irish\" came in Pennsylvania in 1744: \n\nIn \"\", historian David Hackett Fischer asserts:\n\nSome historians describe these immigrants as \"Ulster Irish\" or \"Northern Irish\". It is true that many sailed from the province of Ulster ... part of much larger flow which drew from the lowlands of Scotland, the north of England, and every side of the Irish Sea. Many scholars call these people \"Scotch-Irish\". That expression is an Americanism, rarely used in Britain and much resented by the people to whom it was attached. \"We're no Eerish bot Scoatch,\" one of them was heard to say in Pennsylvania.\nFischer prefers to speak of \"borderers\" (referring to the historically war-torn England-Scotland border) as the population ancestral to the \"backcountry\" \"cultural stream\" (one of the four major and persistent cultural streams from Ireland and Britain which he identifies in American history). He notes the borderers had substantial English and Scandinavian roots. He describes them as being quite different from Gaelic-speaking groups such as the Scottish Highlanders or Irish (that is, Gaelic-speaking and predominantly Roman Catholic).\n\nAn example of the use of the term is found in \"A History of Ulster\": \"Ulster Presbyterians – known as the 'Scotch Irish' – were already accustomed to being on the move, and clearing and defending their land.\"\n\nMany have claimed that such a distinction should not be used, and that those called Scotch-Irish are simply Irish. Other Irish limit the term \"Irish\" to those of native Gaelic stock, and prefer to describe the Ulster Protestants as \"British\" (a description many Ulster Protestants have preferred themselves to \"Irish\", at least since the Irish Free State broke free from the United Kingdom, although \"Ulstermen\" has been adopted in order to maintain a distinction from the native Irish Gaels while retaining a claim to the North of Ireland). However, as one scholar observed in 1944, \"in this country [the US], where they have been called Scotch-Irish for over two hundred years, it would be absurd to give them a name by which they are not known here. ... Here their name is Scotch-Irish; let us call them by it.\"\n\nFrom 1710 to 1775, over 200,000 people emigrated from Ulster to the original thirteen American colonies. The largest numbers went to Pennsylvania. From that base some went south into Virginia, the Carolinas and across the South, with a large concentration in the Appalachian region. Others headed west to western Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and the Midwest.\n\nTransatlantic flows were halted by the American Revolution, but resumed after 1783, with total of 100,000 arriving in America between 1783 and 1812. By that point few were young servants and more were mature craftsmen, and they settled in industrial centers, including Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York, where many became skilled workers, foremen and entrepreneurs as the Industrial Revolution took off in the U.S. Another half million came to America 1815 to 1845; another 900,000 came in 1851–99. That religion decisively shaped Scotch-Irish culture.\n\nAccording to the \"Harvard Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups\", there were 400,000 U.S. residents of Irish birth or ancestry in 1790 and half of this group was descended from Ulster, and half from the other three provinces of Ireland.\n\nA separate migration brought many to Canada, where they are most numerous in rural Ontario and Nova Scotia.\n\nBecause of the proximity of the islands of Britain and Ireland, migrations in both directions had been occurring since Ireland was first settled after the retreat of the ice sheets. Gaels from Ireland colonized current southwestern Scotland as part of the Kingdom of Dál Riata, eventually replacing the native Pictish culture throughout Scotland. The Irish Gaels had previously been named Scoti by the Romans, and eventually their name was applied to the entire Kingdom of Scotland.\n\nThe origins of the Scotch-Irish lie primarily in the Lowlands of Scotland and in northern England, particularly in the Border Country on either side of the Anglo-Scottish border, a region that had seen centuries of conflict. In the near constant state of war between England and Scotland during the Middle Ages, the livelihood of the people on the borders was devastated by the contending armies. Even when the countries were not at war, tension remained high, and royal authority in one or the other kingdom was often weak. The uncertainty of existence led the people of the borders to seek security through a system of family ties, similar to the clan system in the Scottish Highlands. Known as the Border Reivers, these families relied on their own strength and cunning to survive, and a culture of cattle raiding and thievery developed.\n\nThough remaining politically distinct, Scotland, England (considered at the time to include Wales, annexed in 1535), and Ireland came to be ruled by a single monarch with the Union of the Crowns in 1603, when James VI, King of Scots, succeeded Elizabeth I as ruler of England and Ireland. In addition to the unstable border region, James also inherited Elizabeth's conflicts in Ireland. Following the end of the Irish Nine Years' War in 1603, and the Flight of the Earls in 1607, James embarked in 1609 on a systematic plantation of English and Scottish Protestant settlers to Ireland's northern province of Ulster. The Plantation of Ulster was seen as a way to relocate the Border Reiver families to Ireland to bring peace to the Anglo-Scottish border country, and also to provide fighting men who could suppress the native Irish in Ireland.\n\nThe first major influx of Scots and English into Ulster had come in 1606 during the settlement of east Down onto land cleared of native Irish by private landlords chartered by James. This process was accelerated with James's official plantation in 1609, and further augmented during the subsequent Irish Confederate Wars. The first of the Stuart Kingdoms to collapse into civil war was Ireland where, prompted in part by the anti-Catholic rhetoric of the Covenanters, Irish Catholics launched a rebellion in October. In reaction to the proposal by Charles I and Thomas Wentworth to raise an army manned by Irish Catholics to put down the Covenanter movement in Scotland, the Parliament of Scotland had threatened to invade Ireland in order to achieve \"the extirpation of Popery out of Ireland\" (according to the interpretation of Richard Bellings, a leading Irish politician of the time). The fear this caused in Ireland unleashed a wave of massacres against Protestant English and Scottish settlers, mostly in Ulster, once the rebellion had broken out. All sides displayed extreme cruelty in this phase of the war. Around 4000 settlers were massacred and a further 12,000 may have died of privation after being driven from their homes. The number of native Irish that died as a result of the Scottish colonisation is over 1,000,000, other estimations are higher. This caused Ireland's population, combined with the Irish catholic refugees fleeing to drop by 25%. William Petty's figure of 37,000 Protestants massacred is far too high, perhaps by a factor of ten; certainly more recent research suggests that a much more realistic figure is roughly 4,000 deaths. In one notorious incident, the Protestant inhabitants of Portadown were taken captive and then massacred on the bridge in the town. The settlers responded in kind, as did the British-controlled government in Dublin, with attacks on the Irish civilian population. Massacres of native civilians occurred at Rathlin Island and elsewhere. In early 1642, the Covenanters sent an army to Ulster to defend the Scottish settlers there from the Irish rebels who had attacked them after the outbreak of the rebellion. The original intention of the Scottish army was to re-conquer Ireland, but due to logistical and supply problems, it was never in a position to advance far beyond its base in eastern Ulster. The Covenanter force remained in Ireland until the end of the civil wars but was confined to its garrison around Carrickfergus after its defeat by the native Ulster Army at the Battle of Benburb in 1646. After the war was over, many of the soldiers settled permanently in Ulster. Another major influx of Scots into Ulster occurred in the 1690s, when tens of thousands of people fled a famine in Scotland to come to Ireland.\n\nA few generations after arriving in Ireland, considerable numbers of Ulster-Scots emigrated to the North American colonies of Great Britain throughout the 18th century (between 1717 and 1770 alone, about 250,000 settled in what would become the United States). According to Kerby Miller, \"Emigrants and Exiles: Ireland and the Irish Exodus to North America\" (1988), Protestants were one-third the population of Ireland, but three-quarters of all emigrants leaving from 1700 to 1776; 70% of these Protestants were Presbyterians. Other factors contributing to the mass exodus of Ulster Scots to America during the 18th century were a series of droughts and rising rents imposed by often absentee English and/or Anglo-Irish landlords.\n\nDuring the course of the 17th century, the number of settlers belonging to Calvinist dissenting sects, including Scottish and Northumbrian Presbyterians, English Baptists, French and Flemish Huguenots, and German Palatines, became the majority among the Protestant settlers in the province of Ulster. However, the Presbyterians and other dissenters, along with Catholics, were not members of the established church and were consequently legally disadvantaged by the Penal Laws, which gave full rights only to members of the Church of England/Church of Ireland. Those members of the state church were often absentee landlords and the descendants of the British aristocracy who had been given land by the monarchy. For this reason, up until the 19th century, and despite their common fear of the dispossessed Catholic native Irish, there was considerable disharmony between the Presbyterians and the Protestant Ascendancy in Ulster. As a result of this many Ulster-Scots, along with Catholic native Irish, ignored religious differences to join the United Irishmen and participate in the Irish Rebellion of 1798, in support of Age of Enlightenment-inspired egalitarian and republican goals.\n\nScholarly estimate is that over 200,000 Scotch-Irish migrated to the Americas between 1717 and 1775. As a late arriving group, they found that land in the coastal areas of the British colonies was either already owned or too expensive, so they quickly left for the more mountainous interior where land could be obtained cheaply. Here they lived on the first frontier of America. Early frontier life was extremely challenging, but poverty and hardship were familiar to them. The term hillbilly has often been applied to their descendants in the mountains, carrying connotations of poverty, backwardness and violence.\n\nThe first trickle of Scotch-Irish settlers arrived in New England. Valued for their fighting prowess as well as for their Protestant dogma, they were invited by Cotton Mather and other leaders to come over to help settle and secure the frontier. In this capacity, many of the first permanent settlements in Maine and New Hampshire, especially after 1718, were Scotch-Irish and many place names as well as the character of Northern New Englanders reflect this fact. The Scotch-Irish brought the potato with them from Ireland (although the potato originated in South America, it was not known in North America until brought over from Europe). In Maine it became a staple crop as well as an economic base.\n\nFrom 1717 to the next thirty or so years, the primary points of entry for the Ulster immigrants were Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and New Castle, Delaware. The Scotch-Irish radiated westward across the Alleghenies, as well as into Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Kentucky, and Tennessee. The typical migration involved small networks of related families who settled together, worshipped together, and intermarried, avoiding outsiders.\n\nMost Scotch-Irish landed in Philadelphia. Without much cash, they moved to free lands on the frontier, becoming the typical western \"squatters\", the frontier guard of the colony, and what the historian Frederick Jackson Turner described as \"the cutting-edge of the frontier\".\n\nThe Scotch-Irish moved up the Delaware River to Bucks County, and then up the Susquehanna and Cumberland valleys, finding flat lands along the rivers and creeks to set up their log cabins, their grist mills, and their Presbyterian churches. Chester, Lancaster, and Dauphin counties became their strongholds, and they built towns such as Chambersburg, Gettysburg, Carlisle, and York; the next generation moved into western Pennsylvania. With large numbers of children who needed their own inexpensive farms, the Scotch-Irish avoided areas already settled by Germans and Quakers and moved south, through the Shenandoah Valley, and through the Blue Ridge Mountains into Virginia. These migrants followed the Great Wagon Road from Lancaster, through Gettysburg, and down through Staunton, Virginia, to Big Lick (now Roanoke), Virginia. Here the pathway split, with the Wilderness Road taking settlers west into Tennessee and Kentucky, while the main road continued south into the Carolinas.\n\nBecause the Scotch-Irish settled the frontier of Pennsylvania and western Virginia, they were in the midst of the French and Indian War and Pontiac's Rebellion that followed. The Scotch-Irish were frequently in conflict with the Indian tribes who lived on the other side of the frontier; indeed, they did most of the Indian fighting on the American frontier from New Hampshire to the Carolinas. The Irish and Scots also became the middlemen who handled trade and negotiations between the Indian tribes and the colonial governments.\n\nEspecially in Pennsylvania, whose pacifist Quaker leaders had made no provision for a militia, Scotch-Irish settlements were frequently destroyed and the settlers killed, captured or forced to flee after attacks by Native Americans from tribes of the Delaware (Lenape), Shawnee, Seneca, and others of western Pennsylvania and the Ohio country. Indian attacks were taking place within 60 miles of Philadelphia, and in July 1763, the Pennsylvania Assembly authorized a 700-strong militia to be raised, to be used only for defensive actions. Formed into two units of rangers, the Cumberland Boys and the Paxton Boys, the militia soon exceeded their defensive mandate and began offensive forays against Lenape villages in western Pennsylvania. After attacking Delaware villages in the upper Susquehanna valley, the militia leaders received information, which they believed credible, that \"hostile\" tribes were receiving weapons and ammunition from the \"friendly\" tribe of Conestogas settled in Lancaster County, who were under the protection of the Pennsylvania Assembly. On 14 December 1763, about fifty Paxton Boys rode to Conestogatown, near Millersville, Pennsylvania, and murdered six Conestogas. Governor John Penn placed the remaining fourteen Conestogas in protective custody in the Lancaster workhouse, but the Paxton Boys broke in, killing and mutilating all fourteen on 27 December 1763. Following this, about 400 backcountry settlers, primarily Scotch-Irish, marched on Philadelphia demanding better military protection for their settlements, and pardons for the Paxton Boys. Benjamin Franklin led the politicians who negotiated a settlement with the Paxton leaders, after which they returned home.\n\nThe United States Declaration of Independence contained 56 delegate signatures. Of the signers, eight were of Irish descent. Two signers, George Taylor and James Smith, were born in Ulster. The remaining five Irish-Americans, George Read, Thomas McKean, Thomas Lynch, Jr., Edward Rutledge and Charles Carroll, were the sons or grandsons of Irish immigrants, and at least McKean had Ulster heritage.\n\nContrasting the Scottish Highlanders, the Scotch-Irish were generally ardent supporters of American independence from Britain in the 1770s. In Pennsylvania, Virginia, and most of the Carolinas, support for the revolution was \"practically unanimous\". One Hessian officer said, \"Call this war by whatever name you may, only call it not an American rebellion; it is nothing more or less than a Scotch Irish Presbyterian rebellion.\" A British major general testified to the House of Commons that \"half the rebel Continental Army were from Ireland\". Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, with its large Scotch-Irish population, was to make the first declaration for independence from Britain in the Mecklenburg Declaration of 1775.\n\nThe Scotch-Irish \"Overmountain Men\" of Virginia and North Carolina formed a militia which won the Battle of Kings Mountain in 1780, resulting in the British abandonment of a southern campaign, and for some historians \"marked the turning point of the American Revolution\".\n\nOne exception to the high level of patriotism was the Waxhaw settlement on the lower Catawba River along the North Carolina-South Carolina boundary, where Loyalism was strong. The area experienced two main settlement periods of Scotch-Irish. During the 1750s–1760s, second- and third-generation Scotch-Irish Americans moved from Pennsylvania, Virginia, and North Carolina. This particular group had large families, and as a group they produced goods for themselves and for others. They generally were Patriots.\n\nJust prior to the Revolution, a second stream of immigrants came directly from Ireland via Charleston. This group was forced to move into an underdeveloped area because they could not afford expensive land. Most of this group remained loyal to the Crown or neutral when the war began. Prior to Charles Cornwallis's march into the backcountry in 1780, two-thirds of the men among the Waxhaw settlement had declined to serve in the army. The British massacre of American prisoners at the Battle of Waxhaws resulted in anti-British sentiment in a bitterly divided region. While many individuals chose to take up arms against the British, the British themselves forced the people to choose sides.\n\nIn the 1790s, the new American government assumed the debts the individual states had amassed during the American Revolutionary War, and the Congress placed a tax on whiskey (among other things) to help repay those debts. Large producers were assessed a tax of six cents a gallon. Smaller producers, many of whom were Scottish (often Scotch-Irish) descent and located in the more remote areas, were taxed at a higher rate of nine cents a gallon. These rural settlers were short of cash to begin with, and lacked any practical means to get their grain to market, other than fermenting and distilling it into relatively portable spirits. From Pennsylvania to Georgia, the western counties engaged in a campaign of harassment of the federal tax collectors. \"Whiskey Boys\" also conducted violent protests in Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, and Georgia. This civil disobedience eventually culminated in armed conflict in the Whiskey Rebellion. President George Washington marched at the head of 13,000 soldiers to suppress the insurrection.\n\nAuthor and U.S. Senator Jim Webb puts forth a thesis in his book \"Born Fighting\" (2004) to suggest that the character traits he ascribes to the Scotch-Irish such as loyalty to kin, extreme mistrust of governmental authority and legal strictures, and a propensity to bear arms and to use them, helped shape the American identity. In the same year that Webb's book was released, Barry A. Vann published his second book, entitled \"Rediscovering the South's Celtic Heritage\". Like his earlier book, \"From Whence They Came\" (1998), Vann argues that these traits have left their imprint on the Upland South. In 2008, Vann followed up his earlier work with a book entitled \"In Search of Ulster Scots Land: The Birth and Geotheological Imagings of a Transatlantic People\", which professes how these traits may manifest themselves in conservative voting patterns and religious affiliation that characterizes the Bible Belt.\n\nThe iron and steel industry developed rapidly after 1830 and became one of the dominant factors in industrial America by the 1860s. Ingham (1978) examined the leadership of the industry in its most important center, Pittsburgh, as well as smaller cities. He concludes that the leadership of the iron and steel industry nationwide was \"largely Scotch-Irish\". Ingham finds that the Scotch-Irish held together cohesively throughout the 19th century and \"developed their own sense of uniqueness\".\n\nNew immigrants after 1800 made Pittsburgh a major Scotch-Irish stronghold. For example, Thomas Mellon (b. Ulster; 1813–1908) left Ireland in 1823 and became the founder of the famous Mellon clan, which played a central role in banking and industries such as aluminum and oil. As Barnhisel (2005) finds, industrialists such as James H. Laughlin (b. Ulster; 1806–1882) of Jones and Laughlin Steel Company constituted the \"Scots-Irish Presbyterian ruling stratum of Pittsburgh society\".\n\nArcheologists and folklorists have examined the folk culture of the Scotch-Irish in terms of material goods—such as housing—as well as speech patterns and folk songs. Much of the research has been done in Appalachia.\n\nThe border origin of the Scotch-Irish is supported by study of the traditional music and folklore of the Appalachian Mountains, settled primarily by the Scotch-Irish in the 18th century. Musicologist Cecil Sharp collected hundreds of folk songs in the region, and observed that the musical tradition of the people \"seems to point to the North of England, or to the Lowlands, rather than the Highlands, of Scotland, as the country from which they originally migrated. For the Appalachian tunes...have far more affinity with the normal English folk-tune than with that of the Gaelic-speaking Highlander.\" Similarly, elements of mountain folklore trace back to events in the Lowlands of Scotland. As an example, it was recorded in the early 20th century that Appalachian children were frequently warned, \"You must be good or Clavers will get you.\" To the mountain residents, \"Clavers\" was simply a bogeyman used to keep children in line, yet unknown to them the phrase derives from the 17th century Scotsman John Graham of Claverhouse, called \"Bloody Clavers\" by the Presbyterian Scottish Lowlanders whose religion he tried to suppress.\n\nIn terms of the stone houses they built, the \"hall-parlor\" floor plan (two rooms per floor with chimneys on both ends) was common among the gentry in Ulster. Scotch-Irish immigrants brought it over in the 18th century and it became a common floor plan in Tennessee, Kentucky, and elsewhere. Stone houses were difficult to build, and most pioneers relied on simpler log cabins.\n\nScotch-Irish quilters in West Virginia developed a unique interpretation of pieced-block quilt construction. Their quilts embody an aesthetic reflecting Scotch-Irish social history—the perennial condition of living on the periphery of mainstream society both geographically and philosophically. Cultural values espousing individual autonomy and self-reliance within a strong kinship structure are related to Scotch-Irish quilting techniques. Prominent features of these quilts include: 1) blocks pieced in a repeating pattern but varied by changing figure-ground relationships and, at times, obscured by the use of same-value colors and adjacent print fabrics, 2) lack of contrasting borders, and 3) a unified all-over quilting pattern, typically the \"fans\" design or rows of concentric arcs.\n\nMontgomery (2006) analyzes the pronunciation, vocabulary, and grammatical distinctions of today's residents of the mountain South and traces patterns back to their Scotch-Irish ancestors. However, Crozier (1984) suggests that only a few lexical characteristics survived Scotch-Irish assimilation into American culture.\n\nAccording to \"The Source: A Guidebook of American Genealogy\", by Kory L. Meyerink and Loretto Dennis Szucs, the following were the countries of origin for new arrivals coming to the United States before 1790. The regions marked * were part of, or ruled by, the Kingdom of Great Britain. (The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland after 1801) The ancestry of the 3,929,326 million population in 1790 has been estimated by various sources by sampling last names in the 1790 census and assigning them a country of origin. According to the Harvard Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups (Thernstrom, S 1980, 'Irish,' p. 528), there were 400,000 Americans of Irish birth or ancestry in 1790; half of these were descended from Ulster, and half were descended from other provinces in Ireland. The French were mostly Huguenots and French Canadians. although only 17% of all Americans had any religious affiliation. The Indian population inside territorial U.S. 1790 boundaries was less than 100,000.\n\nFinding the coast already heavily settled, most groups of settlers from the north of Ireland moved into the \"western mountains\", where they populated the Appalachian regions and the Ohio Valley. Others settled in northern New England, The Carolinas, Georgia and north-central Nova Scotia.\n\nIn the United States Census, 2000, 4.3 million Americans (1.5% of the U.S. population) claimed Scotch-Irish ancestry.\n\nThe author Jim Webb suggests that the true number of people with some Scotch-Irish heritage in the United States is in the region of 27 million.\n\nThe states with the most Scotch-Irish populations:\n\nThe states with the top percentages of Scotch-Irish:\n\nThe Scotch-Irish immigrants to North America in the 18th century were initially defined in part by their Presbyterianism. Many of the settlers in the Plantation of Ulster had been from dissenting/non-conformist religious groups which professed Calvinist thought. These included mainly Lowland Scot Presbyterians, but also English Puritans and Quakers, French Huguenots and German Palatines. These Calvinist groups mingled freely in church matters, and religious belief was more important than nationality, as these groups aligned themselves against both their Catholic Irish and Anglican English neighbors.\n\nAfter their arrival in the New World, the predominantly Presbyterian Scotch-Irish began to move further into the mountainous back-country of Virginia and the Carolinas. The establishment of many settlements in the remote back-country put a strain on the ability of the Presbyterian Church to meet the new demand for qualified, college-educated clergy. Religious groups such as the Baptists and Methodists had no higher education requirement for their clergy to be ordained, and these groups readily provided ministers to meet the demand of the growing Scotch-Irish settlements. By about 1810, Baptist and Methodist churches were in the majority, and the descendants of the Scotch-Irish today remain predominantly Baptist or Methodist. Vann (2007) shows the Scotch-Irish played a major role in defining the Bible Belt in the Upper South in the 18th century. He emphasizes the high educational standards they sought, their \"geotheological thought worlds\" brought from the old country, and their political independence that was transferred to frontier religion.\n\nIn 1746, the Scotch-Irish Presbyterians created the College of New Jersey, later renamed Princeton University. The mission was training New Light Presbyterian ministers. The college became the educational as well as religious capital of Scotch-Irish America. By 1808, loss of confidence in the college within the Presbyterian Church led to the establishment of the separate Princeton Theological Seminary, but for many decades Presbyterian control over the college continued. Meanwhile, Princeton Seminary, under the leadership of Charles Hodge, originated a conservative theology that in large part shaped Fundamentalist Protestantism in the 20th century.\n\nWhile the larger Presbyterian Church was a mix of Scotch Irish and Yankees from New England, several smaller Presbyterian groups were composed almost entirely of Scotch Irish, and they display the process of assimilation into the broader American religious culture. Fisk (1968) traces the history of the Associate Reformed Church in the Old Northwest from its formation by a union of Associate and Reformed Presbyterians in 1782 to the merger of this body with the Seceder Scotch Irish bodies to form the United Presbyterian Church in 1858. It became the Associate Reformed Synod of the West and remain centered in the Midwest. It withdrew from the parent body in 1820 because of the drift of the eastern churches toward assimilation into the larger Presbyterian Church with its Yankee traits. The Associate Reformed Synod of the West maintained the characteristics of an immigrant church with Scotch-Irish roots, emphasized the Westminster standards, used only the psalms in public worship, was Sabbatarian, and was strongly abolitionist and anti-Catholic. In the 1850s it exhibited many evidences of assimilation. It showed greater ecumenical interest, greater interest in evangelization of the West and of the cities, and a declining interest in maintaining the unique characteristics of its Scotch-Irish past.\n\nMany Presidents of the United States have ancestral links to Ulster, including three whose parents were born in Ulster. Three Presidents who had at least one parent born in Ulster: Jackson, Buchanan and Arthur. The Irish Protestant vote in the U.S. has not been studied nearly as much as that of the Catholic Irish. In the 1820s and 1830s, supporters of Andrew Jackson emphasized his Irish background, as did James Knox Polk, but since the 1840s it has been uncommon for a Protestant politician in America to be identified as Irish, but rather as 'Scotch-Irish'. In Canada, by contrast, Irish Protestants remained a cohesive political force well into the 20th century, identified with the then Conservative Party of Canada and especially with the Orange Institution, although this is less evident in today's politics.\n\nMore than one-third of all U.S. Presidents had substantial ancestral origins in the northern province of Ireland (Ulster). President Bill Clinton spoke proudly of that fact, and his own ancestral links with the province, during his two visits to Ulster. Like most US citizens, most US presidents are the result of a \"melting pot\" of ancestral origins.\n\nClinton is one of at least seventeen Chief Executives descended from emigrants to the United States from Ulster. While many of the Presidents have typically Ulster-Scots surnames – Jackson, Johnson, McKinley, Wilson – others, such as Roosevelt and Cleveland, have links which are less obvious.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883736", "title": "Doramectin", "text": "Doramectin\n\nDoramectin (Dectomax) is a veterinary drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of parasites such as gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, eyeworms, grubs, sucking lice and mange mites in cattle.\n\nIt is used for the treatment and control of internal parasitosis (gastrointestinal and pulmonary nematodes), ticks and mange (and other ectoparasites). Doramectin is a derivative of ivermectin. Similarly to other drugs of this family, it is produced by fermentation by selected strains of Streptomyces avermitilis. Its spectrum includes: \"Haemonchus, Ostertagia, Trichostrongylus, Cooperia\", and \"Oesophagostomum\" species and \"Dictyocaulus viviparus\", \"Dermatobia hominis, Boophilus microplus\", and \"Psoroptes bovis\", among many other internal and external parasites. It is available as an injection and as a 5-mg/ml topical solution.\n\nDoramectin is also marketed in many Latin-American and some Asia and Africa countries as Doramec L.A. (manufactured by Agrovet Market Animal Health) in a 1% Doramectin Long Acting Injectable Solution for cattle, sheep, swine and others. Its oleous carrier confers to Doramec L.A. a slow and prolonged liberation, extending its action up to 42 days.\n\nDoramectin is also available for horses as an oral, flavored, bioadhesive gel under the name Doraquest L.A. Oral Gel. It can be used to control and treat internal parasites as roundworms, lungworms and some external parasites.\n"}
{"id": "1883742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883742", "title": "Rocky View County", "text": "Rocky View County\n\nRocky View County is a municipal district in southern Alberta, Canada that is named for its views of the nearby Rocky Mountains to the west. It surrounds most of Calgary, forming the city's northern boundary and most of the city's western and eastern boundaries. At a population of 39,407 in 2016, Rocky View County is the most populous municipal district in Alberta. Though predominantly rural in nature, Rocky View County is home to 14 hamlets, including Langdon, one of Alberta's most populous hamlets. Its rural areas are home to numerous country residential subdivisions.\n\nThe Municipal District (MD) of Calgary No. 44 was originally formed on January 1, 1955 from part of Improvement District No. 46 and parts of five municipal districts – the MD of Serviceberry No. 43, the MD of Conrich No. 44, the MD of Springbank No. 45, the MD of Kneehill No. 48, and the MD of Mountain View No. 49. The MD of Calgary No. 44 was renamed the MD of Rocky View No. 44 on January 9, 1956.\n\n\"Rocky View\" was the successful entry selected in December 1955 in a local competition to rename the newly formed municipal district. The entry was submitted by Leslie Burwash of Balzac. \"Bow View\" and \"Chinook\" placed second and third respectively in the competition. The name \"Rocky View\" was successful due to its descriptive nature as most areas within the MD of Rocky View No. 44 have views of the Rocky Mountains to the west. \n\nThe MD of Rocky View No. 44 changed its name to Rocky View County on June 24, 2009.\n\nThe following localities are located within Rocky View County.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Rocky View County recorded a population of 39,407 living in 13,042 of its 13,620 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 35,754. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nRocky View County's 2013 municipal census counted a population of 38,055, a 6.4% increase over its adjusted 2011 federal census population of 35,754. Its previous 2006 municipal census counted a population of 34,597.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Rocky View County had a population of 36,461 living in 12,077 of its 12,810 total dwellings, a 9.9% change from its 2006 adjusted population of 33,173. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011. Following Airdrie's 2011 annexation, Statistics Canada adjusted Rocky View County's 2011 population downward by 707 people to 35,754.\n\n\nRocky View County has a council consisting of elected officials representing nine electoral divisions. Municipal elections, organized under the Alberta Elections Act from Alberta Municipal Affairs, are held every four years, the last being in 2017.\n\nEach October, the councillors elect a reeve and a deputy reeve from among their number.\n\nThe Rocky View Council consists of:\n\nRocky View County is served by the Provincial Electoral Divisions of Airdrie, Chestermere-Rocky View and Olds-Didsbury-Three Hills.\n\nRocky View is currently represented in the Alberta Legislature by MLA Angela Pitt in the riding of Airdrie, Leela Sharon Aheer in Chestermere-Rocky View and Nathan Cooper in Olds-Didsbury-Three Hills.\n\nRocky View is served by three Federal Electoral Divisions: Crowfoot, Macleod and Wild Rose.\n\nRocky View's northeast and southeast (east of Calgary, north of the Bow River) is part of the Federal Electoral district (also known as a riding) of Crowfoot. This riding has been represented by Kevin Sorenson, who was originally elected as a member of the Reform Party then again as a member of the Canadian Alliance and currently of the Conservative Party.\n\nRocky View's southwest (south of the Bow River and west of Calgary) is part of the Federal Electoral district (also known as a riding) of Macleod. This riding has been represented by Ted Menzies, who was originally elected as a member of the Canadian Alliance and currently of the Conservative Party.\n\nRocky View's northwest is part of the Federal Electoral district (also known as a riding) of Wild Rose. This riding is represented by Blake Richards, who was elected as a member of the Conservative Party on October 14, 2008.\n\nRocky View and the Calgary Region are also represented by Senator Elaine McCoy was appointed to the Senate of Canada (the Upper House) by Prime Minister Paul Martin on March 24, 2005.\n\nRocky View County is bisected by the Trans-Canada Highway (Highway 1) and Highway 2. Highway 9, a major transportation route between Calgary and Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, also bisects the eastern portion of Rocky View County.\n\n\nThe main lines of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) and the Canadian National Railway (CNR) between Calgary and Edmonton travel through Rocky View County. The CPR main line is routed through the City of Airdrie and the Town of Crossfield, while the CNR main line is routed through the Town of Irricana and the Village of Beiseker.\n\nTwo airports are located within Rocky View County – Beiseker Airport and Springbank Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883746", "title": "Oliver Wendell Douglas", "text": "Oliver Wendell Douglas\n\nOliver Wendell Douglas was the major character in the 1960s CBS situation comedy \"Green Acres\". Portrayed by Hollywood veteran Eddie Albert, Oliver Wendell Douglas was a New York City attorney acting out his long-harbored dream of moving to the Midwest and operating a farm rather than practicing \"big city\" law. The character's name was inspired by famed Supreme Court justice Oliver Wendell Holmes and possibly also by then-Supreme Court justice William Orville Douglas.\n\nOliver Wendell Douglas was a New York City attorney who had long harbored a dream of moving to the Midwest and operating a farm rather than practicing \"big city\" law. His wife, Lisa, a glamorous Hungarian immigrant (who was played by Eva Gabor), had absolutely no desire to leave sophisticated New York City for a backward, rural area. His idea also met with stringent resistance from his own mother, Eunice (Eleanor Audley), who sided with Lisa against leaving New York City for the hinterlands.\n\nHowever, once they actually arrived at their newly purchased farm (a run-down nightmare whose farmhouse was little more than a dilapidated shack), it was Lisa, not Oliver, who immediately fit into Hooterville and its weird collection of zany characters. Oliver had a high opinion of farmers in theory; he often made a speech in which he referred to \"crops shooting up out of the ground\" (which his wife, Lisa, in her Hungarian accent, repeated as \"crops shoosting out of the ground\") and other platitudes about rural life, which on the program was invariably accompanied by a background of patriotic music (Yankee Doodle to be exact); other characters frequently searched for the source of the music. Oliver was usually presented in the light of being the only sane character in an insane world; however, he, too, had his quirks, such as driving his tractor wearing the same three-piece suits that he had formerly worn to practice law and addressing nearly every other person in Hooterville as Mr. or Mrs., though the Hootervillians referred to each other by first names (although they apparently reciprocated by continuing to refer to him as \"Mr. Douglas\").\n\nOliver also was either too blinded by pride or too stubborn to admit that he was a totally incompetent failure as a farmer. He did not fit into a place where everyone took for granted that a \"talking\" pig, Arnold Ziffel, was his owners' \"son\", or where one of the two contractor \"brothers\" constantly remodelling his house was a woman, and somehow always lost out to local confidence man Mr. Haney, from whom he had bought the farm in the first place. He also hired the young Eb Dawson, who referred to Mr. and Mrs. Douglas as his parents and who often irritated Oliver. He is such a fanatic farmer wannabe in the pilot episode, that during a flashback while on a bombing mission in a P-38, he annoys his squadron commander with comments about how tomatoes are turned into catsup. A later episode shows Oliver was a Captain in USAF Reserves when the Hooterville townsfolk try to have him fly a broken down Curtiss JN-4 from World War I.\n\nOliver's denial led him to labor on in vain, year after year, when it was obvious to everyone else that he would be far more successful back in his New York law practice. His wife Lisa, a very reluctant rural dweller initially, fits right into her new surroundings and is almost immediately accepted and befriended by nearly everyone. One running gag shows how Oliver usually \"loses\" one way or another to the Hooterville yokels. In one episode Mr Haney, Lisa, and Hank Kimball think they've discovered a \"Milk-making\" Machine. Oliver has to tell them (tongue-in-cheek) that not only are the chemicals so expensive that milk prices would soar- but that this new milk also causes baldness! One episode shows Oliver as a \"successful\" lawyer when he manages to convince the US Army \"not\" to draft Arnold Ziffel the Pig. At the end of the episode Oliver has a new client to keep from being drafted-\"Ralph Monroe\"! Despite being a horrible farmer and once only making 16 dollars of profit for the entire year, the Douglases never had to worry about money—for instance, they never have trouble replacing the numerous dishes that Lisa breaks. This once caused the other residents to believe that Oliver was making and selling alcohol, and that he was involved with the mob.\n\nIn the 1950 radio sitcom on which \"Green Acres\" was originally based, the character was a banker named John Granby and portrayed by Gale Gordon. Granby, in turn, was based on Gordon's character on \"My Favorite Husband\". In a notable difference between the radio and television versions, Granby had a teenage daughter, which the Douglases did not. The character's basic premise of a white-collar city man with passion but no talent for farming remained unchanged.\n\nThe character's name was inspired by famed Supreme Court justice Oliver Wendell Holmes and possibly also by then-Supreme Court justice William Orville Douglas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883750", "title": "Daniel Levy (businessman)", "text": "Daniel Levy (businessman)\n\nDaniel Philip Levy (born 8 February 1962) is a British businessman and the current chairman of Premier League football side Tottenham Hotspur. He has held this post since 2001, making him the longest-serving chairman in the Premier League.\n\nLevy was born in Essex and is of Jewish origins. His father Barry Levy was the owner of a clothing retail business Mr Byrite (later rebranded as Blue Inc). He is a lifelong Tottenham Hotspur supporter, and attended his first match at White Hart Lane against QPR in the 1960s. He studied Economics and Land Economy at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, and graduated in 1985 with a First Class Honours Degree.\n\nAfter graduating, Levy went into his family business, Mr Byrite. He was also involved in property development, as well as a number of other businesses. He then formed a business association with Joe Lewis, and became involved in an investment trust called ENIC International Ltd that specialised in sports (football in particular), entertainment and media. He was made the managing director of ENIC in 1995. Levy and his family own 29.4% of the share capital of ENIC, while Lewis owns 70.6%.\n\nLevy became a director of the Scottish football club Rangers, in which ENIC held a significant stake until 2004. ENIC also held stakes in other European football clubs including AEK Athens, Slavia Prague, FC Basel and Vicenza (but all since sold), as well as non-football companies such as Warner Bros Restaurants and a Cambridge software company, Autonomy. He became chairman of Tottenham Hotspur in 2001.\n\nLevy made an attempt to buy Tottenham Hotspur from Alan Sugar in July 1998 but failed. Another attempt was made in July 2000 but that was again rejected, however, increasing hostility by fans towards Sugar eventually persuaded Sugar to sell. Levy was then appointed to the board of Tottenham Hotspur on 20 December 2000 after ENIC initiated the purchase of a 27% stake in the club from Sugar for £22 million bringing their total stake to 29.9%, the maximum permissible before ENIC had to bid for the entire company. He replaced Sugar as chairman of Tottenham Hotspur in February 2001 on the completion of the sale, and took over the day-to-day running of the club in October 2001. ENIC would eventually substantially increase their shareholding and gain control of the company after buying the remaining shares off Sugar in 2007 for £25m, as well as those of other shareholders, eventually acquiring 85.55% of Tottenham. ENIC moved the club into the private ownership in 2012. Levy became the highest paid Premier League chief executive, with an annual remuneration of over £6 million in the 2016–17 season.\n\nThe first manager appointed with Levy at the helm was Glenn Hoddle in 2001. Hoddle however was sacked following a poor start to the 2003–04 season in September 2003. He was followed in quick succession by Jacques Santini and Martin Jol. Jol had some success moving Tottenham out of the mid-table, but was dismissed in 2007 after the team only won one game in the first 10 games.\n\nJuande Ramos succeeded as head coach in 2008. He delivered the League Cup, the first trophy under Levy's stewardship and the club's first in nine years, but Levy made the decision to replace him with Harry Redknapp on 25 October 2008 after Ramos made the worst start to a league campaign in the club's history in the 2008–09 season. Redknapp guided Spurs to a top four finish in the 2009–10 season, winning their entry into the qualification round of the UEFA Champions League for the first time. Tottenham reached the knock-out stages in the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League but eventually lost to Real Madrid. Tottenham finished fifth in the Premier League in the 2010–11 season, missing out on Champions' League qualification but securing a place in the Europa League. On 13 June 2012, Redknapp was relieved of his duties after failing to agree terms for a new deal.\n\nOn 3 July Levy appointed former Chelsea and Porto boss Andre Villas-Boas as the team's new head coach. Following some poor results in the first half of the 2013–14 season, including a 5–0 home defeat by Liverpool, Levy sacked Villas-Boas on 16 December 2013. Head of Football Development and former player Tim Sherwood was subsequently announced as head coach, but he also left at the end of the season.\n\nOn 27 May 2014, Levy appointed Southampton manager Mauricio Pochettino as head coach. The team reached the 2015 Football League Cup Final in Pochettino's first season in charge which also saw a number of the club's academy players step up to establish themselves in the first team, including Harry Kane, Danny Rose, Ryan Mason, Nabil Bentaleb and Andros Townsend. His team qualified for Europe with a fifth-place finish in 2014–15 before challenging for the Premier League title in the 2015–16 and 2016–17 seasons with a squad consisting of the youngest average age in the division. They also achieved their best ranking in 2016–17 since the 1962–63 season under Bill Nicholson. The team have been ranked amongst the top 4 since the 2015–16 season, allowing them to qualify and participate in the Champions League since 2016–17. They reached the final for the first time in 2018–19, but lost to Liverpool in the 2019 UEFA Champions League Final.\n\nOn 19 November 2019, Pochettino was sacked as manager of Spurs and was replaced the following day by José Mourinho.\n\nLevy is noted for maintaining a relatively modest wage structure at Tottenham compared to the other big 6 clubs of the Premier League; the club spent the least on wages among the top 6 clubs in the 2018–19 season, and it had the lowest wage/revenue percentage of all clubs in the Premier League. Levy has described the spending by other clubs in the Premier League as unsustainable. In the 2017–18 season, Tottenham made a profit of £113 million (£138.9m pre-tax), a world record for a football club. The club was valued at around £80 million when ENIC first attempted to buy a stake in 1998, and by 2019, valuations of the club have ranged between £1.3–1.8 billion.\n\nLevy is the chief negotiator in the transfer of players for Tottenham. He has acquired a reputation for tough negotiation in the club's transfer dealings; former Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson described negotiating with Levy over the transfer of Dimitar Berbatov as \"more painful than my hip replacement\". He is particularly known for his last-minute dealings on the last day of the transfer window. In 2013, Levy negotiating a world record fee of £86 million for the transfer of Gareth Bale to Real Madrid. The club often bought younger players, such as Christian Eriksen, Son Heung-min and Dele Alli before they become major stars. In the first four years since Pochettino's appointment in 2014, the club had a net spend of £29 million on transfer fees, considerably lower than the other major clubs in the same period.\n\nLevy has been instrumental in attracting corporate partners to the club in multi-million pound sponsorship deals including current partners Nike and AIA. He negotiated multiple shirt sponsorships in 2010 when he agreed a deal with software infrastructure company Autonomy as the club's shirt sponsor in the Premier League, with Investec becoming shirt sponsor for Champions League and domestic cup competitions.\n\nLevy has also promoted governance issues related to the Premier League, most recently advocating enhanced financial controls for all owners to ensure the long-term financial stability of clubs. He lobbied successfully for a rule change regarding the number of substitutions permitted that is now been adopted across the league and serves to encourage the progress and inclusion of young players.\n\nIn 2012, the Club moved to its new training base set in 80 acres of greenbelt land. Planning and construction of the facility took over seven years and a player accommodation Lodge was added later. The Brazil National team stayed at the Lodge to prepare for the 2018 World Cup.\n\nLevy oversaw the construction of a new stadium next to the White Hart Lane site, from its design to the construction. The Northumberland Development Project was announced in 2008, with the building of a new club stadium at its centerpiece. After some delay, the construction of the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium started in 2015. The stadium was designed with a capacity of 62,062, making it the largest club stadium in London and the second largest in the country. The project is intended to be a catalyst for the regeneration of Tottenham to bring new jobs and homes to the area.\n\nFor the 2017–18 season, Levy negotiated the club's move to Wembley Stadium for one year to allow demolition of White Hart Lane and the completion of a new stadium on the same site as the White Hart Lane. During their time at Wembley, the club also broke the Premier League attendance record several times, as well as Champions League attendance record for a British club.\n\nThe construction officially opened on 3 April 2019 branded as Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. It includes the world's first dividing retractable pitch to accommodate other leading sports, notably American football, and entertainment events. The design allowed the club to agree a ten-year deal to host NFL matches at their new home from 2018.\n\nIn November 2017, Levy was named CEO of the Year at the Football Business Awards.\n\nLevy is Jewish. He is married to his former PA, Tracy Dixon, and they have four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883757", "title": "Celtic law", "text": "Celtic law\n\nA number of law codes have in the past been in use in the various Celtic nations since the Middle Ages.\nWhile these vary considerably in details, there are certain points of similarity.\n\nThe Brehon Laws governed everyday life and politics in Ireland until the Norman invasion of 1171 (the word \"Brehon\" is an Anglicisation of \"breitheamh\" (earlier \"brithem\"), the Irish word for a judge). The laws were written in the Old Irish period (ca. 600–900 AD) and probably reflect the traditional laws of pre-Christian Ireland.\n\nThe codification of Welsh law has been traditionally ascribed to Hywel Dda, king of most of Wales between 942 and his death in 950. This was partly an adaptation of previously existing laws however. Welsh law remained in force in Wales until the death of Llywelyn ap Gruffudd in 1282 for criminal cases, and until the Acts of Union in the mid-sixteenth century for civil cases.\n\nCommon features of these codes include an emphasis on the payment of compensation for a crime to the victim or the victim's kin rather than on punishment by the ruler. In other words, all law was tort law, with no \"victimless\" crimes or crimes against the State.\n\nWhile occasional references to \"common Celtic law\" in academic literature, such as Fergus Kelly's \"Guide to Early Irish Law\", seem to imply that there was one original Celtic law from which the various later Celtic laws, some of which are historically attested (see Brehon law, Cyfraith Hywel), evolved, it is unlikely that anything like 'original Celtic law' (or 'common Celtic law') ever existed as a unified, let alone a codified body of law. Rather, it is currently thought that various central and western European societies in later prehistory, commonly lumped together under the name 'Celts', had individually different customary laws, which evolved out of similar social needs, influenced each other considerably over several centuries or even millennia, and thus ended up reasonably similar to each other.\n\n'Original (or Common) Celtic law' thus can only be reconstructed, and only as a generalisation. Such a generalisation does not reflect actual past legal practice, but can only show which general principles are likely to have been typical for many (but not necessarily all) early Celtic laws.\n\nCeltic law evolved from the judgements of private competing judges. Murray Rothbard describes the system this way:\n\nThe basic political unit of ancient Ireland was the tuath. All “freemen” who owned land, all professionals, and all craftsmen, were entitled to become members of a tuath. Each tuath’s members formed an annual assembly which decided all common policies, declared war or peace on other tuatha, and elected or deposed their “kings.” An important point is that, in contrast to primitive tribes, no one was stuck or bound to a given tuath, either because of kingship or of geographical location. Individual members were free to, and often did, secede from a tuath and join a competing tuath.\n\nCeltic law is thus a stateless form of law like most customary law forms. \"\"... the professional jurists were consulted by parties to disputes for advice as to what the law was in particular cases, and these same men often acted as arbitrators between suitors. They remained at all times private persons, not public officials; their functioning depended upon their knowledge of the law and the integrity of their judicial reputations.\"\"\n\nAfter the private judge, chosen by the disputants, has made his decision, how was the judgement – the compensation to the victim – enforced?\n\nThrough an elaborate, voluntarily developed system of “insurance,” or sureties. Men were linked together by a variety of surety relationships by which they guaranteed one another for the righting of wrongs, and for the enforcement of justice and the decisions of the brehons. In short, the brehons themselves were not involved in the enforcement of decisions, which rested again with private individuals linked through sureties.\n\nIt is problematic to date ‘Common Celtic law’, and the best we can arrive at are rough estimates. It is quite apparent, by parallels existing between Celtic and other Indo-European laws that at least some of the legal principles that make up Common Celtic law must be very ancient, perhaps going back to the Early Bronze Age or even the Neolithic period. Others may have only developed much later, perhaps even only as a result of contacts with Mediterranean cultures (mainly Greeks and Romans) during the late Iron Age and Antiquity.\n\nIn some cases, cognate terms used for parallel practices in the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws allow us to assume that these practices were already used in what is referred to by linguists as the 'common Celtic period', which is usually dated to around 1000 BC (e.g. Kelly 1988, 231), although this at best is a very rough estimate. Where parallels for such practices exist, but with non-cognate terminology, in other Indo-European laws, we can start to consider the cognate practices as specifically Celtic forms of law. Similarly, where such cognate terminology exists for parallel practices in the early medieval Celtic laws, but not in other Indo-European laws, we can consider these to be specifically Celtic laws.\nAs there are hardly any characteristics of Celtic law that cannot be found in at least some other, non-Celtic laws as well, the most sensible definition of Celtic law seems to be one that focuses on the language in which the law is (usually) dispensed. As such, 'Celtic law' would be any law (usually) dispensed in a Celtic language.\n\nQuite generally, the oldest textual sources for Celtic laws which give us at least a very general idea of actual practice date from the late Iron Age, roughly the last two centuries BC and the first century AD.\n\nSome evidence can be gathered from the 'usual suspects', like Caesar's \"De Bello Gallico\", who discusses some aspects of Celtic laws in his account of the Gaulish Wars, specifically his famous excursus on the Gauls, but also in some other passages. Some of these passages allow us to confirm the existence, in some Iron Age Celtic laws, of some of the legal principles which can be reconstructed from early medieval Celtic laws as likely elements of common Celtic law, increasing the likelihood of any such generalised reconstruction. Other passages can tell us about particular legal practices in individual Gaulish societies, which are specific for just the society described, without allowing any greater generalisations.\n\nBesides some references in classical authors, there is a small number of texts in Iron Age Celtic languages, some of which (may) contain legal information, too. The most clearly legalistic sources are the Celtiberian inscriptions on Bronze tablets from Contrebia Belaisca (Botorrita), dating from early after the Roman occupation of this area. Botorrita IV might even start with a legalistic formula, '[ tam : tirikantam : entorkue : toutam [|] : sua kombal[ke]z : ...' which could perhaps be interpreted as '...the senate and the people have decided...', mirroring the Roman equivalent. However, these texts are notoriously hard to interpret and not very long either. As such, they are of only limited value, at best allowing to speculate about local legal customs.\n\nTo some degree, exceptionally short pieces of textual evidence in Celtiberian also allow to gain some information about what possibly could have been a widespread Celtic legal practice. From Spain, a number of so-called tesserae hospitales, 'hospitality tablets', are known, inscribed in Celtiberian, often with no more than a single word, occasionally with very short sentences. These may indicate a custom of granting hospitality to foreigners, which may have had a basis in customary law and may have allowed to grant legal protection to foreigners, as also found in many other Indo-European societies and the early Irish and Welsh laws.\n\nFinally, there are the archaeological sources, which abound, but are almost impossible to interpret as to their possible legal meanings. Of course, it may occasionally be possible to speculate that an archaeological feature, say, the remains of a fence, may have expressed some legal concept, e.g. ownership of property. But other than that, archaeology remains mostly silent. At best, archaeological evidence can help to strengthen an argument based on reconstructive generalisations from early medieval Irish and Welsh laws, ideally such that are also supported by evidence from historical texts.\n\nA number of such legal principles, which most likely were widespread in early Celtic laws, can be reconstructed with reasonable degrees of probability. They are mostly centred around kinship and contractual relations, although we have some ideas about criminal law and legal procedure as well. For all of these, we also find reasonably similar principles in either Roman and/or Germanic laws, and in most cases also in other Indo-European laws, making it quite likely that these reconstructions are roughly accurate, even if they lack in detail. Given that many, if not most of them come with an internal Celtic cognate terminology, it is unlikely that they actually are late loans from e.g. Roman provincial law, although some crossovers in legal customs should be assumed. In at least some cases, e.g. in contract law, a co-evolution of Roman, Germanic and Celtic legal systems, based on intensive contact, is likely, even though the contract laws of each subgroup of these larger collectives may already have started out reasonably similar.\n\nKinship without a doubt played a very important role in Celtic societies in late prehistory. The importance that ancestry had for the late prehistoric Celts is stressed by several classical authors, and seems – at least for some areas, in some periods – also be confirmed in the archaeology by the effort put into burials. The structure of Celtic kin-groups can be reconstructed to some extent, but little of internal kinship relations will have been formalised in a way that could be considered law. There are, however, a number of important legal principles that can be reconstructed, which are related to kinship or external kin-group relations. There is relatively strong evidence for a customary requirement for kin members to support and help each other, in everyday life as much as in legal disputes. This seems to be evident from historical sources, and would fit well with what we find in the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws.\n\nOne of the most important legal principles that seems to have been associated with kinship is that of private property, especially the ownership of land and resources. In the very least, differential access to property and resources for different groups in society is evident in the archaeology, indicated both by differential burial wealth and relatively consistent enclosing of settlement space. Most likely, access rights were at least partially based on kinship/descent, as this is the case not only in the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws, but also in the neighbouring Roman and Germanic laws. Even though we cannot be perfectly sure, inheritable individual possession of property and resources, with legal ownership resting with the wider kin-group, is the most likely form of regulating differential access to property and resources in Celtic societies in late prehistory.\n\nThe other highly significant legal aspect associated with kinship relations is of sexual unions and reproduction. Inheritance seems to have been passed on primarily in the paternal line, as such, clarifying the relations between partners, who probably quite frequently were members of different kin-groups, as well as their children, must have been quite essential. The surprisingly close parallels between the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws where sexual unions are concerned, and the similarity between the most prestigious union described in them with the Gaulish marriage as described by Caesar, indicate that the treatment of different sexual unions was quite similar over wide areas of western Europe from late prehistory well into the medieval period.\n\nWe also know that, at least amongst the Gaulish and the early medieval Irish nobility, polygyny was a widespread practice. Given the detail given to different kinds of sexual union in early medieval Welsh law, it seems reasonable to assume that polygyny was also common in Wales some time before the law-texts were put into writing. Given that the main focus in the early medieval Irish laws where sexual unions are concerned are with the contribution to and division of assets of the union in case of divorce, as well as the responsibilities towards children resulting from these unions, it is quite likely that similar provisions also were at the core of earlier Celtic laws' treatments of the matter of sexual unions. This also seems to correspond with the significance attributed to the equal contribution of assets by Caesar, while the fact that he assumes that the man would have owned more property than contributed by the wife would fit well with the possibility of several different kinds of recognised sexual unions, some with greater, some with lesser or no contributions by the female partner.\n\nWhile we have no direct evidence from late prehistory that divorce was possible, it is likely that the possibility existed – again, this seems to be indicated by the emphasis on the joint accounting of input and profits made during the existence of the marriage, which would have proven at least as useful in case of a divorce as it would for the reason given by Caesar, to determine the inheritance of the partner who survived the other.\n\nIt is likely that there were other elements covering various issues of kinship relations in early Celtic laws, for instance covering adoption, expulsion of antisocial kin members, and inheritance rules in case that a whole lineage would be heirless, but there is too little available information on this subject from late prehistory to allow for more than a generalisation of similarities in these areas as found in early medieval Irish and Welsh law.\n\nWith kinship being an essential element in early Celtic legal systems, it seems likely that artificial kinship, in the form of fosterage, was also an important element of these early customary laws. Evidence for the exchange of children as hostages can frequently be found in historical sources, which, as most of them were the children of important nobles, must have been educated during this time, as they would have been expected to become important nobles themselves in the future. Similarly, the reference in Caesar that many Gauls send their children to study druidry, which is best to be studied in Britain at its alleged point of origin, together with his remark that the Gauls do not suffer to be seen with their children in public, might indicate that fosterage practices were widespread. This would seem to be supported by the fact that fosterage was important in both early medieval Irish and Welsh societies, and that there is a cognate terminology in Irish and Welsh for the foster-father/teacher, allowing to reconstruct a Celt. *\"altros\", 'nourisher, foster-father, teacher', as well as close friend/foster sibling, from Celt. *\"komaltros\", 'jointly nourished, co-fostered, alumni'. Fosterage networks, establishing artificial kinship and thus political and information exchange networks also are a good explanation for the spread of some aspects of 'Celtic' material culture, like e.g. La Tène art.\n\nAnother principle that seems to have been pretty widespread in early Celtic laws is that of the importance of social rank. It is not clear whether, in late prehistory, it was equally detailed as Irish law seems to indicate for early medieval Ireland. However, it seems rather evident from statements like the one of Caesar that \"... those most distinguished by birth and wealth have the greatest number of vassals and clients about them. They acknowledge only this as influence and power\", which is an almost perfect summary of the requirements set for different noble ranks in the early medieval Irish lawtext \"Críth Gablach\", that rank must have been an important element of Iron Age Gaulish customary law, too.\n\nWhile we do not know what precise advantages higher social rank may have carried, it is quite likely that there were some legal privileges for people of higher social rank. As Caesar reports that the leaders of the Gaulish factions are those with the greatest influence, whose opinion is most highly thought of, it is quite likely that such differences in rank also had consequences in legal proceedings, much like in the Irish case.\n\nThe regulation of contractual relationships is one of the most important elements in any legal system, and especially so in societies where there is a lack of a strong central state, enforcing codified law. Where Celtic societies in late prehistory are concerned, all evidence points to such an absence of a strong central state control, and a largely kin-based enforcement of legal claims. The regulation of contractual relationships therefore most likely formed the single most essential element of all early Celtic laws.\n\nAs such, it is hardly surprising that some of the most obvious similarities, and the largest body of cognate terminology from late prehistory and between Irish and Welsh, in case of the latter two associated with parallel practices, exists. Close terminological similarities or cognates can be found for witnesses, sureties, pledges, and distraint, which partially even extend into Germanic legal terminology, the latter supporting the archaeological argument that close trade links existed between late prehistoric Celtic and Germanic societies. Generally speaking, all these elements are also common in other early Indo-European laws. Historical texts also provide considerable evidence that later prehistoric contracts were secured with either pledges or sureties, the best example once again provided by Caesar, who reports that for the securing of a coordinated revolt against Caesar, the Gauls, \"since they could not take the usual precaution of giving and receiving hostages, as that would have given away their plans, they asked that a solemn oath on their military standards be sworn, in which manner their most sacred obligations are made binding\". That children of nobles were frequently used as hostages (i.e. pledges) in state contracts, also between Celtic and Germanic polities, is also well documented in the historical evidence.\n\nCeltic contract laws seem to have distinguished between two main kinds of contracts, such that were either immediately actionable or short-term and/or involved only very little risk, and such that were either long-term or established semi-permanent relationships, and/or involved high risks. While it would seem to have been sufficient to secure the first by just providing sureties, the second ones usually would have required both sureties and pledges. It is also quite likely that there was at least some degree of distinction between two different kinds of pledges, minor pledges on the one hand, and hostages on the other; and two kinds of sureties, one who would stand in as a surrogate for the original contracting party if that failed to fulfil its obligations, and one who would have the right to enforce the obligations of said party. Particularly the latter would also have had an important role in the development of hierarchy in late prehistoric Celtic societies, with regularly approached enforcing sureties at some point being able to institutionalise their position as a social superior of those who frequently required their services, particularly if approached as an enforcing surety by all contracting parties.\n\nContractual relationships most likely were of particularly great significance in ordinary subsistence economy. One of the close similarities that exists between early medieval Irish and Welsh laws is a cooperative farming, particularly co-ploughing, based on contracts agreed between small farmers with too few oxen to set up a full ploughing team. Given that archaeology seems to indicate that the average late prehistoric farm in much of temperate Europe had about 5–10 cattle, of which at the most 2–3 would have been oxen, and that Pliny reports that teams of up to 8 oxen were used on the heavier soils of the Gallia Cisalpina (with possibly even larger teams required for more northerly areas with even heavier soils), it seems highly likely that similar regulations for cooperative farming practices were also common in many late Prehistoric Celtic laws. Reconstructable as Celt. *\"komarom\", 'joint ploughing', it is one of the areas where early law may have even penetrated to within the internal processes of the individual kin-group, particularly where some members of a ploughing cooperative were not kinsmen, while others were: as formal contracts would have been required between all members of the cooperative, they would also have bound members of the same kin in formal contracts.\n\nAnother important field where contracts most likely were of high significance is in the establishment of long-standing or even semi-permanent social relationships between clearly socially superior and inferior parties, particularly clientele contracts. The similarity between the Irish and Gaulish way to establish noble rank has already been remarked upon above. Comparable similarities seem also to have existed in the mutual responsibilities between noble patron and client. The significance of contractual relations in late prehistoric Celtic laws is also given away by an episode in Caesar's account of the Gaulish Wars, in his description of how Dumnorix, an Aeduan noble, had acquired his vast wealth: \"for a great many years he has been in the habit of contracting for the customs and all the other taxes of the Aedui at a small cost, because when he bids, no one dares to bid against him\". Even the relationship between nobles and the state was based on contracts in late Gaulish polities, contracts no doubt constructed based on a more general model between lords and their clients: access to property or resources in return for rent.\n\nEvidence for what constituted criminal offences, and what was considered the appropriate punishment for them, is mostly lacking for late prehistoric Celtic laws. What little there is to be found, again mostly in Caesar's account of the Gaulish wars, seems again to fit reasonably well with what we could reconstruct as ‘general principles’ from early medieval Irish and Welsh law. Crimes mentioned in Caesar's account are murder, theft and robbery, as well as crimes specific to only some Gaulish societies, e.g. usurpation of kingship amongst the Helvetii. The punishment considered most severe amongst the Gauls, according to Caesar, is to ban criminals from religious rites, which probably is better understood as outlawing them. He does, however, also mention the death penalty, presumably of outlaws, not as a regular form of punishment. The common form of punishment, however, seems to have been the imposition of fines. That Caesar mentions both \"praemia poenasque\", \"premiums and fines\" may indicate that a system with two separate kinds of fines, comparable to the body-fine/restitution and honour-price in early Irish and Welsh law, already existed in late prehistoric Celtic laws. As fines and outlawing are the preferred forms of punishment not only in the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws, but also in the early Germanic laws, it seems quite reasonable to assume that the same applied for most of the late prehistoric Celtic laws.\n\nMuch as with crime and punishment, we have only little direct evidence from later prehistory where legal procedure is concerned. Caesar claims that the druids are the judges for all kinds of legal disputes, both where criminal and where civil law is concerned. Where the latter is concerned, the examples Caesar mentions are quarrels over inheritance and boundaries, indicating that such conflicts were seen as particularly important by his sources. That druids were moral philosophers is also known from other historical sources such as Strabo, which may indicate that at least part of the druids was trained as professional lawyers.\n\nWhile we have no direct evidence for that, it is highly likely that legal proceedings only started if there was a plaintiff, either the injured party or a representative, the latter almost certainly a kinsmen of the injured party. Proceedings probably will have been started by a complaint to whoever was seen responsible to uphold justice, which might have been a druid, in some late Gaulish policies an official, or perhaps a noble patron of either the injured party or the offender, or possibly the offender himself had to be approached. It is most likely that if the offender did not submit willingly to settle the dispute in court, he could be distrained by the plaintiff. While we have no direct evidence for the latter, it seems quite likely, given that the practice is well attested in early medieval Irish and Welsh law with cognate terminology, but also in the early Germanic laws, and even in early Roman law.\n\nWhat little evidence we have (almost exclusively a few lines in Caesar's \"De Bello Gallico\") would seem to indicate that a day would be appointed for the pleading, probably with pledges given or sureties named that the defendant would actually show, and both plaintiff and defendant would swear an oath that their respective claim or account of events was a truthful representation of what had occurred. Most likely, they could be supported by similar oaths sworn by their kinsmen, retainers, clients or whoever wanted to support them, as character-witnesses for the original plaintiff or defendant, quite comparable to the procedure in early medieval Irish, Welsh and Germanic laws. Given that at least some contracts most likely were entered into in front of witnesses and secured by sureties, it is also likely that these may have been called up to give testimony, also supporting their accounts by similar oaths.\n\nWe are lacking direct evidence as to what happened once a judgement had been found, and whether there were any appeals procedures possible, but most likely the party who had been convicted would have been expected to pay, by a certain date, any fines or premiums awarded to the victorious party. Any other form of punishment would probably be executed as well, if direct punishment possibly even right on the spot. If any fines or premiums awarded were not paid, it again is quite likely that the successful claimant then gained the right to distrain the convicted party and thereby recover a value equivalent to the unpaid fines or premiums.\n\nWe have no direct evidence for how early Celtic laws treated foreigners for most of the late prehistoric Celtic world. However, the already mentioned \"tesserae hospitales\" from Celtiberia, as well as the common practice in early European legal systems to consider, in principle, foreigners without a local host as without legal protection, we can assume that the same was the case in most if not all late prehistoric Celtic laws. While foreigners without local kin or a local host would thus have been 'fair game', it is likely that at least some members of late prehistoric Celtic polities were able to grant legal protection to foreigners (guests). This again would correspond well with the situation in early medieval Irish and Welsh law, where again cognate terminology exists for parallel practices of granting hospitality to foreigners. There is, of course, no evidence who actually could grant such hospitality, but it seems, if we go by the \"tesserae hospitales\", that at least in Celtiberia this practice was not necessarily limited to ruling kin in larger polities, but was available at a relatively local level, which might indicate that, much like in early medieval Ireland and Wales, many members of any given polity were able to grant hospitality.\n\nLaw is not static; it changes constantly to suit the needs of the society which it regulates. However, this does not necessarily mean that the principles on which these laws are based change at the same speed. Where the Celtic laws are concerned, it seems as if the guiding legal principles remained quite similar over an extended period, from late prehistory into the Middle Ages. Of course, this does not imply complete co-identity of legal systems between the communities of late prehistoric Gaul and those of early medieval Ireland. Rather, it is a result of similar social, political and economic requirements of the societies governed by these laws, which seem to have been sufficiently similar across this rather large area in both space and time that made fundamental changes to the legal principles unnecessary.\n\nThe focus on certain elements of the law, like those dealing with kin-group relations and contracts, makes it likely that these principles evolved out of the needs of still primarily kinship-based societies. They seem to have remained reasonably useful even into times when primarily kinship-based forms of social organisation had been replaced with somewhat more territoriality-based ones, in which kinship nonetheless remained a very important structuring factor in society.\n\nWhile we cannot date or place the origin of the various principles that make up Celtic laws in later prehistory (some of them probably of great antiquity even when they became part of Celtic laws, others perhaps developed as late as the Iron Age), once we find them expressed in Celtic legal terminology, we can reasonably call them 'Celtic laws'. This development of a Celtic legal terminology seems to have taken place some time in later prehistory, with the conventional date given as roughly 1000 BC, even though this may be several centuries off.\n\nWhile based on generally similar principles, legal evolution took place locally or at the most regionally, to suit the requirements of any given society. Interaction between these different societies then must have resulted in useful innovations being adopted and adapted for their own respective needs by many societies, and less useful practices being abandoned as a result. It thus is quite likely that both the early medieval Irish and Welsh laws, the two that have survived for posterity in sufficient detail to be reasonable interpretable, are local developments, having originated where they are documented, but constantly subject to outside influence and internal innovation, and thus not particularly dissimilar to other laws practised in their vicinity at the time they were recorded.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883761", "title": "Jenny Lind Soup", "text": "Jenny Lind Soup\n\nJenny Lind soup is a soup named for popular 19th-century singer Jenny Lind. It is typically a thick mixture with the consistency of wallpaper paste.\n\nThe dish is made from mashed rutabaga or sago, chicken stock thickened with a roux, Gruyère cheese, sage, egg yolks, and heavy cream, and topped with beaten egg whites. (This topping, unfamiliar to many, is a common tradition in French \"cuisine de famille\", as it uses up the whites left over from using the yolks as a thickener).\n\nLeopold Bloom, a character in James Joyce's \"Ulysses\", fantasizes about it while lunching in the Ormond: \"Jenny Lind soup: stock, sage, raw eggs, half-pint of cream. For creamy dreamy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1883762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883762", "title": "Busy Bee", "text": "Busy Bee\n\nBusy Bee was an airline which operated in Norway between 1966 and 1992. Entirely based around wet lease, it conducted a mix of regional services for larger airlines and the military, as well as corporate, \"ad hoc\" and inclusive tour charters.\n\nEstablished as Busy Bee Air Service A/S by Bjørn G. Braathen, the airline initially mostly operated corporate charters, using among other aircraft a Learjet 23 and later three Hawker Siddeley HS.125. After a near-bankruptcy in 1973, the company fell under the ownership of Braganza and was renamed Airexecutive Norway A/S. It focused on operating Short Skyvans and later Fokker F27 Friendships. From 1975 it operated regional services for its sister company Braathens SAFE and increasingly flew charter for the Norwegian Armed Forces.\n\nThe airline took the name Busy Bee of Norway A/S in 1980, at which time it also took delivery of a Boeing 737-200C. Regional services were introduced with Scandinavian Airlines Systems (SAS), followed by Fokker 50s entering service from 1988. Reduced military charters and a loss of a vital contract in 1991 caused the foundation to fall out of the airline and it filed for bankruptcy in December 1992. Key people and assets reestablished the airline as Norwegian Air Shuttle.\n\nBusy Bee was founded by Bjørn G. Braathen, son of Braathens SAFE's founder and owner Ludvig G. Braathen. It rested on two niches—providing feeder services to Braathens SAFE's services and providing corporate charter flights. Ludvig G. Braathens Rederi alone was in such high demand for corporate charter that the airline could nearly fill one plane with that group alone.\n\nThe company was incorporated as Busy Bee Air Service A/S in 1966, with operations commencing on 9 May. The name was inspired by a pub in London with the same name. Initially it operated a fleet of a Piper Aztec turboprop and a Learjet 23, the latter the first corporate jet operating out of Norway. In December the Learjet was painted in zebra stripes and leased to a film company for the shooting of \"The Last Safari\" in Kenya.\n\nThe Learjet was sold already in September 1967. Later that year the airline took delivery of the first of what would be three Piper PA-31 Navajos. A Cessna 185 was also bought, which remained in use until 1974. The airline followed up with a second Piper Aztec in 1968, but sold them both by 1969. A Cessna 206 was used between 1972 and 1974. Both the Cessnas were seaplanes, which operated out of the water airport at Fornebu.\n\nBusy Bee launched its first Hawker Siddeley HS.125 in April 1968, and added a second such aircraft in December 1968 and a third in February 1970. By 1968 Busy Bee was the largest private charter operator out of Norway. In addition to business executives, the airline derived a significant portion of its business from Norway's significant shipping industry. A typical task would involve flying spare parts and technicians to a far-away port to make crucial repairs to ships, allowing faster reentry into revenue service.\n\nThe airline took into use an air-supported hangar at Oslo Airport, Fornebu in February 1969, which measured . This was caused by zoning restrictions at Fornebu, which banned the construction of permanent structures. The three HS.125s were sold in 1972.\nThe company came under financial distress in 1973. IT went into administration, was restructured and bought by Braathens SAFE's holding company, Braganza. The company took the name Air Executive Norway A/S. The aircraft were gradually repainted in white, red and blue to more closely match that of Braathens SAFE. Meanwhile, their ordered three Short Skyvans, which were operated until 1984.\nBraathens SAFE decided around 1975 that it would retire its Fokker F27s and focus entirely on operating services using jetliners. However, a few of their routes were not sufficiently heavily trafficked to warrant jetliners. An arrangement was reached whereby the three newest F-27s were transferred to Busy Bee, one each in 1975, 1976 and 1977. It also operated flights along the West Coast, connecting airports from Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik in the south to Trondheim Airport, Værnes in the north. From 1977 Busy Bee took over Braathens SAFE's two daily services from Stavanger Airport, Sola via Farsund Airport, Lista to Oslo.\n\nThroughout the 1970s chartered contracts with the Norwegian Armed Forces became an increasing source of revenue for Busy Bee. To accommodate the increasing operations, Air Executive bought a Boeing 737-200 in 1979, named \"Storebia\" (\"The Big Bee\"). The following year the airline resumed it old brand, taking the name Busy Bee of Norway A/S. The aircraft received a new yellow and brown livery with a bee on the vertical stabilizer. The airline received its fourth F27-100 in 1981 and two more in 1983.\n\nBusy Bee won a contract to operate several inter-Scandinavian routes for Scandinavian Airlines System from 1982. This were mostly out of Copenhagen Airport to Stavanger, Kristiansand, Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Jönköping Airport, as well as between Oslo and Gothenburg. For instance, the Oslo–Gothenburg route replaced a Douglas DC-9 service which was running at a loss. With smaller capacity and higher frequency, Busy Bee was able to triple patronage within three years and brought profitability to the route. Due to disputes with the labor unions, SAS terminated parts of its contract with Busy Bee in March 1984. Instead they established what would become SAS Commuter. However, delays postponed the route transfer until December.\nBusy Bee started services out of Haugesund Airport, Karmøy to Bergen, Stavanger and Sandefjord Airport, Torp on 26 March 1984, as a subcarrier for Braathens SAFE. Braathens SAFE never made a profit on the service. Busy Bee made two major purchase contracts with Fokker in 1985. In May it ordered four new F27s with delivery the following year. In June it ordered four Fokker 50s with delivery in late 1988. The new F27s were of the modernized -200 variant. For four months of 1986 Busy Bee leased a fifth F27-200.\n\nThe airline had a revenue of 209 million kroner in 1986, up 31 percent, and produced a profit of 5 million. Busy Bee partnered with Gambia Air Shuttle in 1987 to help start the airline's operations. For a year Busy Bee wet leased an F-27 to the fledgling airline to allow it to commence its route from Banjul International Airport to Dakar Yoff International Airport.\n\nBy 1986 Busy Bee was earning 35 percent of its revenue from subcarrying with Braathens SAFE, 25 percent from SAS, 20 percent from military contracts, 10 percent from inclusive tour charter and ten percent from \"ad hoc\" charter. Busy Bee was the regular partner of Gulliver, who contracted the Boeing to fly three weekend trips during the summer to Greece. The company estimated that half its profits derived from the military contract. Busy Bee operated about 20,000 flights and transported 800,000 passengers in 1986.\nDuring the late 1980s the Norwegian Armed Forces changed their travel procurement practices, shifting focus on chartering aircraft to instead buying tickets on scheduled flights. This hit Busy Bee particularly hard, as it had a large portion of its revenue tied up with the military contracts. To compensate, Busy Bee increased its focus on European wet lease contracts, which it signed with among others NLM CityHopper, Austrian Airlines and British Midland International.\n\nThe airline lost 12 million kroner in 1989. They were unable to sell three of the F27s which had been replaced with F50s the previous year. However, the company was able to downsize easily after 30 pilots resigned to work for SAS Commuter, which expanded its operations in Northern Norway in 1990. It proposed in October that the airline could take over operation of the military Lockheed C-130 Hercules transporters, allowing them to be wet leased on commercial duties when not in regular use, but the idea was squarely rejected by military.\nServices to Sandefjord were terminated in 1991. This followed an agreement that one Fokker 50 aircraft was to be sold to Widerøe Norsk Air. An important blow came in January 1991, when Busy Bee lost the tender to operate flights for the military, with Busy Be bidding just half a million above Norway Airlines's 100 million kroner. Thus the need for the 737 evaporated from April. This caused the company to reduce its staff from 325 to 200, and reduce its fleet from seventeen to nine aircraft. In September the military announced that it would abolish its leasing operations and instead buy scheduled tickets, terminating the last military charters from 1 April 1992.\n\nSAS and Busy Bee entered negotiations in November 1991 to look into the possibility of establishing a new airline, Norwegian Commuter. Several business models were considered, either with Norwegian Commuter pooling regional operations operated by the two existing companies, or an all-ot merger. Either way the idea was that the new company would have taken over all subcarried regional flights for Braathens SAFE and SAS in southern Norway. However, nothing came of the plans. The company received 30 million kroner in new share capital in December 1991 and a two-year contract to fly routes for Braathens. This was made conditional of both downsizing and wage reductions.\n\nThe airline secured a contract to fly for the administration of Air Nordic out of Stockholm Västerås Airport to Sundsvall, Vasa, Gothenburg, Örebro and Oslo. On 4 May 1992 Busy Bee started flying a route from Stavanger to Amsterdam Schiphol Airport for KLM.\n\nBusy Bee filed for bankruptcy on 17 December 1992. The management started working during latter part of 1992 to create a contingency plan to continue operations past a bankruptcy. Regulations demanded that the chief pilot, chief technical officer and the accountable manager had to continue if the air operator's certificate (AOC) was to be continued. They made an agreement with Braathens to fly the West Coast regional routes, cutting the hourly cost from 17,000 to 12,000 Norwegian krone. Although operations had halted, the planning was initially carried out within the framework of the receivership. One million kroner was raised in capital. Norwegian Air Shuttle was incorporated on 22 January 1993. Operations commenced on 28 January 1993 and the new airline kept the Busy Bee livery until May 1993, when a red, blue and white livery similar to that of Braathens was introduced.\n\nBusy Bee employed three liveries throughout its history. During the initial Busy Bee period from 1966 to 1973, it had honey-colored detailing. During the Air Executive period until 1980, the airline had a mixed white, blue and red livery, which brought it close to that used by its larger sister company. The Busy Bee brand was reintroduced in 1980, after which the airline used a honey and brown cheatline and decorated the vertical stabilizer with a bee.\n\nFrom 1980 the airline operated a single Boeing 737-2R4C. The aircraft was bought through a partnership with the Norwegian Armed Forces, in which it was specially equipped to meet military needs. Specifically, it was a combi variant, which encompassed a side loading door and the possibility to quickly rearrange the interior between all-passenger, all-freight, combined passenger and freight, as well as VIP configuration. The aircraft was designed to be able to operate out from gravel runways and was also as the only 737 certified to be used for parachuting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883788", "title": "Stanford Routt", "text": "Stanford Routt\n\nStanford Bermond Routt (born July 26, 1983) is a former American football cornerback. After playing college football for Houston, he was drafted by the Oakland Raiders in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played for the Raiders for seven seasons from 2005 to 2011. He also played for the Kansas City Chiefs and Houston Texans.\n\nRoutt attended John B. Connally High School in Austin, Texas, and was a two-sport standout in both football and track. In track, he was a unanimous All-District selection, as well as an All-America selection, and was also a state qualifier in both the 200 meter dash and the 4 × 400 metres relay team. As a junior, he ran the ninth-fastest 200-meter dash in the nation.\n\nAt the University of Houston, Routt excelled in indoor track and outdoor track as well as football. Routt eventually returned to University of Houston where he earned his Bachelor of Science degree in kinesiology with a concentration in sports administration in 2011.\n\nStanford Routt earned NCAA Outdoor All-America honors after placing third in the 200 meters at the 2003 NCAA Outdoor Track Meet. Routt was named the Indoor Track Athlete of the Year by Conference USA in 2004 after winning the 60-meter and 200-meter dashes. Those wins eventually qualified Routt to compete in the 60-meter and 200-meter dashes at the NCAA Indoor Championship. Routt is a two-time champion in the 200 meters at the NCAA Midwest Regional Championships.\n\nAt the 2005 NFL Scouting Combine, Routt ran the fastest 40-yard dash at a time of 4.27 seconds, the fastest time since the NFL used electronic timing. His record was broken by running back Chris Johnson with a time of 4.24 seconds in 2008.\n\nRoutt was drafted by the Oakland Raiders in the second round (38th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft.\n\nAfter limited action the first two weeks of the 2007 season due to a knee injury, Routt started the remainder of the season as the second cornerback alongside Nnamdi Asomugha.\n\nRoutt re-entered the starting lineup in 2010 after being tendered at the highest level (1st and 3rd round level) by the Raiders as a restricted free agent in the offseason. He had his best statistical year to date with 55 tackles, one tackle-for-loss, 15 pass deflections, one forced fumble, two interceptions, and one touchdown. In week 17, Routt recorded his second interception on the season for his first career touchdown. He had the second-lowest \"burn rate\" of all cornerbacks in 2010, with only 39.4% of passes completed that were thrown to receivers he covered.\n\nThe Raiders re-signed Routt to a three-year, $31.5 million contract on February 24, 2011, to remain in Oakland. The contract included a guaranteed $20 million over the first two years. Routt agreed to restructure his contract to aid the team's salary cap on August 4.\n\nFollowing the 2011 season in which Routt started 15 games and recorded four interceptions, the Raiders released him on February 9, 2012.\n\nRoutt signed a three-year, $19.6 million contract with the Kansas City Chiefs on February 20, 2012. On November 5, 2012, Routt was released by the Chiefs.\n\nOn December 4, 2012, Routt had a workout with the Houston Texans. Routt signed with the team on the same day.\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "1883808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883808", "title": "Bulle Ogier", "text": "Bulle Ogier\n\nBulle Ogier (born Marie-France Thielland; 9 August 1939) is a French actress and screenwriter. She adopted the professional surname Ogier, which was her mother's maiden name. Her first appearance on screen was in \"Voilà l'Ordre\", a short film directed by Jacques Baratier with a number of the then-emerging young singers of the 1960s in France, including Boris Vian, Claude Nougaro, etc.\n\nShe worked with Jacques Rivette (\"L'amour fou\", \"Céline et Julie vont en bateau\", \"Duelle\", \"Le Pont du Nord, La Bande des Quatre\"), Luis Buñuel (\"Le charme discret de la bourgeoisie\"—The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie), Alain Tanner (\"La Salamandre\"), René Allio, Claude Lelouch, Jean-Paul Civeyrac (\"All the Fine Promises\" Prix Jean Vigo), Marguerite Duras, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Barbet Schroeder, and others.\n\nOgier was awarded the Prix Suzanne Bianchetti in 1972.\n\nOgier is married to producer and director Barbet Schroeder. She had a daughter, Pascale (1958–1984), who adopted her mother's professional surname \"Ogier\" and was also an actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883813", "title": "Dumbo's Circus", "text": "Dumbo's Circus\n\nDumbo's Circus is a live action/puppet television series that aired on The Disney Channel beginning on May 6, 1985, and featured the character of \"Dumbo\" from the original film. Reruns continued to air until February 28, 1997.\n\nThe cast members are human-sized anthropomorphic animals played by people in puppet suits using technology developed by Ken Forsse, the creator of Teddy Ruxpin. The same production technique was used for \"Welcome to Pooh Corner\". Unlike \"Pooh Corner\", the show never had NTSC VHS releases.\n\nMany of the show's cast went on to star in the Christian radio series, \"Adventures in Odyssey\". The wagon used in the show was seen in the late 1980s and early 1990s on the vehicle boneyard lot of the Studio Backlot Tour at Disney-MGM Studios in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. When the series first started, Sebastian is seen wearing only his hat, vest and short pants. After a few episodes, he is given a white T-shirt to go with it. Some of the puppets that were used for audience members in the circus were used for \"Mother Goose's Treasury\".\n\nIn the show, Dumbo has grown up, is able to speak, and has struck out on his own to begin his own circus. He and a cast of characters fly from town to town, in a wagon pulled through the air by Dumbo, performing their \"greatest little show on earth\". Other than Dumbo, none of the characters from the original film appeared in the show. Each character would perform a particular talent, which ranged from dancing and singing to telling knock knock jokes.\n\n\n\n\nLionel introduces all of the side-show acts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883823", "title": "Roan Cliffs", "text": "Roan Cliffs\n\nThe Roan Cliffs are a series of desert mountains and cliffs in eastern Utah and western Colorado, in the western United States that are distinct from (but closely associated with) the Book Cliffs.\n\nWhile Roan Cliffs are \"remote and inaccessible\", the Book Cliffs run along the edge of the Castle, Gunnison, and Grand valleys and are therefore readily visible from populated areas (i.e., Price and Green River in Utah and Grand Junction in Colorado) and well traveled transportation corridors (i.e., I‑70, US‑6, US‑50, and US‑191). As such the Book Cliffs are much better known than the Roan Cliffs. In addition, the name Book Cliffs is often applied to both landforms, with Roan Cliffs being an alternate name. Moreover, because of the how far they are spread between Utah and Colorado, they are sometimes mistakenly believed to be separate landforms of the same name within each state.\n\nThe Roan Cliffs are situated north of (in back of) and above, but run roughly parallel to, the Book Cliffs. Stretching nearly from west to east, the Roan Cliffs begin on southern edge of the West Tavaputs Plateau, on the eastern edge of the Willow Creek (and the US‑191 corridor), north of Emma Park, and northwest of Helper on the Carbon‑Duchesne county line. (The Book Cliffs do not reach into Duchesne County, but do extend a bit further west to the Price River.) The Roan Cliffs then run southeast along the southern edge of the West Tavaputs Plateau (but north of Whitmore Park), passing through the northeast corner of Emery County until it reaches the Green River in the Desolation and Gray canyons. (The Green River divides the West Tavaputs Plateau from the East Tavaputs Plateau and runs along the Emery‑Grand county line.)\n\nUpon entering Grand County, the Roan Cliffs initially pass through the southern edge of the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation. The cliffs continue their southeast course along the southern edge of the East Tavaputs Plateau until they reach a point near the head of Thompson Canyon (about north of the community of Thompson Springs). From that point the cliffs head northeast, but still along the southern edge of the East Tavaputs Plateau. They continue northeast until, after passing partially and briefly back into Uintah County, they reach the Utah‑Colorado state line.\n\nEast of the state line, the Roan Cliffs continue a northeastern course in Garfield County until they reach the East Salt Creek (and the SH‑139 [Douglas Road] corridor). Beyond that creek, the Roan Cliffs run southeast along the southern edge of the East Tavaputs Plateau until they reach the Colorado River (and the I‑70/US‑6 corridor) at a point about north of the Town of De Beque. (The course of the Book Cliffs runs southeast to their eastern end at the Colorado River in the De Beque Canyon, near the town of Palisade and just northeast of the city of Grand Junction. This is also the eastern end of the Grand Valley.)\n\nThe Roan Cliffs then run briefly northeast again (along the Colorado River) to a point about west‑northwest of the City of Rifle. This is also near the highpoint for the Roan Cliffs, the Gardner Benchmark, with an elevation of and coordinates . The course of cliffs then turns northwest to run along the southwest side of Government Creek (and the SH‑13 [Government Road] corridor) until they reach their eastern end, just south of the Garfield‑Rio Blanco county line, about south‑southeast of the \"mid-corner\" of Rio Blanco County and about northwest of the City of Rifle.\n\nThe Roan Cliffs were originally called the Brown Cliffs by John Wesley Powell (the second Director of the United States Geological Survey), but the name was officially changed in 1932 to Roan Cliffs, to better match the roan color of the cliffs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883831", "title": "Scott Ford (musician)", "text": "Scott Ford (musician)\n\nScott Ford is an American session bassist, vocalist, and arranger.\n\nAfter extensive touring in Europe and America with his own bands Legal Tender, Fast Becoming Adam, and The Scott Ford Band, Scott moved to Los Angeles and began playing the studio and live circuit.\n\nScott is the founding bassist for Los Angeles based cover band Camp Freddy and has played with The Twilight Singers since 2003, regularly contributing to the songwriting and arranging of the group's studio albums. Greg Dulli, The Twilight Singers founder and leader, credits Ford with \"...helping turn his focus back to Twilight Singers. \"There's probably not a bigger Twilight Singers fan in the whole world than Scott Ford,\" Dulli says. \"I give Scott a lot of credit for me finishing 'Blackberry Belle,' 'Powder Burns' and the last three records I've done. Scott has been extremely valuable in the finishing of all those records. He's such a positive force for this band in particular, and Dave Rosser as well.\n\nIn 2009, it was announced that Ford had \"an advanced bone loss medical condition resulting in severe blood infections\". A benefit show was held on September 26 at The Roxy, with participation by Duff McKagan, Dave Navarro, Scott Shriner, Dave Kushner, Chris Chaney, Greg Dulli, Billy Morrison, Kenny Aronoff, Wayne Kramer, Donovan Leitch and Steve-O.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883836", "title": "Scout (comics)", "text": "Scout (comics)\n\nScout is a comic book series by American writer, artist and musician Timothy Truman. It was published by Eclipse Comics starting from 1985.\n\nThe story stars a Native American Apache named Emanuel Santana. The setting of the series is a dystopian United States that has become a Third World country.\n\nTwenty-four issues of the first series were published.\n\nAfter the series ended, a short comic featuring Santana's marriage ceremony was published inside Timothy Truman's first album release entitled \"Marauder\" by his band \"The Dixie Pistols\".\n\nTwo mini-series were published that 'bridged the gap' between the two Scout series: \"New America\" and \"Swords of Texas\", each four issues long. While Truman oversaw them, others (including Ben Dunn) wrote and drew them. A one-shot 'Scout Handbook' was also published.\n\nA new series entitled \"Scout: War Shaman\" continued Santana's adventures after having two children and being widowed. The series ended with issue #16, after Scout is killed. Further series were planned, \"Scout: Marauder\" and \"Scout: Blue Leader\", but never appeared. \"Scout: Marauder\", described as \"the first volume in a new graphic novel series,\" was successfully funded on Kickstarter in 2018.\n\nA history of ecological excesses had led other nations to levy vast sanctions against the US for \"stealing\" world resources.\n\nAuthor Michael A. Sheyahshe noted in \"Native Americans in Comic Books – A Critical Study\", that \"Scout is presented in a respectful and genuine manner with tribally specific cultural ties.\"\n\nEclipse printed two trade paperback collections of the comic: \"Scout: Four Monsters\" (#1–7), and \"Scout: Mount Fire\" (#8–14).\n\nAs well, Dynamite Entertainment published a series of reprints:\n\nIn October 2016, Christopher MacBride is set to adapt and direct for the big screen for Studio 8. Jon Silk and Hell or High Water’s Braden Aftergood will produce the film and Truman will serve as a consultant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883850", "title": "Richie Rosenberg", "text": "Richie Rosenberg\n\nRichie \"LaBamba\" Rosenberg is an American trombonist originating from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He is a former member of the house band on Conan O'Brien's late-night talk shows.\n\nRosenberg became a trombonist when his junior high instrumental director, Leroy Evans, lent him a trombone to practice with over a summer break. Evans, concerned about a shrinking brass section due to graduating students, told Rosenberg to learn how to play and to come see him in the fall when school resumed. Rosenberg attributes \"it all\" to Evans. One memorable number performed by the Jazz Band under Mr. Evans was the immortal, \"Take Back Your Heart, I ordered Liver!\" \nRosenberg attended George Washington High School on Bustleton Avenue in Northeast Philadelphia. His senior year in high school, he and the saxophonist in jazz band both made first chair in the Philadelphia All City Jazz band. Rosenberg's early influences included J. J. Johnson, Otis Redding, and Teddy Pendergrass.\n\nAfter a short-lived first year at the Philadelphia Music Academy, Rosenberg abandoned his scholarship to tour with the band Vicki Allen and the Image. A high school friend and fellow musician Rick Gazda called him with \"an offer [he couldn't] refuse\" that brought him from Schenectady, New York to the Stone Pony rock club in Asbury Park, New Jersey. The offer came from Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes.\n\nAfter joining the Jukes, Rosenberg moved to the Jersey Shore and lived in Belmar, Long Branch, and across from the Stone Pony.\n\nIn 1981, a Jukes show at The Savoy, now the Hudson Theatre in New York City, caught the attention of Diana Ross's producer Nile Rodgers, who asked the horn section (known as The Miami Horns) to go on the road with her. After a two-year tour with Ross, Rosenberg returned, only to hit the road with Little Steven's world tour in support of his album \"Men Without Women.\"\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Rosenberg fine-tuned his own bands, LaBamba and the Hubcaps and LaBamba's Big Band, made up of 13 horns.\n\nWhile touring in Europe with Southside Johnny in 1993, Rosenberg got a phone call from Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band drummer Max Weinberg, who had been tapped as the bandleader for \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\". Rosenberg joined fellow Miami Horns trumpeter Mark Pender on the show's band, The Max Weinberg 7. The band moved over with O'Brien to \"The Tonight Show\" in 2009 and became Max Weinberg and The Tonight Show Band. When Conan left as a result of the 2010 \"Tonight Show\" conflict, the band followed him again, this time to TBS, for O'Brien's new television show Conan where they were known as Jimmy Vivino and the Basic Cable Band.\n\nIn addition to playing the trombone, he also performed in skits such as \"In the Year 2000.\" He was also commonly the butt of Conan O'Brien's jokes during his monologues or interviews in which Rosenberg was often implied to be some variety of sexual deviant; Rosenberg responded with chagrin, or a few times, hid his face behind a sheet of music. He also occasionally acted in comedy bits, during or after which O'Brien nearly always ridiculed Rosenberg's meager line reading and acting skills.\n\nIn January 2019, O'Brien premiered the new format for Conan which removed the band, ending their nearly quarter century television relationship.\n\nIn 1990, Rosenberg was joined by Ed Manion (baritone sax), Mario Cruz (tenor sax), and Al Chez (trumpet), billed as The Miami Horns, as part of Dave Edmunds All-Star Rock and Roll Revue. The Revue featured Edmunds with Graham Parker, Kim Wilson, and Dion leading the band which also included legendary guitarist Steve Cropper.\n\nRosenberg and Jon Bon Jovi joined forces for charity events including the Special Olympics' \"Very Special Christmas\" television special in 1999, hosted by President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton at the White House.\n\nOn May 3, 2007, Rosenberg performed the national anthem at the Golden State Warriors' playoff game (Game 6) vs. the Dallas Mavericks. With Conan being in San Francisco that week filming his show, LaBamba was invited to perform The Star-Spangled Banner at the Oracle Arena in Oakland, California.\n\nHe and his big band teamed up with Southside Johnny for the album \"Grapefruit Moon: The Songs of Tom Waits\", released in September 2008. The first two sessions were recorded in Bon Jovi's garage.\n\nIn September 2008, Rosenberg brought his band, LaBamba's Big Band, on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" to perform what Rosenberg later referred to as \"the most outrageous experience ever, more so than the Super Bowl.\"\n\nOn February 1, 2009, Rosenberg performed with Springsteen and the E Street Band during the halftime show of Super Bowl XLIII despite suffering a recent foot injury. \"There was so much adrenaline that I didn't feel any pain in my foot\", he described afterwards.\n\nFrom an interview by Patrick Jones:\n\nRosenberg is married with five children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883867", "title": "Trim tab", "text": "Trim tab\n\nTrim tabs are small surfaces connected to the trailing edge of a larger control surface on a boat or aircraft, used to control the trim of the controls, i.e. to counteract hydro- or aerodynamic forces and stabilise the boat or aircraft in a particular desired attitude without the need for the operator to constantly apply a control force. This is done by adjusting the angle of the tab relative to the larger surface.\n\nChanging the setting of a trim tab adjusts the neutral or resting position of a control surface (such as an elevator or rudder). As the desired position of a control surface changes (corresponding mainly to different speeds), an adjustable trim tab will allow the operator to reduce the manual force required to maintain that position—to zero, if used correctly. Thus the trim tab acts as a servo tab. Because the center of pressure of the trim tab is farther away from the axis of rotation of the control surface than the center of pressure of the control surface, the moment generated by the tab can match the moment generated by the control surface. The position of the control surface on its axis will change until the torques from the control surface and the trim surface balance each other.\n\nBoats with outboard engines will often have trim tabs attached to the lower unit of the engine or the transom. These are used to adjust the pitch attitude of the boat while under way. Changes in boat speed or weight placement will usually require the trim tabs to be adjusted to keep the boat at a comfortable and efficient pitch attitude. This reduces the work of the engine by reducing the amount of manual control necessary, as well as providing for greater efficiency by keeping the boat in the ideal orientation for the conditions.\n\nTrim tabs are most found on cruisers, sport fishing boats and center console boats of various sizes.\n\nIn some sailboats, the trailing edge of the keel has a trim tab which is used to null out rudder forces (lee or weather helm).\n\nAll fixed-wing aircraft must have a system to allow the pilot to determine the airspeed, and maintain that airspeed with a minimum of control force and mental concentration. Elevator trim frees the pilot from exerting constant force on the pitch controls. Instead, the pilot adjusts a longitudinal trim control (often in the form of a wheel) to cancel out control forces for a given airspeed and weight distribution. Typically, when this trim control (wheel or lever) is rotated or moved forward, the nose pitches down; conversely, if the trim control is moved back, the tail becomes \"heavy\", and the nose pitches up. Many newer aircraft, especially jet aircraft, have electric trim controls.\n\nMany airplanes also have rudder and/or aileron trim systems. On some of these, the rudder trim tab is rigid but adjustable on the ground by bending: it is angled slightly to the left (when viewed from behind) to lessen the need for the pilot to push the rudder pedal constantly to overcome the left-turning tendencies of many prop-driven aircraft. Some aircraft have hinged rudder trim tabs that the pilot can adjust in flight.\n\nMost fixed-wing aircraft have a trim tab on the elevator. However, alternative means of controlling the speed and attitude of the aircraft are sometimes used, including:\n\nWhen a servo tab is employed, it is moved into the slipstream opposite to the control surface's desired deflection. For example, in order to trim an elevator to hold the nose down, the elevator's trim tab will actually rise \"up\" into the slipstream. The increased pressure on top of the trim tab surface caused by raising it will then deflect the \"entire\" elevator slab down slightly, causing the tail to rise and the aircraft's nose to move down. In the case of an aircraft where deployment of high-lift devices (flaps) would significantly alter the longitudinal trim, a supplementary trim tab is arranged to simultaneously deploy with the flaps so that pitch attitude is not markedly changed.\n\nThe use of trim tabs significantly reduces pilots' workload during continuous maneuvers (e.g. sustained climb to altitude after takeoff or descent prior to landing), allowing them to focus their attention on other tasks such as traffic avoidance or communication with air traffic control.\n\nBoth \"elevator trim\" and \"pitch trim\" affect the small trimming part of the elevator on jet airliners. The former is supposed to be set in a certain position for a longer time, while the pitch trim (controlled with the landing pilot's thumb on the yoke or joystick, and is thereby easy to maneuver) is used all the time after the flying pilot has disabled the autopilot, especially after each time the flaps are lowered or at every change in the airspeed, at the descent, approach and final. Elevator trim is most used for controlling the attitude at cruising by the autopilot.\n\nBeyond reducing pilot workload, proper trim also increases fuel efficiency by reducing drag. For example, propeller aircraft have a tendency to yaw when operating at high power, for instance when climbing; this increases parasitic drag because the craft is not flying straight into the apparent wind. In such circumstances, the use of an adjustable rudder trim tab can reduce yaw.\n\nOn military aircraft during wartime, trim tabs often served as unintentional backup control systems for aircraft with damaged controls. Since trim tabs are usually controlled by their own dedicated system of control cables, rods, and/or hydraulic lines, aircraft that had suffered loss of primary controls could often be flown home \"on the trim tabs\", or by using trim adjustment as a replacement for the non-working primary controls. Such control is effective, if slower and more limited than primary controls, but it does allow the aircraft to be controlled and directed. In other cases, such as engine failure or damage causing asymmetric drag, trim tabs were invaluable for allowing the pilot to fly the aircraft straight without having to apply a constant force on the stick or rudder to keep the aircraft flying straight. Trim tabs were also important for aircraft such as bombers, which often underwent rapid changes in center-of-gravity when the bombload was dropped, requiring a hand ready on the trim-adjusting wheel to counteract the tendency of the aircraft to pitch up or down. Undertaking high-speed dives or deploying flaps also generally necessitated pitch trim adjustment, as aircraft of the era had different pitch tendencies at different airspeeds, and flaps could change the center of pressure. Even consumption of fuel could require periodic trim adjustment during a long flight, as it was difficult to ensure that all fuel tanks were equally near the center of gravity. An extreme example was the later P-51 Mustang, which was given a large fuel tank behind the cockpit to allow long-range missions; as fuel from this tank was consumed it was necessary for regular adjustment of the elevator trim.\n\nDesigner Buckminster Fuller is often cited for his use of trim tabs as a metaphor for leadership and personal empowerment. In the February 1972 issue of \"Playboy\", Fuller said:\nThe official newsletter of the Buckminster Fuller Institute is called \"Trimtab\".\n\nFuller’s metaphorical use of the trim-tab mechanism received considerable media attention in January 2019 when actor Jeff Bridges appreciated it in his Cecil B. DeMille Award acceptance speech at the 76th Golden Globes: 'Bucky made the analogy that a trim tab is an example of how the individual is connected to society and how we affect society. And I like to think of myself as a trim tab. All of us are trim tabs. We might seem like we’re not up to the task, but we are, man. We’re alive! We can make a difference! We can turn this ship in the way we wanna go, man!'\n\n"}
{"id": "1883874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883874", "title": "Scott Healy", "text": "Scott Healy\n\nScott Healy is a Grammy nominated Los Angeles-based pianist, multi-keyboardist and composer best known as the keyboardist for the Jimmy Vivino and the Basic Cable Band on \"Conan\" on TBS. His long association with O'Brien dates back to the original \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" show in 1993, and the subsequent \"The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien\".\n\nCurrently he is active on both coasts as a jazz and rock keyboardist, a session pianist, organist and accordionist, and a composer, arranger and producer. His performing and recording credits include many of the greats in rock, blues, R&B and jazz, including Bruce Springsteen, Bonnie Raitt, Al Green, BB King, Jackson Browne, Levon Helm, Son Seals, Hubert Sumlin, Max Weinberg, Branford Marsalis, and Tony Bennett. He also is currently pursuing other projects including scoring feature films, producing records, and leading his ten-piece jazz group, The Scott Healy Ensemble, and various contemporary music composing projects and commissions. His composing and arranging credits include the Portland Maine Symphony Orchestra, the Aspen Contemporary Ensemble, and the Mel Lewis Orchestra, as well as recording artists Ricky Martin and Christina Aguilera. He has received awards from BMI, The National Endowment for the Arts, and the \"Distinguished Artist\" award from the New Jersey State Council on the Arts.\n\nIn early 2013 he released his second large ensemble record, \"Hudson City Suite\" by The Scott Healy Ensemble, which features Tim Hagans on trumpet, Scott on piano, and an eleven-piece ensemble.\n\nA native of Cleveland, Ohio and an alumnus of Hawken School. As a teenager Healy studied with the renowned piano teacher James Tannenbaum at The Cleveland Institute of Music, then attended the Eastman School of Music, graduating with a degree in composition and piano. While there he studied with Samuel Adler, Joseph Schwantner, Rayburn Wright and Warren Benson.\n\nHis monthly column, \"Session Sensei\" appeared in Keyboard Magazine for over five years and provided real world advice on performing, studio work, the music business and professional life in general. In addition he wrote many feature articles on artists and bands, as well as lessons on rock, jazz and blues piano and organ for Keyboard. His jazz composition blog, professorscosco, deals with advanced topics in music theory, arranging and orchestration.In the 1980s he taught at the New School for Social Research in New York City, and was an Associate Professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, NY from 1990 through 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883878", "title": "Topocide", "text": "Topocide\n\nTopocide is the deliberate culling of a place through industrial expansion and change, so that its earlier landscape and character are destroyed. \n\nAn alternative term is domicide, the destruction of home; the two may be viewed as synonyms or they may be opposed, with topocide referring to destruction from the point of view of the destroyers (generally outsiders) and domicide from the point of view of the inhabitants. \n\nTopocide can be the result of deliberate industrial expansion. When industries form, then the people's center of life revolve around that industry. New jobs are formed and the environmental and cultural landscape is forever changed.\n\nArguable examples include the destruction of Dresden at the end of World War II and the Khmer Rouge's destruction in Cambodia.\n"}
{"id": "1883886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883886", "title": "Lisa Douglas", "text": "Lisa Douglas\n\nLisa Douglas (née Gronyitz) was the leading female character in the 1960s CBS situation comedy \"Green Acres\", which ran for six years, from 1965 to 1971. The character was reprised in the 1990 film \"Return to Green Acres\". CNN rated the character as being amongst \"The most stylish TV housewives of all time\".\n\nLisa (portrayed by actress Eva Gabor), a glamorous Hungarian immigrant, plays the role of the wife of\nOliver Wendell Douglas, a successful New York City attorney who had long harbored the dream of moving to the Midwest and operating a farm. The leitmotif of the character through the years remains her comedic Hungarian accent, which leads to numerous jocular interactions with the Hooterville locals, who mishear Lisa's statements and are likewise misheard by Lisa. Both Lisa and Oliver are regularly portrayed as wearing city clothes, which seem misfit in the Hooterville expanse. Lisa's penchant for wearing resplendent jewelry, costly dresses and heeled footwear adds to this characterization through the seasons.\n\nIn the initial episodes, Lisa plays a Manhattan socialite who has no desire to leave the luxuries of her lifestyle in New York, but is forced to do so and move to rural Hooterville, when her husband, whom she loves considerably, decides to undertake farming. After shifting to Hooterville, she becomes close to many farm animals, especially to the neighboring family's pet piglet Arnold, and takes up various cooking activities. Yet, despite her attempts, Lisa is unable to fit into the Hooterville culture, wishing relentlessly to go back, while her husband sticks resolutely to his philanthropic values of remaining embedded to the rural heartland.\nAs the episodes progress, it is Lisa who becomes comfortably enmeshed with the Hooterville life, undertaking various entrepreneurial and philanthropic activities, while Oliver faces numerous challenges, both in his entrepreneurial work and philanthropic orientation. The final episodes impress the significance of Lisa's rise to prominence in the Hooterville community and the apparent lack of importance that Hooterville residents accord to her husband. The concluding episode of the series, titled \"Lisa the Psychologist\", reemphasizes this portrayal, showcasing Lisa as a psychoanalyst whose services are much sought after by one and all.\n\nThe character of Lisa Douglas is reprised in the 1990 film \"Return to Green Acres\", which shows Lisa and Oliver, after a spate of disappointments, shifting to New York. However, subsequent to Hooterville residents reaching out to Lisa and Oliver for support to save their homes from being usurped by a local developer, both Lisa and Oliver realize their significant emotional attachment to Hooterville; and finally decide to move back.\n\nThe character of Lisa Douglas engendered broad critical acclaim. While CNN rated the character as being amongst \"\"The most stylish TV housewives of all time\"\", Lisa's character has also been critiqued as exemplifying an American housewife of those times who goes as per her husband's views. At the same time, Lisa's character has been reviewed broadly as being amongst select \"familiar and congenial\" television characters, those which offered the American audiences an \"escape and a sense that order might yet prevail.\"\n\nLarry Karaszewski writes in the \"USC Spectator\": \"While Mr. Douglas thinks he is a 'real farmer', Mrs. Douglas has no such pretensions. She simply is what she is and the citizens of Hooterville accept her for being herself [...] Much of \"Green Acres\" is about a communications gap and Lisa is central to the gap.\"\n\nIn the book \"Politics and the American Television Comedy\", pop culture author Doyle Greene writes: \"Oliver and Lisa were [...] transformed into cultural and political caricatures, even dialectical oppositions: husband versus wife; rural life versus urbanity; Protestant work ethic versus flights of fancy; and, above all, America versus Europe. As the embodiment of Europe in all of its aristocratic glory, Lisa represents the very culture that America explicitly saw itself as being reborn from in the frontiers of the New World.\"\n"}
{"id": "1883888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883888", "title": "Live steam", "text": "Live steam\n\nLive steam is steam under pressure, obtained by heating water in a boiler. The steam is used to operate stationary or moving equipment.\n\nA live steam machine or device is one powered by steam, but the term is usually reserved for those that are replicas, scale models, toys, or otherwise used for heritage, museum, entertainment, or recreational purposes, to distinguish them from similar devices powered by electricity or some other more convenient method but designed to look as if they are steam-powered. Revenue-earning steam-powered machines such as mainline and narrow gauge steam locomotives, steamships, and the worldwide electric power-generating industry steam turbines are not normally referred to as \"live steam\".\n\nSteamrollers and traction engines are popular, in 1:4 or 1:3 scale, as are model stationary steam engines, ranging from pocket-size to 1:2 scale.\n\nRidable, large-scale live steam railroading on a backyard railroad is a popular aspect of the live steam hobby, but it is time-consuming to build a locomotive from scratch and it can be costly to purchase one already built. Garden railways, in smaller scales (that cannot pull a \"live\" person nor be ridden on), offer the benefits of real steam engines (and at lower cost and in less space), but do not provide the same experience as operating one's own locomotive in the larger scales and riding on (or behind) it, while doing so.\n\nOne of the most famous live steam railroads was Walt Disney's Carolwood Pacific Railroad around his California home; it later inspired Walt Disney to surround his planned Disneyland amusement park with a working, narrow gauge railroad.\n\nThe live steam hobby is especially popular in the UK, US, and Australia. All over the world, there are hundreds of clubs and associations as well as many thousands of private backyard railroads. The world's largest live steam layout, with over of trackage is \"Train Mountain Railroad\" in Chiloquin, Oregon. Other notable layouts are operated by the Los Angeles Live Steamers Railroad Museum and the Riverside Live Steamers.\n\nA live steam locomotive is often an exact, hand-crafted scale model. Live steam railroad scales are generally referred to by the number of inches of scale per foot. For example, a 1:8 scale locomotive will often be referred to as a 1½\" scale locomotive. Common modelling scales are Gauge 1 (), 1/2\" (), 3/4\" (1:16), 1\" (1:12), 1½\" (1:8), 2½\" (~1:5) and 3\" (1:4).\n\nTrack gauge refers to the distance between the rails. The ridable track gauges range from to , the most popular being \", \", 5\", \" and \" (see Rail transport modelling scales). Gauges from and up are called \"Miniature Railways\" (in the US these are known as \"Grand Scale Railroads\"), and are used mostly in amusement park rides and commercial settings.\n\nOften the gauge has little to do with the scale of a locomotive since larger equipment can be built in a narrow gauge railway configuration. For instance, scales of 1.5, 1.6, 2.5, and 3 inches per foot (corresponding to scales of 1:8 to 1:4) have been used on a track gauge.\n\nThe generally accepted smallest gauge for a live steam locomotive is O scale. Producing smaller-scale models remains problematic, as the laws of physics do not themselves scale: creating a small-scale boiler that produces useful quantities of steam requires careful engineering. Hornby Railways has produced commercial live steam-powered locomotives in OO scale by utilising an electrically heated boiler mounted in the tender, with cylinders in the locomotive, and control provided by electrical signals fed through the track from a remote control unit. They are less mechanically realistic than models in larger scales; the visible valve gear is a dummy, as on the electric-motor-powered models, and steam admission to the cylinders is controlled by a rotary-valve servo inside the boiler casing, which is also a dummy. Nevertheless, the locomotive is driven by steam that is created on board the locomotive and is hence a genuine \"steam\" locomotive.\n\nIt is technically possible to build even smaller operating steam engines. Hand-made examples, as small as Z scale (1:220), with a gauge of only , have been produced. These are fired with a butane flame from a burner in the engine's tender. AA Sherwood of Australia, an engineering lecturer, produced some miniature scale model live steam engines in the late 1960s and early 1970s. His smallest live steam engines were 1:240 scale which is smaller than the 1:220 of Z Scale. The smallest scale Sherwood worked in was 1:480, though that was not live steam.\n\nA wide variety of boiler designs are available, ranging from simple externally fired pot boilers to sophisticated multi-flue internally fired boilers and even superheater boilers usually found only on larger, more complex models.\n\nFor basic locomotive models, a simple valve gear can be used, with the reversing (if any) performed by a valve, or by using a \"slip\" eccentric.\n\nMore complex locomotive models can use valve gear similar to real steam machine with the reversing done mechanically, most frequently the Walschaerts type.\n\nThere are several common fuels used to boil water in live steam models:\n\n\nLive steam road vehicles are popular with model engineers because they are not restricted to running on tracks or water and can be easily transported for rallies and exhibitions. They include traction engines & rollers, wagons, cars, road-making & agricultural machines, often seen with ancillary equipment like threshing machines.\n\nMost types of boats and ships that were powered by steam in real life can be found as live steam ship models. These include, amongst others, speed boats, launches, tugboats, ocean liners, warships, paddle steamers and freight carriers. A specialized type is the tethered hydroplane. When steam-powered, these often have flash boilers.\n\nStationary engines tend to be less popular with modelers than mobile engines; probably because they are less easily transportable. They are more popular with toy makers. They can be anything from small farm engines to winding engines and mill engines.\n\nIn the late 19th and early-mid 20th centuries, live steam toys were extremely popular, with some large manufacturers like Bing selling hundreds of different models in large quantities. There were very many smaller manufacturers all over the world. Some of these, like Mamod, Wilesco and Jensen, are still in business making live steam toys, although they are now mainly marketed as collectables and novelties rather than toys. Toys tend to be less accurate representations of real life equipment than are models and many are somewhat generic in nature. The range includes all those seen as models and some of a purely novelty kind.\n\nA live steam festival (often called a \"Steam Fair\" in the UK and a live steam \"meet\" in the US) is a gathering of people interested in steam technology. Locomotives, trains, traction engines, steam rollers and tractors, steam boats and cars, and stationary steam engines may be on display, both full-sized and in miniature. Rides may also be offered.\n\nThere are several magazines devoted to the live steam hobby:\n\n\"Model Engineer\" is an English publication that is published twice a month and was founded in 1898. Most locomotive articles have an \"English\" flavour popular in the UK, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. The magazine is aimed at constructors but also covers non-steam and non-rail model engineering interests.\n\n\"Live Steam & Outdoor Railroading\" is a U.S. magazine, founded in 1966 and devoted to the live steam hobby, as well as to other uses of miniature and full-size steam. Originally, it was a mimeographed newsletter, but soon expanded into magazine format. In 2005, the name was changed from \"Live Steam\". It is currently published bi-monthly, with a press run of slightly over 10,000 (Dec. 2004).\n\nThe now-defunct publication (launched in 2006), was \"The Home Railway Journal\". which was specifically aimed at enthusiasts with ride-on railways (although not just steam-powered) in North America. It is published quarterly in Sacramento, California, US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883895", "title": "Walhalla, Victoria", "text": "Walhalla, Victoria\n\nWalhalla is a small town in Victoria, Australia, founded as a gold-mining community in late 1862 and at its peak home to around 4,000 residents. Today, the town has a population of 20 permanent residents (2016 Census), though it has a large proportion of houses owned as holiday properties. It attracts large numbers of tourists and is a major focus of the regional tourism industry. The town's name is taken from an early gold mine in the area, named for the German hall of fame, the Walhalla temple (Valhalla from Norse legend).\n\nWalhalla is located in South-East Australia, in the eastern Victorian region of Gippsland, about 180 kilometres from the state capital Melbourne. It is located in the Great Dividing Range, in the steep Stringers Creek valley, approximately four kilometres upstream of the creek's junction with the Thomson River. The area around the town is designated as a historic area, adjoining the Baw Baw National Park.\n\nThe township is mainly located along one road which winds along the valley floor due to the steep terrain. After the 52 year gold rush period, Walhalla's population declined rapidly since the level of the gold has been extinct and for the latter part of the 20th century fewer than 20 people lived in the town as permanent residents.\n\nThe history of Walhalla is closely linked to the history of gold in Victoria. The first gold had been found in Victoria in 1851, leading to the Victorian gold rush. By 1859 prospectors had pushed far east of Melbourne into the trackless wilderness of the Great Dividing Range. Major gold strikes on the Jordan River encouraged other prospectors to follow the nearby Thomson River in their search for the valuable metal.\n\nA group of four prospectors who had been exploring in creeks flowing into the Thomson River valley found gold in late December 1862. A claim was pegged out and a member of this group, former convict Edward Stringer, registered the claim at the stage post town of Bald Hills, now called Seaton, about 12 January 1863. Although his party were later posthumously presented with a monetary reward of £100 for the discovery, Stringer was unable to capitalise on his finds, dying in September 1863. After news of the discovery became known, a rush to the creek began and a small town sprang up, The settlement was initially called Stringer's or Stringer's Creek, but after the township was surveyed it was later rechristened Walhalla - the name of the town's largest mine at that time. The creek running through town still bears his name.\n\nAccess to the creek was an ongoing problem in the town's early days owing to the goldfield's remote and inaccessible location. In February 1863, two prospectors John Hinchcliffe and William Myers, discovered an immensely rich quartz outcrop in the hill just above the creek, which was named Cohen's Reef, after a storekeeper at Bald Hills.\n\nGold panning and related techniques quickly exhausted all the alluvial (surface) deposits. By late 1863 mining operations began as prospectors sought and then followed the underground veins of gold. At Walhalla this could mean tunnelling \"into\" the steep valley walls as well as the more traditional digging downward.\n\nThe vast majority of gold extraction from Walhalla centred on Cohens Reef, the largest single reef in Victoria. By 1900 the reef had already produced around 55 tonnes of gold (approximately 1.8 million troy ounces, worth around US$790 million in 2005).\n\nDue to the enormous expenses of underground gold mining, small claims operated by individuals or small groups soon folded, being replaced by large companies such as the Long Tunnel Mining Company. This company owned the richest mine working the reef, the Long Tunnel, which produced over 30 tons of gold alone over its operation between the years 1865 and 1914, and paid £1,283,000 in dividends to its shareholders.\n\nThe crushing machinery used to extract the gold from the quartz-based ore required large amounts of energy, supplied largely by wood-burning steam engines. The need for fuel wood led to the hills being denuded for some considerable distance around town, timber tramways bringing freshly cut timber for the boilers. The associated costs of bringing wood from further and further away were a key factor in the economic problems which eventually ended mining in Walhalla.\n\nBy late 1863 there had been more finds made nearby at Happy-Go-Lucky, three kilometres from Stringer's Creek, and at Cooper's Creek, where copper was later to be discovered in even greater abundance. By March 1864, Walhalla had a weekly mail service from Toongabbie, and the Walhalla Post Office was opened on 22 August 1864 (known as Stringer's Creek until 1868). Happy-Go-Lucky had a post office open from 1865 until 1916, as did Cooper's Creek from 1868 until 1893.\n\nThe first hotel, the \"Reefer's Arms\", was opened in September 1863. In time, there were more than a dozen hotels, breweries and an aerated waters factory. A branch of the Bank of Victoria was opened in September 1865, and a branch of the Bank of Australasia was opened in February 1866. Shopkeepers, publicans and other traders built the town up quickly in support of the rush.\n\nBy May 1866, the township of Stringer's Creek had been surveyed and renamed Walhalla, after one of the most prosperous mines then working. Most of the first lots of township land were sold to the already-resident householders. That year saw a church building was erected for the Wesleyan Church, and establishment of a Police reserve and Court of Petty Sessions.\nThe growing number of families in the area saw the Mechanics' Institute and Free Library also serving as a school when it opened in 1867. Before long, Walhalla could boast fraternal societies, a debating club, and (briefly at least) a chess club, choral union and dramatic club. By January 1870, the \"Walhalla Chronicle\" newspaper was being published, and by December of the same year, a two-acre (.8 ha) site had been gazetted for State School No. 957, which had taken its first enrolments in 1868.\n\nA self-appointed \"Council of Ten\" sought registration as a Borough in 1869, but dissolved without the necessary public support for rating the town's properties before it could accomplish much more than commissioning the construction of the stone retaining wall that still stands today in the centre of town. A Borough was eventually proclaimed in late 1872, and by 1878 was able to successfully agitate with the state government for the completion of the first section of the present main road from Moe. By the end of 1879, Walhalla had daily coach services connecting it to the railway line at Moe to the south and to Traralgon to the east, and its isolation had been considerably reduced.\nThe Long Tunnel Company introduced both electricity (1884) and the telephone (1891) into the mine. Although Walhalla briefly led the world in having two electric street lights in 1884, this service was never extended further into the town. But the community continued to grow, with houses and gardens lining the hillsides along the valley, to a peak population of more than 2,000 with more than that many again living in the surrounding mountain-top \"suburbs\" of Maiden Town, Mormon Town, Happy Go Lucky and Pig Point. Sporting activities included cricket and football clubs, with a cricket ground being created through levelling the top of a nearby hill as no other flat land was available. The Walhalla Football Association operated at the cricket ground between 1888 and 1913.\n\nThe Italian community made a substantial contribution to the development of Walhalla, working a number of jobs including mine managers, wood cutters and splitters, farmers, miners and mine labourers, merchants and builders. The first Italian residents to settle down in the area came in 1873, when Pietro Bombardieri opened a tram station at the bottom of Little Joe Hill. They quickly proved themselves hardy and resourceful countrymen, particularly with their farming skills, and by 1882 were represented in the town's business community when Anthony Simonin opened the Alpine Hotel. Their two neighbourhoods, one extending along the Long Tunnel Extended tramway to the north, and the other in the southern end of town, peaked around 1910.\n\nThe wood cutters and splitters among them would set up camp in bark huts close to the area they were working, and it seems they rarely came into town. Around the turn of the century several of these families took up land at a remote station along the Thomson River to the north west, which was called \"Poverty Point\".\n\nAfter many years of lobbying from business interests, the Victorian government eventually agreed to the construction of a rail line into town. The line was completed into Walhalla in 1910, the last of four narrow gauge () railways built by the Victorian Railways. The seventeen small 2-6-2 NA-class tank engines which operated were interchanged between the four lines. The six remaining NA-class locomotives are owned by Puffing Billy Railway near Melbourne—five of which are preserved and operating. Branching from the main Gippsland line at Moe, the Walhalla line crossed hilly farming country, until it reached the town of Erica where it entered heavily mountainous territory, crossing the Thomson River by means of a large steel and concrete bridge then snaking up Stringer's Creek Gorge over a track featuring ledges blasted from sheer rock faces, dry stone walls built rising from the creek bed, and six timber trestle bridges and brackets within the last few hundred metres into town.\n\nIt was hoped that the railway would bring new life back into the community, however gold mining was already becoming largely unprofitable and the last of the major mines closed in 1914. With the disappearance of the main industry in town, the bulk of the population soon left. The Shire of Walhalla was incorporated into the neighboring Shire of Narracan in 1918.\n\nOne of the railway's main uses became the removal of old buildings out of town, with the original railway station being relocated in 1938 to Hartwell in suburban Melbourne. In 1944, the section from Platina to Walhalla was closed, with the small copper and lime producing settlement of Coopers Creek using Platina as a supply point until the section of line between Platina & Erica closed in 1952. The service from Moe to Erica continued to service the farming and timber industries of the area, but it gradually decreased in patronage, until it too was closed in 1954. The line was dismantled late in 1958.\n\nA sawmill operated on the site of the former Long Tunnel Mine yard (now Stringer's Park) from 1949 until 1971. The Corner Stores opposite the mill was used as a barracks for mill workers and was in a poor state of disrepair when purchased by the Walhalla Heritage League in the early 1970s.\n\nEfforts to re-establish mining activities continued between 1915 and the early 1940s, though these were small scale operations producing only small amounts of gold. The town never became a ghost town and has been continuously inhabited with the population supporting basic facilities such as post office, hotel, church, general store and masonic lodge.\n\nOn 10 March 1942 a Curtiss P-40 Warhawk of the United States Army Air Force flown by Captain Joseph P McLaughlin crashed near Walhalla on a flight from Canberra to Laverton. It was discovered in 1948. In 2006 his remains were buried at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nIn 1945, the Mechanics Institute, Bank of Australasia and St Patricks Catholic Church were destroyed by a fire started by a State Lands Department employee who was burning off invasive blackberries, and embers spread to the Mechanics Institute. The Star Hotel, Oddfellows Hall and Walhalla Shire Hall were also destroyed in December 1951 due to the use of the wrong fuel in the kitchen's ovens while making Christmas puddings in the Star Hotel, then owned by Arthur Malley. Malley was a descendant of Alice and Daniel Barber who owned Barbers Restaurant and Boarding House in west Walhalla from the early 1860s, and died in Collingwood, Victoria in 1957 (aged 66 years) before being able to return to rebuild. The school closed in 1965 and further floods and neglect slowly degraded the remains of the town. The last buildings lost to fire in Walhalla were Foley's Cottage behind the old fire station in 1993, (fire was caused by a candle), and Cumings Cottage—an original miner's home above the tramway on the western side, destroyed during a major bushfire in February 2019.\n\nSince around 1977, Walhalla has experienced something of a renaissance with a booming tourist industry and the restoration or reconstruction of numerous historical buildings in the town, including the Star Hotel, Mechanics Institute and reconstruction of the Thomson–Walhalla section of the former narrow-gauge railway.\n\nFollowing amalgamation of local government in Victoria in 1994, the Walhalla and Erica/Rawson areas were placed under the control of the distant Baw Baw Shire at Warragul, 80 km to the west. Despite the much closer proximity and strong historical, social and economic linkages to the neighbouring Latrobe Valley cities of Moe, Morwell and Traralgon, the then Kennett Liberal/National Coalition Government elected to place Walhalla in Baw Baw.\n\nThe Gold Era Shops were restored by the Walhalla Heritage League and now operate as a museum and coffee shop.\n\nIn 1991, a group of interested parties formed a taskforce to investigate reconstruction of the Walhalla railway as a tourist attraction, something which had been unsuccessfully attempted on at least one other occasion previously. Work by the newly formed Walhalla Goldfields Railway commenced in 1993 at the former Thomson Station site, situated next to the Thomson River immediately before the bridge. With the restoration of the Thomson River Bridge, trains began to take tourists back up the Stringer's Creek Gorge, with a temporary terminus being created at Happy Creek due to the need for reconstruction of the timber trestle bridges completing the journey into town.\n\nThis terminus was the end point for tourist trains from Thomson Bridge from 1996 until 2002, when the line was opened through to the old station site at Walhalla. The current station building is an exact replica of the original, although the yard layout is considerably different owing to a section of the former station's location having been covered by earlier road deviation works of the main road into Walhalla.\n\nIn December 1998, Walhalla became the last mainland town in Australia to be connected to a reticulated electricity supply, although some other towns do not have mains electricity yet, such as Licola nearby, they do have a central generator unit that supplies the community. Walhalla was unusual in that every individual property wishing to have their own electricity supply had to provide their own generator. It was illegal to reticulate electricity (even to a next door neighbour) without permission from the (former) S.E.C.V. (State Electricity Commission of Victoria). The S.E.C.V. had half heartedly considered connecting Walhalla to the grid in the early 1970s however this never proceeded due to the S.E.C.V. not really being interested and the then town population being concerned that power poles and wires in the main street would ruin the heritage look and feel of Walhalla. The privatisation of electricity in the mid 1990s provided the opportunity for Walhalla to be reconsidered for connection with Eastern Energy (owned by TXU) undertaking a feasibility study. The new proposal was to run the cables entirely underground from nearby Rawson via 4WD tracks and then along the main street. At total of 6,940 metres of cable was laid from Rawson, this is under half the road distance and it cost $640,000 to connect Walhalla to the grid. The Star Hotel was the first building to connect on 16 December with the official switch on being held on 21 December.\n\nSeveral significant attempts have been made resurrect commercial gold mining in the Walhalla area, with Walhalla Resources and Goldstar Resources investing significant amounts in the 1980s and 2002+ respectively. Both companies hoped to use modern mining techniques to access gold bearing ore that was not economically winnable in the town's gold era. In 2008, GoldStar was well advanced to obtaining a mining licence, but the company folded in early 2009 due to lack of funds, in part caused by the Financial crisis of 2007–08. The company was then refloated as Orion Gold NL with a new management team and has adopted a less aggressive approach to restarting gold mining in and around Walhalla. In February 2016, Orion Gold sold its Walhalla tenements to A1 Consolidated Gold Limited (A1 Gold) for $850,000. There is currently no mining exploration occurring in or around Walhalla.\n\nWalhalla has been impacted by major fire events in 2005, 2006/07, 2009 and 2013 although the town proper has not sustained any damage from bushfire (although a small rail bridge on the Walhalla Goldfields Railway was destroyed in the 2006/07 fire and quickly rebuilt.) A new CFA fire station was opened in Walhalla on 24 November 2013. This is the 5th location for the fire brigade over the town's 150-year history and is a satellite of the Erica and District Fire Brigade as the Walhalla Fire Brigade was deregistered in 1961. This is the second official fire station in Walhalla for 112 years. The first was the station that straddles the creek which was built in 1901 which is now a museum and houses the restored 1903 Merryweather Fire Cart.\n\nIn October 2016, Michael Leaney, a long time Walhalla resident, business owner and community advocate was elected to Baw Baw Shire Council to represent the newly created East Ward of the Shire. This ward is nearly 3,200 square kilometres in size with Walhalla being the most remote town in the shire accessible via a sealed road. 50 years had passed since Walhalla has had a representative on council. Phil Mouritz, the owner of the [then] Walhalla Lodge Hotel was a councillor for the Shire of Narracan in the mid 1960s.\n\nOn Sunday 3 February 2019 Walhalla was directly threatened by bushfire. A fire that had been started by a lightning strike 5 days earlier to the east of the town was burning away from the town in a south easterly direction when an unexpected easterly wind caused the front to the fire to burn rapidly to the west. The town had been essentially evacuated during the day with only a handful of residents remaining and a CFA [Country Fire Authority] Strike Team. At 5:23pm the town's fire siren was sounded and two hours later the flames were visible on the ridge to the east of the town near Maidentown. More firefighting resources were rushed to Walhalla as numerous spot fires started on the east and west sides of the valley. At 8:37pm rain started to fall and by 9:45pm over 15mm of rain had fallen essentially quelling the fire. One cottage was lost in Walhalla [on the western hillside north of the Long Tunnel Extended Mine] and five buildings were destroyed in Maidentown. The Walhalla-Stoney Creek Road Fire was active for over five weeks and burnt 8775 hectares.\n\nMobile phone coverage came to Walhalla on 16 July 2019 with the official switch-on of a Telstra tower, the 600th tower to be commissioned under the Black Spot Program. The community had campaigned for almost 10 years to get mobile phone coverage into the valley which posed a number of technically difficulties due to the steep topography.\n\nAs well as historical buildings, the township features many mines and mineshafts and the mountainous terrain is popular with hikers and bushwalkers. It is the starting point for the 650 km Australian Alps Walking Track, which continues to near Canberra. Walhalla also features two camping grounds; the North Gardens (free) and Chinese Gardens (paid).\n\nThe current railway station is an exact replica built to the Victorian Railways plans of the original station building (now located in the Melbourne suburb of Hartwell), although the interior is different from the original configuration. It is on the opposite side of the station yard from its original location because the main road into Walhalla was realigned over the culvert across Stringers Creek in the 1960s. Train rides are operated by the Walhalla Goldfields Railway over the restored section between Walhalla and the Thomson.\n\nThe Long Tunnel Extended Mine is open daily for tours underground to view the original gold workings, Cohens line of reef and the impressive machinery chamber carved out of the mountain.\n\nThe Walhalla Corner Stores was purchased by the Walhalla Heritage & Development League (WHDL) in the early 1970s and were restored to their original design. The Corner Store now operates as a Post Office agency, shop and Tourist Information Centre with the adjoining shop housing a museum.\n\nThroughout the town, there is a Heritage Walk with over 30 interpretive signs that include photos and text explaining the various sites and buildings of the gold era. These signs were first piloted by the WHDL in 1996 and a grant from the Federation Fund saw a major expansion of the Heritage Walk. Over the years, additional signs have been added including on the 8 km walk to Poverty Point Bridge on the Australian Alps Walking Track. The Walhalla Visitor Map which is available for free in town shows the locations of these signs.\n\nThe Walhalla Fire Station was built straddling Stringers Creek and is now open to the public as a museum. It was totally reconstructed in the early 1960s after many years of neglect and the structure seen today has been rebuilt from the floor up.\n\nThe Band Rotunda was built at the junction of the left- and right-hand branches of Stringers Creek in 1896, commissioned by the Mountaineer Brass Band, who held a competition for its design. Two hotels were situated opposite the Band Rotunda, the \"Star Hotel\" on the north side of the creek fork, and the \"Grand Junction Hotel\" on the south side. The original \"Star Hotel\" was burnt down by a fire caused by a faulty hot water service in December 1951, but reconstructed in 1999 with a recreation of the original facade.\n\nThe American actor Patrick Swayze visited Walhalla in his youth, where he enjoyed exploring the country side and the local history.\n\nWindsor House was built by German Johannes Gloz between 1878 and 1888 from around 90,000 handmade bricks, the only surviving brick residence in the town. Gloz maintained a vineyard on the slope above the building, producing around 900 bottles of Riesling in the year 1880. The building is currently a bed and breakfast.\n\nSituated on top of the hill, immediately to the north-east of the junction of the east and west branches of Stringers Creek is the Walhalla Cricket Ground, approximately a 45-minute return hike from the valley floor.\n\nLong Tunnel Extended Mine (LTEM) was one of the richest mines of Walhalla. The main gold-bearing reef in Walhalla is called Cohens reef. The LTEM mine was started by Hercules United Gold Co. in 1863. After eight years, the company collapsed after not finding any gold. The mine was then taken over by the Long Tunnel Extended Company in 1871. They looked in the opposite direction and found a profitable part of the reef. This mine soon became the second most productive mine in the area (after the Long Tunnel) and in total produced 13,695 kg of gold before it closed in 1911. Overall, the Long Tunnel Extended mine was Victoria’s fifth largest gold mine during the colonial era.\n\nToday it is operated by the Walhalla Board of Management on behalf of the people of Victoria as a tourist attraction. Underground tours are conducted daily. The mine’s 8.5 kilometres of underground workings extended to a depth of 923 metres below the machinery chamber which in turn is some 150 metres below natural surface. The tour takes visitors 300 metres into the huge underground machinery chamber hewn from the solid rock over a century ago. Old mining methods are discussed and a large outcrop of the famous Cohens Line of Reef is exposed in the mine.\n\nFollowing a five year local campaign, the town received a mobile tower and full services were connected in July 2019.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883900", "title": "Crab-eating fox", "text": "Crab-eating fox\n\nThe crab-eating fox (\"Cerdocyon thous\"), also known as the forest fox, wood fox, or maikong, is an extant species of medium-sized canid endemic to the central part of South America, and which appeared during the Pliocene epoch. Like South American foxes, which are in the genus \"Lycalopex\", it is not closely related to true foxes. \"Cerdocyon\" comes from the Greek words \"kerdo\" (meaning fox) and \"kyon\" (dog) referring to the dog- and fox-like characteristics of this animal.\n\nCerdocyonina is a tribe which appeared around 6.0 million years ago (Mya) in North America as \"Cerdocyon avius\" becoming extinct by around 1.4–1.3 Mya. living about . This genus has persisted in South America from an undetermined time, possibly around 3.1 Mya, and continues to the present in the same or a similar form to the crab-eating fox.\n\nAs one of the species of the tribe Canini, it is related to the genus \"Canis\". The crab-eating fox's nearest living relative, as theorized at present, is the short-eared dog. This relationship, however, has yet to be supported by mitochondrial investigations. Two subgenera (\"Atelocynus\" and \"Speothos\") were long ago included in \"Cerdocyon\".\n\nThe crab-eating fox is a canid that ranges in savannas; woodlands; subtropical forests; prickly, shrubby thickets; and tropical savannas such as the \"caatinga\", plains, and \"campo\", from Colombia and southern Venezuela in the north to Paraguay, Uruguay and northern Argentina at the southernmost reaches of its range. The crab-eating fox has also been sighted in Panama since the 1990s.\n\nIts habitat also includes wooded riverbanks such as riparian forest. In the rainy season, their range moves uphill, whilst in drier times they move to lower ground. Their habitat covers all environments except rainforests, high mountains, and open grassy savannas. In some regions of their range, they are threatened with extirpation.\n\n\"Cerdocyon thous\", \"C. avius\" and other species of the genus \"Cerdocyon\" underwent radiational evolution on the South American continent. All close relatives of the crab-eating fox (\"Cerdocyon thous\") are extinct. It is the only living representative at present of the genus \"Cerdocyon\". Genetically, there are 74 diploid chromosomes (36 pairs).\n\nThe crab-eating fox is predominantly greyish-brown, with areas of red on the face and legs, and black-tipped ears and tail. It has short, strong legs and its tail is long and bushy. It may reach an adult weight of . The head and body length averages , and the average tail length is . This fox weighs between . It is mainly nocturnal and also is active at dusk, spending its day in dens that were dug by other animals. It either hunts individually or lives in pairs; it eats crabs, lizards and different flying animals. It is easy to domesticate and farm, but its fur is not so highly valued as that of other species.\n\nThe coat is short and thick. Coloration varies from grey to brown, to yellowish, to pale, to dark grey. There is a black streak along the back legs, with a black stripe along the spine. On muzzle, ears and paws there is more-reddish fur. The tail, legs and ear tips are black. The ears are wide and round. The torso is somewhat narrow; legs are short but strong. The dense hairy tail stays upright when they are excited.\n\nThe crab-eating fox creates monogamic teams for hunting; groups of several monogamic pairs may form during the reproductive season. For population distribution, some explorers showed one individual distribution for 4 km while another observation showed that one distribution had changed from 0.6 to 0.9 km for one individual. Territorialism was noticed during the dry season; during rainy seasons, when there is more food, they pay less attention to territory. Hideouts and dens often are found in bushes and in thick grass, and there are typically multiple entrance holes per den. Despite being capable of tunnelling, they prefer to take over other animals' burrows. Hunting methods are adapted to type of prey. Several characteristic sounds are made by the crab-eating fox such as barking, whirring and howling, which occur often when pairs lose contact with one another.\nThe adult female gives birth to one or two litters per year, and the breeding pair is monogamous. The pair ranges the plains together. As a tropical animal, reproduction is not fixed to certain times of year, and takes place twice yearly. The reproductive period most often begins in November or December, and again in July. The birth of offspring follows after a 56-day gestation, typically in January, February or sometimes March, then again from September to October.\n\nThe crab-eating fox searches for crabs on muddy floodplains during the wet season, giving this animal its common name. It is an opportunist and an omnivore, preferring insects or meat from rodents and birds when available. Other foods readily consumed include turtle eggs, tortoises, fruit, eggs, crustaceans, insects, lizards and carrion. Their diet is varied and has been found to differ by different researchers, suggesting opportunistic feeding and geographical variation. During the wet season, the diet contains more crabs and other crustaceans, while during the dry season it contains more insects. The crab-eating fox contributes to the control of rodents and harmful insects.\n\nThe Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) lists the fox as not threatened by extinction. The IUCN lists the crab-eating fox as being of \"Least Concern\".\n\nThe crab-eating fox has five recognized subspecies, differing in sizes and coloring of fur.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883907", "title": "Wealth elasticity of demand", "text": "Wealth elasticity of demand\n\nThe wealth elasticity of demand, in microeconomics and macroeconomics, is the proportional change in the consumption of a good relative to a change in consumers' wealth (as distinct from changes in personal income). Measuring and accounting for the variability in this elasticity is a continuing problem in behavioral finance and consumer theory.\n\nThe wealth elasticity of consumption quantity for some good will determine the size of the expenditure shift due to \"unexpected\" changes in net personal wealth, \"ceteris paribus\" (i.e. the size of the so-called \"wealth effect\" for a given good). It is calculated as \"the ratio of the percent change in consumption to the percent change in wealth that caused it.\"\n\nThis is analogous to the definition of the income effect from the income elasticity of demand, or the substitution effect from the price elasticity. The measure of \"wealth\" is mostly taken to be total personal realizable wealth at market prices, liquid or not:\n\nSome economists say that bonds are simply a loan to the government and that they are not considered (on the aggregate) to be part of net wealth. Generally, the wealth change is measured in real terms.\n\nIt may seem obvious that an unanticipated windfall will lead to greater consumption and that a fiscal loss will have the opposite effect. However, when the stock markets crashed in April 2000 (wiping out $2.1 trillion in nominal investor wealth) U.S. household consumption did not drop substantially.\n\nSome researchers have tried to resolve this difficulty by redefining wealth as the 'stable underlying value' of assets, which doesn't change with asset values, although this raises other questions of consumer rationality.\n\nMost researchers calculate the wealth effect in real terms, so a deflation in price levels will increase personal wealth on average (because the total wealth in society is positive, the difference between saving and debt is tangible assets, such as land). The increase in private real wealth may give rise to a wealth effect of increased consumption. The macroeconomic effect of this on employment is called the Pigou effect, but whether or not this acts as a significant brake on a deflationary spiral is controversial. Pigou's reasoning for a positive wealth elasticity was that richer people feel more secure in the future and hence save less from current income. (So wealth is not redistributed by the effect.)\n\nThe elasticity has important implications for monetary policy: Investments with a fixed yield (such as a bond paying coupons at 5%) will increase in net present value as interest rates fall. Since fixed-income bond-holders’ personal wealth (at market rates) has increased, this may stimulate expenditure in a wealth effect. Working the other way, central banks often need to guess the wealth elasticity for asset price changes that have already happened in order to adjust the interest rate. In particular, the extent to which house price increases affect the rest of the economy is a critical question.\n\nA naïve assumption (or first approximation) linking the wealth and income elasticities of demand is:\n\nHowever, this approach overlooks the fact that people typically treat income and capital differently. (Behavioural economics hypothesises different \"mental accounts\" for income and assets, and points to empirical studies showing that the marginal propensity to consume extra income is one, but is lower for windfall asset increases.)\n\nEconometric research is ongoing to find good wealth elasticity parameters, especially in areas like house-price-related wealth effects. However, some patterns are widely believed to hold:\n\nIf 'leisure time' is a superior good the income effect will partially cancel itself out, since people will work less as their hourly pay goes up. A change in net wealth doesn't require economic labour to produce, and has a different impact on the labour market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883918", "title": "John Ballantyne", "text": "John Ballantyne\n\nJohn Ballantyne may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883934", "title": "Five Americans", "text": "Five Americans\n\nFive Americans was a 1960s American rock band, most famous for their song, \"Western Union\", which reached number five in the U.S. \"Billboard\" chart and was their only single to chart in the Top 20.\n\nThe Mutineers formed in Durant, Oklahoma (Southeastern State College) in 1962. The band members crossed paths at the university, and began performing a repertoire of Bo Diddley and Duane Eddy standards within the campus. In 1963, the band recorded their debut single, \"Jackin' Around\", in Dallas, Texas, an instrumental which received extensive airplay in their college. The British Invasion influenced The Mutineers to include Beatles numbers to their repertoire, a change in outfitting, and a slight emphasis to vocals. However, their most impactful acquisition was their utilization of the Vox Continental electronic organ, a later highlight of the group's sound. While in Dallas, the band achieved prominence playing as a frequent attraction in a venue called The Pirate's Nook. There they came to the attention of Abnak Records whose president John Abdnor took the group under his wing. Shortly thereafter, the band identified themselves as the Five Americans.\n\nFor a short while after their five top singles \"I See The Light\", \"Western Union\", \"Sound of Love\", \"Evol - Not Love\", and \"Zip Code\" were released, they toured. However, their manager, Jon Abdnor Sr., president and owner of Abnak Records and Bankers Management and Services Insurance Co., was allowed control of their finances.\n\nAfter Abdnor's death in 1996, all rights to their songs should have reverted to the original group, but Sundazed Records bought the original tapes. The Five Americans are now receiving their share of the sales and publishing royalties.\n\nIn a March 1967 interview that appeared in Michael Oberman's \"Top Tunes\" column in the \"Evening Star\" newspaper (Washington, D.C.), Norman Ezell, guitarist for the group, explained how they came up with \"Western Union.\" \"Mike Rabon, our lead guitar player, was just fooling around with his guitar when he came up with a unique sound,\" Norman said. \"It sort of reminded us of a telegraph key. That's when we decided to write 'Western Union.'\"\n\nThe Five Americans broke up in 1969 and went their separate ways after their single \"7:30 Guided Tour\" stalled at number 96 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nMike Rabon had a successful touring career afterwards, released two albums that sold well, and played guitar for the Tyler, Texas, pop group Gladstone, whose \"A Piece of Paper\" reached number 45 in October 1972. He later returned to college, acquired a master's degree in public school administration, and has been in the Oklahoma school systems for 28 years.\n\nJohn Durrill, the keyboardist, who wrote \"Dark Lady\" for Cher and \"Misery and Gin\" for Merle Haggard and was also a member of the band The Ventures, now lives in Los Angeles.\n\nBassist Jim Grant died from a heart attack on November 29, 2004.\n\nNorman Ezell (guitar and harmonica) became a teacher and minister in Northern California. He died of cancer on May 8, 2010, at the age of 68.\n\nDrummer Jimmy Wright (born James T. Wright on December 2, 1947) left the music industry to become a freelance photographer. He died at Texoma Medical Center on January 30, 2012, at the age of 64.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883941", "title": "Utut Adianto", "text": "Utut Adianto\n\nUtut Adianto Wahyuwidayat (born 16 March 1965) is an Indonesian chess player and politician. He was awarded the title of Grandmaster by FIDE in 1986. He serves as the deputy speaker of the People's Representative Council since March 2018.\n\nBorn in Jakarta, Utut Adianto learned the game of chess at the age of six. He won the Jakarta Junior Championship at the age of 12. In 1982, he won the Indonesian Chess Championship. He was awarded the title Grandmaster in 1986, becoming at the time the youngest Indonesian to do so at the age of 21 years. Since then, Susanto Megaranto has become a grandmaster at the age of 17 years. Between 1995 and 1999 Adianto maintained an Elo rating over 2600.\n\nIn 1999, he participated in the FIDE world championship in Las Vegas, held with the knockout format, losing to Daniel Fridman in the first round.\n\nUtut Adianto is chairman of the Indonesian Chess Federation (PERCASI). With Machnan R. Kamaluddin, Eka Putra Wirya and Kristianus Liem, he founded a chess school in Indonesia, which has produced several national players.\n\nIn 2005, Adianto was awarded the title of FIDE Senior Trainer.\n\nOn 9 May 2009, he was elected to the People's Representative Council, the lower house of Indonesia's bicameral parliament. He became deputy speaker of the body on 20 March 2018.\n\nIn the game below, Adianto beats four-time U.S. chess champion Alexander Shabalov: \nGame played in New York, 1993, Caro-Kann Defense\n\n1.e4 c6 2.d4 d5 3.e5 Bf5 4.Nc3 e6\n5.g4 Bg6 6.Nge2 c5 7.Be3 Nc6 8.dxc5 Nxe5\n9.Nf4 a6 10.Qe2 Nf6 11.O-O-O Be7 12.Bg2 Nexg4\n13.Nfxd5 exd5 14.Nxd5 Nxd5 15.Qxg4 O-O 16.Bxd5 Qc7\n17.f4 Rad8 18.Rhe1 Qa5 19.Bf2 Bxc5 20.Re5 Qa4\n21.Bb3 Rxd1+ 22.Kxd1 Rd8+ 23.Kc1 Qb4 24.Be1 Qd4\n25.a3 Bxa3 26.c3 Qb6 27.Qh4 Bd6 28.Rd5 Re8\n29.f5 Qxb3 30.Rxd6 Bxf5 31.Rd2 Qa2 0-1\n\n"}
{"id": "1883942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883942", "title": "Joey Bustos", "text": "Joey Bustos\n\nJoey Bustos is an American musician.\n\nBustos was born in San Francisco and raised in Richmond, California.\n\nJoey Bustos was the drummer and a founding member of the influential punk band Link 80. The members later changed the musical direction of the band, and in 2002, changed the name of the band to Desa. Bustos left Desa after the release of their 2003 album \"Year in a Red Room\".\n\nHe played drums in Street To Nowhere from 2005–2008 and currently plays drums in the San Francisco-based rock and roll/soul band, The Soft White Sixties, who composed the 2013 album \"Get Right\".\n\nIn 2016, Bustos participated in a Link 80 reunion for the Asian Man Records 20th Anniversary. On June 17 and 18, the band played two sold out shows at the San Francisco's Bottom of the Hill. The lineup also included singer Ryan Noble, guitarists Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Adam Davis, bassists Adam Pereria and Barry Krippene, and horn players Aaron Nagel, Steve Borth and Jason Lechner. Prior to the shows, a video tribute to Nick Traina was shown that the band released the video online on June 20, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883947", "title": "John Wales", "text": "John Wales\n\nJohn Wales (July 31, 1783 – December 3, 1863) was an American lawyer and politician from Wilmington, in New Castle County, Delaware. He was a member of the Whig Party who served as U.S. Senator from Delaware.\n\nWales was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and graduated from Yale College in 1801. He was admitted to the Connecticut Bar in 1801 and began practicing law in New Haven, and later, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. After two years in Baltimore, Maryland, he moved to Wilmington, Delaware, in 1815.\n\nIn 1814, Wales became a secretary for the Society for the Promotion of American Manufacturers, which was designed to promote and encourage Delaware's manufacturing industry. Wales drafted the by-laws of the Savings Bank in 1832, then served as the president of the Bank of Wilmington and Brandywine from 1824 to 1829.\n\nWales served as the Secretary of State for Delaware from 1845 to 1849, and was elected as a Whig to the U.S. Senate to fill the vacancy left when John M. Clayton resigned. Taking office on February 23, 1849, he served until March 3, 1851, having failed in his reelection bid.\n\nAn abolitionist, Wales served as a Delaware representative to the First National Convention of the Abolition of Slavery along with famous abolitionist Thomas Garrett. When Garrett was tried in 1848 for aiding the escape of a slave family, Wales served as his lawyer. He was also one of the founders of Newark College in Newark, Delaware, now the University of Delaware.\n\nWales died in Wilmington and is buried in the Wilmington and Brandywine Cemetery.\n\nThe General Assembly chose the U.S. Senators, who took office March 4, for a six-year term. In this case he was completing the existing term, the vacancy caused by the resignation of John M. Clayton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883955", "title": "Aaron Nagel", "text": "Aaron Nagel\n\nAaron Nagel is an American painter and the original trumpet player for punk rock/ska core act Link 80, born and raised in Berkeley, California.\n\nHe later played guitar in the band DESA with other former Link 80 members Ryan Noble, Adam Davis, and Barry Krippine.\n\nHe currently runs Two Twenty Two Design Studio and is an artist whose work has adorned two Rx Bandits albums (his paintings \"\"Predictable\"\" and \"\"Look Left ...And The Battle Begun\"\" are the covers of The Resignation and ...And the Battle Begun respectively) as well as DESA's split EP with Howards Alias and their latest album \"\"Arriving Alive\"\".\n\nHis paintings has been in solo and group shows across the country since 2005.\n\nIn 2016, Nagel participated in a Link 80 reunion for the Asian Man Records 20th Anniversary. On June 17 and 18, the band played two sold-out shows at the San Francisco's Bottom of the Hill. The lineup also included singer Ryan Noble, guitarists Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Adam Davis, drummer Joey Bustos, bassists Adam Pereria and Barry Krippene, and horn players Steve Borth and Jason Lechner. Prior to the shows, a video tribute to Nick Traina was shown that the band released the video online on June 20, 2016.\n\nNagel is vegan straight edge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883964", "title": "Grand Lake", "text": "Grand Lake\n\nGrand Lake may refer to:\n\nCanada\n\nChina\n\nUnited States\n\nInternational\n\n"}
{"id": "1883970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883970", "title": "Starslayer", "text": "Starslayer\n\nStarslayer: The Log of the Jolly Roger was an American comic book series created by Mike Grell.\n\nGrell originally created \"Starslayer\" for DC Comics, but plans to publish it were halted after the mass cancellation of titles known as the DC Implosion. Instead, he offered it to Pacific Comics, who released it as a six issue series in 1982. It was originally intended as an ongoing series per Pacific Comics's publisher Bill Schanes but Grell's developing relationship with the new First Comics and previous working relationship with their editorial director Mike Gold (who had been Grell's editor at DC) swayed him to release future issues with First. In August 1983 First Comics continued the series, starting with issue #7, with Grell writing and providing breakdown art with finishes by Lenin Delsol. Grell left the series after issue #8, and was replaced by writer John Ostrander and Delsol as sole artist. Later contributors to the series were Tim Truman, Hilary Barta, and Tom Sutton. The final issue, #34, came out November 1985.\n\nIssues 2 & 3 saw the introduction of Dave Stevens' Rocketeer as a back-up feature. In issue #10, the character Grimjack was introduced in the same fashion; he would later receive his own title. Another character that appeared as backup feature was Groo the Wanderer, who also later received his own title at Pacific.\n\nIn 1995 Grell released an expanded version of the original limited series through Acclaim Comics. The expanded version, titled \"Starslayer: The Director's Cut\", ran for eight issues.\n\nThe first six issue limited series introduces the main character Torin Mac Quillon, a Celtic warrior from the time of the Roman Empire. Just before he is killed while fighting a group of Roman soldiers, he is pulled into the distant future by Tamara, a descendant of his wife after she remarried. Torin is asked to join the crew of the spaceship \"Jolly Roger\" in their fight against the oppressive regime that is ruling the Earth. Torin agrees, and he and his new shipmates successfully save the Earth's dying sun by the end of the first series.\n\nWhen First Comics restarted the series, Torin and his crewmates travel throughout the galaxy and end up in Cynosure, the nexus of all realities for First Comics, and gain a crew of pirates. At some point Torin travels back to the solar system with a device that can cause a star to implode into a black hole. He uses this weapon on the sun in the course of battle to destroy his enemies. Just at the point of implosion Torin speaks the name of the Celtic goddess of death, Morrigan, effectively sacrificing the star to her, which brings her back into existence. She proclaims Torin to be her avatar and orders him to go into the galaxy and kill in her name. Torin rebels, which is the basis of the remainder of the title's run.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883971", "title": "Indiana State Road 19", "text": "Indiana State Road 19\n\nState Road 19 (SR 19) is a route on the Indiana State Highway System that runs between Noblesville and Elkhart in the US state of Indiana. The of Indiana SR 19 serve as a minor highway. Some of the highway is listed on the National Highway System. Various sections are urban four-lane highway and rural two-lane highway. The highway passes through farmland, residential and commercial properties. The northernmost community along the highway is Simonton Lake at the Michigan state line.\n\nSR 19 was first designated as US 112 in 1926. SR 19 replaced the original SR 21 designation of the highway which dated back to 1926. SR 21 ran from the Marion to Peru. SR 19 was extended over the years south to Noblesville.\n\nSR 19 begins at an intersection with SR 32 and SR 38, in Noblesville. The highway heads north along the banks of the White River as a two-lane highway. The route leaves the bank of the river heading north and passes through farmland with some houses. The road enters Cicero and passes through residential and commercial properties. The highway heads north towards Tipton, passing through farmland. The route enters Tipton from the south and passes through residential properties. In Tipton the road begins a concurrency with SR 28. The concurrency heads east crossing the Norfolk Southern Railroad tracks, before SR 19 turns back north. The road heads north leaving Tipton, passing through farmland with a few houses.\n\nSR 19 heads north until it meets U.S. Route 35 (US 35) and SR 22, east of Kokomo. The concurrency heads east passing through Greentown and an intersection with SR 213. The concurrency ends when SR 19 turns north onto SR 13 and US 35/SR 22 keep heading east. SR 13 and SR 19 head north passing through farmland, with some houses. The concurrency end at an intersection with SR 18, when SR 13 heads east concurrent with SR 18 and SR 19 heads west concurrent with SR 18. The concurrency with SR 18 passes through Converse, before SR 19 turns north and SR 18 still heading west. The highway heads towards Peru, passing through rural farmland. The highway enters Peru from the southeast, having an intersection with SR 124. The highway passes over the Wabash River and into downtown Peru. While in downtown Peru SR 19 makes a few turns through downtown. The route leaves downtown Peru and has an intersection at US 24.\nThe road passes through a concurrency with SR 16 and through the town of Akron. In Mentone the highway crosses a set of Norfolk Southern Railroad tracks and through an intersection with SR 25. The road leaves Mentone and heads towards Nappanee, passing through Etna Green. In Etna Green the highway crosses the Chicago, Fort Wayne and Eastern Railroad and through a traffic light with US 30. North of Etna Green the road passes through farmland and makes a few sharp curve, but mostly keeps heading towards the north. The route enters Nappanee and has an intersection at US 6.\n\nThe road leaves Nappanee passing through Farmland with some houses. The route becomes a four-lane divided highway at an intersection with Elkhart County Road 26 (CR 26), south of Elkhart. The road enters Elkhart at an interchange with US 20. North of US 20 the highway becomes a four-lane highway with a center turn lane at an intersection with CR 20/Mishawaka Road. The highway passes under the Norfolk Southern Classification yard and has an intersection with Old US 33. The road heads north, west of downtown Elkhart, having an intersection with Old US 20. The highway has an intersection at Bypass Road, Old US 112, before curving due east. The highway turns back north at Cassopolis Street and passes through commercial properties. The road has an interchange with the Indiana Toll Road, Interstate 80 (I–80)/I–90. North of the toll road the roadway narrows to a two-lane highway with a center turn lane and passes through residential properties. The route leaves Elkhart and passes by the Simonton Lake. The highway narrows to a two-lane highway and passes through farmland. SR 19 ends at the Michigan state line and continues into Michigan as Old M–205.\n\nOnly one segment of State Road 19 is included in the National Highway System (NHS), this is the segment that is concurrent with U.S. Route 35 and SR 22. The NHS is a network of highways that are identified as being most important for the economy, mobility and defense of the nation. The highway is maintained by the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) like all other state roads in the state. The department tracks the traffic volumes along all state highways as a part of its maintenance responsibilities using a metric called average annual daily traffic (AADT). This measurement is a calculation of the traffic level along a segment of roadway for any average day of the year. In 2010, INDOT figured that the lowest traffic levels were 780 vehicles and 170 commercial vehicles used the highway daily between Etna Green and County Road 900 North in Kosciusko County. The peak traffic volumes were 21,860 vehicles and 3,190 commercial vehicles AADT along the section of SR 19 concurrent with Cassopolis Street in Elkhart.\n\nThe route that SR 19 takes today was first signed in 1918 as SR 51 and went from SR 2 in Elkhart to the Michigan state line. This section was renumber in 1926 to U.S. Route 112. In 1928, SR 19 was first signed from Nappanee to Elkhart and the route from SR 18 to Peru was signed as SR 21. SR 19 was extended to Peru from Nappanee in 1931 and from Noblesville to Cicero in 1932. In 1934 the section from Elkhart to the Michigan state line was renumber as U.S. Route 112S.\n\nUntil 2008, State Road 19 had existed in two sections. The southern section ended at State Road 22 east of Kokomo; the highway picked up again at State Road 18 south of Amboy.\n"}
{"id": "1883972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883972", "title": "Walker Keith Armistead", "text": "Walker Keith Armistead\n\nWalker Keith Armistead (March 25, 1783 – October 13, 1845) was a military officer who served as Chief of Engineers of the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nArmistead was born in Upperville, Fauquier County, Virginia, and served as an orderly sergeant at the Battle of Fallen Timbers. He graduated from West Point in 1803. During the War of 1812, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel and successively served as Chief Engineer of the Niagara frontier army and the forces defending Chesapeake Bay. He was promoted to colonel and Chief Engineer on November 12, 1818. When the Army was reorganized on June 1, 1821, he became commander of the 3rd Artillery Regiment. He was brevetted brigadier general in November 1828. He succeeded Zachary Taylor as commander of the army during the Second Seminole War against the Seminole Indians in Florida in 1840–1841.\n\nAfter 42 years of service as a commissioned officer, Armistead died in New Market, Virginia at the age of 72, and is buried in the Armistead family cemetery in Upperville.\n\nHis brother George Armistead commanded Fort McHenry during the Battle of Baltimore in the War of 1812. The attack became immortalized by onlooker Francis Scott Key who penned The Star Spangled Banner while watching the British bombardment of Armistead's fort.\n\nHis son Lewis Addison Armistead was a Confederate general who died during Pickett's Charge at the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863.\n\n\"This article contains public domain text from\" \n"}
{"id": "1883982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883982", "title": "Mr. Haney", "text": "Mr. Haney\n\nMr. Haney (given name Eustace Charlton Haney) is a fictional local farmer turned salesman and con man in the rural Hooterville community who was a supporting antagonist character on the 1960s CBS television series \"Green Acres\".\n\nHe first appeared in the episode \"Lisa's First Day on the Farm\" (September 22, 1965).\n\nHaney, the downright low down salesman portrayed by veteran character actor and longtime Western film sidekick Pat Buttram with the distinctive, warbling voice, sold his family's ancient, dilapidated farm to Oliver when he and Lisa Douglas left New York City for rural Hooterville and their new life as farmers. In the process of the sale, Haney stripped the farm of everything of value down to the plumbing.\n\nHaney had cheated the Douglases by charging them several times what the property was worth and saddling them with a dysfunctional farm. He continued to cheat them by initially selling the movable property associated with the farm to them, one piece at a time. Douglas bought Haney's cow, tractor and plow, all of which were as useless as the farm. He sometimes put the word \"genuine\" in front of an object he was trying to sell.\n\nHe continued to come back with his farm truck converted into a peddler's truck stocked with worthless versions of items that Oliver had need of. He almost invariably succeeded in unloading the items on Oliver at inflated prices despite his past shady dealings with them. He often took a piece of junk and called it by some outlandish name, suggesting that it has some use that it clearly does not and that it's in some way valuable.\n\nHaney would often turn up in his 1925 truck at the Douglas farm, minutes after they've realized they needed something, selling exactly that (even if it were very odd), complete with a pull-down sign on his truck advertising it. If turned down by Douglas, Haney would offer a variety of equally useless alternatives. Mr. Haney, ever the glib and creative speaker, was once asked by Mr. Douglas, \"How come you always show up with exactly what I need?\", to which he replied, \"Well let me put it to you another way -- how come you always need what I show up with?\". \n\nIn one episode, Haney's \"Grabwell\" washer, basically a barrel with an outboard motor in it, wrecks the Ziffels' house. Oliver successfully sues Haney. But Haney, of course, profits because the sale he holds to raise money to pay the settlement brings him in more than if he had peddled the stuff in his normal fashion. Further, Lisa buys some of it. In another episode, Haney examines what he believes is a dead cow (actually a plastic promotional item that fell off a meat truck), hoping to parlay the find into a profit, and refers to it as the “corpus delicious”.\n\nAnother time, Haney had what seemed to be an entire company in the back of his truck. One person comes out to speak to him. He then yells into the door for everyone to take lunch, and it sounds as if several dozen employees are contained in the small area.\n\nHaney was married in the series and often talked about his wife. However, in one episode, Haney and Joe Carson from \"Petticoat Junction\" compete to see who will date Lisa's mother, the Countess. Since this doesn't bother Lisa and Oliver in the least bit, we can assume Haney's wife was no longer in the picture by that episode.\n\nOne time Haney failed is when he tried to promote an artificial milk making machine, only to find out that not only were the chemicals so expensive that milk prices would be unaffordable, but the \"milk\" caused baldness as well!\n\nMr. Haney would cross over to \"Petticoat Junction\" including one time as a Realtor for the recently wedded Betty Jo Bradley.\n"}
{"id": "1883990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883990", "title": "Bryant and May Factory, Melbourne", "text": "Bryant and May Factory, Melbourne\n\nThe Bryant and May Factory, located in the Cremorne area of Richmond in Melbourne, is notable for its distinctive red brick buildings, and as the location for the manufacture of Australia's most popular brand of matches through much of the 20th century. Bryant and May adopted the brand name Redheads in 1946, and it is still the most popular match in the country, although now manufactured in Sweden.\n\nBryant and May are also notable for operating as a model factory, providing workers with conditions and amenities which even today seem generous. These included a dining hall and sports facilities such as a tennis court and bowling green which were constructed in the 1920s.\n\nBryant and May ceased Australian match manufacture in the early 1980s as a result of import competition. Their iconic Redheads matches are now imported from Sweden. The complex has since been converted for use as offices and showrooms but is extremely well preserved. It is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register.\n\nThe Bryant and May complex at 560 Church Street, Richmond, comprises a series of factory buildings, dominated by a major freestanding redbrick 3-4 storey building, complete with clock tower, running back from the Church Street frontage. This is visible from some distance on three sides across local streets and carparks, and from the nearby elevated rail lines. The front 3/4 of the building running back from Church Street was the first built, in 1909, designed by prolific Melbourne architect William Pitt. It is a typically Melbourne Edwardian design, in bold red brick with cement dressings, with bays defined by red brick piers which are carried through the rendered balustrade, creating a long rhythmic facade on the south side. The front facade features finer piers, spandrels with Art Nouveau foliated decoration, a large entry arch, the lettering B & M above, topped by an unusual pierced arched pediment. \nOther smaller buildings were added across a small lane on the north side in 1910 and 1917 in a matching style. A large addition was made to the rear (west) of the building in 1921-22, designed by Klingender & Hamilton, in matching red brick but in a Stripped Classical style. This addition has an extra floor, with prominent signage, and a clock tower on the north side and the clock face bears the name BRYANT AND MAY in place of numbers. A new chimney stack, boiler house, offices and Brymay Hall, also designed by Klingender & Hamilton, were also added at this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883991", "title": "Condomi", "text": "Condomi\n\nCondomi is a German condom manufacturer based in Cologne, which began production in 1988. For many years, Condomi used a production technique, which did not involve the use of the milk protein casein. This meant Condomi was one of the few condom lines that were casein-free and suitable for Vegetarians and Vegans. \n\nDue to a change of ownership at the company, this production technique was changed and the company lost the ability to display the Vegan Society trademark on their products. Condomi is currently owned by Unimill Condoms, which is a subsidiary of Ansell.\n\nCondomi's products come in a variety of styles and flavours including strawberry, chocolate, spearmint, and coconut.\n\n"}
{"id": "1883992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883992", "title": "OTO Melara", "text": "OTO Melara\n\nOTO Melara was a subsidiary of the Italian company Finmeccanica S.p.A. (today Leonardo), active in the defence sector, with factories in Brescia and La Spezia. The Mod 56 pack howitzer, in service throughout the world, and the 76mm naval gun, adopted by 53 navies and installed on over 1,000 naval vessels, are among OTO Melara's best-known weapons since World War II.\n\nFrom 1 January 2016, the activities of OTO Melara merged into Leonardo-Finmeccanica's Defence Systems Division, within the Electronics, Defence and Security Systems Sector.\n\nIt was founded in 1905 as a joint venture of Vickers and Terni Steelworks, Cantiere navale fratelli Orlando and Cantieri navali Odero. Investment was also provided by Giuseppe Orlando and Attilio Odero. During World War I, Vickers Terni produced many weapons with calibre 40 mm and upwards. In 1929 the company was renamed Odero Terni Orlando with the abbreviation OTO. During World War II, mostly heavy guns for battleships were produced.\n\nIn 1953 the company took the name OTO Melara.\n\nBefore Italy joined NATO, OTO Melara produced civil products, like tractors and looms, but quickly returned to the production of weapons. On 1 December 2001, the naval artillery division of OTO Melara merged with that of Breda Meccanica Bresciana to form Otobreda. The combined entity produces the DARDO CIWS, Otobreda 76 mm and Otobreda 127/54 Compact naval guns. OTO Melara's land defence operations are part of the Finmeccanica conglomerate.\n\nVehicles manufactured include:\n\nWeapons manufactured includes:\n\nAmmunition manufactured include:\n\nIn the last decade the company has produced between 900 and 1000 GBU-31 and GBU-32 JDAMs on license. At the moment it is working on the production of 500 GBU-39s for the Aeronautica Militare.\n\nThe naval defence operations produce a wide range of automatic naval artillery, rocket and missile launchers and remote controlled small calibre defence cannons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884007", "title": "Timothy Truman", "text": "Timothy Truman\n\nTimothy Truman (born February 9, 1956) is an American writer, artist and musician. He is best known for his stories and Wild West-style comic book art, and in particular, for his work on \"Grimjack\" (with John Ostrander), \"Scout\", and the reinvention of Jonah Hex, with Joe R. Lansdale.\n\nTruman was born in 1956 in Gauley Bridge, West Virginia. After graduating from Gauley Bridge High School in 1974, he attended the Columbus College of Art and Design while also attending West Virginia University. From 1979 to 1981 he attended The Kubert School in New Jersey. \n\nHe currently lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and was an instructor at the Pennsylvania College of Art and Design from 2003 to 2006.\n\nAfter graduation, he moved to New York City and worked in the fantasy role-playing game industry for a few years providing illustrations for various companies, including working for TSR, Inc. as a staff illustrator.\n\nWith Flint Henry, Truman co-authored \"Rifts Dimension Book 1: Wormwood\" (1993), which was critically acclaimed for its vibrant backgrounds.\n\nIn 2015, Truman contributed, among other artists, to bring inner illustrations to the tabletop role-playing game \"\", first published in 2016 by British company Modiphius Entertainment.\n\nTruman's first professional comics work was a series of backup stories in DC Comics' \"Sgt. Rock\" title published from 1981 to 1983. His first major work was \"Grimjack\" with writer John Ostrander, for the independent comics company First Comics. Grimjack first appeared in \"Starslayer\" #10 (November 1983), before moving to his own series after issue #18 (July 1984), and continued for 81 issues.\n\nIn 1985, he created \"Scout\", which was followed by \"Scout: War Shaman\", a futuristic western. A year later, he relaunched the Hillman characters Airboy and The Heap for Eclipse Comics. He also developed The Prowler, a Shadow type character, and adapted The Spider for Eclipse.\n\nAt DC Comics he created \"Hawkworld\", a reinvention of Hawkman in 1989. An ongoing series with the same name was launched the following year. With author Joe R. Lansdale, he reinterpreted Jonah Hex as a horror western. In it, their creation of villain Edgar Autumn elicited a lawsuit from musician Edgar Winter.\n\nTruman was chosen by Dark Horse Comics to illustrate a newly completed Tarzan novel and wrote a story arc for the comic book. He also wrote nearly the entire run of \"Turok: Dinosaur Hunter\" for Valiant Comics. For the defunct science fiction imprint of DC, Helix, he created \"The Black Lamb\". He also worked on a typical pulp adventure \"Guns of the Dragon\", featuring Enemy Ace and Bat Lash and scripted a \"Creature Commandos\" limited series. At Dark Horse Comics, he wrote \"Star Wars\", \"Conan\", and \"Conan The Cimmerian\".\n\nTruman's work, \"Wilderness: The True Story of Simon Girty, Renegade\" was a two-volume black and white graphic novel depicting the American settler's western frontier.\n\n\"Tecumseh!\" a graphic novel based on the West Virginia Outdoor Theater, is a colored graphic novel that shows the play from beginning to end. It renewed interest in the warrior in Appalachia.\n\nA longtime fan and musician, Truman has integrated his love of music into comics and illustration. While working for Eclipse Comics, Truman included a Flexi disc recording inside \"Scout\" #19 (May 1987) that provided a soundtrack to one of the scenes in the comic. He also released an album through Eclipse Records with his band The Dixie Pistols entitled \"Marauder\". The album included a short comic book featuring the wedding of Emanuel Santanna that took place between the first series \"Scout\" and the second series \"Scout: War Shaman\".\n\nWhile writing the biography of one of his favorite guitarists, Carlos Santana, for Rock-It Comics, Truman found out that the musician had been a longtime fan of his comic, \"Scout\", whose main character, Emanuel Santanna, is the namesake of the famous guitarist. Naming the characters after favorite musicians was a common convention that Truman used throughout the \"Scout\" series.\n\nTruman has also had a long relationship with the band the Grateful Dead creating artwork for CD covers, tour posters, limited-edition T-shirts and a color comics page in each issue of the \"Grateful Dead Almanac\".\n\nTruman built a recording studio in his home and while producing recording sessions for Cherokee singer/songwriter Terry Strongheart, they decided to form a new band with some of Truman's friends and Strongheart's daughter called the Terry Strongheart Band. Two CDs have been recorded, the first entitled \"Tears\" and the follow-up \"Indian School\".\n\nTruman provided illustrations for the posthumous Rory Gallagher release \"Kickback City\" (2013). Truman said he first heard Gallagher's music in 1973 while a junior in high school.\n\nTimothy Truman is often confused with the music composer Tim Truman who wrote the theme to \"Melrose Place\" and composed the score to \"Miami Vice's\" final season among other important contributions to the music industry in movies and television.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884009", "title": "Nick Traina", "text": "Nick Traina\n\nNick Traina (born Nicholas John Steel Toth; May 1, 1978 – September 20, 1997) was an American singer, who was lead singer for the punk band Link 80.\n\nA son of American bestselling writer Danielle Steel, Traina was given the last name of his adoptive father, John Traina, a cruise line executive. He was raised in San Francisco where he attended Town School.\n\nTraina's biological father was Steel's third husband, William George Toth, a convicted burglar and former heroin addict.\n\nTraina started his first band, \"Shanker\", at age 13 with Max Leavitt. He joined Link 80 at age 16 and played with them for three years, touring extensively. After leaving Link 80 in August 1997, Traina formed a new band called Knowledge and recorded a demo with them that has since been released on Asian Man Records. A song titled \"Gnat\" was included on the release; the song was recorded years earlier with Leavitt, who died on June 3, 2009.\n\nDue to the many problems Traina exhibited from childhood, his life included a number of psychiatric hospitalizations for drug abuse and for treatment of bipolar disorder. While his mother tried to get him the proper medical help, Traina died at 19, from a self-administered lithium overdose at the home of a friend, Julie Campbell.\n\nTraina was interred in Cypress Lawn Memorial Park cemetery in Colma, California. A handful of songs have been written for Traina, including All Bets Off's \"Catharsis\" by best friend Sammy Winston, Link 80's \"Unbroken\" by former bandmate Matt Bettinelli-Olpin, and \"Hey, Nick!\" by the White Trash Debutantes.\n\nOn May 16, 1998, Steel hosted a memorial show for Traina at Slim's in San Francisco, featuring Link 80, MU330, the Bruce Lee Band, Powerhouse, the Hoods, Subincision, All Bets Off and the Blast Bandits.\n\nIn 1998, Steel released her book titled \"His Bright Light\" which was about Nick's life and death along with his struggles with mental illness and drugs. Proceeds of the book, which reached the New York Times Non-Fiction Bestseller List, were used to found the Nick Traina Foundation, which Steel runs, to fund organizations dedicated to treating mental illness.\n\nIn June 2016, Link 80 reunited for two reunion shows and released a five-minute tribute video featuring footage and images of Traina accompanied by the Social Distortion song \"When the Angels Sing,\" which was played before the shows.\n\nWith Link 80:\n\nWith Knowledge:\n\n"}
{"id": "1884021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884021", "title": "Sarah Kennedy", "text": "Sarah Kennedy\n\nSarah Mary Kennedy MBE (born 8 July 1950 in East Grinstead, Sussex) is a British TV and radio broadcaster. She presented her own daily early morning radio show, \"The Dawn Patrol\", on BBC Radio 2 from 1993 to 2010.\n\nIn the Queen's Birthday Honours 2005 Kennedy was appointed as a Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire \"for services to broadcasting\".\n\nSarah Kennedy was born in Sussex, being raised in East Grinstead, the daughter of a stockbroker and a nurse. She studied for two years at drama school, becoming a drama teacher. She was a matron at Copthorne Prep School.\n\nIn her twenties, she married a member of the armed forces. She has a partner, Adrian McGlynn, a director of Weatherbys, to whom she refers as her \"much beloved\". He became a popular character in the show. They met at the wedding of Desmond Morris's son, where McGlynn was best man. They reside in Northamptonshire although Kennedy has an apartment in a converted school building in London.\n\nKennedy began her career with the British Forces Broadcasting Service in Singapore in 1973, before moving to BBC Radio 2 in 1977, initially as a newsreader and continuity announcer. She was on duty for the station's final closedown before it moved to 24-hour broadcasting in January 1979. She continued to present music shows on Radio 2, including holiday cover for \"Family Favourites\" until 1983, mainly appearing on 'String Sound' featuring the BBC Radio Orchestra. She was also president of the hospital radio station known as \"Radio Horton\", based in the Horton Hospital, Oxfordshire.\n\nKennedy's first on-screen job was reading the news on Southern Television's \"Day by Day\". She came to prominence in TV as one of the hosts of the ITV light entertainment show \"Game for a Laugh\" from 1981 to 1984. She was also one of the team involved with the short-lived BBC current affairs programme \"60 Minutes\", which ran from 1983 to 1984, and was the main presenter of the ITV game show \"Busman's Holiday\" for several series in the 1980s. She also co-hosted \"The Animals Roadshow\" and \"Animal Country\" with zoologist Desmond Morris in the late 1980s and 1991 respectively.\n\nKennedy returned to Radio 2, to present the weekday early morning show, called \"The Dawn Patrol\", which ran between 4 January 1993 and 13 August 2010. It was originally broadcast from 5am to 7am, during 1993, but moved the following year to the time-slot of 6am to 7:30am, where it remained until 8 January 2010. In 1995, Kennedy received a prestigious Sony Gold Radio Award. She had a regular audience of around 4.5 million listeners on Radio 2. Due to Terry Wogan's retirement from his breakfast show in December 2009 and the ambitions of his successor Chris Evans, the morning radio schedule was changed, and Kennedy's show was moved earlier to its original 5am to 7am slot to accommodate a longer Evans show, starting 11 January 2010. It was then announced on 3 September that year that she was to leave the show. She had been absent for several weeks beforehand and would not return to the show before Evans' show was further extended in October. The programme was presented during this time by Lynn Parsons & Aled Jones and on 17 January 2011, Vanessa Feltz took over the show's slot, which now occupies a slot between 05:00am and 06:30am.\n\nKennedy has also published a novel, \"Charlotte's Friends\", as well as two collections of listeners' tales, called \"Terrible Twos\" (two editions) and \"Terrible Pets\".\n\nHer reworking of English words was a distinctive element of the show. She changed names as follows: \"The Eaglingtons\" (Eagles), \"The Kinkingtons\" (The Kinks), \"Sainsbugs\" (Sainsbury's), \"Colleag-wees\" (colleagues), \"supermercado\" (supermarkets as in Spain), \"breasticles\"/\"chesticles\" (breasts), Chancellor of the Exchequingtons etc. She frequently read out the expression \"SW's to you\" from listeners who wrote in. \"SWs\" was shorthand for \"Love the show\" (as in the oft-quoted phrase by Steve Wright on his programmes, hence the use of his initials). Many listeners wrote in to ask what \"SWs\" actually meant, but she rarely explained it. Kennedy was also said to have been the first person to use the term 'white van man' in 1997. \"Bunty Bagshaw\" was an eccentric alter-ego she adopted.\n\nKennedy has sometimes suffered with her health, and has had to take time off work. Her slurred speech throughout her show on 13 August 2007 gained media attention, but the presenter blamed a sore throat. She presented the following day's show as normal, before taking a month-long break, leaving the show to be presented by colleagues Pete Mitchell, Alex Lester, Aled Jones and Richard Allinson. It was later reported that Kennedy was recovering from pneumonia. She returned to work on 10 September 2007.\n\nShe also attracted concern after a bizarre performance while standing in for Terry Wogan on the breakfast show in May 1999. This included calling Ken Bruce an \"old fool\" and referring to the presenter of the day's \"Pause For Thought\" slot as \"an old prune\". She blamed the incident on a lack of sleep the previous night and apologised to listeners. She had been due to stand in for Wogan the following week, but took time off instead, and Bruce took her place.\n\nIn October 2007, she was reprimanded after joking (in a segment about the importance of wearing visible clothing in winter road conditions) that she had almost run over a black pedestrian because she couldn't see him in the dark. The BBC later apologised for the comment. She has previously opined that black men dominate athletics because they are accustomed to being pursued by lions.\n\nShe was also \"spoken to\" by BBC bosses after she praised Enoch Powell during a show in July 2009, describing Powell as \"the best Prime Minister this country never had\".\n\nIn May 2014, Kennedy was banned from driving for 22 months for drunk driving. She had crashed into a stationary car.\n\nKennedy had presented \"The Dawn Patrol\" since 4 January 1993. Due to Terry Wogan's departure from the main breakfast show in December 2009, and the ambitions of his successor Chris Evans, Kennedy's show moved from 6–7:30am, where it had been since January 1994 to its original 1993 slot between 5 and 7am, from 11 January 2010. Many listeners then became concerned that the 5am starts were starting to affect aspects of Kennedy's health and her absences became more frequent.\n\nKennedy presented the show for the final time on Friday 13 August 2010, after which she took three weeks off work. Lynn Parsons took over the show in her absence. During this time, rumours began to circulate that she would not return. On 3 September, it was announced that she was to leave the station. Sarah Kennedy, in a \"Daily Telegraph\" interview published later in the month, claimed she had been forced out by an \"enemy\" at the BBC and denied having a drinking problem. On 17 January 2011, Vanessa Feltz took over the Early Breakfast show, which she continues to present between 5 and 6:30am.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884025", "title": "M-247 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-247 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-247 is a north–south state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan, connecting M-13 to the Bay City Recreation Area, entirely within Bangor Township. As a state trunkline, M-247 runs north from M-13 before turning to access the park, a distance of . The highway carries just over 6,000 vehicles a day on average. The roadway has been part of the state trunkline highway system since the 1920s, and from 1961 until 1998, it was the highest non-Interstate highway in the state. Before it was given the M-247 designation, the roadway has been a part of M-111 and M-47.\n\nStarting at its southern terminus at M-13, M-247 follows Euclid Avenue north about , crossing the Kawkawlin River. When it meets Beaver Road, M-247 turns east leading directly into the state park and ends at its entrance. The entire roadway passes through suburban Bay City near the Saginaw Bay. None of the highway is listed on the National Highway System, a system of regionally important highways.\n\nThe Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) measures the traffic volumes on its highways using a calculation called average annual daily traffic (AADT). This value is an expression of the number of vehicles that use a section of roadway on any average day of the year. When the department surveyed M-247 in 2009, the southernmost section near M-13 carried 6,135 vehicles; the remainder carried 6,224 vehicles. As a subset of these figures, 190 commercial vehicles used the trunkline on average. This was an overall increase from 2008 when the sections carried 5,031 and 5,573 vehicles respectively, but a decrease from the 214 commercial vehicles.\n\nBy 1929, the first highway designation along the current M-247 was assigned. That first number was M-111, which lasted until 1937 when all of M-111 became part of M-47. In early 1961, the roadway changed numbers once more. This time M-47 was realigned to a former section of US Highway 10 (US 10), and the connection to the state park was assigned the M-247 designation. This was the highest highway number in the state, excluding Interstates, until the 1998 designation of M-553 in the Upper Peninsula.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884028", "title": "Rey Curtis", "text": "Rey Curtis\n\nReynaldo Curtis is a fictional character on the TV drama \"Law & Order\", created by Ed Zuckerman and portrayed by Benjamin Bratt from 1995 to 1999. He appeared in 98 episodes (95 episodes of \"Law & Order\" and three episodes of \"\"). He also appeared in \"\".\n\nCurtis is introduced as a homicide detective in the New York Police Department, the junior partner of Lennie Briscoe (Jerry Orbach) in Manhattan's 27th Detective Squad. In contrast with his wilder predecessor, Mike Logan (Chris Noth), Curtis — a conservative, devout Catholic — does his job by the book, and views it in black and white terms: He believes that if someone breaks the law, he or she deserves to go to jail, regardless of circumstances.\n\nCurtis transferred to the 27th from the NYPD's Organized Crime Control Bureau, and occasionally comments on the increased scope of investigations he was able to undertake due to its larger budget. He left the OCCB because his female supervisor was making unwelcome sexual advances toward him.\n\nCurtis and his wife Deborah (played by Pat Moya) were married in 1989 and had three daughters: Olivia (born 1990), Serena (born 1992) and Isabel (born 1994). His sister died in a car accident at the age of 10. He is of Peruvian, English, Native American and German descent.\n\nIn the character's first season on the show, he is rebuked by his superiors on at least four occasions: in the first, Briscoe calls him out for pulling his gun on a suspect; in the second, Curtis loses his temper with a suspect in the interrogation room and must be removed; in the third, Lieutenant Anita Van Buren (S. Epatha Merkerson) reprimands him for allowing a father to physically discipline his son in the interrogation room; in the fourth, Van Buren orders him to take the day off after rough conduct at headquarters.\n\nAfter about a year on the job, Curtis' values are tested by a series of personal problems. Distraught after witnessing the execution of a man he helped prosecute, Curtis cheats on Deborah with a college student (Jennifer Garner). His infidelity nearly destroys their marriage, but they repair their relationship after going through counseling. Just as their lives are returning to normal, however, Deborah is diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. Curtis feels responsible for her suffering, as if God is punishing her for his sins. At this time, he also becomes more flexible in his approach to work, and he forms a deeper bond with the thrice-divorced Briscoe, who offers him advice and someone to lean on. Curtis returns the favor when Briscoe's daughter is murdered by briefly letting him stay with his family to help him deal with the grief. They become so close that Curtis' daughters call Briscoe \"Uncle Lenny\".\n\nBy 1999, Deborah's MS has worsened considerably, to the point that she can hardly hold a toothbrush on her own. Curtis takes early retirement to care for her, and is succeeded by Det. Ed Green (Jesse L. Martin).\n\nHe returns for a brief guest appearance on the December 11, 2009 episode, \"Fed,\" 10 years after his departure from the precinct. The episode reveals that the Curtis family had moved to California some years before. At the time of the episode, Deborah had finally succumbed to MS, and he and his daughters have returned to bury her on Long Island, where she and her family are from. Curtis tells Van Buren that Deborah died at home in his arms, and also that he had called and spoken to Briscoe shortly before his death.\n\nCurtis is both politically and socially conservative: He is a staunch supporter of the death penalty and drug prohibition, and disapproves of single-parent families and in vitro fertilization. (Despite his conservatism, however, he is a supporter of Bill Clinton.) His unwavering, moralistic work ethic initially causes friction with Briscoe.\n\nCurtis especially disapproves of affirmative action. Curtis, who is of mestizo origin (Peruvian on his mother's side) feels he has made it on his own merits and resents what he sees as the suggestion that minorities need an added advantage. He is a supporter of former New York Governor George Pataki.\n\nThe character introduces a marked step up in the use of technology as an aid to solving crimes. He is the first detective in the series to carry a mobile phone and use a laptop computer. Curtis is considerably more computer-literate than Briscoe; his familiarity with the Internet is the linchpin in solving several cases. He is also the first detective character featured in the \"Law & Order\" universe to carry a semi-automatic pistol instead of a revolver. Curtis's duty weapon is a Glock 19.\n\nWhile sifting through compact discs at an outdoor store at the end of season six, Curtis mentions that he likes the bands Oasis and Big Brother and the Holding Company.\n\nCurtis appears along with Briscoe on the \"\" episodes \"For God and Country\", \"Baby, It's You\" and \"Sideshow\", in which they team up with John Munch (Richard Belzer) on cases that span from New York to Baltimore.\n"}
{"id": "1884035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884035", "title": "Griffith Lake", "text": "Griffith Lake\n\nGriffith Lake is a small lake and campsite located in the towns of Peru and Mount Tabor, Vermont, in the Green Mountain National Forest. The site lies on the Long Trail/Appalachian Trail. The area is maintained by the Green Mountain Club and has an on-site caretaker to maintain the tent sites, outhouse, composting toilets, and trails during the peak season. During that time, there is a $5 charge for the overnight use of the tent platforms and nearby lean-to shelter. As there are no 'safe' water sources, hikers should be prepared to use a camping-grade water purification system, or to boil their water.\n\nAccess to Griffith lake is through a combination walking/snowmobile trail. Horses, motorized vehicles, and mountain bikes are not permitted on the access trail.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884037", "title": "Freeman Coliseum", "text": "Freeman Coliseum\n\nFreeman Coliseum is a sports and concert venue located in San Antonio, Texas. It has been host to thousands of events including the San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo, concerts, trade shows, motor sports, circus, professional sports including professional bull riding, basketball, hockey, boxing and wrestling. It was the largest indoor arena in San Antonio until HemisFair Arena opened in 1968. Since then, many top recording artists have made their San Antonio concert debuts at the Coliseum.\n\nFreeman Coliseum was the home of the San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo until the opening in 2003 of the adjacent AT&T Center, formerly known as SBC Center. Although the main rodeo event is now in AT&T Center, stock show and exhibit aspects of the rodeo are still held in the Coliseum. The WNBA's San Antonio Stars played its home games at Freeman Coliseum during the 2015 season due to renovations at AT&T Center. The Coliseum was home to the San Antonio Rowels and its national team rodeo league competition, as well as two professional hockey teams: the Central Hockey League San Antonio Iguanas and later, the International Hockey League San Antonio Dragons from 1996 to 1998. \n\nFreeman Coliseum seats 9,500 for motor sports, rodeos and professional bull riding; 9,800 for basketball and up to 11,700 for concerts, boxing and wrestling. It contains a ceiling height. When used for trade shows, the arena features of space, plus of exhibit space in four adjacent exhibit halls—the Morris Center, the Exhibit Hall #1, the Freeman Building and the Exhibit Hall #2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884039", "title": "Sofono", "text": "Sofono\n\nSofono Electrical Division of Federated Foundries Ltd was formed in Falkirk, Scotland, in 1959 to manufacture and market electric heaters from the Grange-Chamelon Iron Company Limited (also known as the Grangemouth Iron Company Limited). Federated Foundries had previously produced open-fire cookers/water heaters and fireplace grates under the Sofono brand name, and continued to do so. From 1959, Sofono produced the well-known Spacemaster range of convector and radiant-convector heaters, described as a \"flying saucer\" shape because they were circular. They also produced other electric heaters such as the Saturn range of domestic reflector fires, the Jupiter range of industrial infra red heaters, and the Sofono-flame range of infra-red coal-effect heaters.\n\nLook here for an example of a Sofono Spacemaster electric heater\n"}
{"id": "1884055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884055", "title": "Barry Primus", "text": "Barry Primus\n\nBarry Primus (born February 16, 1938) is an American television and film actor, director, and writer.\n\nBarry Primus is primarily an actor, but he has also doubled and tripled as writer and director. He worked on stage for the first decade of his career. He gained some experience on TV in shows like \"The Defenders\", \"East Side/West Side\" and \"The Virginian\". He then made his screen bow in the Manhattan-filmed \"The Brotherhood\" (1968). Additional films include \"Boxcar Bertha\" (1972), \"Autopsy\" (1975), \"Heartland\" (1979), \"Night Games\" (1980), \"Absence of Malice\" (1981), and \"Guilty by Suspicion\" (1991). He had a recurring role on the CBS TV series \"Cagney and Lacey\" (1982 — 1988) as Christine Cagney's (Sharon Gless) boyfriend Sergeant Dory McKenna, whose drug problem compromises his value as a police officer. He also guest starred in \"Murder, She Wrote\".\n\nAfter working as director Mark Rydell's assistant on \"The Rose\" (1979), Primus increased his behind-the-camera activities; in 1992, he directed his first theatrical feature, the \"inside\" Hollywood comedy/drama \"Mistress\".\n\nA member of the Actors Studio, Primus has taught acting and directing classes at the American Film Institute, The Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, the UCLA campus, and at The Maine Media Workshops in Maine.\n\nHe also teaches acting classes at Loyola Marymount University and Columbia University.\n\nPrimus's recent film history includes \"Jackson\", a film directed by J.F. Lawton; he also had a cameo in \"Righteous Kill\" with Al Pacino and Robert De Niro, \"American Hustle\", \"Grudge Match\", and \"The Irishman\".\n\nPrimus has been married to choreographer Julie Arenal for over 50 years.\n\nMost notable films:\n"}
{"id": "1884060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884060", "title": "Glareola", "text": "Glareola\n\nGlareola is a genus of birds in the family Glareolidae. The pratincoles are a group of birds consisting of the seven species of this genus and the Australian pratincole, the only species of the genus \"Stiltia\".\n\nThe genus \"Glareola\" was introduced by the French zoologist Mathurin Jacques Brisson in 1760 with the collared pratincole (\"Glareola pratincola\") as the type species. The genus name is a diminutive of Latin \"glarea\", \"gravel\", referring to a typical nesting habitat.\n\nThe genus contains seven species:\n"}
{"id": "1884063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884063", "title": "Cursorius", "text": "Cursorius\n\nThere are five species which breed in Africa and South Asia.\nThey have long legs, short wings and long pointed bills which curve downwards. Although classed as waders, they inhabit deserts and similar arid regions.\nLike the pratincoles, the coursers are found in warmer parts of the Old World. They hunt insects by sight, pursuing them on foot.\n\nTheir 2–3 eggs are laid on the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884064", "title": "Rhinoptilus", "text": "Rhinoptilus\n\nSpecies in the genus have earlier been placed under other genus names including \"Macrotarsius\" (Blyth), \"Chalcopterus\" (Reich.) and \"Hemerodromus\" (Heuglin). Some characteristics of this largely African genus include a bill that is shorter and stouter than in \"Cursorius\", the orbits are feathered and the 2nd and 3rd primaries nearly equal and the longest. The tarsus is long and scutellate, the feet are short and the outer toe is joined by partial webbing.\n\nTheir 2–3 eggs are laid on the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884066", "title": "Kineta", "text": "Kineta\n\nKineta () is a beach town in West Attica, Greece. It is part of the municipality of Megara.\n\nKineta is situated on the northern coast of the Saronic Gulf, south of the Geraneia mountains. The rocks of Kakia Skala lie to the east. The nearest towns are Agioi Theodoroi (8 km to the southwest) and Megara (12 km to the east). Corinth is 25 km to the west, and Athens is 45 km to the east. The old Greek National Road 8 and the new Motorway 8, both connecting Athens with Corinth and the Peloponnese, pass through the town. The Kineta railway station is served by Proastiakos trains between Athens International Airport and Kiato (Peloponnese).\n\nThe name “Kineta” is said to be taken from a small lagoon or marsh on the beach, which produces such swarms of gnats in the autumn as to almost amount to a plague.\n\nThe lagoon does not exist anymore but Kineta still has (2010) more than its share of gnats.\n\n“To the east of Crommyon, at the western extremity of the Scironian rocks, was a temple of Apollo Latous, which marked the boundaries of the Corinthia and Megaris in the time of Pausanias. This temple must have been near the modern village of Kineta, a little above which the road leads over the Scironian rocks to Megara.”\n\n“His (Pausanias) Corinthiacs, therefore, open at the western extremity of the Scironides, near a temple of Apollo Latous. Here began a succession of narrow valleys at the foot of the mountains Oneia, extending twelve miles along the shore of the Saronic gulf, as far as the port Schoenous, or eastern extremity of the Isthmus properly so called. All this track appears to have been called Crommyonia. The only place mentioned in it by Pausanias is Crommyon; but we know from other authors, that there was likewise a town or fortress, named Sidus, between Crommyon and the Isthmus. It sufficiently appears, from Thucydides, Strabo, and Pausanias, that Crommyon itself was not far from the Scironides, which, as we have already seen, were the boundary of the Megaris. Near Kineta, a village not far from the western termination of the rocks, which is built like Megara with flat roofs, and is situated in a valley planted with olives, there are some vestiges which indicate that Crommyon occupied nearly the same site. Sidus appears to have been at Kassidhi, midway between Kineta and port Kalamaki, the ancient Schoenus”.\n\nOn 23 July 2018, a wildfire developed in the area, which burned a few houses in Kineta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884069", "title": "Dīgha Nikāya", "text": "Dīgha Nikāya\n\nThe Digha Nikaya (dīghanikāya; \"Collection of Long Discourses\") is a Buddhist scripture, the first of the five nikayas, or collections, in the Sutta Pitaka, which is one of the \"three baskets\" that compose the Pali Tipitaka of (Theravada) Buddhism. Some of the most commonly referenced suttas from the Digha Nikaya include the Maha-parinibbana Sutta (DN 16), which described the final days and death of the Buddha, the Sigalovada Sutta (DN 31) in which the Buddha discusses ethics and practices for lay followers, and the Samaññaphala (DN 2), Brahmajala Sutta (DN 1) which describes and compares the point of view of Buddha and other ascetics in India about the universe and time (past, present, and future); and the \"Poṭṭhapāda\" (DN 9) Suttas, which describe the benefits and practice of samatha meditation.\n\nThe Digha Nikaya consists of 34 discourses, broken into three groups:\n\nThe Digha Nikaya corresponds to the \"Dīrgha Āgama\" found in the Sutta Pitikas of various Sanskritic early Buddhists schools, fragments of which survive in Sanskrit. A complete version of the Dīrgha Āgama of the Dharmagupta school survives in Chinese translation by the name Cháng Ahánjīng (). It contains 30 sūtras in contrast to the 34 suttas of the Theravadin Dīgha Nikāya. In addition, portions of the Sarvāstivādin school's Dīrgha Āgama survive in Sanskrit and in Tibetan translation.\n\nComplete Translations:\n\n\nSelections:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884071", "title": "Call of Duty 2", "text": "Call of Duty 2\n\nCall of Duty 2 is a 2005 first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision in most regions of the world. It is the second installment of the \"Call of Duty\" series. Announced by Activision on April 7, 2005, the game was released on October 25, 2005 for Microsoft Windows, and on November 22, 2005 as a launch title for the Xbox 360. Other versions were eventually released for OS X, mobile phones, and Pocket PCs.\n\nThe game is set during World War II and the campaign mode is experienced through the perspectives of four soldiers: one in the Red Army, one in the United States Army, and two in the British Army. It contains four individual campaigns, split into three stories, with a total of 27 missions. Many features were added and changed from the original \"Call of Duty\", notably regenerating health and an icon that indicates a nearby grenade about to explode.\n\nThe game drew critical praise, particularly for the graphics, sound and the regenerating health system. As a launch game, the Xbox 360 version sold over 250,000 copies in its first week, and had sold over 2 million copies by January 2008. By November 2013, the game had sold nearly 6 million copies.\n\n\"Call of Duty 2 \"is a first-person shooter that has a single-player story mode and a multiplayer mode. The player takes on the roles of several Allied protagonists in specific missions during World War II. The player can crouch and lie prone, and is able to scale low walls and other obstacles. Two firearms can be carried, which can be swapped with those left on the battlefield, and both fragmentation and smoke grenades can also be carried. A gun's iron sights can be used to aim more accurately. A compass on the heads-up display (HUD) shows both allies and enemies, and objective markers to indicate locations the player must reach, areas to defend, or enemy cannons or tanks that the player must plant explosives on to disable. Emplaced weapons such as machine guns and flak cannons are available in some locations to take out enemy troops. In addition, some missions place the player in control of a tank.\n\nThe player has a set of binoculars. While it is generally ignored during infantry-limited gameplay, it is vital to the long-range use of the Crusader tanks and one of the missions in which the player must direct artillery fire to defend a town. It is also important for scouting, though most of the game takes place in personal, close combat situations reducing the importance of this tactic.\n\nShould the player take severe damage, the screen will turn red and the sound of the character's heartbeat will increase in volume; this indicates the player's health is low. The player must find a way to stay out of fire to recover before entering battle again or else will die and restart from the last checkpoint. Health is only restored through automatic recharging when the player is not taking fire. Some attacks, such as explosions from grenades or shells, will kill the player instantly if the player is too close.\n\nIn April 2006, Infinity Ward released the \"Call of Duty 2\" Radiant, which allows a player to create their own multiplayer or single-player maps. Along with Radiant, the mapmaker includes Maya plug-in support, an effects editor, and an asset manager which allows custom models to be made and imported into the game, as well as custom effects.\n\n\"Call of Duty 2\" contains three individual campaigns, fought in the roles of four World War II soldiers, for a total of 27 missions. The game has four difficulty levels: Easy, Regular, Hardened, and Veteran.\n\n\"Call of Duty 2\" features several game types: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Search & Destroy, Capture the Flag and Headquarters. The maps include Normandy, Africa, and Russia. Each team can choose a variety of weapons, depending on the map. Players can choose between American soldiers, Soviet soldiers, and British soldiers for the Allied forces, while the Axis forces must play as German soldiers.\n\nEach PC multiplayer server can hold a maximum of sixty-four players, while the limit is eight players on Xbox. In the Xbox 360 version, players can play on Xbox Live and get new map packs. There are a total of thirteen official maps, and three of these are remakes from the original \"Call of Duty\". There are also three extra map packs named Bonus Pack, Skirmish Pack, and Invasion Pack, adding a total of eight maps.\n\nThe player controls Private Vasili Koslov of the 13th Guards Rifle Division, initially involved in the defense of Moscow from the advancing German forces. The next level involves the destruction of a German stronghold in Stalingrad during September 1942. The next objective involves battling for strongholds throughout Stalingrad throughout December 1942, including re-connecting cut telephone wires and re-capturing the rail-yard and train-station. The final mission takes place during the final Soviet offensive in Stalingrad in January 1943, which involves the re-capture and defense of city blocks and Stalingrad city hall.\n\nThe player controls a British soldier, Sergeant John Davis of the 7th Armoured Division in North Africa, led by Captain Price. The first level has the player taking part in a sneak attack on German Afrika Korps troops, ending with the destruction of a German supply station. The next level has the player defending a town from overwhelming numbers of Germans sending counter attacks from North, West, South and East; finally achieving victory by destroying much of the German tank force using artillery. This is followed by the Second Battle of El Alamein, during which the player has to fight through several trenches, machine gun nests, 88 millimeter guns and finally taking the German field headquarters. The assault on El Dabaa to intercept the remaining Germans in Egypt and destroy several 88 millimeter guns soon follows, ending the first British campaign. An addendum to the second set of missions has the player taking on the role of a British tank commander, David Welsh, while engaging enemies in Libya. The first mission of the third campaign in Toujane, Tunisia, has the player immediately under fire, holding a house until they break out and rendezvous with the second squad. They then retake Toujane with reinforcements the next day all before assaulting Matmata. The final British campaign takes place during the Battle for Caen as part of Operation Overlord.\n\nAs Corporal Bill Taylor of the 2nd Ranger Battalion, the player starts off by playing a part in D-Day, at the assault of Pointe du Hoc, to destroy a German artillery battery, and hold it against a massive German counter-offensive in the following mission. Soon after, the player captures a nearby town and serves as a sniper against mortar crews until reinforcements arrive. The second objective is focused on Hill 400, involving the capture of Bergstein, a disastrous charge at Hill 400's bunkers and the defense against the German counterattack, with the player again performing sniper work against German mortar teams, destroying enemy armor, and generally holding the hill against the counter-offensive, all the while burdened by artillery and overwhelming numbers of German soldiers. The final mission is set amongst the Americans in the Rhine River crossing into Germany. It begins as one of the few missions with the player immediately under fire, providing cover fire against the Germans until reaching the river banks and then fighting through most of the town. The final fight has the player defeat two German Tiger I's.\n\nThe end credits depict the dramatic rescue of Captain Price from the Germans by a group of American soldiers. After the credits end, the words \"No cows were harmed in the making of this game\" appear, as in the original \"Call of Duty\". This is a reference to the dead cattle visible in the Normandy missions.\n\nOn April 7, 2005, Activision announced that Infinity Ward was developing \"Call of Duty 2\", set for release in fall 2005 for PC. It had been speculated that Infinity Ward was developing the sequel at the same time as Gray Matter Interactive developed \"Call of Duty: United Offensive\". Infinity Ward president Grant Collier said:\n\nThe press release said players would engage enemies in a less linear battlefield, tackle the major battles chronologically, and use squad tactics not available in previous \"Call of Duty\" games. Infinity Ward also confirmed making a \"Battle Chatter System\", similar to \"\", where squad members converse to create situational awareness.\n\nThe game engine—proprietary IW engine 2.0—is a modified version of id Tech 3, which was used in the first \"Call of Duty\" game. With the new game engine, Infinity Ward expanded the scope of combat to deliver a realistic battlefield experience and improved the visuals. The developers were able to cloud visibility with smoke from smoke grenades and create weather effects like dusty sandstorms and whiteout blizzard.\n\nThe game was known to \"let players experience four individual soldier stories as they overcome insurmountable odds in multiple campaigns. Players have the freedom to follow each of the four storylines through for the ultimate character-driven experience, or they can engage in the historic battles chronologically for quick hitting action. Squads now have the freedom to take on a variety of mission objectives, on expansive battlefields that allow for multiple paths and the ability to utilize actual combat tactics like outflanking and fire and maneuver capabilities\".\n\n\"Call of Duty 2\" was going to be more immersive than the original \"Call of Duty\". Vince Zampella, creative director of Infinity Ward, said, \"We didn't want to take any of the parts out that made \"Call of Duty\" so good. But there were a couple of things that we admit could have been done better\". A demo of the game showed a more open gameplay style and a better AI for the enemies, who would actively go after the player. There are a set number of enemies set on the map that will begin reacting to the player's presence once the first shot has been fired. Groups of enemies farther away send units up to see what is happening and add to the combat while enemies directly in front of the player will join in and take cover quickly.\n\nInfinity Ward spent a lot of time on WWII battlefields, which led them to scrap whole levels for parts of the game that took place in France, since they found the location a lot different than what they imagined.\n\nOne of the details the team added are post-war effects that continue on the battlefield throughout the game, where dust and smoke continue to roll through the streets, clouding up vision, and junk and debris scattered everywhere. The game has sound attenuation, with a 5.1 surround sound system, and context sensitive dialog, with a total of twenty-thousand lines of dialog. Each of the soldiers fighting alongside the player will call out the position of enemy soldiers, warn of flank attacks, and help out in ways that were not possible in the first game of the series. Zampella said, \"We really wanted realistic battle chatter going that's not only entertaining, but actually adds to the gaming experience. So now you'll hear your guys telling you that there's [sic] two guys hiding behind that rusty car in the street or that there are people on the second floor of a building\".\n\nA small grayed-out grenade icon appears in the center of the screen when the player is near a grenade, with an arrow pointing in the direction of the grenade. Enemies can sometimes seem to be dead when they are not, where the enemy can still wield his side arm and fire at the player, known as Last Stand, which would later become a perk available to players in the multiplayer of subsequent games.\n\nThe game was showcased in E3 in 2005 and was announced as a launch title for the upcoming Xbox 360.\n\n\"Call of Duty 2\" received \"generally positive\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic. The graphics and sound were widely praised and the reactions to the regenerating health system were mostly positive, with reviewers from GameSpot and \"GamePro\" calling it an improvement over the previous health bar system.\n\nFor the Xbox 360 version, IGN's Douglass C. Perry described the presentation as \"classy and well-produced\", and said the graphics were some of the best on the Xbox 360 at its launch. He called the sound effects \"unbelievable\", whilst the gameplay was described as containing an \"enormous amount of action\". GameSpot reviewer Bob Colayco summarized his review by stating that \"Call of Duty 2\" has \"smooth, detailed graphics and great sound\", as well as praising the artificial intelligence, realism, and variety in the campaign. \"GamePro\" called the game \"breathtaking\", and commended the game for its \"strikingly realistic detail on weapons and walls, emphasized by normal mapping, exceptional shading and lighting, specular highlights, and some absolutely phenomenal particle effects\". GameSpy editor Will Tuttle called it \"One of the finest FPSs ever created. Thanks to a combination of sharp visuals, teeth-rattling sound effects, and tricky enemy AI, you'll be on the edge of your seat from the moment you're dropped into combat until your dying breath\".\n\nFor the PC version, IGN editor Tom McNamara was impressed with the presentation and graphics, describing them as \"Excellent\" and \"smooth\" respectively. He also said the graphics did not suffer \"from also being developed for the 360\". McNamara also praised the sound, describing it as \"sad music, encompassing battle noise, and excellent voice work\". Bob Colayco of GameSpot also reviewed the PC version of the game, as he did its Xbox 360 counterpart. Colayco again commended the sound, calling the presentation of the game \"excellent\", as well as praising the aggression of the artificial intelligence. Unlike in his review of the Xbox 360 version, Colayco felt the multiplayer aspect was \"fun\". His main critique was for performance, stating \"performance can chug at times\". GameSpy's Sal Accardo noted \"Instead of feeling like a stale retread [of the original \"Call of Duty\"] or losing steam halfway through, it manages to be a blast from start to finish\". GamesRadar Joshua Latendresse called the single-player campaign \"stunning\" and cited that the multiplayer was even better.\n\nDespite this praise, McNamara of IGN commented that he finds implementing regenerating health to be \"a little troublesome\", and that it allows players to \"experience a kind of combat only a mythical super-soldier could withstand\" which, therefore, \"propels the game from gritty authenticity to John Woo fantasy\". GameSpot's Colayco was critical of the game's pricing, stating it had a \"higher pricepoint than its PC counterpart\". He also complained that the multiplayer aspect could only support eight players. For the PC version, his main critique was for performance, stating \"performance can chug at times\". The PC version multiplayer was criticized as being a step back from that of \"\".\n\n\"Call of Duty 2\" was the most popular launch title on the Xbox 360, with 200,000 units sold in its first week of availability. 77% of people who purchased an Xbox 360 also purchased the game, which contributed to its high sales. As of July 2006, 1.4 million copies of the game had been sold on the Xbox 360. By January 2008, the game had sold 2 million copies. By November 2013, the game had sold 5.9 million copies.\n\nThe editors of \"Computer Games Magazine\" named \"Call of Duty 2\" the seventh-best computer game of 2005. They called it \"the ultimate WWII shooter\".\n\nA television advertisement for \"Call of Duty 2\" was the subject of some controversy in 2006. The commercial, created by a Los Angeles animation studio Rhythm and Hues Studios, depicted a first-person view of events that were supposed to transpire during the game, rather than scenes from the game itself. Some consumers felt that the advertisements were misleading, and in February 2006 the United Kingdom's Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) demanded that networks remove the advertisements after three consumers filed complaints of false advertising. According to ASA spokesperson Donna Mitchell, \"Viewers felt that the ad was misleading because the quality of graphics was superior to that of the game's\". Activision denies that the scenes were meant to give an impression of gameplay, stating in a press release shortly after the ASA banning that \"The footage was intended purely to communicate the subject matter of the game rather than to represent actual gameplay\".\n\nA collector's edition of the game was released for Windows on October 25, 2005 and for the Xbox 360 labeled as the \"Special Edition\". It features the game and a bonus disc, which includes interviews, a making of the movie and two mission walkthroughs. On May 17, 2006, Activision announced a Game of the Year Edition for the Xbox 360, which includes material from the Special Edition, plus a token to download the Skirmish Map Pack. In January 2006, MFORMA (now Hands-On Mobile) released \"Call of Duty 2\" for mobile phones. The mobile version is a 2D top-down shooter. It received a favorable review from IGN, praising its length and storytelling.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884078", "title": "Bel Air High School (Bel Air, Maryland)", "text": "Bel Air High School (Bel Air, Maryland)\n\nBel Air High School is a high school in Bel Air, Harford County, Maryland, United States. The current building opened in 2009, though the school's antecedents date back to 1715.\n\nBel Air High School began as the Harford County Academy when it was formed by an act of the Maryland General Assembly in 1811. The first school building was a stuccoed stone building built at 24 E. Pennsylvania Avenue, and the name was soon changed to the Bel Air Academy in 1815. John Wilkes Booth attended the school in the 1850s.\n\nIn 1867, while the Bel Air Academy was operating separately, a wooden one-room school house was built on Main Street, which functioned as the main public school of the county. \n\nIn 1882, a brick public school was built at 45 East Gordon Street. The school was renamed the Bel Air Academy and Graded School as the old academy merged with the public school system. This building housed classes for all students above the third grade. Additions to the building were made in 1897 and 1910. This building became solely a grade school in 1924 and headquartered the Harford County Board of Education after 1951.\n\nBel Air High School, named thus for the first time, was first formed in 1907, and classes were held at the Gordon Street building and the Pennsylvania Avenue building.\n\nThe past facility at 100 Heighe Street was opened in 1950, with additional renovations made in 1954, 1968 and 1983. The building had a design capacity of 1,423 students; as a result, 11 \"portables\" were in use to provide additional classroom space. A new building was scheduled for completion for the graduating class of 2010.\n\nThe current Bel Air High School building was built in 2009, and has a capacity of 1,668 students. Some new features of the school are its auditorium/stage, cafeteria, library, and multiple sports facilities.\n\nThe student body over time:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884081", "title": "San Bernardino International Airport", "text": "San Bernardino International Airport\n\nSan Bernardino International Airport (, initialism: SBIA) is a public airport two miles (3 km) southeast of San Bernardino, California, in San Bernardino County, California. The airport covers and has one runway. The facility is a general aviation and cargo airport on the site of Norton Air Force Base, which was built as the San Bernardino Air Depot in 1942 and was decommissioned in March 1994. A non-federal control tower (NFCT) opened on November 9, 2008 and is operated under contract by SERCO company personnel.\n\nThe air base opened shortly after the attacks on Pearl Harbor. Norton was placed on the Department of Defense's base closure list in 1989 (the same year that the DoD signed the Federal Facilities Agreement with the EPA).\n\nThe closure was cited as due to environmental wastes, inadequate facilities, and air traffic congestion. The last of the base facilities closed in 1995.\n\nMost parts of San Bernardino International Airport were completed in 2011, but a customs facility is still under construction. San Bernardino International Airport was built to conform to aviation-demand modeling and allocations performed as part of the 2008 Regional Transportation Plan (R.T.P.) of the Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG), the Metropolitan Planning Organization for San Bernardino, Los Angeles, Riverside, Ventura, Imperial, and Orange counties.\n\nThe 2008 R.T.P. projects 9.4 million passengers and 1.29 million tons of air cargo at San Bernardino International Airport in 2035 with improved ground access provided, in part, by high-speed rail. The California High-Speed Rail Authority is currently performing alternatives analysis regarding the Los Angeles-to-San Diego segment, which includes, along the I-215 alignment, an optional station location at Rialto Avenue and E Street in the city of San Bernardino. The 2008 R.T.P states, \"The high speed, reliability, and predictability of high-speed airport access will be needed to overcome mounting and increasingly unpredictable traffic congestion (on area freeways).\"\n\nU.S. Customs and Border Protection agents are available on call to clear imported goods. The airport is used as a base for United States Forest Service planes fighting forest fires. Several hangars that were formerly empty have recently been occupied by civilian-owned aircraft maintenance companies. The runway is long, easily accommodating air cargo aircraft.\n\nThe airport and some of the surrounding area is within the city of San Bernardino and the Inland Valley Development Agency. The surrounding areas are being redeveloped by Hillwood.\n\nThe airport was the filming location for both the 2001 movie \"The Fast and the Furious\" and the 2004 Martin Scorsese film \"The Aviator\" using a Lockheed Constellation preserved by the Airline History Museum, and flown in for the shoot, were done at San Bernardino International, with one hangar \"dressed\" as a Trans World Airlines facility.\n\nSan Bernardino's terminal can accommodate domestic and international airline service. Volaris, a Mexican low-cost airline, announced the beginning of flights to Guadalajara, Mexico in November 2017. So far, flights have not begun.\n\nThe airport is about two miles east of downtown San Bernardino and 14 miles northeast of downtown Riverside. It is six miles northwest of downtown Redlands, on the outskirts of Highland. Motorists can use the San Bernardino Freeway (Interstate 10), Barstow-Downtown San Bernardino-Riverside Freeway (Interstate 215), or the Foothill Freeway (State Route 210). It is also served by Omnitrans Route 8 and, indirectly, by the San Bernardino Line and the Inland Empire-Orange County Line of the Metrolink regional rail service.\n\nAn audit completed June 2011 at the request of a grand jury investigation found examples of potential mismanagement and financial irregularities. In September 2011, as part of a special joint corruption task force, the FBI raided the offices of the airport and the home of airport developer Scot Spencer to secure internal documents. In late September 2011, Don Rogers, the Director of the SBIA Authority (SBIAA) resigned. The grand jury report questioned a relationship between Rogers and Spencer, including a settlement of a legal claim by companies owned by Spencer against the SBIAA for almost $1 million without ascertaining whether Spencer's companies suffered damages equivalent to such an amount.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884082", "title": "Peace Conference of 1861", "text": "Peace Conference of 1861\n\nThe Peace Conference of 1861 was a meeting of 131 leading American politicians in February 1861, at the Willard's Hotel in Washington, D.C., on the eve of the American Civil War. The success of President Abraham Lincoln and the Republican Party in the 1860 presidential elections led to a flurry of political activity. In much of the South, elections were held to select delegates to special conventions to consider secession from the Union. In Congress, efforts were made in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to reach compromise over the issues relating to slavery that were dividing the nation. The conference was the final effort by the individual states to resolve the crisis. With the seven states of the Cotton South already committed to secession, the emphasis to preserve the Union peacefully focused on the eight slaveholding states representing the Upper and Border South, with the states of Virginia and Kentucky playing key roles.\n\nIn December 1860, the final session of the Thirty-sixth Congress met. In the House, the Committee of Thirty-Three, with one member from each state, led by Ohio Republican Thomas Corwin, was formed to reach a compromise to preserve the Union. In the Senate, former Kentucky Whig John J. Crittenden, elected as a Unionist candidate, submitted the Crittenden Compromise, six proposed constitutional amendments that he hoped would address all the outstanding issues. Hopes were high, especially in the Border States, that the lame duck Congress could reach a successful resolution before the new Republican administration took office.\n\nCrittenden's proposals were debated by a specially-selected Committee of Thirteen. The proposals provided for, among other things, an extension of the Missouri Compromise line dividing the territories to the Pacific Ocean, bringing his efforts directly in conflict with the 1860 Republican Platform and the personal views of President-elect Abraham Lincoln, who had made known his objections. The compromise was rejected by the committee on December 22 by a vote of 7–6. Crittenden later brought the issue to the floor of the Senate as a proposal to have his compromise made subject to a national referendum, but the Senate rejected it on January 16, by a vote of 25–23.\n\nA modified version of the Crittenden Plan, believed to be more attractive to Republicans, was considered by an \"ad hoc\" committee of 14 congressmen from the lower North and the upper South, meeting several times between December 28 and January 4. The committee was chaired again by Crittenden and included other Southern Unionists such as Representatives John A. Gilmer of North Carolina, Robert H. Hatton of Tennessee, J. Morrison Harris of Maryland, and John T. Harris of Virginia. A version of their work was rejected by the House on January 7.\n\nIn the House, the Committee of Thirty-Three on January 14 reported that it had reached majority agreement on a constitutional amendment to protect slavery where it existed and the immediate admission of New Mexico Territory as a slave state. This latter proposal would result in a \"de facto\" extension of the Missouri Compromise line for all existing territories.\n\nA fourth attempt came from the state of Virginia. Former President John Tyler, a private citizen of Virginia who was still much interested in the fate of the nation, had been appointed as a special Virginia envoy to President James Buchanan to urge him to maintain the \"status quo\" in regard to the seceded states. Later, Tyler was an elected delegate to the Virginia convention called to consider whether or not to follow the Deep South states out of the Union. Tyler thought that a final collective effort should be made to preserve the Union and in a document published on January 17, 1861, he called for a convention of the six free and six slave border states to resolve the sectional split. Governor John Letcher of Virginia had already made a similar request to the state legislature, agreed to sponsor the convention while the list of attendees to all of the states was expanded. Corwin agreed to hold off any final vote on his House plan pending the final actions of the Peace Conference.\n\nThe conference convened on February 4, 1861, at the Willard Hotel; all seven Deep South states had already passed ordinances of secession and were preparing to form a new government in Montgomery, Alabama. At the same time that Tyler, selected to head the Peace Convention, was making his opening remarks in Washington, his granddaughter was ceremonially hoisting the flag for the convention in Montgomery. No delegates were sent by the Deep South states or by Arkansas, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, and Oregon. Fourteen free states and seven slave states were represented. Among the representatives to the conference were James A. Seddon and William Cabell Rives from Virginia, David Wilmot from Pennsylvania, Reverdy Johnson from Maryland, William P. Fessenden and Lot M. Morrill from Maine, James Guthrie from Kentucky, Stephen T. Logan from Illinois, Alvan Cullom from Tennessee, and Thomas Ewing and Salmon P. Chase from Ohio. Many of the delegates came in the belief that they could be successful, but many others, from both sides of the spectrum, came simply as \"watchdogs\" for their sectional interests. Because many of the 131 delegates, which included \"six former cabinet members, nineteen ex-governors, fourteen former senators, fifty former representatives, twelve state supreme court justices, and one former president,\" qualified as senior statesmen, the meeting was frequently referred to derisively as the \"Old Gentleman's Convention\".\n\nOn February 6, a separate committee, charged with drafting a proposal for the entire convention to consider, was formed. The committee consisted of one representative from each state and was headed by James Guthrie. The entire convention met for three weeks, and its final product was a proposed seven-point constitutional amendment that differed little from the Crittenden Compromise. The key issue, slavery in the territories, was addressed simply by extending the Missouri Compromise line to the Pacific Ocean, with no provision for newly-acquired territory. That section passed by a 9–8 vote of the states.\n\nOther features of the proposed constitutional amendment were the requirement for the acquisition of all future territories to be approved by a majority of both the slave states and the free states, a prohibition on Congress passing any legislation that would affect the status of slavery where it currently existed, a prohibition on state legislatures from passing laws that would restrict the ability of officials to apprehend and return fugitive slaves, a permanent prohibition on the foreign slave trade, and 100% compensation to any master whose fugitive slave was freed by illegal mob action or intimidation of officials required to administer the Fugitive Slave Act. Key sections of this amendment could be further amended only with the concurrence of all of the states.\n\nIn failing to limit the expansion of slavery to all new territories, the compromise failed to satisfy hardline Republicans. In failing to protect slavery in all territories, the compromise failed to address the issue that had divided the Democratic Party into northern and southern factions in the 1860 presidential elections. The convention's work was completed with only a few days left in the final session of Congress. The proposal was rejected in the Senate in a 28-7 vote and never came to a vote in the House. The Corwin Amendment, a less-encompassing constitutional amendment that was finally submitted by the Committee of Thirty-Three was passed by Congress, but it simply provided protection for slavery where it currently existed, something that Lincoln and most members of both parties already believed was a state right protected by the existing US Constitution. A bill for New Mexico statehood was tabled by a vote of 115-71 with opposition coming from both Southern Democrats as well as Republicans.\n\nWith the adjournment of Congress and the inauguration of Lincoln as president, the only avenue for compromise involved informal negotiations between Unionist southerners and representatives of the incoming Republican government: Congress was no longer a factor. A final convention of only the slave states still in the Union scheduled for June 1861 never occurred because of the events at Fort Sumter. Robert H. Hatton, a Unionist from Tennessee who would later change sides, summed up the feelings of many shortly before Congress adjourned:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884085", "title": "Majjhima Nikāya", "text": "Majjhima Nikāya\n\nThe Majjhima Nikāya (-nikāya; \"Collection of Middle-length Discourses\") is a Buddhist scripture, the second of the five nikayas, or collections, in the Sutta Pitaka, which is one of the \"three baskets\" that compose the Pali Tipitaka (lit. \"Three Baskets\") of Theravada Buddhism. Composed between 3rd century BCE and 2nd century CE. This nikaya consists of 152 discourses attributed to the Buddha and his chief disciples.\n\nThe Majjhima Nikaya corresponds to the \"Madhyama Āgama\" found in the Sutra Pitikas of various Sanskritic early Buddhist schools, fragments of which survive in Sanskrit and in Tibetan translation. A complete Chinese translation from the Sarvāstivādin recension appears in the Chinese Buddhist canon, where it is known as the \"Zhōng Ahánjīng\" (中阿含經). The Madhyama Āgama of the Sarvāstivāda school contains 222 sūtras, in contrast to the 152 suttas in the Pāli Majjhima Nikāya.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi in the introduction to his translation describes the collection as follows:If the Majjhima Nikāya were to be characterised by a single phrase to distinguish it from among the other books of the Pali Canon, this might be done by describing it as the collection that combines the richest variety of contextual settings with the deepest and most comprehensive assortment of teachings.The 152 discourses come in three parts each with five divisions. All divisions save the penultimate contain 10 discourses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1884088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884088", "title": "Saṃyutta Nikāya", "text": "Saṃyutta Nikāya\n\nThe Samyutta Nikaya ( SN, \"Connected Discourses\" or \"Kindred Sayings\") is a Buddhist scripture, the third of the five nikayas, or collections, in the Sutta Pitaka, which is one of the \"three baskets\" that compose the Pali Tipitaka of Theravada Buddhism. Because of the abbreviated way parts of the text are written, the total number of suttas is unclear. The editor of the Pali Text Society edition of the text made it 2889, Bodhi in his translation has 2904, while the commentaries give 7762. A study by Rupert Gethin gives the totals for the Burmese and Sinhalese editions as 2854 and 7656, respectively, and his own calculation as 6696; he also says the total in the Thai edition is unclear. The suttas are grouped into five \"vaggas\", or sections. Each \"vagga\" is further divided into samyuttas, or chapters, each of which in turn contains a group of suttas on a related topic.\n\nThe Samyutta Nikaya corresponds to the \"Saṃyukta Āgama\" found in the Sutra Pitikas of various Sanskritic early Buddhists schools, fragments of which survive in Sanskrit and in Tibetan translation. A complete Chinese translation from the Sarvāstivādin recension appears in the Chinese Buddhist canon, where it is known as the \"Zá Ahánjīng\" (雜阿含經); meaning \"the mixed agama\". A comparison of the Sarvāstivādin, Kāśyapīya, and Theravadin texts reveals a considerable consistency of content, although each recension contains sutras/suttas not found in the others. The Collation and Annotation of Saṃyuktāgama (《<雜阿含經>校釋》,Chinese version) makes further comparison.\n\nBhante Sujato, a contemporary scholar monk, argues that the remarkable congruence of the various recensions suggests that the Samyutta Nikaya/Saṃyukta Āgama was the only collection to be finalized in terms of both structure and content in the pre-sectarian period.\n\n\n\nThe vaggas contained in this nikaya are (the numbering of chapters [\"samyuttas\"] here refers to the PTS and Burmese editions; the Sinhalese and Thai editions divide the text up somewhat differently):\n\nPart I. Sagatha-vagga (SN chapters 1-11)\nPart II. Nidana-vagga (SN chapters 12-21)\nPart III. Khandha-vagga (SN chapters 22-34)\nPart IV. Salayatana-vagga (SN chapters 35-44)\n\nPart V. Maha-vagga (SN chapters 45-56)\n\n\n"}
